{"id": "2456307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2456307", "title": "Bill Henson", "text": "Bill Henson\n\nBill Henson (born 7 October 1955) is an Australian contemporary art photographer.\n\nHenson has exhibited nationally and internationally in galleries such as the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, the Venice Biennale, the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne, Australia, the Art Gallery of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia and the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris. His current practice involves holding one exhibition in Australia every two years, and up to three overseas exhibitions each year.\n\nThe use of chiaroscuro is common throughout his works, through underexposure and adjustment in printing. His photographs' use of bokeh is intended to give them a painterly atmosphere. The work is often presented as diptychs, triptychs and in other groupings, and the exhibitions are specifically curated by Henson to reflect a sense of musicality.\n\nDuality is a recurring theme of Henson's work, often in combination with adolescent subjects. He frequently employs a flattened perspective through the use of telephoto lenses. His works are often in the form of staged tableaux in which faces of the subjects are often blurred or partly shadowed and do not directly face the viewer.\n\nHenson states that he is not interested in a political or sociological agenda.\n\nRaised in the Eastern suburbs of Melbourne, Henson studied Visual Arts and Design 1974–1975 at Prahran College of Advanced Education where Athol Shmith was head of the Photography program and John Cato and Paul Cox were lecturers. He did not complete the diploma, but the nineteen-year-old Henson's work was promoted by Shmith to Jennie Boddington, inaugural Curator of Photography at the National Gallery of Victoria with the result that Henson's first solo show was exhibited there in 1975.\n\nFrom his period as a student until its closure in 1980, he worked at The Bookshop of Margareta Webber 343 Little Collins Street Melbourne, which specialised in luxurious books on ballet, dance and the visual arts. Leaving the bookshop, he traveled and photographed in Eastern Europe. He taught briefly at the Victorian College of the Arts in Melbourne. Henson's long-term relationship with Luminist Melbourne painter Louise Hearman, whom he met in 1981 at the Victorian College of Arts, has been noted as mutually influential on their art. Hearman won the 2014 Moran portrait prize, Australia's richest at $A150,000, with her double portrait of Bill Henson.\n\nOn 22 May 2008, the opening night of Bill Henson's 2007–2008 exhibition at the Roslyn Oxley9 Gallery in Paddington, Sydney, was canceled after eight individual complaints were made to Police voicing concerns about an email invitation from the Gallery to a \"Private View\" that depicted photographs of a nude 13-year-old girl. Hetty Johnston, a child protection advocate also lodged a complaint with the New South Wales police.\nOn the same day a \"Sydney Morning Herald\" columnist, Miranda Devine, had also written a scathing article in response to viewing the email invitation, which precipitated heated talk-back and media discussion throughout the day. In the process of removing the images from the Gallery, Police found more photographs of naked children on exhibition among various large format photographs of nonfigurative subjects, which they later sought to examine for the purposes of determining their legal status under the NSW Crimes Act and child protection legislation. Following discussions with the Gallery and a decision by Henson, the Gallery canceled the opening and postponed the show.\n\nIt was announced on 23 May that a number of the images in the exhibition had been seized by police local Area Commander Alan Sicard, with the intention of charging Bill Henson, the Gallery, or both with \"publishing an indecent article\" under the Crimes Act. The seized images were also removed from the Roslyn Oxley9 Gallery website, where the remainder of the series can now be viewed online.\n\nThe situation provoked a national debate on censorship. In a televised interview, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd stated that he found the images \"absolutely revolting\" and that they had \"no artistic merit\". These views swiftly drew censure from members of the 'creative stream' who attended the recent 2020 Summit convened by Rudd, led by actress Cate Blanchett.\n\nOn 5 June 2008 the former director of the National Gallery of Australia, Betty Churcher, said it was \"not surprising\" that the New South Wales Department of Public Prosecutions (DPP) would announce its official recommendation that no charges be laid regarding the Sydney Roslyn Oxley9 gallery's collection of photographs by artist Bill Henson. Ms Churcher said it would have been ridiculous to drag the case through the courts: \n\nOn 6 June 2008 it was reported in \"The Age\" that police would not prosecute Bill Henson over his photographs of naked teenagers, after they were declared \"mild and justified\" and given a PG rating by the Australian Classification Board, suggesting viewing by children under the age of 16 is suitable with parental guidance.\n\nAustralian scholar Niall Lucy criticized Devine's response to Henson's art in his 2010 book \"Pomo Oz: Fear and Loathing Down Under\". David Marr's book about the 2008 incident \"The Henson case\" was listed for the 2009 Victorian Premier's Literary Award and the 2009 Prime Minister's Literary Awards.\n\nOn 4 October 2008, Henson became the center of controversy again after it was revealed in extracts of \"The Henson case\" that in 2007 he visited St Kilda Park Primary School to pick out potential models for his artwork. Henson was allowed entry into the school and escorted by principal Sue Knight around the school grounds and picked two children he thought would be suitable – one child, a boy, was later photographed after his parents were approached by the school on behalf of the artist.\n\nAn investigation into the matter was launched by the Department of Education on 6 October 2008. The investigation found that the principal had complied with departmental policy, and had no case to answer.\n\nA few of his exhibitions:\n\n1975\n1981\n1985\n1989\n1990\n1993\n1998\n2004\n2006\n2008\n2010\n2011\n2012\n2013\n\nMajor monographs on the artist's work:\n\n"}
{"id": "27423862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27423862", "title": "Dorota Nieznalska", "text": "Dorota Nieznalska\n\nDorota Alicja Nieznalska (born September 19, 1973) is a Polish visual artist and sculptor.\n\nNieznalska's controversial installation \"Pasja\" (2002), which included the placement of an image of the penis upon a metal Greek cross, resulted in a notable scandal, as the display was condemned as immoral and blasphemous by Polish conservative Catholics. The group exhibition at which the installation was presented was closed down by the authorities, while Nieznalska herself faced legal charges on account of an alleged violation of a provision of the Polish criminal code prohibiting blasphemy.\n\nThe sculptor was successful in fighting off the blasphemy conviction following the favorable ruling of an appeals court in 2009.\n\nDorota Alicja Nieznalska was born to a devout family in Gdańsk in 1973. Raised in the Gdańsk-Gdynia–Sopot Tricity area, Nieznalska was educated at an art high school in Gdynia Orłowo. Nieznalska enrolled at Gdańsk's Academy of Fine Arts as a student of sculpture in 1993, a year after making her first solo exhibition in her native city. Nieznalska's fine arts instructors were the Professors Franciszek Duszeńko and Grzegorz Klaman. Nieznalska graduated from the academy in 1999 and exhibited a number of student works (\"Insemination\", 1997; \"The Pleasure Principle\", 1998; \"Absolution\", 1999) in the 1990s. She subsequently participating in three major exhibitions in Gdańsk, Warsaw, and Białystok in 2000 and 2001.\n\nBlasphemy charges were levelled against Nieznalska after an exhibition featuring the 2002 work \"Pasja\" (\"Passion\"), an artistic installation concerned with the themes of masculinity and suffering. The installation was displayed at the experimental Gdańsk, Wyspa Gallery, an institution associated with the academy, and consisted of two elements: a large Greek cross made of metal was suspended from the ceiling of the gallery, and covered; its center was filled in with an image of a man's hips, thighs, and penis. Behind the cross, the viewer's attention was drawn to a large video, its display projecting from an overhead angle the face and shoulders of a grimacing man in the act of weight-lifting. The viewer's inability to behold the man's body, his other body parts being cut off from the screen, concocted an effect of ambiguity as to the activity of the man on the screen, suggesting that the man's feeling of torment could have been the effect of other kinds of activity. The installation would be described by some as depicting \"the penis of Christ\" in the ensuing controversy.\n\nGdańsk activists of the right-wing League of Polish Families began a petition to the local authorities to open a legal case following the release of television footage of the exhibition. Complaints about \"Pasja\" led to Nieznalska's being summoned to report to the local police on 2 March 2002. The city's rightist municipal councilors quickly closed the exhibition while the young artist, insisting that her intention was to focus on \"the cult of the male body\", became the defendant of a trial concerning Nieznalska's alleged violation of the criminal code. Nieznalska's upcoming exhibits in Słupsk and Ostrów Wielkopolski were cancelled after further intervention from the League of Polish Families. Members of the nationalist youth group \"Młodzież Wszechpolska\" threatened to \"hang such artists\" and \"shave their heads, like the Home Army did with women who were in close relationships with [the] Germans\"\n\nAt the conclusion of the first legal process in 2003, the court found Nieznalska guilty of \"offending religious feelings\", a violation of the ban on blasphemy within Article 196 of the criminal code. Judge Tomasz Zieliński denied that Nieznalska's work was entitled to any special constitutional protection as an object of art, stating that \"the fact that a work is within the boundaries of art has no significance for whether it can offend the feelings of other people.\" The court ordered Nieznalska to perform six months of unpaid community service. The trial prosecutor had originally demanded a fine of 2000 \"złoty\", but the court decided to increase the penalty. Judge Zieliński additionally forbade Nieznalska from traveling out of the country. The local deputies of the League of Polish Families present during the sentencing clapped to express their approval.\n\nControversy surrounding Nieznalska's installation, already boiling during the initial trial, persisted well into the appeals process. An unsigned editorial in Poland's Anglophone monthly \"The Warsaw Voice\", summing up the court case shortly after the initial verdict as a battle between the left and right - albeit \"the first of its kind\" for modern Poland - treated Nieznalska as \"a tasteless provocateur, covering up her lack of genuine talent with shock tactics\" and cited the opinion of Franciszek Starowieyski, \"one of the best-known Polish sculptors, himself rather partial to unconventional works\", who \"said before the beginning of the lawsuit that the one to blame was not the novice artist but the curator of the Gdańsk gallery. According to Starowieyski, Nieznalska's installation was of such a low artistic standard that it should never have been exhibited. Many other known artists, while not approving of the sentence, agreed that if not for the scandal, Nieznalska's work would have stood little chance of making it into reputable galleries.\" The former president Lech Wałęsa spoke out against Nieznalska and supported a hard line, maintaining that the artist's sentence was insufficiently severe. The fine arts professors supporting the Wyspa exhibitions decided to atone for the mistake by closing the gallery.\n\nThe more liberal sections of Polish society stood up in support of the sculptor's right to free artistic expression. A letter of protest signed about 1500 artists, professionals, and other concerned citizens argued for \"civic freedoms\" and art as \"one sphere\" of \"freedom, incorrectness, difference.\" An opinion piece by Andrzej Osęka for the liberal daily \"Gazeta Wyborcza\" compared the Nieznalska case to the 2005 \"Jyllands-Posten\" controversy in Denmark, noting that whereas the Danish newspaper suffered no legal consequences on account of its publication of a cartoon deliberately offensive to the Muslim faith in spite of loud outcries from Muslim communities around the world, Nieznalska's case had resulted in a campaign of legal intimidation because of poor legislation and the judges' deference to the politicians. The Adam Mickiewicz University art historian Pawel Leszkowicz compared Nieznalska to Alicja Zebrowska and Katarzyna Kozyra, two other female artists attacked for immoral works in the 1990s.\n\nTwo former Wyspa staff - curator Aneta Szylak and director Grzegorz Klaman, Nieznalska's former instructor - wrote that while \"[s]ince the times of Plato, the academy [had been] a place for intellectual and artistic discourse\", the principle \"was broken when the gallery closed... Because she had the courage to show 'Pasja', Nieznalska had her scholarships and subsidies cut off; she has been stigmatized and censored... A spectacular political sham is [the League of Polish Families'] typical marketing strategy, and the judge acted just like they wanted him to.\"\n\nNieznalska was acquitted after an arduous process and multiple appeals in June 2009. The \"Gazeta Wyborcza\" hailed the decision as \"a toast to freedom.\"\n\nThe European Humanist Federation has alleged that Polish prosecutors have been trying to revive the case in 2010. Polish reports denied that Nieznalska would be subjected to a third trial, emphasizing the acquittal as binding.\n\nOfficial websites:\nThe blasphemy case:\n"}
{"id": "885257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=885257", "title": "Dream art", "text": "Dream art\n\nDream art is any form of art directly based on material from dreams, or which employs dream-like imagery.\n\nReferences to dreams \"in\" art are as old as literature itself: the story of Gilgamesh, the Bible, and the Iliad all describe dreams of major characters and the meanings thereof. However, dreams \"as\" art, without a \"real\" frame story, appear to be a later development—though there is no way to know whether many premodern works were dream-based.\n\nIn European literature, the Romantic movement emphasized the value of emotion and irrational inspiration. \"Visions\", whether from dreams or intoxication, served as raw material and were taken to represent the artist's highest creative potential.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Symbolism and Expressionism introduced dream imagery into visual art. Expressionism was also a literary movement, and included the later work of the playwright August Strindberg, who coined the term \"dream play\" for a style of narrative that did not distinguish between fantasy and reality.\n\nAt the same time, discussion of dreams reached a new level of public awareness in the Western world due to the work of Sigmund Freud, who introduced the notion of the subconscious mind as a field of scientific inquiry. Freud greatly influenced the 20th-century Surrealists, who combined the visionary impulses of Romantics and Expressionists with a focus on the unconscious as a creative tool, and an assumption that apparently irrational content could contain significant meaning, perhaps more so than rational content.\n\nThe invention of film and animation brought new possibilities for vivid depiction of nonrealistic events, but films consisting \"entirely\" of dream imagery have remained an avant-garde rarity. Comic books and comic strips have explored dreams somewhat more often, starting with Winsor McCay's popular newspaper strips; the trend toward confessional works in alternative comics of the 1980s saw a proliferation of artists drawing their own dreams.\n\nIn the collection, The Committee of Sleep, Harvard psychologist Deirdre Barrett identifies modern dream-inspired art such as paintings including Jasper Johns's \"Flag\", much of the work of Jim Dine and Salvador Dalí, novels ranging from \"Sophie's Choice\" to works by Anne Rice and Stephen King and films including Robert Altman's \"Three Women\", John Sayles \"Brother from Another Planet\" and Ingmar Bergman's \"Wild Strawberries\". That book also describes how Paul McCartney's \"Yesterday\" was heard by him in a dream and Most of Billy Joel's and Ladysmith Black Mambazo's music has originated in dreams.\n\nDream material continues to be used by a wide range of contemporary artists for various purposes. This practice is considered by some to be of psychological value for the artist—independent of the artistic value of the results—as part of the discipline of \"dream work\".\n\nThe international Association for the Study of Dreams holds an annual juried show of visual dream art.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60125", "title": "Engraving", "text": "Engraving\n\nEngraving is the practice of incising a design onto a hard, usually flat surface by cutting grooves into it with a burin. The result may be a decorated object in itself, as when silver, gold, steel, or glass are engraved, or may provide an intaglio printing plate, of copper or another metal, for printing images on paper as prints or illustrations; these images are also called \"engravings\". Engraving is one of the oldest and most important techniques in printmaking. Wood engraving is a form of relief printing and is not covered in this article.\n\nEngraving was a historically important method of producing images on paper in artistic printmaking, in mapmaking, and also for commercial reproductions and illustrations for books and magazines. It has long been replaced by various photographic processes in its commercial applications and, partly because of the difficulty of learning the technique, is much less common in printmaking, where it has been largely replaced by etching and other techniques.\n\n\"Engraving\" is also loosely but incorrectly used for any old black and white print; it requires a degree of expertise to distinguish engravings from prints using other techniques such as etching in particular, but also mezzotint and other techniques. Many old master prints also combine techniques on the same plate, further confusing matters. Line engraving and steel engraving cover use for reproductive prints, illustrations in books and magazines, and similar uses, mostly in the 19th century, and often not actually using engraving.\n\nTraditional engraving, by burin or with the use of machines, continues to be practised by goldsmiths, glass engravers, gunsmiths and others, while modern industrial techniques such as photoengraving and laser engraving have many important applications. Engraved gems were an important art in the ancient world, revived at the Renaissance, although the term traditionally covers relief as well as intaglio carvings, and is essentially a branch of sculpture rather than engraving, as drills were the usual tools.\n\nOther terms often used for printed engravings are copper engraving, copper-plate engraving or \"line engraving\". Steel engraving is the same technique, on steel or steel-faced plates, and was mostly used for banknotes, illustrations for books, magazines and reproductive prints, letterheads and similar uses from about 1790 to the early 20th century, when the technique became less popular, except for banknotes and other forms of security printing. Especially in the past, \"engraving\" was often used very loosely to cover several printmaking techniques, so that many so-called engravings were in fact produced by totally different techniques, such as etching or mezzotint. \"Hand engraving\" is a term sometimes used for engraving objects other than printing plates, to inscribe or decorate jewellery, firearms, trophies, knives and other fine metal goods. Traditional engravings in printmaking are also \"hand engraved\", using just the same techniques to make the lines in the plate.\n\nEach graver is different and has its own use. Engravers use a hardened steel tool called a burin, or graver, to cut the design into the surface, most traditionally a copper plate. However, modern hand engraving artists use burins or gravers to cut a variety of metals such as silver, nickel, steel, brass, gold, titanium, and more, in applications from weaponry to jewellery to motorcycles to found objects. Modern professional engravers can engrave with a resolution of up to 40 lines per mm in high grade work creating game scenes and scrollwork. Dies used in mass production of molded parts are sometimes hand engraved to add special touches or certain information such as part numbers.\n\nIn addition to hand engraving, there are engraving machines that require less human finesse and are not directly controlled by hand. They are usually used for lettering, using a pantographic system. There are versions for the insides of rings and also the outsides of larger pieces. Such machines are commonly used for inscriptions on rings, lockets and presentation pieces.\n\nGravers come in a variety of shapes and sizes that yield different line types. The burin produces a unique and recognizable quality of line that is characterized by its steady, deliberate appearance and clean edges. The angle tint tool has a slightly curved tip that is commonly used in printmaking. Florentine liners are flat-bottomed tools with multiple lines incised into them, used to do fill work on larger areas or to create uniform shade lines that are fast to execute. Ring gravers are made with particular shapes that are used by jewelry engravers in order to cut inscriptions inside rings. Flat gravers are used for fill work on letters, as well as \"wriggle\" cuts on most musical instrument engraving work, remove background, or create bright cuts. Knife gravers are for line engraving and very deep cuts. Round gravers, and flat gravers with a radius, are commonly used on silver to create bright cuts (also called bright-cut engraving), as well as other hard-to-cut metals such as nickel and steel. Square or V-point gravers are typically square or elongated diamond-shaped and used for cutting straight lines. V-point can be anywhere from 60 to 130 degrees, depending on purpose and effect. These gravers have very small cutting points. Other tools such as mezzotint rockers, roulets and burnishers are used for texturing effects. Burnishing tools can also be used for certain stone setting techniques.\n\nMusical instrument engraving on American-made brass instruments flourished in the 1920s and utilizes a specialized engraving technique where a flat graver is \"walked\" across the surface of the instrument to make zig-zag lines and patterns. The method for \"walking\" the graver may also be referred to as \"wriggle\" or \"wiggle\" cuts. This technique is necessary due to the thinness of metal used to make musical instruments versus firearms or jewelry. Wriggle cuts are commonly found on silver Western jewelry and other Western metal work.\n\nTool geometry is extremely important for accuracy in hand engraving. When sharpened for most applications, a graver has a \"face\", which is the top of the graver, and a \"heel\", which is the bottom of the graver; not all tools or application require a heel. These two surfaces meet to form a point that cuts the metal. The geometry and length of the heel helps to guide the graver smoothly as it cuts the surface of the metal. When the tool's point breaks or chips, even on a microscopic level, the graver can become hard to control and produces unexpected results. Modern innovations have brought about new types of carbide that resist chipping and breakage, which hold a very sharp point longer between resharpening than traditional metal tools.\n\nSharpening a graver or burin requires either a sharpening stone or wheel. Harder carbide and steel gravers require diamond-grade sharpening wheels; these gravers can be polished to a mirror finish using a ceramic or cast iron lap, which is essential in creating bright cuts. Several low-speed, reversible sharpening system made specifically for hand engravers are available that reduce sharpening time. Fixtures that secure the tool in place at certain angles and geometries are also available to take the guesswork from sharpening to produce accurate points. Very few master engravers exist today who rely solely on \"feel\" and muscle memory to sharpen tools. These master engravers typically worked for many years as an apprentice, most often learning techniques decades before modern machinery was available for hand engravers. These engravers typically trained in such countries as Italy and Belgium, where hand engraving has a rich and long heritage of masters.\n\nDesign or artwork is generally prepared in advance, although some professional and highly experienced hand engravers are able to draw out minimal outlines either on paper or directly on the metal surface just prior to engraving. The work to be engraved may be lightly scribed on the surface with a sharp point, laser marked, drawn with a fine permanent marker (removable with acetone) or pencil, transferred using various chemicals in conjunction with inkjet or laser printouts, or stippled. Engraving artists may rely on hand drawing skills, copyright-free designs and images, computer-generated artwork, or common design elements when creating artwork.\n\nOriginally, handpieces varied little in design as the common use was to push with the handle placed firmly in the center of the palm. With modern pneumatic engraving systems, handpieces are designed and created in a variety of shapes and power ranges. Handpieces are made using various methods and materials. Knobs may be handmade from wood, molded and engineered from plastic, or machine-made from brass, steel, or other metals. The most widely known hand engraving tool maker, GRS Tools in Kansas is an American-owned and operated company that manufacture handpieces as well as many other tools for various applications in metal engraving.\n\nThe actual engraving is traditionally done by a combination of pressure and manipulating the work-piece. The traditional \"hand push\" process is still practiced today, but modern technology has brought various mechanically assisted engraving systems. Most pneumatic engraving systems require an air source that drives air through a hose into a handpiece, which resembles a traditional engraving handle in many cases, that powers a mechanism (usually a piston). The air is actuated by either a foot control (like a gas pedal or sewing machine) or newer palm / hand control. This mechanism replaces either the \"hand push\" effort or the effects of a hammer. The internal mechanisms move at speeds up to 15,000 strokes per minute, thereby greatly reducing the effort needed in traditional hand engraving. These types of pneumatic systems are used for power assistance only and do not guide or control the engraving artist. One of the major benefits of using a pneumatic system for hand engraving is the reduction of fatigue and decrease in time spent working.\n\nHand engraving artists today employ a combination of hand push, pneumatic, rotary, or hammer and chisel methods. Hand push is still commonly used by modern hand engraving artists who create \"bulino\" style work, which is highly detailed and delicate, fine work; a great majority, if not all, traditional printmakers today rely solely upon hand push methods. Pneumatic systems greatly reduce the effort required for removing large amounts of metal, such as in deep relief engraving or Western bright cut techniques.\n\nFinishing the work is often necessary when working in metal that may rust or where a colored finish is desirable, such as a firearm. A variety of spray lacquers and finishing techniques exist to seal and protect the work from exposure to the elements and time. Finishing also may include lightly sanding the surface to remove small chips of metal called \"burrs\" that are very sharp and unsightly. Some engravers prefer high contrast to the work or design, using black paints or inks to darken removed (and lower) areas of exposed metal. The excess paint or ink is wiped away and allowed to dry before lacquering or sealing, which may or may not be desired by the artist.\n\nBecause of the high level of microscopic detail that can be achieved by a master engraver, counterfeiting of engraved designs is well-nigh impossible, and modern banknotes are almost always engraved, as are plates for printing money, checks, bonds and other security-sensitive papers. The engraving is so fine that a normal printer cannot recreate the detail of hand engraved images, nor can it be scanned. In the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, more than one hand engraver will work on the same plate, making it nearly impossible for one person to duplicate all the engraving on a particular banknote or document.\n\nThe modern discipline of hand engraving, as it is called in a metalworking context, survives largely in a few specialized fields. The highest levels of the art are found on firearms and other metal weaponry, jewellery, and musical instruments.\n\nIn most commercial markets today, hand engraving has been replaced with milling using CNC engraving or milling machines. Still, there are certain applications where use of hand engraving tools cannot be replaced.\n\nIn some instances, images or designs can be transferred to metal surfaces via mechanical process. One such process is roll stamping or roller-die engraving. In this process, a hardened image die is pressed against the destination surface using extreme pressure to impart the image. In the 1800s pistol cylinders were often decorated via this process to impart a continuous scene around its surface.\n\nEngraving machines such as the K500 (packaging) or K6 (publication) by Hell Gravure Systems use a diamond stylus to cut cells. Each cell creates one printing dot later in the process. A K6 can have up to 18 engraving heads each cutting 8.000 cells per second to an accuracy of .1 µm and below. They are fully computer-controlled and the whole process of cylinder-making is fully automated.\n\nIt is now common place for retail stores (mostly jewellery, silverware or award stores) to have a small computer controlled engrave on site. This enables them to personalise the products they sell. Retail engraving machines tend to be focused around ease of use for the operator and the ability to do a wide variety of items including flat metal plates, jewelry of different shapes and sizes, as well as cylindrical items such as mugs and tankards. They will typically be equipped with a computer dedicated to graphic design that will enable the operator to easily design a text or picture graphic which the software will translate into digital signals telling the engraver machine what to do. Unlike industrial engravers, retail machines are smaller and only use one diamond head. This is interchangeable so the operator can use differently shaped diamonds for different finishing effects. They will typically be able to do a variety of metals and plastics. Glass and crystal engraving is possible, but the brittle nature of the material makes the process more time consuming.\n\nRetail engravers mainly use two different processes. The first and most common 'Diamond Drag' pushes the diamond cutter through the surface of the material and then pulls to create scratches. These direction and depth are controlled by the computer input. The second is 'Spindle Cutter'. This is similar to Diamond Drag, but the engraving head is shaped in a flat V shape, with a small diamond and the base. The machine uses an electronic spindle to quickly rotate the head as it pushes it into the material, then pulls it along whilst it continues to spin. This creates a much bolder impression than diamond drag. It is used mainly for brass plaques and pet tags.\n\nWith state-of-the-art machinery it is easy to have a simple, single item complete in under ten minutes.\nThe engraving process with diamonds is state-of-the-art since the 1960s.\n\nToday laser engraving machines are in development but still mechanical cutting has proven its strength in economical terms and quality. More than 4,000 engravers make approx. 8 Mio printing cylinders worldwide per year.\n\n\"For the printing process, see intaglio (printmaking). For the Western art history of engraved prints, see old master print and line engraving\"\n\nThe first evidence for humans engraving patterns is a chiselled shell, dating back between 540,000 and 430,000 years, from Trinil, in Java, Indonesia, where the first Homo erectus was discovered. Hatched banding upon ostrich eggshells used as water containers found in South Africa in the Diepkloof Rock Shelter and dated to the Middle Stone Age around 60,000 BC are the next documented case of human engraving. Engraving on bone and ivory is an important technique for the Art of the Upper Paleolithic, and larger engraved petroglyphs on rocks are found from many prehistoric periods and cultures around the world.\n\nIn antiquity, the only engraving on metal that could be carried out is the shallow grooves found in some jewellery after the beginning of the 1st Millennium B.C. The majority of so-called engraved designs on ancient gold rings or other items were produced by chasing or sometimes a combination of lost-wax casting and chasing. Engraved gem is a term for any carved or engraved semi-precious stone; this was an important small-scale art form in the ancient world, and remained popular until the 19th century.\n\nHowever the use of glass engraving, usually using a wheel, to cut decorative scenes or figures into glass vessels, in imitation of hardstone carvings, appears as early as the first century AD, continuing into the fourth century CE at urban centers such as Cologne and Rome, and appears to have ceased sometime in the fifth century. Decoration was first based on Greek mythology, before hunting and circus scenes became popular, as well as imagery drawn from the Old and New Testament. It appears to have been used to mimic the appearance of precious metal wares during the same period, including the application of gold leaf, and could be cut free-hand or with lathes. As many as twenty separate stylistic workshops have been identified, and it seems likely that the engraver and vessel producer were separate craftsmen.\n\nIn the European Middle Ages goldsmiths used engraving to decorate and inscribe metalwork. It is thought that they began to print impressions of their designs to record them. From this grew the engraving of copper printing plates to produce artistic images on paper, known as old master prints, in Germany in the 1430s. Italy soon followed. Many early engravers came from a goldsmithing background. The first and greatest period of the engraving was from about 1470 to 1530, with such masters as Martin Schongauer, Albrecht Dürer, and Lucas van Leiden.\nThereafter engraving tended to lose ground to etching, which was a much easier technique for the artist to learn. But many prints combined the two techniques: although Rembrandt's prints are generally all called etchings for convenience, many of them have some burin or drypoint work, and some have nothing else. By the nineteenth century, most engraving was for commercial illustration.\n\nBefore the advent of photography, engraving was used to reproduce other forms of art, for example paintings. Engravings continued to be common in newspapers and many books into the early 20th century, as they were cheaper to use in printing than photographic images.\n\nMany classic postage stamps were engraved, although the practice is now mostly confined to particular countries, or used when a more \"elegant\" design is desired and a limited color range is acceptable.\nModifying the relief designs on coins is a craft dating back to the 18th century and today modified coins are known colloquially as hobo nickels. In the United States, especially during the Great Depression, coin engraving on the large-faced Indian Head nickel became a way to help make ends meet. The craft continues today, and with modern equipment often produces stunning miniuture sculptural artworks and floral scrollwork.\n\nDuring the mid-20th century, a renaissance in hand-engraving began to take place. With the inventions of pneumatic hand-engraving systems that aided hand-engravers, the art and techniques of hand-engraving became more accessible. \n\nThe first music printed from engraved plates dates from 1446 and most printed music was produced through engraving from roughly 1700–1860. From 1860–1990 most printed music was produced through a combination of engraved master plates reproduced through offset lithography.\n\nThe first comprehensive account is given by Mme Delusse in her article \"Gravure en lettres, en géographie et en musique\" in Diderot's Encyclopedia. The technique involved a five-pointed raster to score staff lines, various punches in the shapes of notes and standard musical symbols, and various burins and scorers for lines and slurs. For correction, the plate was held on a bench by callipers, hit with a dot punch on the opposite side, and burnished to remove any signs of the defective work. The process involved intensive pre-planning of the layout, and many manuscript scores with engraver's planning marks survive from the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\nBy 1837 pewter had replaced copper as a medium, and Berthiaud gives an account with an entire chapter devoted to music (\"Novel manuel complet de l'imprimeur en taille douce\", 1837). Printing from such plates required a separate inking to be carried out cold, and the printing press used less pressure. Generally, four pages of music were engraved on a single plate. Because music engraving houses trained engravers through years of apprenticeship, very little is known about the practice. Fewer than one dozen sets of tools survive in libraries and museums. By 1900 music engravers were established in several hundred cities in the world, but the art of storing plates was usually concentrated with publishers. Extensive bombing of Leipzig in 1944, the home of most German engraving and printing firms, destroyed roughly half the world's engraved music plates.\n\nExamples of contemporary uses for engraving include creating text on jewellery, such as pendants or on the inside of engagement- and wedding rings to include text such as the name of the partner, or adding a winner's name to a sports trophy. Another application of modern engraving is found in the printing industry. There, every day thousands of pages are mechanically engraved onto rotogravure cylinders, typically a steel base with a copper layer of about 0.1 mm in which the image is transferred. After engraving the image is protected with an approximately 6 µm chrome layer. Using this process the image will survive for over a million copies in high speed printing presses. Engraving machines such as GUN BOW (one of the leading engraving brands) are the best examples of hand engraving tools, although this type of machine is typically not used for fine hand engraving.\nSome schools throughout the world are renowned for their teaching of engraving, like the École Estienne in Paris.\n\nIn traditional engraving, which is a purely linear medium, the impression of half-tones was created by making many very thin parallel lines, a technique called hatching. When two sets of parallel-line \"hatchings\" intersected each other for higher density, the resulting pattern was known as \"cross-hatching\". Patterns of dots were also used in a technique called stippling, first used around 1505 by Giulio Campagnola. Claude Mellan was one of many 17th-century engravers with a very well-developed technique of using parallel lines of varying thickness (known as the \"swelling line\") to give subtle effects of tone (as was Goltzius) – see picture below. One famous example is his \"Sudarium of Saint Veronica\" (1649), an engraving of the face of Jesus made from a single spiraling line that starts at the tip of Jesus's nose.\n\nThe earliest allusion to engraving in the Bible may be the reference to Judah's seal ring (Ge 38:18), followed by (Ex 39.30). Engraving was commonly done with pointed tools of iron or even with diamond points. (Jer 17:1).\n\nEach of the two onyx stones on the shoulder-pieces of the high priest’s ephod was engraved with the names of six different tribes of Israel, and each of the 12 precious stones that adorned his breastpiece was engraved with the name of one of the tribes. The holy sign of dedication, the shining gold plate on the high priest's turban, was engraved with the words: \"Holiness belongs to Adonai.\" Bezalel, along with Oholiab, was qualified to do this specialized engraving work as well as to train others.—Ex 35:30–35; 28:9–12; 39:6–14, 30.\n\nPrints:\n\nOf gems:\n\nOf guns:\n\nOf coins:\n\nOf postage stamps:\n\nOf pins:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13461083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13461083", "title": "Excessivism", "text": "Excessivism\n\nExcessivism is an art movement which was introduced in 2015 by American artist and curator Kaloust Guedel with an exhibition titled \"Excessivist Initiative\". A preview of the exhibition written by art critic and curator Shana Nys Dambrot, titled \"Excessivism: Irony, Imbalance and a New Rococo\" was published in the \"Huffington Post\". Its early adopters go back to late 20th century.\n\nExcessivism is a reflection, examination, or investigation of every aspect of life in excessive state with particular consideration to the areas that have real and consequential effect on the members of the society. Subject areas are, but not limited to, economics, politics and psychology. In the area of economics it is a commentary on economic materialism. It reflects, examines and investigates the excessive desire to acquire material goods beyond one's needs and often means. Excessivism depicts the excessive use of resources in an exaggerated way, by means of two- or three-dimensional visual creations, written or spoken words, or in any other manner. It aims at a reflection, examination, or investigation of the capitalist system, devoid of aesthetic, legal, commercial, ethical, moral, racial, or religious considerations.\n\nThe goal of the capitalist system is to deliver profit for private investors, or corporations (without consideration of consequences including human and environmental), as contrasted to cooperatively or state-owned means of wealth. Said structure provides incomparable contribution to economic growth, employment and prosperity. According to determinism, freedom of choice is illusory and society is positioned to function as a reliable producer of excess, the lubricant of the capitalist engine.\n\nThe inaugural exhibition of Excessivism took place in LA Artcore Brewery Annex gallery with the title \"Excessivist Initiative\". And the Excessivism Manifesto was published in Downtown News weekly in September 2015. According to an art critic Shana Nys Dambrot the idea was conceived in the studio of the founder based on his personal realizations of his relationship as a consumer with the capitalist environment. Excessivism was introduced to the Los Angeles art scene in November 2014 in the Red Pipe gallery in an exhibition titled \"Excess The New Norm\". It was curated by art critic, publisher and curator Mat Gleason.\n\nThe artists included in the inaugural exhibition were Brett Baker, Christophe Baudson, Andrew Dadson, Ian Davenport, Jonas Etter, Kaloust Guedel, Don Harger, Zhu Jinshi, Fabian Marcacio, Roxy Paine, Scott Richter, Samvel Saghatelian, Elizabeth Sheppell, Michael Toenges, Michael Villarreal, Danh Vō, Cullen Washington jr., Brigid Watson, Leslie Wayne, Ai Weiwei and Zadik Zadikian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "385946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=385946", "title": "Hierarchy of genres", "text": "Hierarchy of genres\n\nA hierarchy of genres is any formalization which ranks different genres in an art form in terms of their prestige and cultural value.\n\nIn literature, the epic was considered the highest form, for the reason expressed by Samuel Johnson in his \"Life of John Milton\": \"By the general consent of criticks, the first praise of genius is due to the writer of an epick poem, as it requires an assemblage of all the powers which are singly sufficient for other compositions.\" Below that came lyric poetry, and comic poetry, with a similar ranking for drama. The novel took a long time to establish a firm place in the hierarchy, doing so only as belief in any systematic hierarchy of forms expired in the 19th century.\n\nIn music, settings of words were accorded a higher status than merely instrumental works, at least until the Baroque period, and opera retained a superior status for much longer. The status of works also varies with the number of players and singers involved, with those for large forces, which are certainly more difficult to write and more expensive to perform, given higher status. Any element of comedy reduced the status of a work, though, as in other art forms, often increasing its popularity.\n\nThe hierarchies in figurative art are those initially formulated for painting in 16th-century Italy, which held sway with little alteration until the early 19th century. These were formalized and promoted by the academies in Europe between the 17th century and the modern era, of which the most influential became the French Académie de peinture et de sculpture, which held a central role in Academic art. The fully developed hierarchy distinguished between:\n\n\nThe hierarchy was based on a distinction between art that made an intellectual effort to \"render visible the universal essence of things\" (\"imitare\" in Italian) and that which merely consisted of \"mechanical copying of particular appearances\" (\"ritrarre\"). Idealism was privileged over realism in line with Renaissance Neo-Platonist philosophy.\n\nThe term is mostly used within the field of painting, and from the High Renaissance onwards, by which time painting had asserted itself as the highest form of art. This had not been the case in Medieval art and the art-commissioning sectors of society took a considerable period to fully accept this view. The Raphael Cartoons are a clear example of the continuing status of tapestry, the most expensive form of art in the 16th century. In the Early Medieval period lavish pieces of metalwork had typically been the most highly regarded, and valuable materials remained an important ingredient in the appreciation of art until at least the 17th century. Until the 19th century the most extravagant objets d'art remained more expensive, both new and on the art market, than all but a few paintings. Classical writings which valued the supreme skills of individual artists were influential, as well as developments in art which allowed the Renaissance artist to demonstrate their skill and invention to a greater degree than was usually possible in the Middle Ages.\n\nThe hierarchy grew out of the struggle to gain acceptance of painting as one of the Liberal arts, and then controversies to establish an equal or superior status within them with architecture and sculpture. These matters were considered of great importance by artist-theorists such as Leon Battista Alberti, Leonardo da Vinci, and Giorgio Vasari. Against the sculptors, Leonardo argued that the intellectual effort necessary to create an illusion of three-dimensionality made the painters' art superior to that of the sculptor, who could do so merely by recording appearances. In his \"De Pictura\" (\"About Painting\") of 1441, Alberti argued that multi-figure history painting was the noblest form of art, as being the most difficult, which required mastery of all the others, because it was a visual form of history, and because it had the greatest potential to move the viewer. He placed emphasis on the ability to depict the interactions between the figures by gesture and expression.\n\nTheorists of the Early and High Renaissance accepted the importance of representing nature closely, at least until the later writings of Michelangelo, who was strongly influenced by neoplatonism. By the time of Mannerist theorists such as Gian Paolo Lomazzo and Federico Zuccari (both also painters) this was far less of a priority. Both emphasized beauty as \"something which was directly infused into the mind of man from the mind of God, and existed there independent of any sense-impressions\", a view bound to further reduce the status of works depending on realism. In practice the hierarchy represented little break with either medieval and classical thought, except to place secular history painting in the same class as religious art, and to distinguish (not always clearly) between static iconic religious subjects and narrative figure scenes, giving the latter a higher status. Ideas of decorum also fed into the hierarchy; comic, sordid or merely frivolous subjects or treatment ranked lower than elevated and moral ones.\n\nDuring the Renaissance landscape, genre scenes and still lifes hardly existed as established genres, so discussion of the status or importance of different types of painting was mainly concerned with history subjects as against portraits, initially small and unpretentious, and iconic portrait-type religious and mythological subjects. For most artists some commitment to realism was necessary in a portrait; few could take the high-handed approach of Michelangelo, who largely ignored the actual appearance of the Medici in his Medici Chapel sculptures, supposedly saying that in a thousand years no one would know the difference (a retort Gainsborough is also said to have used, with a shorter timeframe). \n\nMany portraits were extremely flattering, which could be justified by an appeal to idealism as well as the sitter's vanity; the theorist Armenini claimed in 1587 that \"portraits by excellent artists are considered to be painted with better style [\"maniera\"] and greater perfection than others, but more often than not they are less good likenesses\". On the other hand, numbers of courtly sitters and their parents, suitors or courtiers complained that painters entirely failed to do justice to the reality of the sitter.\n\nThe question of decorum in religious art became the focus of intense effort by the Catholic Church after the decrees on art of the Council of Trent of 1563. Paintings depicting biblical events as if they were occurring in the households of wealthy contemporary Italians were attacked, and soon ceased. Until the challenge of Caravaggio at the end of the century, religious art became thoroughly ideal.\n\nThe new genres of landscape, genre painting, animal painting and still life came into their own in the 17th century, with the virtual cessation of religious painting in Protestant countries, and the expansion of picture buying to the prosperous middle class. Although similar developments occurred in all advanced European countries, they were most evident in the enormously productive schools of Dutch Golden Age painting and Flemish Baroque painting. However no theorists emerged to champion the new genres, and the relatively small amount of Dutch theoretical writing, by Karel van Mander, Samuel Dirksz van Hoogstraten, Gerard de Lairesse and others, was mostly content to rehash Italian views, so that their writings can seem oddly at variance with the Dutch art actually being produced in their day.\n\nThe hierarchy was mostly accepted by artists, and even genre specialists such as Jan Steen, Karel Dujardin and Vermeer produced a few history paintings, which were better paid when commissions could be obtained, but in general far harder to sell. The unhappy history of Rembrandt's last history commission, \"The Conspiracy of Claudius Civilis\" (1661) illustrates both his commitment to the form and the difficulties he had in finding an audience. In Flanders, as well as great quantities of pure genre works, there was a trend towards history paintings with a major genre element, whether animals, landscape or still life. Often the different elements were painted by different artists; Rubens and Frans Snyders often co-operated in this way.\n\nThe size of paintings, and very often the prices they realized, increasingly tended to reflect their position in the hierarchy in this period. Until the Romantic period the price and saleability of what were essentially landscapes could be increased by adding small mythological or religious figures, creating a \"landscape with...\", a practice that went back to the beginnings of landscape painting in the Flemish world landscapes of Joachim Patinir in the early 16th century. Flemish Baroque painting was the last school to often paint the lowest genres at a large size, but usually combined with figure subjects.\n\nAn influential formulation of 1667 by André Félibien, a historiographer, architect and theoretician of French classicism became the classic statement of the theory for the 18th century:Celui qui fait parfaitement des païsages est au-dessus d'un autre qui ne fait que des fruits, des fleurs ou des coquilles. Celui qui peint des animaux vivants est plus estimable que ceux qui ne représentent que des choses mortes & sans mouvement ; & comme la figure de l'homme est le plus parfait ouvrage de Dieu sur la Terre, il est certain aussi que celui qui se rend l'imitateur de Dieu en peignant des figures humaines, est beaucoup plus excellent que tous les autres ... un Peintre qui ne fait que des portraits, n'a pas encore cette haute perfection de l'Art, & ne peut prétendre à l'honneur que reçoivent les plus sçavans. Il faut pour cela passer d'une seule figure à la représentation de plusieurs ensemble ; il faut traiter l'histoire & la fable ; il faut représenter de grandes actions comme les historiens, ou des sujets agréables comme les Poëtes ; & montant encore plus haut, il faut par des compositions allégoriques, sçavoir couvrir sous le voile de la fable les vertus des grands hommes, & les mystères les plus relevez.\n\nHe who produces perfect landscapes is above another who only produces fruit, flowers or seashells. He who paints living animals is more estimable than those who only represent dead things without movement, and as man is the most perfect work of God on the earth, it is also certain that he who becomes an imitator of God in representing human figures, is much more excellent than all the others ... a painter who only does portraits still does not have the highest perfection of his art, and cannot expect the honour due to the most skilled. For that he must pass from representing a single figure to several together; history and myth must be depicted; great events must be represented as by historians, or like the poets, subjects that will please, and climbing still higher, he must have the skill to cover under the veil of myth the virtues of great men in allegories, and the mysteries they reveal\".\n\nAllegorical painting was raised above other types of history painting; together they were the \"grand genre\", including paintings with religious, mythological, historical, literary, or allegorical subjects—they embodied some interpretation of life or conveyed a moral or intellectual message. The gods and goddesses from the ancient mythologies represented different aspects of the human psyche, figures from religions represented different ideas, and history, like the other sources, represented a dialectic or play of ideas. Subjects with several figures ranked higher than single figures. For a long time, especially during the French Revolution, history painting often focused on depiction of the heroic male nude; though this waned in the 19th century.\n\nAfter history painting came, in order of decreasing worth: portraits, scenes of everyday life (called \"scènes de genre\", or \"genre painting\", and also \"petit genre\" to contrast it with the \"grande genre\"), landscapes, animal painting, and finally still lifes. In his formulation, such paintings were inferior because they were merely reportorial pictures without moral force or artistic imagination. Genre paintings—neither ideal in style, nor elevated in subject—were admired for their skill, ingenuity, and even humour, but never confused with high art. \n\nThe hierarchy of genres also had a corresponding hierarchy of formats: large format for history paintings, small format for still lifes. This had occasionally been breached in the past, especially in large Flemish works, and the monumental \"The Young Bull\" of the Dutch artist Paulus Potter, as well as the larger of the two \"Butchers' Shop\" canvases of Annibale Carracci. But for the most part the relative prices obtainable for the different genres ensured the hierarchy of size also; it would not have been economic to paint a very large subject from the lower genres, except for commissioned group portraits. Rubens' largest landscapes were painted for his own houses.\n\nThe use of the pictorial elements of painting such as line and color to convey an ultimate unifying theme or idea was regarded as the highest expression of art, and an idealism was adopted in art, whereby forms seen in nature would be generalized, and in turn subordinated to the unity of the artwork. It aimed at universal truth through the imitation of nature. Later dissenting theorists, such as Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, held that this focus on allegory was faulty and based on a wrong analogy between the plastic arts and poetry rooted in the Horatian dictum ut pictura poesis (\"as is painting so is poetry\").\n\nThe British painter Sir Joshua Reynolds in his \"Discourses\" of the 1770s and 1780s, reiterated the argument for still life to the lowest position in the hierarchy of genres on the grounds that it interfered with the painter's access to central forms, those products of the mind's generalising powers. At the summit reigned history painting, centred on the human body: familiarity with the forms of the body permitted the mind of the painter, by comparing innumerable instances of the human form, to abstract from it those typical or central features that represented the body's essence or ideal.\n\nThough Reynolds agreed with Félibien about the natural order of the genres, he held that an important work from any genre of painting could be produced under the hand of genius: \"Whether it is the human figure, an animal, or even inanimate objects, there is nothing, however unpromising in appearance, but may be raised into dignity, convey sentiment, and produce emotion, in the hands of a painter of genius. What was said of Virgil, that he threw even the dung about the ground with an air of dignity, may be applied to Titian; whatever he touched, however naturally mean, and habitually familiar, by a kind of magic he invested with grandeur and importance.\"\n\nThough European academies usually strictly insisted on this hierarchy, over their reign, many artists were able to invent new genres which raised the lower subjects to the importance of history painting. Reynolds himself achieved this by inventing the portraiture style that was called the Grand Manner, where he flattered his sitters by likening them to mythological characters. Jean-Antoine Watteau invented a genre that was called fêtes galantes, where he would show scenes of courtly amusements taking place in Arcadian setting; these often had a poetic and allegorical quality which were considered to ennoble them. \n\nClaude Lorrain practised a genre called the ideal landscape, where a composition would be loosely based on nature and dotted with classical ruins as a setting for a biblical or historical theme. It artfully combined landscape and history painting, thereby legitimising the former. It is synonymous with the term \"historical landscape\" which received official recognition in the Académie française when a Prix de Rome for the genre was established in 1817. Finally, Jean-Baptiste-Siméon Chardin was able to create still life paintings that were considered to have the charm and beauty as to be placed alongside the best allegorical subjects. However, aware of this hierarchy, Chardin began including figures in his work in about 1730, mainly women and children.\n\nRomanticism greatly increased the status of landscape painting, beginning in British art and more gradually that of genre painting, which began to influence history painting in the anecdotal treatments of the Style Troubadour in France and equivalent trends elsewhere. Landscapes grew in size to reflect their new importance, often matching history paintings, especially in the American Hudson River School and Russian painting. Animal paintings also increased in size and dignity, but the full-length portrait, even of royalty, became mostly reserved for large public buildings.\n\nUntil the middle of the 19th century, women were largely unable to paint history paintings as they were not allowed to participate in the final process of artistic training—that of life drawing, in order to protect their modesty. They could work from reliefs, prints, casts and from the Old Masters, but not from the nude model. Instead they were encouraged to participate in the lower painting forms such as portraiture, landscape and genre. These were considered more feminine in that they appealed to the eye rather than the mind.\n\nToward the end of the 19th century, painters and critics began to rebel against the many rules of the Académie française, including the status accorded to history painting, which was beginning to be bought mainly by public bodies of one sort or another, as private buyers preferred subjects from lower down the hierarchy. In Britain the Pre-Raphaelite movement tried to revitalize the history painting, with mixed success; other movements made similar efforts. Many Pre-Raphaelites ended their careers mainly painting other subjects. New artistic movements included the Realists and Impressionists, which each sought to depict the present moment and daily life as observed by the eye, and unattatched from historical significance; the Realists often choosing genre painting and still life, while the Impressionists would most often focus on landscapes.\n\n"}
{"id": "15125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15125", "title": "Irrealism (the arts)", "text": "Irrealism (the arts)\n\nIrrealism is a term that has been used by various writers in the fields of philosophy, literature, and art to denote specific modes of unreality and/or the problems in concretely defining reality. While in philosophy the term specifically refers to a position put forward by the American philosopher Nelson Goodman, in literature and art it refers to a variety of writers and movements. If the term has nonetheless retained a certain consistency in its use across these fields and would-be movements, it perhaps reflects the word’s position in general English usage: though the standard dictionary definition of \"irreal\" gives it the same meaning as \"unreal\", \"irreal\" is very rarely used in comparison with \"unreal\". Thus, it has generally been used to describe something which, while unreal, is so in a very specific or unusual fashion, usually one emphasizing not just the \"not real,\" but some form of estrangement from our generally accepted sense of reality.\n\nIn literature, the term irrealism was first used extensively in the United States in the 1970s to describe the post-realist \"new fiction\" of writers such as Donald Barthelme or John Barth. More generally, it described the notion that all forms of writing could only \"offer particular versions of reality rather than actual descriptions of it,\" and that a story need not offer a clear resolution at its end. John Gardner, in \"The Art of Fiction\", cites in this context the work of Barthelme and its \"seemingly limitless ability to manipulate [literary] techniques as modes of apprehension [which] apprehend nothing.\" Though Barth, in a 1974 interview, stated, \"irrealism—not antirealism or unrealism, but irrealism—is all that I would confidently predict is likely to characterize the prose fiction of the 1970s,\" this did not prove to be the case. Instead writing in the United States quickly returned to its realist orthodoxy and the term irrealism fell into disuse.\n\nIn recent years, however, the term has been revived in an attempt to describe and categorize, in literary and philosophical terms, how it is that the work of an irrealist writer differs from the work of writers in other, non-realistic genres (e.g., the fantasy of J.R.R. Tolkien, the magical realism of Gabriel García Márquez) and what the significance of this difference is. This can be seen in Dean Swinford's essay \"Defining irrealism: scientific development and allegorical possibility\". Approaching the issue from a structuralist and narratological point of view, he has defined irrealism as a \"peculiar mode of postmodern allegory\" that has resulted from modernity’s fragmentation and dismantling of the well-ordered and coherent medieval system of symbol and allegory. Thus a lion, when presented in a given context in medieval literature, could only be interpreted in a single, approved way. Contemporary literary theory, however, denies the attribution of such fixed meanings. According to Swinford, this change can be attributed in part to the fact that \"science and technical culture have changed perceptions of the natural world, have significantly changed the natural world itself, thereby altering the vocabulary of symbols applicable to epistemological and allegorical attempts to understand it.\" Thus irreal works such as Italo Calvino's \"Cosmicomics\" and Jorge Luis Borges' \"Ficciones\" can be seen as an attempt to find a new allegorical language to explain our changed perceptions of the world that have been brought about by our scientific and technical culture, especially concepts such as quantum physics or the theory of relativity. \"The Irrealist work, then, operates within a given system,\" writes Swinford, \"and attests to its plausibility, despite the fact that this system, and the world it represents, is often a mutation, an aberration.\"\n\nThe online journal \"The Cafe Irreal\" , on the other hand, has defined irrealism as being a type of existentialist literature in which the means are continually and absurdly rebelling against the ends that we have determined for them. An example of this would be Franz Kafka's story \"The Metamorphosis\", in which the salesman Gregor Samsa's plans for supporting his family and rising up in rank by hard work and determination are suddenly thrown topsy-turvy by his sudden and inexplicable transformation into a man-sized insect. Such fiction is said to emphasize the fact that human consciousness, being finite in nature, can never make complete sense of, or successfully order, a universe that is infinite in its aspects and possibilities. Which is to say: as much as we might try to order our world with a certain set of norms and goals (which we consider our real world), the paradox of a finite consciousness in an infinite universe creates a zone of irreality (\"that which is beyond the real\") that offsets, opposes, or threatens the real world of the human subject. Irrealist writing often highlights this irreality, and our strange fascination with it, by combining the unease we feel because the real world doesn't conform to our desires with the narrative quality of the dream state (where reality is constantly and inexplicably being undermined); it is thus said to communicate directly, \"by feeling rather than articulation, the uncertainties inherent in human existence or, to put it another way... the irreconcilability between human aspiration and human reality.\" If the irreal story can be considered an allegory, then, it would be an allegory that is \"so many pointers to an unknown meaning,\" in which the meaning is felt more than it is articulated or systematically analyzed.\n\nVarious writers have addressed the question of Irrealism in Art. Many salient observations on Irrealism in Art are found in Nelson Goodman's \"Languages of Art\". Goodman himself produced some multimedia shows, one of which inspired by hockey and is entitled \"Hockey Seen: A Nightmare in Three Periods and Sudden Death\".\n\nGarret Rowlan, writing in \"The Cafe Irreal\", writes that the malaise present in the work of the Italian artist Giorgio de Chirico, \"which recalls Kafka, has to do with the sense of another world lurking, hovering like the long shadows that dominate de Chirico's paintings, which frequently depict a landscape at twilight's uncertain hour. Malaise and mystery are all by-products of the interaction of the real and the unreal, the rub and contact of two worlds caught on irrealism's shimmering surface.\" \n\nThe writer Dean Swinford, whose concept of irrealism was described at length in the section \"Irrealism in Literature\", wrote that the artist Remedios Varos, in her painting \"The Juggler\", \"creates a personal allegorical system which relies on the predetermined symbols of Christian and classical iconography. But these are quickly refigured into a personal system informed by the scientific and organized like a machine...in the Irreal work, allegory operates according to an altered, but constant and orderly iconographic system.\"\n\nArtist Tristan Tondino has made a number of claims about Irrealism. Most of his claims are found in his paintings, many of which are Lettrist Abstractions. \"There is no specific style to Irrealist Art. It is the result of awareness that every human act is the result of the limitations of the world of the actor.\" \n\nIn Australia, the art journal \"the art life\" has recently detected the presence of a \"New Irrealism\" among the painters of that country, which is described as being an \"approach to painting that is decidedly low key, deploying its effects without histrionic showmanship, while creating an eerie other world of ghostly images and abstract washes.\" What exactly constituted the \"old\" irrealism, they do not say.\n\nIrrealist Art Edition is a publishing company created in the 90s by contemporary plastic artist Frédéric Iriarte. Together with the Estonian poet, writer and art critic Ilmar Laaban, they developed their concept of Irrealism through several essays, exhibitions, projects, manifest and a book, \"Irréalisation\". Irrealist Art Edition \n\nSome hardcore bands in Italy have claimed to be irrealist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1405023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1405023", "title": "L'Origine du monde", "text": "L'Origine du monde\n\nArt historians have speculated for years that Courbet's model for was his favourite model, Joanna Hiffernan, also known as \"Jo\". Her lover at the time was the American painter James Whistler, a friend of Courbet.\n\nHiffernan was the subject of a series of four portaits by Courbet entitled \"La belle Irlandaise (Portrait of Jo)\" painted in 1865-66. The possibility that she was the model for or that she was having an affair with Courbet might explain Courbet's and Whistler's brutal separation a short while later. In spite of Hiffernan's red hair contrasting with the darker pubic hair of , the hypothesis that Hiffernan was the model continues. Redhead Jacky Colliss Harvey puts forward the idea that the woman's body-hair suggests a more obvious candidate might be the brunette painted with Hiffernan in Courbet's \"Le Sommeil\"; and that the identification with Hiffernan has been greatly influenced by the eroticised and sexualised image of the female redhead.\nIn February 2013, \"Paris Match\" reported that Courbet expert Jean-Jacques Fernier had authenticated a painting of a young woman's head and shoulders as the upper section of which according to some was severed from the original work. Fernier has stated that because of the conclusions reached after two years of analysis, the head will be added to the next edition of the Courbet catalogue raisonné. The Musée d'Orsay has indicated that \"L'Origine du monde\" was not part of a larger work. \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported that \"experts at the [French] art research centre CARAA (Centre d'Analyses et de Recherche en Art et Archéologie) were able to align the two paintings via grooves made by the original wooden frame and lines in the canvas itself, whose grain matched.\" According to CARAA, it performed pigment analyses which were identified as classical pigments of the 2nd half of the 19th century. No other conclusions were reported by the CARAA. The claim reported by \"Paris Match\" was characterized as dubious by \"Le Monde\" art critic Philippe Dagen, indicating differences in style, and that canvas-similarities could be caused by buying from the same shop.\n\nDocumentary evidence however links the painting with Constance Quéniaux, a former dancer at the Paris Opera and a mistress of the Ottoman diplomat Halil Şerif Pasha (Khalil Bey) who commisioned the painting. According to the historian Claude Schopp and the head of the French National Library's prints department, Sylvie Aubenas, the evidence is found in correspondence between Alexandre Dumas fils and George Sand. Another potential model was Marie-Anne Detourbay, who also was a mistress of Halil Şerif Pasha.\n\nHalil Şerif Pasha (Khalil Bey) is believed to have commissioned the work shortly after he moved to Paris. Charles Augustin Sainte-Beuve introduced him to Courbet and he ordered a painting to add to his personal collection of erotic pictures, which already included (\"The Turkish Bath\") from Ingres and another painting by Courbet, \"Le Sommeil\" (\"The Sleepers\"), for which it is supposed that Hiffernan was one of the models.\n\nAfter Khalil Bey's finances were ruined by gambling, the painting subsequently passed through a series of private collections. It was first bought during the sale of the Khalil Bey collection in 1868, by antique dealer Antoine de la Narde. Edmond de Goncourt hit upon it in an antique shop in 1889, hidden behind a wooden pane decorated with the painting of a castle or a church in a snowy landscape. According to Robert Fernier, who published two volumes of the Courbet catalogue raisonné and founded the Musée Courbet, Hungarian collector Baron Ferenc Hatvany bought it at the Bernheim-Jeune gallery in 1910 and took it with him to Budapest. Towards the end of the Second World War the painting was looted by Soviet troops, but later ransomed by Hatvany. Hatvany left Hungary, which was on the brink of a Communist takeover, in 1947. He was allowed to take only one art work with him, and he took to Paris.\n\nIn 1955 was sold at auction for 1.5 million francs, about 4,285 US dollars at the time. Its new owner was the psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan. He and his wife, actress Sylvia Bataille, installed it in their country house in Guitrancourt. Lacan asked André Masson, his stepbrother, to build a double bottom frame and draw another picture thereon. Masson painted a surrealist, allusive version of .\n\nThe New York public had the opportunity to view in 1988 during the \"Courbet Reconsidered\" show at the Brooklyn Museum; the painting was also included in the exhibition \"Gustave Courbet\" at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 2008. After Lacan died in 1981, the French Minister of Economy and Finances agreed to settle the family's inheritance tax bill through the transfer of the work ( in French law) to the Musée d'Orsay; the transfer was finalized in 1995.\n\nDuring the 19th century, the display of the nude body underwent a revolution whose main activists were Courbet and Manet. Courbet rejected academic painting and its smooth, idealised nudes, but he also directly recriminated the hypocritical social conventions of the Second Empire, where eroticism and even pornography were acceptable in mythological or oneiric paintings.\n\nCourbet later insisted he never lied in his paintings, and his realism pushed the limits of what was considered presentable. With , he has made even more explicit the eroticism of Manet's \"Olympia\". Maxime Du Camp, in a harsh tirade, reported his visit to the work's purchaser, and his sight of a painting \"giving realism's last word\".\nBy the very nature of its realistic, graphic nudity, the painting still has the power to shock and triggers censorship.\n\nAlthough moral standards and resulting taboos regarding the artistic display of nudity have changed since Courbet, owing especially to photography and cinema, the painting remained provocative. Its arrival at the Musée d'Orsay caused high excitement. According to postcard sales, is the second most popular painting in the Musée d'Orsay, after Renoir's \"Bal du moulin de la Galette\".\n\nSome critics maintain that the body depicted is not (as has been argued) a lively erotic portray of a female but of a corpse: \"\"L’Origine\" does not represent a full female body but rather a slice of one, cut off by the frame [...]. The pallidness of the skin and the mortuary gauze surrounding the body suggest death.\"\n\nThe explicitness of the picture may have served as an inspiration, albeit with a satirical twist, for Marcel Duchamp's last major work, \"Étant donnés\" (1946–1966), a construction also featuring the image of a woman lying on her back with her legs spread.\n\nIn 1989, French artist Orlan created the cibachrome \"L'origine de la guerre\" (\"The Origin of War\"), a male version of \"L'origine du monde\" showing a penile erection.\n\nIn February 1994, the novel (\"Perpetual Adorations\") by reproduced on its cover. Police visited several French bookshops to have them withdraw the book from their windows. A few proprietors maintained the book, but others complied, and some voluntarily removed it.\n\nBrazilian artist Vik Muniz created two versions of the famous painting. \"The first [1999] is a photograph made of dust or dirt, which plays with the common moralist association between female genitalia and filth. In the second piece [2013], Muniz remakes \"L’Origine\" from an assemblage of journal clippings that are reminiscent of the anatomic and artistic procedure of cutting that produced [...] the female body.\"\n\n\"Two Origins of the World\" (2000) by Mexican artist Enrique Chagoya \"recycles \"L’Origine du monde\" as a spectral backdrop behind three solid black, blue and white squares of canvas in three of the corners of the painting. In the foreground of the bottom right corner, an indigenous man sits at a fourth canvas, this one on an easel, apparently 'interpreting' the Courbet painting.\"\n\nIn 2002, American artist Jack Daws created an homage to the painting. Entitled \"Origins of the World\", it is a collection of various photographs of vulvas, taken from pornographic magazines, and framed in montage.\n\nThe British artist Anish Kapoor created an installation in 2004 called \"L'Origine du monde\", which references Courbet's painting. The piece is in the 21st Century Museum of Contemporary Art, Kanazawa in Japan.\n\nThe image is also referenced as inspiring Catherine Breillat's filming of the female genitalia in her 2004 film (\"Anatomy of Hell\").\n\nThe Serbian performance artist Tanja Ostojić parodied the work in a poster in 2005, informally called the \"EU panties\" poster. Like Courbet's painting, the poster proved controversial, and was ultimately removed from the art exhibition in which it was originally displayed.\n\nOn February 23, 2009 in Braga, Portugal, the police confiscated the book \"Pornocratie\" by Catherine Breillat, displayed in bookshops using as its cover. A great deal of controversy was sparked by the police action. The reason given was the need to maintain public order. Also, the book title incorrectly hinted at pornographic content. Portuguese law forbids public displays of pornography.\n\nIn 2010, British composer Tony Hymas composed a musical suite dedicated to the picture as well as relations between Courbet and the Paris Commune, based on texts by Courbet himself, Charles Baudelaire and Pierre Dupont.\n\nIn February 2011, Facebook censored after it was posted by Copenhagen-based artist Frode Steinicke, to illustrate his comments about a television program aired on DR2. Following the incident, many other Facebook users defiantly changed their profile pictures to the Courbet painting in an act of solidarity with Steinicke. Facebook, which originally disabled Steinicke's profile, finally re-enabled it without the picture. As the case won media attention, Facebook deleted other pages about the painting.\n\nIn October 2011, again, a complaint was lodged against Facebook with the Tribunal de grande instance de Paris (Paris court of general jurisdiction) by a French Facebook user after his profile was disabled for showing a picture of . The picture was a link to a television program aired on Arte about the history of the painting. As he got no answer to his emails to Facebook, he decided to lodge a complaint for \"infringement of freedom of expression\" and against the legality of Facebook's terms which define the courts located in Santa Clara County, California, as the exclusive place of jurisdiction for all litigating claims. In February 2016, the Paris court ruled that Facebook could be sued in France. \n\nThe German-born Turkish artist Taner Ceylan has painted a work named \"1879 (From the Lost Paintings Series)\" (2011) in which a veiled Ottoman noblewoman stands before the framed canvas of \"L'Origine du monde\".\n\nOn 29 May 2014, a Luxembourg performance artist, Deborah De Robertis, sat on the floor in front of the painting and mimicked the view of the subject. This resulted in security guards closing the room and her arrest.\n\nUS artist Candice Lin recreated \"L’Origine du monde\" in a video of her an audiovisual sculpture \"Hunter Moon / Inside Out\" (2015). In it, \"Courbet’s L’Origine du monde with eyes\" \"looks back at the onlookers.\" From a feminist point of view, Lin's work challenges \"the asymmetry of power [...] between those who look and those who are seen.\"\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "31727578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31727578", "title": "Mission muralismo", "text": "Mission muralismo\n\nMission Muralismo was an artistic movement that brought awareness of issues as well as depicted everyday life as lived by the people in the San Francisco Mission District and other barrios around the world. The Mission was an artistic playground for muralists to speak out about injustices and social issues around their city, the country and the world. Latin American muralists voiced their cries for international attention and aimed to create awareness for the social and political problems of Latin America through the murals they painted. The Nicaraguan community especially contributed to artistic projects to shed light on the Nicaraguan Revolution and their struggles from 1979 to the 1990s.\n\nMurialismo can credit its origins to agencies like the Works Progress Administration (WPA), a New Deal federal program established during the Great Depression to employ millions of struggling Americans to carry out public works projects along with supporting large arts, drama, media, and literacy projects. The WPA helped fund artists like Diego Rivera in the 1930s, who helped bring an international muralist perspective to the Mission District. Other muralists like David Alfaro Siquieros and José Clemente Orozco who, with Rivera, made up the group Los Tres Grandes, also continued to innovate and bring “stylistic orthodoxy” to make “ideological and religious tableaux”.\n\nThis foundation and influence was at the core of Mission Muralismo as values like being “outscale” and “outspoken” became standard in the murals and projects painted throughout the decades. The nature of being outspoken is what helped contribute to the precedent that murals in the Mission District aimed to present.\n\nBeyond Mexican muralists in the 1930s to the 1960s, there was a growing Central American refugees escaping political turbulence and civil war in the 1970s, some of whom found refuge in the Mission District. Nicaraguan artists and poets in particular found a home in San Francisco to build a solidarity movement with the Nicaraguan struggle. Roberto Vargas, a famed literary figure in the Nicaraguan community, critically stated, “we came in the human wave fleeing the brutality of the Somoza regime”—the human wave being the vast migration of Nicaraguan refugees. With poets and artists like Vargas, along with the aftermath of the political atmosphere of the late 1960s in the Bay Area, the struggle to liberate Nicaragua from Somoza’s regime continued in the Mission District. The Nicaraguans who came from that human wave banded together and created a movement from the barrio, showing a strong sense of solidarity for the Sandinista struggle in Nicaragua by setting up offices for the Sandinista Front and spreading the word on the uprising through La Prensa, a newspaper from Managua, Nicaragua.\n\nThe Sandinista victory brought forth a great sense of pride from the Nicaraguan community as well as building bridges with other Latin American communities. The exterior of Casa Nicargua in the Mission District boasts a mural featuring “Chilean and Nicaraguan symbols beneath a handshake of support between the two countries,” reflecting the respect the Nicaraguan community has for the Chilean government under the fallen President Salvador Allende and celebrating the Sandinista victory. In the decade that the Sandinistas controlled Nicaragua, “close to three hundred murals were created” by muralists who traveled to Nicaragua from the Bay Area to bring the solidarity movement back to the homeland, showing an American support from the barrio of the Mission District to the barrios in Nicaragua.\n\nAlthough the murals exist in the Mission District and in Nicaragua, more notable movements like the United States’ government support for the Contra War, the effort to establish a counter military movement to combat and overthrow the Sandinista government, suppress the artistic movement. Mission Muralismo and its influence on the Nicaraguan solidarity struggle is imperative to understand how the politics and atmosphere of political turbulence affected the barrios in Nicaragua and the barrios created in the United States as a result of the conflict. The murals serve as a voice for the barrio, one of the many tools used to make concerns vocal and visible to their communities in Nicaragua and in their new American home.\n\n"}
{"id": "6034513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6034513", "title": "Opus signinum", "text": "Opus signinum\n\nOpus signinum ('cocciopesto' in modern Italian) is a building material used in ancient Rome. It is made of tiles broken up into very small pieces, mixed with mortar, and then beaten down with a rammer. Pliny in his Natural History describes its manufacture: \"Even broken pottery has been utilized; it being found that, beaten to powder, and tempered with lime, it becomes more solid and durable than other substances of a similar nature; forming the cement known as the \"Signine\" composition, so extensively employed for even making the pavements of houses.\" Pliny's use of the term \"Signine\" references \"Signia (modern Segni), the name of a town in Latium which was famous for its tiles.\"\n\nThe technique began in North Africa, some time before 256 B.C., and spread north from there to Sicily and finally to the Italian peninsula. Floors of signinum are found extensively in the Punic towns of North Africa and commonly in the Hellenistic houses on Sicily. While some signinum pavements have been found in Rome, the technique is not common there. Vitruvius describes the process of laying a floor, whether signinum or mosaic. The trend began in the 1st century BC, proliferating in private homes as well as public buildings. By the 2nd century, opus signinum would give way to more patterned styles of pavement.\n"}
{"id": "4374325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4374325", "title": "Origin story", "text": "Origin story\n\nIn entertainment, an origin story is an account or back-story revealing how a character or group of people become a protagonist or antagonist, and it adds to the overall study of a narrative, often giving reasons for their intentions.\n\nIn American comic books, it also refers to how characters gained their superpowers and/or the circumstances under which they became superheroes or supervillains. In order to keep their characters current, comic book companies, as well as cartoon companies, game companies, children's show companies, and toy companies, frequently rewrite the origins of their oldest characters. This goes from adding details that do not contradict earlier facts to a totally new origin which makes it seem that it is an altogether different character.\n\nA pourquoi story, also dubbed an \"origin story\", is also used in mythology, referring to narratives of how a world began, how creatures and plants came into existence, and why certain things in the cosmos have certain yet distinct qualities.\n\nIn \"The Superhero Reader\" (nominated for a 2014 Eisner Award for Best Scholarly/Academic Work), edited by Charles Hatfield (Professor at University of Connecticut), Jeet Heer (Toronto-based journalist), and Dr. Kent Worcester (Professor of Political Science at Marymount Manhattan College), the editors write in \"Section One: Historical Considerations\": \"Almost all superheroes have an origin story: a bedrock account of the transformative events that set the protagonist apart from ordinary humanity. If not a prerequisite for the superhero genre, the origin... is certainly a prominent and popular trope that recurs so frequently as to offer clues to the nature of this narrative tradition. To read stories about destroyed worlds, murdered parents, genetic mutations, and mysterious power-giving wizards is to realize the degree to which the superhero genre is about transformation, about identity, about difference, and about the tension between psychological rigidity and a flexible and fluid sense of human nature. ... When surveying the superhero genre, preliminary questions often turn to the problem of roots.\" The book has a wealth of pertinent bibliographies.\n\nEnglish professors Dr. Alex Romagnoli and Dr. Gian S. Pagnucci, of Indiana University of Pennsylvania, discuss in their book \"Enter the Superheroes: American Values, Culture, and the Canon of Superhero Literature\" \"the nature of superhero origin stories and how the writing of these origin stories helps make superhero narratives a unique literary genre.\" For example, they write, \"Superheroes get very complicated when it comes to their histories, but one part of their stories remains forever constant and important. Even more than 'death' stories, crossovers, event stories, and attire changes, origin stories are the core of superheroes' existences. Origins not only reflect the sociohistorical contexts in which heroes were created, but they also reflect a culture's understanding of what makes superheroes storytelling unique vehicles.\" Thereafter, Romagnoli and Pagnucci go on to explain why the origin story is as important to the audience as to the generations of writers who continue heroic tales.\n\nDr. Randy Duncan (comics scholar and professor of communication, Henderson State University, Arkadelphia, Arkansas) and Dr. Matthew J. Smith (Department of Communication, Wittenberg University, Springfield, Ohio) use the origin story of Spider-Man as an example of how a character can be created by the persistence of a writer who has definite preferences in creating a character's personality, even if the publisher resists. \"It is difficult to discern which is more often told: Spider-Man's origin or the tales told around that origin. All reveal fascinating aspects of a teenage loner fatefully 'bitten by a radioactive spider' to find himself with 'the proportionate strength and agility of an arachnid'.\" Duncan and Smith explain how Stan Lee butted heads with publisher Martin Goodman, who worried about an \"ick factor,\" but Lee prevailed. \"The entire Spider-Man concept resonates with the primary attributes of many genres and traditions,\" the authors say. \"Like a heady puree of [Mary] Shelley's \"Frankenstein\", Bob Kane's Batman, and Franz Kafka's \"Metamorphosis\", Spider-Man's origin invokes gothic and crime fiction motifs like the ostracized genius, doomed loved ones, the misuse or misfiring of science, the gritty noir city, the driven vigilante, and the fateful 'return of the repressed'.\" The authors proceed to investigate these various issues of the origin story.\n\nHeroes\nVillains\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17220077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17220077", "title": "Parzenica (folk pattern)", "text": "Parzenica (folk pattern)\n\nA parzenica is a heart-shaped pattern of a traditional handicraft characteristic of the decorative art of the Polish highlanders, often found embroidered on the upper front side of men's trousers.\n\nThis characteristic decorative motif probably originated in Hungary, and by the beginning of the 20th century it became one of the most recognisable decorative patterns in the Podhale region.\nThe origin of the term is unclear, it is possibly related to old-Polish verbs \"parznąć\" and \"parznić\" meaning to make some object filthy. Initially the name also applied to various other objects popular in everyday life of the Goral people, including wooden forms used in cheese production and heart-shaped motifs used in wood carving.The origin of the pattern itself is also unclear, some authors believe that it was imported from Hungary. In the second half of the 19th century, the first parzenicas made in the Tatras were but simple string loops, used for reinforcing cuts in front of cloth trousers. Such loops prevented wool fabric from fraying. With time local craftsmen adopted navy blue or red string and added additional loops to create an ornamental design rather than a simple loop. With time appliqué design was replaced with embroidery and more colours were added.\n\nThe parzenica embroidery (also called \"cyfra\") dates back to the mid-19th century. Initially they were simple string loops, used for reinforcing cuts in front of cloth trousers. They had practical functions and protected the cloth from fraying. The \"Knightly knot\" is a decorative motif laid in three-loop of string, characteristic for highlander's male costume, often used as base for parzenica. It is one of the eldest type of parzenicas, present in the traditional costume of highladers of Beskid Sądecki, Gorce Mountains and other areas.\n\nThe modern look parzenica got from those tailors who began using red or navy blue string, simultaneously increasing the number of loops. Later the appliqué design was replaced with embroidery. Using woollen yarn allowed the parzenica to become more colourful and eventually it become a stand-alone trouser ornamentation, developed by talented tailors and embroiderers.\n\n"}
{"id": "149281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149281", "title": "Performance art", "text": "Performance art\n\nPerformance art is a performance presented to an audience within a fine art context, traditionally interdisciplinary. Performance may be either scripted or unscripted, random or carefully orchestrated, spontaneous or otherwise carefully planned with or without audience participation. The performance can be live or via media; the performer can be present or absent. It can be any situation that involves four basic elements: time, space, the performer's body, or presence in a medium, and a relationship between performer and audience. Performance art can happen anywhere, in any type of venue or setting and for any length of time. The actions of an individual or a group at a particular place and in a particular time constitute the work.\n\nPerformance art is an essentially contested concept: any single definition of it implies the recognition of rival uses. As concepts like \"democracy\" or \"art\", it implies productive disagreement with itself.\n\nThe meaning of the term in the narrower sense is related to postmodernist traditions in Western culture. From about the mid-1960s into the 1970s, often derived from concepts of visual art, with respect to Antonin Artaud, Dada, the Situationists, Fluxus, installation art and conceptual art, performance art tended to be defined as an antithesis to theatre, challenging orthodox art forms and cultural norms. The ideal had been an ephemeral and authentic experience for performer and audience in an event that could not be repeated, captured or purchased. The widely discussed difference, how concepts of visual arts and concepts of performing arts are utilized, can determine the meanings of a performance art presentation.\n\nPerformance art is a term usually reserved to refer to a conceptual art which conveys a content-based meaning in a more drama-related sense, rather than being simple performance for its own sake for entertainment purposes. It largely refers to a performance presented to an audience, but which does not seek to present a conventional theatrical play or a formal linear narrative, or which alternately does not seek to depict a set of fictitious characters in formal scripted interactions. It therefore can include action or spoken word as a communication between the artist and audience, or even ignore expectations of an audience, rather than following a script written beforehand.\n\nSome kinds of performance art nevertheless can be close to performing arts. Such performance may utilize a script or create a fictitious dramatic setting, but still constitute performance art in that it does not seek to follow the usual dramatic norm of creating a fictitious setting with a linear script which follows conventional real-world dynamics; rather, it would intentionally seek to satirize or to transcend the usual real-world dynamics which are used in conventional theatrical plays.\n\nPerformance artists often challenge the audience to think in new and unconventional ways, break conventions of traditional arts, and break down conventional ideas about \"what art is\". As long as the performer does not become a player who repeats a role, performance art can include satirical elements; utilize robots and machines as performers, as in pieces of the Survival Research Laboratories; involve ritualised elements (e.g. Shaun Caton); or borrow elements of any performing arts such as dance, music, and circus.\n\nSome artists, e.g. the Viennese Actionists and neo-Dadaists, prefer to use the terms \"live art\", \"action art\", \"actions\", \"intervention\" (see art intervention) or \"manoeuvre\" to describe their performing activities. As genres of performance art appear body art, fluxus-performance, happening, action poetry, and intermedia.\n\nPerformance art activity is not confined to European or American art traditions; notable practitioners can be found in Asia and Latin America. Performance artists and theorists point to different traditions and histories, ranging from tribal to sporting and ritual or religious events. In an episode of \"In Our Time\" broadcast on Thu, 20 Oct 2005, 21:30 on BBC Radio 4, Angie Hobbs, Lecturer in Philosophy, University of Warwick; Miriam Griffin, Fellow of Somerville College, Oxford; and John Moles, Professor of Latin, University of Newcastle discussed with Melvyn Bragg the idea that Antisthenes and Diogenes in ancient Greece practiced a form of performance art and that they acquired the epithet of cynic which means \"dog\" due to Diogenes behaving repeatedly like a dog in his performances.\n\nWestern cultural theorists often trace performance art activity back to the beginning of the 20th century, to the Russian constructivists, Futurists and Dada. Dada provided a significant progenitor with the unconventional performances of poetry, often at the Cabaret Voltaire, by the likes of Richard Huelsenbeck and Tristan Tzara. Russian Futurist artists could be identified as precursors of performance, such as David Burliuk, who painted his face for his actions (1910–20) and Alexander Rodchenko and his wife Varvara Stepanova.\n\nAccording to the art critic Harold Rosenberg in the 1940s and 1950s Action Painting gave artists the freedom to perform — the canvas as \"an arena in which to act\", thereby rendering the paintings as traces of the artist's performance in his/her studio. Abstract expressionism and Action painting preceded the Fluxus movement, Happenings and the emergence of Performance Art.\n\nPerformance art was anticipated, if not explicitly formulated, by Japan's Gutai group of the 1950s, especially in such works as Atsuko Tanaka's \"Electric Dress\" (1956).\n\nYves Klein had been a precursor of performance art with the conceptual pieces of \"Zone de Sensibilité Picturale Immatérielle\" (\"Zones of Immaterial Pictorial Sensibility\") 1959–62, \"Anthropométries\" (1960), and works like the photomontage, Saut dans le vide (Leap into the Void). In the late 1960s Earth artists as diverse as Robert Smithson, Dennis Oppenheim, Michael Heizer and Carl Andre created environmental pieces that predict the performance art of the 1970s. Works of conceptual artists in the early 1980s, like Sol LeWitt, who converted mural-style drawing into an act of performance by others, were influenced by Yves Klein and the Earth artists as well.\n\nIn the 1960s a variety of new works, concepts and the increasing number of artists led to new kinds of performance art. Prototypic for the artform later explicitly labeled \"performance art\", were works of artists like Yoko Ono with her \"Wall piece for orchestra\" (1962), Carolee Schneemann with pieces like \"Meat Joy\" (1964) and \"Interior Scroll\" (1975); Wolf Vostell with his Happening \"YOU\" (1964 in New York); Joseph Beuys with \"How to Explain Pictures to a Dead Hare\" (1965); Yayoi Kusama, with actions such as a naked flag-burning on the Brooklyn Bridge (1968) and Allan Kaprow in his many \"Happenings\".\n\nKaprow had coined the term Happening describing a new artform, at the beginning of the 1960s. A \"Happening\" allows the artist to experiment with body motion, recorded sounds, written and spoken texts, and even smells. One of Kaprow's earliest was \"Happenings in the New York Scene,\" written in 1961 as the form was developing. Notably in the Happenings of Allan Kaprow, the audience members become performers. While the audiences in Happenings had been welcomed as the performers, it is only sometimes and often unwittingly that they become an active part in a Performance. Other artists who created Happenings besides Kaprow include Jim Dine, Claes Oldenburg, Robert Whitman, and Wolf Vostell: \"Theater is in the Street\" (Paris in 1958).\n\nHermann Nitsch in 1962 presented his \"Theatre of Orgies and Mysteries\" (Orgien- und Mysterien Theater), a precursor to performance art, close to the performing arts.\n\nAndy Warhol during the early 1960s beginning to create films and video, in the mid-60s sponsored the Velvet Underground and staged events and performances in New York, like the Exploding Plastic Inevitable (1966) that featured live Rock music, exploding lights, and film.\n\nIndirectly influential for art-world performance, particularly in the United States, were new forms of theatre, embodied by the San Francisco Mime Troupe and the Living Theatre and showcased in Off-Off Broadway theaters in SoHO and at La MaMa in New York City. The Living Theatre chiefly toured in Europe between 1963 and 1968, and in the U.S. in 1968. A work of this period, \"Paradise Now\" was notorious for its audience participation and a scene in which actors recited a list of social taboos that included nudity, while disrobing.\n\nThe work of performance artists after 1968 often showed influences of the cultural and political events of that year. Barbara T. Smith with \"Ritual Meal\" (1969) was at the forefront of the feminist body-, and performance art of the 1970s; among others including: Carolee Schneemann, and Joan Jonas. Schneemann and Jonas along with Yoko Ono, Joseph Beuys, Nam June Paik, Wolf Vostell, Allan Kaprow, Vito Acconci, Chris Burden and Dennis Oppenheim pioneered the relationship between \"Body art\" and performance art.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1970s, artists whose work already before tended to be a performance art, as well as new artists, began to present performance art in a stricter form.\n\nNew artists with radical performances were Chris Burden, with the 1971 performance piece \"Shoot\", in which he was shot in his left arm by an assistant from a distance of about five meters, and Vito Acconci in the same year with \"Seedbed\".\n\nThe book \"Expanded Cinema\", by Gene Youngblood, marked a shift in the use of media by performance artists. The first book considering video art as an art form, mentions Jud Yalkut as a pioneering video artist. Since 1965 he had collaborated in dozens of intermedia performances throughout the United States, also with Nam June Paik, who beginning of the 1960s already had been a fluxus performer on the way to become a media artist. As to the art of Paik, Youngblood refers to works of Carolee Schneemann and Robert Whitman from the 1960s, which had been pioneering for performance art, becoming an independent artform at the beginning of the 1970s.\n\nThe British-based pair Gilbert and George, already in 1970, had documented actions of themselves on video, and created their \"living sculpture\" performance, being painted in gold and singing \"Underneath The Arches\" for extended periods. Joan Jonas began to include video in her experimental performances in 1972.\n\nIn 1973, Laurie Anderson performed \"Duets on Ice\", on the streets of New York City. Marina Abramović, in the performance \"Rhythm 10\", conceptually included the violation of her body. Thirty years later, the theme of violation, shame, and sexual exploitation would be re-imagined in the contemporary performance works of artists such as Clifford Owens, Gillian Walsh, Pat Oleszko and Rebecca Patek, among others.\n\nSince 1973, the Feminist Studio Workshop at the Woman's Building in Los Angeles had a formative impact on the wave of performances with feminist background.\n\nCarolee Schneemann work in 1963, \"Eye Body\", already had been a prototype of performance art. Schneemann in 1975 drew on with innovative solo performances, like \"Interior Scroll\", showing the female body as an artistic medium.\n\nIn the mid seventies, behind the iron curtain, in the Eastern European capitals: Budapest, Kraków, Belgrade, Zagreb, Novi Sad and other cities, the performing art was flourishing. Against the political and social control, emerged Orshi Drozdik performance series, titled \"Individual Mythology\" 1975/77 and the \"NudeModel\" 1976/77. Critical of the patriarchal discourse of art and the equally patriarchal state forced \"emancipation program\", pioneering feminist point of view on both, made her forerunner in the 70s political and artistic environment.\n\nIn 1976, HA Schult filled St. Mark's Square in Venice with old newspapers in an overnight action he called \"Venezia vive.\" In his 1977 performance, \"Crash\", the same artist let a Cessna crash into the garbage dump on Staten Island, New York.\n\nPerformance art, because of its relative transience, by the 1970s, had a fairly robust presence in the avant-garde of Eastern Bloc countries, especially Poland and Yugoslavia.\n\nUntil the 1980s, performance art had been demystifying virtuosity. Now it began to embrace technical brilliance. In reference to \"Presence and Resistance\" by Philip Auslander, dance critic Sally Banes writes \"… by the end of the 1980s, performance art had become so widely known that it no longer needed to be defined; mass culture, especially television, had come to supply both structure and subject matter for much performance art; and several performance artists, including Laurie Anderson, Spalding Gray, Eric Bogosian, Willem Dafoe, and Ann Magnuson, had indeed become crossover artists in mainstream entertainment.\"\n\nDespite the fact that many performances are held within the circle of a small art-world group, RoseLee Goldberg notes in \"Performance Art: From Futurism to the Present\" that \"performance has been a way of appealing directly to a large public, as well as shocking audiences into reassessing their own notions of art and its relation to culture. Conversely, public interest in the medium, especially in the 1980s, stems from an apparent desire of that public to gain access to the art world, to be a spectator of its ritual and its distinct community, and to be surprised by the unexpected, always unorthodox presentations that the artists devise.\"\n\nAmong the performance art most discussed in the art-world of this decade were a performance by Linda Montano and Tehching Hsieh between July 1983 and July 1984, \"Art/Life: One Year Performance\" (Rope Piece), and Karen Finley’s \"I'm an Ass Man\" 1987.\n\nUntil the decline of the European eastern block during the late 1980s, performance art had actively been rejected by most communist governments. With the exception of Poland and Yugoslavia, performance art was more or less banned in countries where any independent public event was feared. In the GDR, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Latvia it happened in apartments, at seemingly spontaneous gatherings in artist studios, in church-controlled settings, or covered as another activity, like a photo-shooting. Isolated of the western conceptual context, in different settings it could be like a playful protest or like a bitter comment, using subversive metaphors to express dissent with the political situation.\n\nPrior to 1982, Hedwig Gorski designated the term performance poetry, to distinguish her text-based vocal performances from performance art, especially the work of performance artists, such as Laurie Anderson, who worked with music at that time. Performance poets relied more on the rhetorical and philosophical expression in their poetics than performance artists, who arose from the visual art genres of painting and sculpture.\n\nFrom 1981 to 1994, the Dutch visual artist PINK de Thierry created what she came to call meta-performances: a conceptual mix of intervention art in public space, performance art — interacting with an audience, installation art — utilizing large structures to perform in or with, and media art — photography and film to register and exhibit.\n\nWhile the Soviet bloc disintegrated, formerly repressed activities of performance artists like György Galántai in Hungary, or the Collective Action Group in Russia, became better known. Young artists from all over the former Eastern bloc, including Russia, turned to performance. Performance art at about the same time appeared in Cuba, the Caribbean and China. Chinese performance artists like Zhang Huan had been performing underground since the late 1980s. In the early 1990s Chinese performance art already was acclaimed in the international art scene.\n\n\"In these contexts performance art became a critical new voice with a social force similar to that found in Western Europe, the United States and South America in the 1960s and early 1970s. It should be emphasized that the eruption of performance art in the 1990s in Eastern Europe, China, South Africa, Cuba, and elsewhere should never be considered either secondary to or imitative of the West.\"\n\nSince 1996, HA Schult has installed one thousand life sized \"Trash People\" made from garbage as \"silent witnesses to a consumer age that has created an ecological imbalance worldwide\". They travelled to Moscow's Red Square (1999), the Pyramids of Giza (2002) and the Great Wall of China (2001).\n\nIn the western world in the 1990s, even sophisticated performance art became part of the cultural mainstream: performance art as a complete artform gained admittance into art museums and became a museal topic.\n\nIn the second half of the decade, computer-aided forms of performance art began to take place.\n\nSince January 2003, Tate Modern in London has had a curated programme of live art and performance and in 2012 The Tanks at Tate Modern were opened: the first dedicated spaces for performance, film, and installation in a major modern and contemporary art museum.\n\nFrom March 14 to May 31, 2010, the Museum of Modern Art held a major retrospective and performance recreation of Marina Abramović's work, the biggest exhibition of performance art in MoMA's history. During the run of the exhibition, Abramović performed \"The Artist is Present\", a 736-hour and 30-minute static, silent piece, in which she sat immobile in the museum's atrium, while spectators were invited to take turns sitting opposite her. A support group for the \"sitters,\" \"Sitting with Marina,\" was established on Facebook. The performance attracted celebrities such as Björk and James Franco and received coverage on the internet. During Marina's performance, other artists performed for her.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7670949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7670949", "title": "Popular print", "text": "Popular print\n\nPopular prints is a term for printed images of generally low artistic quality which were sold cheaply in Europe and later the New World from the 15th to 18th centuries, often with text as well as images. They were some of the earliest examples of mass media. After about 1800, the types and quantity of images greatly increased, but other terms are usually used to categorise them.\n\nFrom about 1400, there began a \"visual revolution that inundated Europe with images during the fifteenth century\" (Field) as the woodcut technique was applied to paper, which was now manufactured in Christian Europe, instead of being imported from Islamic Spain. In the 15th century, the great majority of these images were religious, if playing cards are excluded. They were sold at churches, fairs and places of pilgrimage. Most were coloured, usually crudely, by hand or later by stencil. One political cartoon relating to events in 1468-70 has survived in several different versions (many from years later). Old master print is a term that at this period includes popular prints, but later is restricted to more expensive and purely artistic prints. \n\nAlthough early information as to prices is almost non-existent, it is clear from a number of sources that small woodcuts were affordable by at least the urban working-class, and much of the peasant class as well.\n\nDuring the middle of the century, the quality of the images became typically very low, but there was an improvement towards the end, partly because it was necessary to keep pace with the quality of images in engravings. Engravings were always much more expensive to create, as they needed greater skill to create the plate, which would last for far fewer impressions than a woodcut. They did not come into the popular prints category until the 19th century, when different techniques made them much cheaper.\n\nBroadsheets, also known as broadsides, were a common format. They were usually single sheets of paper of various sizes, typically sold by street-vendors. Another format was the chapbook, usually a single sheet cut or folded to make a small pamphlet or book. In Spain there were \"pliego\"s, in Portugal the \"papel volante\", and in other countries other names. These covered a great variety of material, including pictures, popular history, political comment or satire, news, almanacs (from c. 1470), poems and songs. They could be very influential politically, and were often subsidized by political factions for propaganda purposes. See Broadside (music) for their musical use. The Reformation hugely increased the market for satirical and polemical prints in all counties affected. In France the Wars of Religion, and in England the English Civil War and the political convulsions after the Restoration all produced huge quantities of propaganda and polemic, in images as well as text.\n\nDespite being often issued in large numbers, their survival rate was extremely low, and they are now very rare, with most having not survived at all. This has been demonstrated by analysis of the records of the London Stationers Company from 1550 onwards; some blocks were in print for over a century with no copies now surviving. They were very commonly pasted to the walls of rooms. Paper was still sufficiently expensive that all available spare pieces tended to be used in the toilet. One of the biggest surviving collections with 439 prints is Wickiana at the Zentralbibliothek Zürich.\n\nNewspapers began in the early 17th century, as an upmarket and expensive form of broadsheet (still a term for a large-format newspaper). The first in English came in 1620. During this century books also became much cheaper, and began to replace some types of popular print. These trends continued during the next century, and although most of the traditional types of popular print lived on until the 19th century or beyond, they were by then part of a much wider print culture, and the term is generally not used of them. One type of publication continuing into the 20th century is the Brazilian \"cordel literature\" (\"string literature\" - it is hung on strings by the sellers) that continue to use woodcuts, and is part of a continuous tradition going back to the Portuguese \"papel volante\" of the 17th century. Lubok prints in Russia were another local variant.\n\nPolitical caricature prints for sale as single sheets are found as early as the 15th century, but reached the peak of their popularity in much of Europe in the 18th and early 19th century, before the form migrated into newspapers and magazines. Above all they were popular in England, where a high degree of freedom of the press meant that dedicated print-shops, often also acting as the publishers, could openly sell and display scathing images of the Royal Family and government politicians, a business that had to remain \"under the counter\" in much of Europe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14303790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14303790", "title": "Rice writing", "text": "Rice writing\n\nRice writing is the art and skill of being able to write small enough to write on a grain of rice.\n\nRice writing originated in Ancient Anatolia in Turkey and India. Many rituals and rites use rice as a medium, but at some point in ancient Anatolia artisans who were skilled in making miniature paintings decided to turn their skill to making art with what had always been an ancient symbol of prosperity, the oldest example of which lies in Topkapi Palace in Istanbul, Turkey. The artisans would inscribe messages or names on a single grain of rice after it was treated and polished. Grains that were long and flat were favorites as they offered proper surfaces for writing. Apart from Turkey, India also had a large number of artisans skilled in making miniature art including rice art.\n\nRice art is considered to bring good luck hence some of its most popular forms is good luck pendants, hope bracelets and cell phone charms.\n\nWithin time rice writing and rice art evolved, soon creating rice jewelry where the rice grain was enclosed in a vial with a liquid/oil that magnifies the individual grain making it easier to appreciate the painstaking and intricate details. This went further with rice jewelry like good luck pendants, charm bracelets, anklets and earrings. In modern times most of these artisans and artists set up shop with street side stalls where they can personally write your message or name on a rice grain while displaying their wares and hard work.\n\nMost modern day rice writers use the following tools: \n\nOnce the rice writing is complete, it is usually preserved in a small vial of liquid/oil. Many craftsman mount these vials into jewelery such as necklaces, bracelets and key chains.\n"}
{"id": "38744396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38744396", "title": "Sara Danius", "text": "Sara Danius\n\nSara Maria Danius (born 5 April 1962 in Täby) is a Swedish scholar of literature and aesthetics. Danius is Professor of Aesthetics at Södertörn University and Docent of Literature at Uppsala University.\n\nDanius is the daughter of the author Anna Wahlgren (b. 1942) and Lars Danius (1907-1996). She is the oldest of eight siblings and half-siblings.\n\nDanius graduated from University of Stockholm in 1986. She received her Master of Arts in Critical Theory at the University of Nottingham in 1989. In 1997 she became a Ph.D. at Duke University, and in 1999 she received a Ph.D. degree at Uppsala University. She has published on the relationship between literature and society, and written about Marcel Proust, Gustave Flaubert and James Joyce.\n\nDanius has worked as a literary critic for the Swedish daily newspaper \"Dagens Nyheter\" since 1986. She is an executive member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters since 2010.\n\nIn March 2013, Danius was elected to be a member of the Swedish Academy, succeeding Knut Ahnlund on chair 7. Danius was formally installed in the Academy at a ceremony on 20 December 2013. She took over the post as permanent secretary of the Academy from Peter Englund on 1 June 2015. She was asked to resign from her position and left the Academy on 12 April 2018 against the background of critique over the Academy's handling of the Jean-Claude Arnault scandal. Two former permanent secretaries, Sture Allén and Horace Engdahl, called Danius a weak leader in her handling of the affair.\n\n"}
{"id": "58833260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58833260", "title": "Silver (graphic novel series)", "text": "Silver (graphic novel series)\n\nSilver is a graphic novel series by American writer and artist Stephan Franck. It follows the adventures of James Finnigan, a Pulp era conman who teams up with Rosalynd \"Sledge\" Van Helsing to steel a mythical treasure hidden in Dracula's castle. The first book in the series was nominated for the 2014 Russ Manning Award. The four books in the series were released from 2014 to 2018.\n\nThe plot of \"Silver\" spans 4 volumes. It is told through the point of view of James Finnigan, whose narration guides the reader through the story.\n\nSilver Volume 1: \"Silver\" begins in 1931 in New York city. We meet James Finnigan, who is an ethically challenged master-thief, and his partners in crime Mullins and Brantley, as they rob the mysterious Harker foundation. What was supposed to be their last job turns into a narrow escape from the FBI, and Finnigan loses the team’s retirement money. However, Finnigan discovers a mysterious ancient silver bar, and the late Jonathan Harker's secret ledger, which discloses the existence of a fabulous treasure made of silver, hidden away in Dracula's castle. Aware that he might be in over his head, Finnigan seeks the help of Rosalynd “Sledge” Van Helsing, grand-daughter of Abram Van Helsing, and Tao, a ten year old boy with the gift of second sight.\n\nSilver Volume 2: The team boards the Orient Express, which is filled with Vampires on their way to Dracula’s castle. Romantic tension builds between Finnigan and Sledge, but she may have an ulterior motive for being on the team. It also becomes clear that Tao needs a role-model in Finnigan...something that the con man is not able to provide. Nonetheless, while constantly on the verge of disaster, the team succeeds in putting the heist in motion. As the team reaches the castle, and we discover a powerful, but broken Dracula, AKA Drah-Khan, who never recovered from the loss of Mina Harker. We also meet Lillian Duvalier, a cruel and ambitious vampire princess whose own agenda adds even more volatility to the situation.\n\nSilver Volume 3: The long con progresses, but Tao is shaken by a close brush with death, and Finnigan grows concerned that the kid might be shakier than he thought. Meanwhile, Sledge is having increasing difficulty containing her hatred for the undead. When Lillian goes out with a small party to raid a local village, Sledge goes rogue and launches after them. Out of options, Finnigan follows. Sledge manages to dispatches several vampires, including Lillian’s personal maids, but fails to save a couple of babies kidnapped by Lillian. Finn confronts Sledge but can’t seem to get through to her. Hoping to rescue the babies, Sledge carries on a desperate attempt on Drah-Khan life. The entire plan collapses. As the captured team awaits its fate, it is revealed that Lillian has succeeded in moving Drah-Khan past Mina and any hope for redemption her memory might represent. Drah-Khan and Lillian will marry when the clock strikes midnight, and sanctify their union by drinking the blood of the kidnapped babies.\n\nSilver Volume 4: In triumphant long-con fashion, we learn that the failure of the original plan and collapse of the team were fake-outs, all scripted and part of the actual plan. Using every single element of lore established earlier in the story against him, the team robs Drah-Khan of his treasure, while also saving the babies, and interrupting the wedding. As Drah-Khan's entire world falls apart, the team escapes on the train treasure on board, but Lilith shows up for a final confrontation with Sledge, and we discover that Tao was gravely wounded in the escape. Meanwhile, Drah-Khan figures out how the team escaped, and catches up to them to settled things once and for all.\n\nThe series takes place in a world inspired by Bram Stoker's novel \"Dracula\", 40 years after the events of the novel. The story starts in a 1930's pulp-era New York City, and moves across Europe until it reaches Transylvania. Combining various elements of 1930's literature, adventure strips and cinema, the series can be described as an adventure story with supernatural elements, and as taking place in a meta pulp world.\n\nThe series deals with existential themes, such as \"what does it mean to really feel alive?\" It is examined through the point of view of vampires: \"The are the dead masquerading as the living. Returning from the grave only to find a dark empty hole where their soul used to be. Incapable of love, friendship, or shedding a tear, they forever feel compelled to hoard some sort of treasure to which they become obsessively attached. It's always shiny, preferably Silver.\"\n\nDuring New York Comic Con 2017, Deadline Hollywood reported that writer Andrew Cosby was attached to pen a movie adaptation..\n\nThe series' reception has been generally positive. In its review of the 2018 Free Comic Book Day titles, \"NPR\"'s Glen Weldon wrote \"“Writer/artist Stephan Franck is firing on all cylinders... Stylish black-and-white art, and a smart, charmingly roguish point-of-view-character draw you in.”\", and comic book reviews site \"Newsarama\" giving the first volume 10 stars out of 10.\n"}
{"id": "528739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528739", "title": "Silver bullet", "text": "Silver bullet\n\nIn folklore, a bullet cast from silver is often the only weapon that is effective against a werewolf, witch, or other monsters. The term is also a metaphor for a simple, seemingly magical, solution to a difficult problem: for example, penicillin was a silver bullet that cured many bacterial infections.\n\n\nSilver bullets also act as a calling card for The Lone Ranger in his adventures. The masked man decided to use bullets forged from the precious metal as a symbol of justice, law and order, and to remind himself and others that life, like silver, has value and is not to be wasted or thrown away. In the 3rd episode, his friend, who will be making his bullets for him, mentions killing villains with the bullets and the Lone Ranger explains that he will not shoot to kill; he will let the law dispense justice. The silver bullets will be as symbols of justice. Whether he actually used silver bullets in his guns varies depending on story and medium. In the radio series, the Lone Ranger used only lead bullets as weapons, while the silver bullets were used symbolically. In the 1981 feature film, The Lone Ranger used silver bullets in his guns as he was told that silver was far more solid than lead slugs and provided a straighter shot. The Lone Ranger's usage of bullet made from valuable metal like silver is satirized in an episode of \"Robot Chicken\" where after expertly shooting a tin can in the air, the Ranger's sidekick Tonto laments that the amount of silver the Ranger thoughtlessly wasted could have bought enough food to feed Tonto's entire village for a year.\n\nSilver bullets differ from lead bullets in several respects. Lead has a 10% higher density than silver, so a silver bullet will have a little less mass than a lead bullet of identical dimensions. Pure silver is less malleable than lead and falls between lead and copper in terms of hardness (1.5 < 2.5 < 3.0 Mohs) and shear modulus (5.6 < 30 < 48 GPa). A silver bullet accepts the rifling of a gun barrel.\n\nThe terminal impact is somewhat speculative and will depend on a variety of factors including bullet size and shape, flight distance, and target material. At short ranges, the silver bullet will most likely give better penetration due to its higher shear modulus, and will not deform as much as a lead bullet. A 2007 episode of \"MythBusters\" demonstrated a greater penetration depth of lead bullets vs. silver bullets. Results cannot be considered conclusive, however, as the show utilized a 250-grain lead slug in a .45-caliber Colt long shell vs a lighter (190-grain) silver slug fired at closer range. Another \"MythBusters\" episode, from 2012, showed that silver bullets are less accurate than lead bullets when fired from the M1 Garand. Michael Briggs also did some experiments with silver bullets compared to lead bullets. After making a custom mold to ensure that the sizes of the silver bullets were comparable to the lead bullets, he fired them. He found that the silver bullets were slightly slower than the lead bullets and less accurate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28852965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28852965", "title": "The Young Friends Society of African Diasporan Institutions", "text": "The Young Friends Society of African Diasporan Institutions\n\nThe Young Friends Society of African Diasporan Institutions (YFS) exists to support, serve and promote African Diasporan cultural, historical, economic, educational, and community-based institutions through fundraising, event planning, educational and social programming. YFS also serves as a vehicle to promote networking opportunities and leadership development among its members to further strengthen the communities where these institutions are located. YFS is composed of individuals in their twenties, thirties and forties.\n\nAfrican Diasporan Institutions are cultural, historic, educational, and economic institutions and organizations that are located in cities around the world that have large populations of people African descent. These institutions include but are not limited to museums, historical societies, theatre companies, dance companies, libraries and archives and performing arts groups.\n\nYFS began as an auxiliary group at the African American Museum of Philadelphia (AAMP). While working as the educational coordinator at AAMP, Shantrelle P. Lewis witnessed a lack of young adult visitors. Following in the tradition of other arts and cultural organizations, Lewis developed a plan to attract a younger demographic that could inject a new energy into the museum. YFS held its inaugural event, Soul Simpatico, in October 2005, and within a year it had brought in 100 new members to AAMP.\n\nAs the organization grew, it became apparent that similar institutions in Philadelphia needed innovative ways to engage young adults looking for alternatives to the conventional nightlife scene of clubs and bars. In January 2007, YFS incorporated as a Pennsylvania non-profit organization and secured 501(c)3 status by June of the same year. Over the next two years, YFS partnered with various cultural organizations in Philadelphia, grew its membership base and held several successful events. YFS also started chapters in New Orleans and New York City, with plans to expand domestically and internationally.\n\n1) Institution Building: YFS will help to ensure the survival and growth of important institutions. Through the development of a young core of members, supporters and sponsors, YFS will assist in sustaining African Diasporan Institutions for future generations. Each YFS chapter will invite up to 7 institutions in its geographic area to become a partner institution. These institutions will receive direct support and benefits as a partner institution of the Young Friends Society.\n\n2) Cross-cultural association: Over the next decade, YFS will establish chapters in major cities around the African Diaspora. This will serve as a link between the various people and cultures that exist within the African World. It serves to educate people about the similarities and variations of people of African descent. Chapters will be established in the U.S., Caribbean, South America, Europe and the Continent of Africa.\n\n3) Individual Support: YFS serves as a major catalyst for leadership development and interaction amongst like-minded individuals who are passionate about achieving their own unique potential and developing a global society. Unlike other networking forums that tend to serve individuals from a narrow demographic, YFS will bridge positive young people from diverse socio-economic, political, cultural, intellectual and religious backgrounds to support culture. In the process, it will also provide support for its members and their respective endeavors.\n\n\n\n"}
