{"id": "16580688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16580688", "title": "Activated Content", "text": "Activated Content\n\nActivated Content is a digital watermarking company based in Seattle, Washington. The company has its own proprietary audio watermarking technology and provides solutions based around watermarking.\n\nThe system was designed with help from Sony Music and Universal Music.\n\n"}
{"id": "149833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149833", "title": "Association of MBAs", "text": "Association of MBAs\n\nThe Association of MBAs (AMBA) is a global organisation founded in 1967 which focuses primarily on international business school accreditation and membership.\n\nBased in London, AMBA is one of the three main global accreditation bodies in business education (see Triple Accreditation) and styles itself as the world's impartial authority on postgraduate management education. It differs from AACSB in the US and EQUIS in Brussels as it accredits a school's portfolio of postgraduate management programmes but does not accredit undergraduate programmes. AMBA accredits approximately 2% of the world's business schools, and is the most international of the three organisations having accredited schools headquartered in 54 countries, compared with the 52 for AACSB and 38 for EQUIS.\n\nBusiness schools can become associated with AMBA in two ways: by applying for accreditation, or by applying for membership of the AMBA Development Network (ADN), which confers institutional membership similar to EFMD or AACSB membership. Schools that cannot meet all of the AMBA accreditation criteria usually join the ADN, which gives them time to prepare for accreditation with support from AMBA and mentoring from an AMBA-accredited school.\n\nAll MBA students and alumni of the 257 accredited member schools join AMBA as individual members free of charge. AMBA also accredits generalist MBM programmes and DBA programmes, and admits as members students and graduates thereof.\n\nAMBA's long-serving president until 2017 was the late Sir Paul Judge, the founding benefactor of Cambridge Judge Business School in Cambridge, UK. AMBA's current Chief Executive is Andrew Main Wilson, who joined the organisation from the Institute of Directors in 2013. Bodo Schlegelmilch was elected Chairman of the AMBA Board of Trustees in 2018.\n\nThe Association of MBAs was founded in 1967 as an MBA alumni club by eight UK graduates from Harvard Business School, Wharton, Stanford and Columbia, and two graduates from the first intake of London Business School. The founders saw a lack of awareness in Europe of the value of the MBA degree, which at that time was primarily an American qualification. They decided to form a lobby and membership group to promote the benefits of postgraduate business education, under the name of Business Graduates Association (BGA). The organisation's development helped shape the growth of management education in Europe and the UK and coincided with the setting up and growth of London Business School and Manchester Business School in Britain.\n\nThe Association's first Director General was Vice-Admiral David Clutterbuck who assumed this position in 1969. In 1983 BGA began to accredit the growing number of MBA programmes, while preserving its functions as a membership organization. BGA was renamed Association of MBAs in 1987. Until 2017, AMBA's president was the late Sir Paul Judge, who helped establish one of the two business schools in Cambridge, UK.\n\nThe Association of MBAs accredits MBA, MBM and DBA degree programmes. When a school applies for accreditation for its MBA programmes, AMBA requires that the entire portfolio of MBA programmes be put up for consideration and will award accreditation only if all programmes meet its criteria (though the school pays the same fee regardless of the number of programmes being reviewed).\n\nThe Association's process of accrediting a school's MBA programmes portfolio includes reviewing compliance AMBA's criteria, most of them qualitative rather than quantitative. The criteria fall into seven dimensions: history and development of the institution; facilities and libraries; teaching faculty, teaching standards and research track record; programme administration, career and alumni services; student admission standards, diversity and cohort size; curriculum content, programme mode and duration; and learning outcomes.\n\nSome of the key AMBA criteria for the accreditation of an MBA programme include:\n\nAMBA holds three annual conferences for business school deans and directors: a Global Conference, an Asia Pacific Conference, and a Latin America Conference. Participation is open to both accredited and non-accredited schools. AMBA also hosts an annual Gala Dinner in London, which is open only to accredited schools.\n\nAMBA organises two annual global forums with the purpose of development and training for specific functions within AMBA-accredited business schools such as accreditation managers; programme managers; marketing, admissions, alumni and development staff.\n\nAMBA also organises webinars, lectures and networking events on a regular basis catering to MBA alumni, current MBA students, prospective MBA students and business school admissions departments. These on-campus events are held at accredited business schools and often feature distinguished speakers and practitioners in fields such as leadership, entrepreneurship and innovation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52349731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52349731", "title": "Augmented World Expo", "text": "Augmented World Expo\n\nAugmented World Expo is the biggest conference and expo for people involved in Augmented Reality, Virtual Reality and Wearable Technology.\nIt is organized by a non-profit organization named AugmentedReality.Org, with the mission of \"Advancing Augmented Reality to Advance Humanity\".\nThey produce the events in USA, Europe and Asia, counting with the participation of numerous technology companies, such as Google or Intel and several relevant speakers in the field.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43330191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43330191", "title": "Bill of IT", "text": "Bill of IT\n\nBill of IT is an exhaustive list of IT assets and services owned by a company. The bill displays a breakdown of all the IT assets and services in relation to various items.The bill is often used by companies as a chargeback and showback tool because it shows the relation between specific service/asset and employee, cost center, department, location, line of business, etc. It allows companies to see what they own and how their resources are allocated in the organizations. Most bills of IT show the following element (among other details):\n\n\nUltimately, the goal of a bill of IT is to clarify IT investments in an organization by presenting a detailed view of IT expenses.\n"}
{"id": "41672405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41672405", "title": "BlueSpice MediaWiki", "text": "BlueSpice MediaWiki\n\nBlueSpice MediaWiki (BlueSpice for short) is free wiki software based on MediaWiki and licensed by GNU General Public License. It is especially developed for businesses as an enterprise wiki distribution for MediaWiki and used in over 150 countries.\n\nBlueSpice is published in two editions:\n\n\nBoth editions are software collections, which are based on MediaWiki. The extensions are developed by Hallo Welt! GmbH, its technology partners or independent MediaWiki developers.\n\nBlueSpice is mostly used as\n\n\nSome central features of BlueSpice are:\n\n\nBlueSpice is written in the PHP programming language and uses MySQL, Apache/IIS, Tomcat (optional). The editions can be installed on top of an existing MediaWiki installation or as a standalone installation that includes MediaWiki.\n\nThe distribution is a collection of extensions, which can be extended with user-specific features or skins. While every single extension can be deactivated, BlueSpice editions integrate and standardize extensions to improve the user experience and maintenance.\n\nAccording to the MediaWiki standard all extensions are published under the GPLv3 license.\n\nThe German company Hallo Welt! has been working on developing the open source wiki software BlueSpice since 2007. The project was originally initiated by IBM (\"bluepedia\"), who wanted to deploy MediaWiki but was unable to live with its downsides.\n\nIn 2011, Hallo Welt! decided to publish their wiki as free Open source software. The stable version of BlueSpice for MediaWiki was released July 4, 2011. From this point on, a free download has been available at SourceForge. The first release of BlueSpice was a couple of extensions and is today a complete stand-alone distribution, which has the latest MediaWiki as a core system but offers in the free version more than 50 distinct extensions and a completely different user interface. Following independent sources the BlueSpice free distribution is one of the most popular wiki software for knowledge management in organisations.\n\nIn autumn 2013, Hallo Welt! released the completely reworked version BlueSpice 2. According to the BlueSpice developers this release aims for opening up BlueSpice for freelance developers in the global MediaWiki community, and lays the foundation for many new language versions.\n\nIn 2014, BlueSpice for MediaWiki became a project of Translatewiki.net.\nIn January 2015 the developers announced that they will change to a subscription model.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3927666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3927666", "title": "Business intelligence software", "text": "Business intelligence software\n\nBusiness intelligence software is a type of application software designed to retrieve, analyze, transform and report data for business intelligence. The applications generally read data that has been previously stored, often - though not necessarily - in a data warehouse or data mart.\n\nThe first comprehensive business intelligence systems were developed by IBM and Siebel (currently acquired by Oracle) in the period between 1970 and 1990. At the same time, small developer teams were emerging with attractive ideas, and pushing out some of the products companies still use nowadays.\n\nIn 1988, specialists and vendors organized a Multiway Data Analysis Consortium in Rome, where they considered making data management and analytics more efficient, and foremost available to smaller and financially restricted businesses. By 2000, there were many professional reporting systems and analytic programs, some owned by top performing software producers in the United States of America.\n\nIn the years after 2000, business intelligence software producers became interested in producing universally applicable BI systems which don’t require expensive installation, and could hence be considered by smaller and midmarket businesses which could not afford on premise maintenance. These aspirations emerged in parallel with the cloud hosting trend, which is how most vendors came to develop independent systems with unrestricted access to information.\n\nFrom 2006 onwards, the positive effects of cloud-stored information and data management transformed itself to a completely mobile-affectioned one, mostly to the benefit of decentralized and remote teams looking to tweak data or gain full visibility over it out of office. As a response to the large success of fully optimized uni-browser versions, vendors have recently begun releasing mobile-specific product applications for both Android and iOS users. Cloud-hosted data analytics made it possible for companies to categorize and process large volumes of data, which is how we can currently speak of unlimited visualization, and intelligent decision making.\n\nThe key general categories of business intelligence applications are:\n\nExcept for spreadsheets, these tools are provided as standalone applications, suites of applications, components of Enterprise resource planning systems, application programming interfaces or as components of software targeted to a specific industry. The tools are sometimes packaged into data warehouse appliances.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22697384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22697384", "title": "Business sector", "text": "Business sector\n\nIn economics, the business sector or corporate sector - sometimes popularly called simply \"business\" - is \"the part of the economy made up by companies\". It is a subset of the domestic economy,\nexcluding the economic activities of general government, of private households, and of non-profit organizations serving individuals. An alternative analysis of economies, the three-sector theory, subdivides them into: \n\n\nIn the United States the business sector accounted for about 78 percent of the value of gross domestic product (GDP) . Kuwait and Tuvalu each had business sectors accounting for less than 40% of GDP .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1037763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1037763", "title": "Business software", "text": "Business software\n\nBusiness software or a business application is any software or set of computer programs used by business users to perform various business functions. These business applications are used to increase productivity, to measure productivity and to perform other business functions accurately.\n\nBy and large, business software is likely to be developed to meet the needs of a specific business, and therefore is not easily transferable to a different business environment, unless its nature and operation is identical. Due to the unique requirements of each business, off-the-shelf software is unlikely to completely address a company's needs. However, where an on-the-shelf solution is necessary, due to time or monetary considerations, some level of customization is likely to be required. Exceptions do exist, depending on the business in question, and thorough research is always required before committing to bespoke or off-the-shelf solutions.\n\nSome business applications are interactive, i.e., they have a graphical user interface or user interface and users can query/modify/input data and view results instantaneously. They can also run reports instantaneously. Some business applications run in batch mode: they are set up to run based on a predetermined event/time and a business user does not need to initiate them or monitor them.\n\nSome business applications are built in-house and some are bought from vendors (off the shelf software products). These business applications are installed on either desktops or big servers. Prior to the introduction of COBOL (a universal compiler) in 1965, businesses developed their own unique machine language. RCA's language consisted of a 12-position instruction. For example, to read a record into memory, the first two digits would be the instruction (action) code. The next four positions of the instruction (an 'A' address) would be the exact leftmost memory location where you want the readable character to be placed. Four positions (a 'B' address) of the instruction would note the very rightmost memory location where you want the last character of the record to be located. A two digit 'B' address also allows a modification of any instruction. Instruction codes and memory designations excluded the use of 8's or 9's. The first RCA business application was implemented in 1962 on a 4k RCA 301. The RCA 301, mid frame 501, and large frame 601 began their marketing in early 1960. \n\nMany kinds of users are found within the business environment, and can be categorized by using a small, medium and large matrix:\n\n\nTechnologies that previously only existed in peer-to-peer software applications, like Kazaa and Napster, are starting to appear within business applications.\n\n\nThe essential motivation for business software is to increase profits by cutting costs or speeding the productive cycle. In the earliest days of white-collar business automation, large mainframe computers were used to tackle the most tedious jobs, like bank cheque clearing and factory accounting.\n\nFactory accounting software was among the most popular of early business software tools, and included the automation of general ledgers, fixed assets inventory ledgers, cost accounting ledgers, accounts receivable ledgers, and accounts payable ledgers (including payroll, life insurance, health insurance, federal and state insurance and retirement).\n\nThe early use of software to replace manual white-collar labor was extremely profitable, and caused a radical shift in white-collar labor. One computer might easily replace 100 white-collar 'pencil pushers', and the computer would not require any health or retirement benefits.\n\nBuilding on these early successes with IBM, Hewlett-Packard and other early suppliers of business software solutions, corporate consumers demanded business software to replace the old-fashioned drafting board. CAD-CAM software (or computer-aided drafting for computer-aided manufacturing) arrived in the early 1980s. Also, project management software was so valued in the early 1980s that it might cost as much as $500,000 per copy (although such software typically had far fewer capabilities than modern project management software such as Microsoft Project, which one might purchase today for under $500 per copy.)\n\nIn the early days, perhaps the most noticeable, widespread change in business software was the word processor. Because of its rapid rise, the ubiquitous IBM typewriter suddenly vanished in the 1980s as millions of companies worldwide shifted to the use of Word Perfect business software, and later, Microsoft Word software. Another vastly popular computer program for business were mathematical spreadsheet programs such as Lotus 1-2-3, and later Microsoft Excel.\n\nIn the 1990s business shifted massively towards globalism with the appearance of SAP software which coordinates a supply-chain of vendors, potentially worldwide, for the most efficient, streamlined operation of factory manufacture.\n\nYet nothing in the history of business software has had the global impact of the Internet, with its email and websites that now serve commercial interests worldwide. Globalism in business fully arrived when the Internet became a household word.\n\nThe next phase in the evolution of business software is being led by the emergance of Robotic Process Automation (RPA), which involves identifying and automating highly repetitive tasks and processes, with an aim to drive operational efficiency, reduce costs and limit human error. Industries that have been in the forefront of RPA adoption include the Insurance industry, Banking and Financial Services, the Legal industry and the Healthcare industry.\n\nBusiness applications are built based on the requirements from the business users. Also, these business applications are built to use certain kind of Business transactions or data items. These business applications run flawlessly until there are no new business requirements or there is no change in underlying Business transactions. Also, the business applications run flawlessly if there are no issues with computer hardware, computer networks (Intenet/intranet), computer disks, power supplies, and various software components (middleware, database, computer programs, etc.).\n\nBusiness applications can fail when an unexpected error occurs. This error could occur due to a data error (an unexpected data input or a wrong data input), an environment error (an in frastructure related error), a programming error, a human error or a work flow error. When a business application fails one needs to fix the business application error as soon as possible so that the business users can resume their work. This work of resolving business application errors is known as business application support.\n\nThe Business User calls the business application support team phone number or sends an e-mail to the business application support team. The business application support team gets all the details of the error from the business user on the phone or from the e-mail. These details are then entered in a tracking software. The tracking software creates a request number and this request number is given to the business user. This request number is used to track the progress on the support issue. The request is assigned to a support team member.\n\nFor critical business application errors (such as an application not available or an application not working correctly), an e-mail is sent to the entire organization or impacted teams so that they are aware of the issue. They are also provided with an estimated time for application availability.\n\nThe business application support team member collects all the necessary information about the business software error. This information is then recorded in the support request. All of the data used by the business user is also used in the investigation. The application program is reviewed for any possible programming errors.\n\nIf any similar business application errors occurred in the past then the issue resolution steps are retrieved from the support knowledge base and the error is resolved using those steps. If it is a new support error, then new issue resolution steps are created and the error is resolved. The new support error resolution steps are recorded in the knowledge base for future use. For major business application errors (critical infrastructure or application failures), a phone conference call is initiated and all required support persons/teams join the call and they all work together to resolve the error.\n\nIf the business application error occurred due to programming errors, then a request is created for the application development team to correct programming errors. If the business user needs new features or functions in the business application, then the required analysis/design/programming/testing/release is planned and a new version of the business software is deployed.\n\nIf the business application error occurred due to a work flow issue or human errors during data input, then the business users are notified. Business users then review their work flow and revise it if necessary. They also modify the user guide or user instructions to avoid such an error in the future.\n\nIf the business application error occurred due to infrastructure issues, then the specific infrastructure team is notified. The infrastructure team then implements permanent fixes for the issue and monitors the infrastructure to avoid the re-occurrence of the same error.\n\nThe business application error tracking system is used to review all issues periodically (daily, weekly and monthly) and reports are generated to monitor the resolved issues, repeating issues, and pending issues. Reports are also generated for the IT/IS management for improvement and management of business applications.\n"}
{"id": "1155691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1155691", "title": "Business transformation", "text": "Business transformation\n\nIn management, business transformation involves making fundamental changes in how business is conducted in order to help cope with shifts in market environment.\n\n\"Business Transformation is the process of fundamentally changing the systems, processes, people and technology across a whole business or business unit, to achieve measurable improvements in efficiency, effectiveness and stakeholder satisfaction. As such, a business transformation project is likely to include any number of change management projects, each focused on an individual process, system, technology, team or department.\"\n\nThe need for business transformation may be caused by external changes in the market such as an organisation's products or services being out of date, funding or income streams being changed, new regulations coming into force or market competition becoming more intense. This management approach also incorporates Business Process Reengineering and is widely used:\n\nBusiness transformation is achieved by one or more of: realigning the way staff work, how the organisation is structured, the core product or service portfolio of the business and how technology is used. Typically organisations go through several stages in transforming themselves:\nBusiness transformation can lead to developing new competencies and making better use of existing competencies.\n\nExamples of organisational transformation include:\n"}
{"id": "1375375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1375375", "title": "Captive supply", "text": "Captive supply\n\nCaptive supply is a term for that part of the supply that is not owned by a company but is used by the company to maximize its own profits often at the unknowing expense of those who actually own those supplies. This is usually a characteristic of a market that is dominated by one firm or a few firms and implicit collusion between those firms. Often captive supply is called a beneficial market agreement by those controlling the supply but the actions of those controlling that supply reveal otherwise. Captive supply is used to subvert the natural forces of market price determination to accrue more economic benefits to those who control it. It circumvents the typically price-moderating market force of supply and demand by artificially restricting the supply. Example: American Bar Association Over Legal Industry.\n"}
{"id": "46685455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46685455", "title": "Century Golden Resources Group", "text": "Century Golden Resources Group\n\nCentury Golden Resources Group is a Chinese privately held real estate development company.\n\nIt is headed by the Chinese billionaire Huang Rulun, and has over 20,000 employees. The company has invested in 20 five-star hotels and 10 shopping malls, with revenues in 2013 of nearly $5 billion.\n"}
{"id": "21778440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21778440", "title": "Channel partner", "text": "Channel partner\n\nA channel partner is a company that partners with a manufacturer or producer to market and sell the manufacturer's products, services, or technologies. This is usually done through a co-branding relationship. Channel partners may be distributors, vendors, retailers, consultants, systems integrators (SI), technology deployment consultancies, and value-added resellers (VARs) and other such organizations.\n\nThe Managed Services Channel Program (MSCP) defines managed services based on market and industry best practices, validates a provider’s managed service against those standards, and offers escalating rewards tied to the value delivered.\n\nThe Outsourcing Channel Program is designed for partners who are taking over management of customer assets for multiple years across multiple technologies, either at the customer site or at another location like a remote data center.\n\nThe referral partner is any individual, usually a professional consultant, existing customer, or sales professional, who can refer new customers to the manufacturer in any number of ways. Increasingly, companies are taking advantage of this type of partner as more and more individuals find work independently consulting and referring manufacturer solutions to their clients—which in essence provides a low cost way for manufacturers to manage their sales efforts.\n\nWith the increased reliance on the channel to drive sales efforts, technology has emerged to help support these efforts. Partner relationship management (PRM) is the term most widely used to refer to this type of technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "3176153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3176153", "title": "Chief Happiness Officer", "text": "Chief Happiness Officer\n\nThe Chief Happiness Officer (CHO) in a company is the manager of workers' happiness. Probably originating in North America, CHO posts are being created in European and UK companies to ensure workers' welfare needs are met.\n\n"}
{"id": "18551130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18551130", "title": "Citizen enterprise", "text": "Citizen enterprise\n\nThe term citizen enterprise started to be used in the United States in 2008 to describe businesses that practice corporate social responsibility (CSR).\n\nIn some countries, such as Papua New Guinea, the term is used to describe companies owned by citizens of that country, rather than by foreigners.\n\nIt should not be confused with social enterprise, which is a more complex notion involving origin, ownership and participation as well as objectives, activities and the use of profits.\n"}
{"id": "553722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=553722", "title": "Closed shop", "text": "Closed shop\n\nA pre-entry closed shop (or simply closed shop) is a form of union security agreement under which the employer agrees to hire union members only, and employees must remain members of the union at all times in order to remain employed. This is different from a post-entry closed shop (US: union shop), which is an agreement requiring all employees to join the union if they are not already members. In a union shop, the union must accept as a member any person hired by the employer.\n\nInternational Labour Organization covenants do not address the legality of closed shop provisions, leaving the question up to each individual nation. The legal status of closed shop agreements varies widely from country to country, ranging from bans on the agreement, to extensive regulation of the agreement to not mentioning it at all.\n\nThe Taft–Hartley Act outlawed the closed shop in the United States in 1947. The union shop was ruled illegal by the Supreme Court. States that have passed right-to-work laws go further by not allowing employers to require employees to pay a form of union dues called an agency fee. An employer may not lawfully agree with a union to hire only union members, but it may agree to require employees to join the union or pay the equivalent of union dues to it, within a set period after starting employment. Similarly, while a union could require an employer that had agreed to a closed shop contract prior to 1947 to fire an employee who had been expelled from the union for any reason, it cannot demand that an employer fire an employee under a union shop contract for any reason other than failure to pay those dues that are uniformly required of all employees.\n\nThe United States Government does not permit the union shop in any federal agency regardless of state law allowing for such.\n\nConstruction unions and unions in other industries with similar employment patterns have coped with the prohibition of closed shops by using exclusive hiring halls as a means of controlling the supply of labor. While such exclusive hiring halls do not, in a strictly formal sense, require union membership as a condition of employment, they do so in practical terms, in that an employee seeking to be dispatched to work through the union's hiring hall must either pay union dues or pay a roughly equivalent hiring hall fee. So long as the hiring hall is run on a non-discriminatory basis and adheres to clearly stated eligibility and dispatch standards, it is lawful. The Taft–Hartley Act also bars unions from requiring unreasonably high initiation fees as a condition of membership in order to prevent unions from using initiation fees as a device to keep non-union employees out of a particular industry. Also, the National Labor Relations Act permits construction employers to enter into pre-hire agreements, in which they agree to draw their workforces from a pool of employees dispatched by the union. The NLRA prohibits pre-hire agreements outside the construction industry.\n\nFor the entertainment industry, unions representing performers have as their first rule one banning any represented performer from working on any non-union production. Penalties are imposed on the union member, not on the employer, and can lead to loss of union membership. Most major productions are union productions, and non-members join the Screen Actors Guild through performing as extras and earning three union vouchers, or by being given a speaking line and entering that way. The other performance unions do not have minimum membership standards, but joining the union bars one from working on non-union productions.\n\nAll four major sports leagues are union shops, even though a franchise may be located in a state that has a right-to-work law or constitutional provision.\n\nThe status of closed shops varies from province to province within Canada. The Supreme Court has ruled that, while Section Two of the Charter of Rights and Freedoms guaranteed both the freedom to associate \"and\" the freedom not to associate, employees in a work-environment largely dominated by a union were beneficiaries of union policies, and as such should pay union fees, regardless of membership status. However, religious and conscientious objectors were allowed the option of paying the amount to a registered charity instead.\n\nDunn and Gennard found 111 United Kingdom cases of dismissals on the introduction of a closed shop, involving 325 individuals. They state \"While proponents of the closed shop may argue that an estimated minimum 325 dismissals is a relatively small number compared with the total population covered by closed shops, critics would see the figure as substantial arguing that one dismissal is one too many.\" In relation to the pre-entry closed shop, they state \"Its \"raison d'être\" is to exclude people from jobs by denying them union membership\". \nAll forms of closed shops in the UK are illegal following the introduction of the Employment Act 1990. They were further curtailed under section 137(1)(a) of the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992 (c. 52) passed by the Conservative government at the time. The Labour Party, then in opposition, had supported closed shops until December 1989, when it abandoned the policy in accordance with European legislation. However, Labour shadow arts minister Thangam Debbonaire announced to an Equity conference in May 2016 that she favoured the introduction of a \"limited\" closed shop for actors, as part of Jeremy Corbyn's pledge to strengthen and introduce a new package of employment rights beneficial to employees. Equity was one of the last trade unions in the United Kingdom to offer a pre-entry closed shop until the 1990 act.\n\nAll forms of closed shops in the Commonwealth are illegal under Workplace Relations Act 1996. There was an attempt by the Howard Government to change the definition of what constituted a closed shop under the Workplace Relations Legislation Amendment (More Jobs, More Pay) Bill 1999. However the bill was subsequently defeated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1560425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1560425", "title": "Collateral (finance)", "text": "Collateral (finance)\n\nIn lending agreements, collateral is a borrower's pledge of specific property to a lender, to secure repayment of a loan. The collateral serves as a lender's protection against a borrower's default and so can be used to offset the loan if the borrower fails to pay the principal and interest satisfactorily under the terms of the lending agreement.\n\nThe protection that collateral provides generally allows lenders to offer a lower interest rate on loans that have collateral compared to those without collateral because the risk of loss to the lender is lower. The reduction in interest rate can be up to several percentage points, depending on the type and value of the collateral. For example, the interest rate (APR) on an unsecured loan is often much higher than on a secured loan or logbook loan, as the risk for the lender is then increased.\n\nIf a borrower defaults on a loan (due to insolvency or another event), that borrower loses the property pledged as collateral, with the lender then becoming the owner of the property. In a typical mortgage loan transaction, for instance, the real estate being acquired with the help of the loan serves as collateral. If the buyer fails to repay the loan according to the mortgage agreement, the lender can use the legal process of foreclosure to obtain ownership of the real estate. A pawnbroker is a common example of a business that may accept a wide range of items as collateral.\n\nThe type of the collateral may be restricted based on the type of the loan (as is the case with auto loans and mortgages); it also can be flexible, such as in the case of collateral-based personal loans.\n\nCollateral, especially within banking, traditionally refers to secured lending (also known as asset-based lending). More-complex collateralization arrangements may be used to secure trade transactions (also known as \"capital market collateralization\"). The former often presents unilateral obligations secured in the form of property, surety, guarantee or other collateral (originally denoted by the term \"security\"), whereas the latter often presents bilateral obligations secured by more-liquid assets such as cash or securities, often known as margin.\n\nMarketable collateral is the exchange of financial assets, such as stocks and bonds, for a loan between a financial institution and borrower. To be deemed marketable, assets must be capable of being sold under normal market conditions with reasonable promptness at current fair market value. For national banks to accept a borrower's loan proposal, collateral must be equal to or greater than 100% of the loan or credit extension amount. In the United States of America, the bank's total outstanding loans and credit extensions to one borrower may not exceed 15 percent of the bank's capital and surplus, plus an additional 10 percent of the bank's capital and surplus.\n\nReduction of collateral value is the primary risk when securing loans with marketable collateral. Financial institutions closely monitor the market value of any financial assets held as collateral and take appropriate action if the value subsequently declines below the predetermined maximum loan-to-value ratio. The permitted actions are generally specified in a loan agreement or margin agreement.\n\n"}
{"id": "77444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77444", "title": "Commercial law", "text": "Commercial law\n\nCommercial law, also known as trade law, is the body of law that applies to the rights, relations, and conduct of persons and businesses engaged in commerce, merchandising, trade, and sales. It is often considered to be a branch of civil law and deals with issues of both private law and public law.\n\nCommercial law includes within its compass such titles as principal and agent; carriage by land and sea; merchant shipping; guarantee; marine, fire, life, and accident insurance; bills of exchange, negotiable instruments, contracts and partnership. Many of these categories fall within Financial law, an aspected of Commercial law pertaining specifically to financing and the financial markets. It can also be understood to regulate corporate contracts, hiring practices, and the manufacture and sales of consumer goods. Many countries have adopted civil codes that contain comprehensive statements of their commercial law.\n\nIn the United States, commercial law is the province of both the United States Congress, under its power to regulate interstate commerce, and the states, under their police power. Efforts have been made to create a unified body of commercial law in the United States; the most successful of these attempts has resulted in the general adoption of the Uniform Commercial Code, which has been adopted in all 50 states (with some modification by state legislatures), the District of Columbia, and the U.S. territories.\n\nVarious regulatory schemes control how commerce is conducted, particularly \"vis-a-vis\" employees and customers. Privacy laws, safety laws (e.g., the Occupational Safety and Health Act in the United States), and food and drug laws are some examples.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "180472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180472", "title": "Consumer privacy", "text": "Consumer privacy\n\nConsumer privacy is a form of information privacy concerned with the legal and political issues arising from the interaction of the public's expectation of privacy with the collection and dissemination of data by businesses or merchants. Consumer privacy concerns date back to the first commercial couriers and bankers who enforced strong measures to protect customer privacy. In modern times, the ethical codes of most professions specify measures to protect customer privacy, including medical privacy, client confidentiality, and national security. Since most organizations have a competitive incentive to retain exclusive access to customer data, and since customer trust is usually a priority, many companies adopt security engineering measures to protect customer privacy.\n\nConsumer privacy protection is the use of laws and regulations to protect individuals from privacy loss due to the failures and limitations of corporate customer privacy measures. Corporations may be inclined to share data for commercial advantage and fail to officially recognize it as sensitive to avoid legal liability in the chance that lapses of security may occur. Modern consumer privacy law originated from telecom regulation when it was recognized that a telephone company had access to unprecedented levels of information. Customer privacy measures were seen as deficient to deal with the many hazards of corporate data sharing, corporate mergers, employee turnover, and theft of data storage devices (e.g., hard drives) that could store a large amount of data in a portable location.\n\nConsumer privacy concerns date back to the first commercial couriers and bankers who enforced strong measures to protect customer privacy. Harsh punitive measures were passed as the result of failing to keep a customer's information private. In modern times, the ethical codes of most professions specify privacy measures for the consumer of any service, including medical privacy, client confidentiality, and national security. These codes are particularly important in a carceral state, where no privacy in any form nor limits on state oversight or data use exists.\n\nCorporate customer privacy practices are approaches taken by commercial organizations to ensure that confidential customer data is not stolen or abused. Since most organizations have strong competitive incentives to retain exclusive access to these data, and since customer trust is usually a high priority, most companies take some security engineering measures to protect customer privacy. There is also a concern that companies may sell consumer data if they have to declare bankruptcy, although it often violates their own privacy policies. These vary in effectiveness, and would not typically meet the much higher standards of client confidentiality applied by ethical codes or legal codes in banking or law, nor patient privacy measures in medicine, nor rigorous national security measures in military and intelligence organizations.\n\nSince they operate for-profit, commercial organizations also cannot spend unlimited funds on precautions while remaining competitive; a commercial context tends to limit privacy measures and to motivate organizations to share data when working in partnership. The damage done by privacy loss is not measurable, nor can it be undone, and commercial organizations have little or no interest in taking unprofitable measures to drastically increase the privacy of customers. Corporations may be inclined to share data for commercial advantage and fail to officially recognize it as sensitive to avoid legal liability in the chance that lapses of security may occur. This has led to many moral hazards and customer privacy violation incidents.\n\nSome services—notably telecommunications, including Internet—require collecting a vast array of information about users’ activities in the course of business, and may also require consultation of these data to prepare bills. In the US and Canada, telecom data must be kept for seven years to permit dispute and consultation about phone charges. These sensitivities have led telecom regulation to be a leader in consumer privacy regulation, enforcing a high level of confidentiality on the sensitive customer communication records.\n\nFocusing on telecom has been outmoded to some degree as other industries also gather sensitive data. Such common commercial measures as software-based customer relationship management, rewards programs, and target marketing tend to drastically increase the amount of information gathered (and sometimes shared). These very drastically increase privacy risks and have accelerated the shift to regulation, rather than relying on the corporate desire to preserve goodwill.\n\nConcerns have led to consumer privacy laws in most countries, especially in the European Union, Australia, New Zealand and Canada. Notably, among developed countries, the United States has no such law and relies on corporate customer privacy disclosed in privacy policies to ensure consumer privacy in general. Modern privacy law and regulation may be compared to parts of the Hippocratic Oath, which includes a requirement for doctors to avoid mentioning the ills of patients to others—not only to protect them, but to protect their families— and also recognizes that innocent third parties can be harmed by the loss of control of sensitive personal information.\n\nModern consumer privacy law originated from telecom regulation when it was recognized that a telephone company—especially a monopoly (known in many nations as a PTT)—had access to unprecedented levels of information: the direct customer's communication habits and correspondents and the data of those who shared the household. Telephone operators could frequently hear conversations—inadvertently or deliberately—and their job required them to dial the exact numbers. The data gathering required for the process of billing began to become a privacy risk as well. Accordingly, strong rules on operator behaviour, customer confidentiality, records keeping and destruction were enforced on telephone companies in every country. Typically only police and military authorities had legal powers to wiretap or see records. Even stricter requirements emerged for various banks' electronic records In some countries, financial privacy is a major focus of the economy, with severe criminal penalties for violating it.\n\nThrough the 1970s many other organizations in developed nations began to acquire sensitive data, but there were few or no regulations in place to prevent them from sharing or abusing the data. Customer trust and goodwill were generally thought to be sufficient in first-world countries, notably the United States, to ensure the protection of truly sensitive data; \"caveat emptor\" was applied in these situations. But in the 1980s, smaller organizations also began to get access to computer hardware and software, and these simply did not have the procedures or personnel or expertise, nor less the time, to take rigorous measures to protect their customers. Meanwhile, via target marketing and rewards programs, companies were acquiring ever more data.\n\nGradually, customer privacy measures were seen as deficient to deal with the many hazards of corporate data sharing, corporate mergers, employee turnover, and theft of data storage devices (e.g., hard drives) that could store a large amount of data in a portable location. Explicit regulation of consumer privacy gained further support, especially in the European Union, where each nation had laws that were incompatible (e.g., some restricted the collection, some the compilation, and some the dissemination of data); it was possible to violate privacy within the EU simply doing these things from different places in the European Common Market as it existed before 1992.\n\nThrough the 1990s, the proliferation of mobile telecom, the introduction of customer relationship management, and the use of the Internet in developed nations brought the situation to the forefront, and most countries had to implement strong consumer privacy laws, often over the objections of business. The European Union and New Zealand passed particularly strong laws that were used as a template for more limited laws in Australia and Canada and some states of the United States (where no federal law for consumer privacy exists, although there are requirements specific to banking and telecom privacy). In Austria around the 1990s, the mere mention of a client's name in a semi-public social setting was enough to earn a junior bank executive a stiff jail sentence.\n\nAfter the terrorist attacks against the United States on September 11, 2001, privacy took a back-seat to national security in legislators' minds. Accordingly, concerns of consumer privacy in the United States have tended to go unheard of as questions of citizen privacy versus the state, and the development of a police state or carceral state, have occupied advocates of strong privacy measures. Whereas it may have appeared prior to 2002 that commercial organizations and the consumer data they gathered were of primary concern, it has appeared since then in most developed nations to be much less of a concern than political privacy and medical privacy (e.g., as violated by biometrics). Indeed, people have recently been stopped at airports solely due to their political views, and there appears to be minimal public will to stop practices of this nature.\n\n"}
{"id": "234835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234835", "title": "Corporate development", "text": "Corporate development\n\nCorporate development refers to the planning and execution of strategies to meet organizational objectives. The kinds of activities falling under corporate development may include management team recruitment, phasing in or out of markets or products, arranging strategic alliances, identifying and acquiring companies (M&A), securing corporate financing, divesting of assets or divisions, and management of intellectual property. The activities encompassed are often the role of the CEO. \n\nCorporate strategy depends on the circumstances of a company and the area where development is desired. Corporate development is usually a process that takes place over an extended period of time and may be adjusted or refined as the project moves forward\n\nOne of the manifestations of corporate development has to do with reshaping the management arm of the corporation. This may involve a process of phasing certain management positions out of the existing structure or creating new positions in an effort to strengthen the management team. As part of this type of approach, corporate development may also demand that one or more current managers are released from the company and replaced with people who possess skills required to move the company forward. When this is the case, the corporate development team will handle the functions of recruitment and evaluation of potential hires.\n\nThe process of corporate development can also be applied to the task of growing the company through mergers and acquisitions. In this scenario, the project development will involve identifying potential target companies for acquisitions or unions resulting in a new and more aggressive corporation. The team will consider all possible outcomes from any given potential merger or acquisition and attempt to project if the action is likely to result in positive growth or could possibly impair the company permanently.\n\nJust as a management team may be revamped, corporate development may also be employed to change the current focus for clients. This may mean looking into the potential for breaking into new markets with existing products or developing complementary products that will allow this type of expansion. Corporate development strategy would monitor the trends associated with a corporation's products or services and helps the corporation establish strategies to find more customers. In addition, corporate development works to maximize the profits of a corporation by figuring out the appropriate pricing for a given good or service. A corporate development team also leads discussions with sales department heads regarding how to market corporate goods, organize marketing campaigns, analyze market research and incorporate any customer advice or complaints into marketing strategies in such cases; extensive industry specific business experience is often preferred which is why companies may hire an external firm to help them engage in such moves.\n\nDepending on the status of the base market, corporate development may also look at shifting away from a shrinking consumer market while seeking market share in a different consumer market with newer products. For example, many typewriter manufacturers during the 1980s and 1990s slowly phased out their core business and began to focus more on computer parts and accessories as a way to continue operations.\n\nParticularly in larger companies, corporate development is provided as a charter for a particular executive or team. In these cases, the opportunities and initiatives are numerous enough to justify specialists, instead of being delegated to the office of the CEO and line of business executives. When focused on product or financial issues, corporate development executives often have MBA, CFA or CPA credentials. Often the internal corporate development executives come from a legal or investment banking background, due to the complex contractual and valuation issues associated with many transactions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7744414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7744414", "title": "Customer attrition", "text": "Customer attrition\n\nCustomer attrition, also known as customer churn, customer turnover, or customer defection, is the loss of clients or customers.\n\nBanks, telephone service companies, Internet service providers, pay TV companies, insurance firms, and alarm monitoring services, often use customer attrition analysis and customer attrition rates as one of their key business metrics (along with cash flow, EBITDA, etc.) because the cost of retaining an existing customer is far less than acquiring a new one. Companies from these sectors often have customer service branches which attempt to win back defecting clients, because recovered long-term customers can be worth much more to a company than newly recruited clients.\n\nCompanies usually make a distinction between voluntary churn and involuntary churn. Voluntary churn occurs due to a decision by the customer to switch to another company or service provider, involuntary churn occurs due to circumstances such as a customer's relocation to a long-term care facility, death, or the relocation to a distant location. In most applications, involuntary reasons for churn are excluded from the analytical models. Analysts tend to concentrate on voluntary churn, because it typically occurs due to factors of the company-customer relationship which companies control, such as how billing interactions are handled or how after-sales help is provided.\n\nWhen companies are measuring their customer turnover, they typically make the distinction between gross attrition and net attrition. Gross attrition is the loss of existing customers and their associated recurring revenue for contracted goods or services during a particular period. Net attrition is gross attrition plus the addition or recruitment of similar customers at the original location. Financial institutions often track and measure attrition using a weighted calculation called Recurring Monthly Revenue (or RMR). In the 2000s, there are also a number of business intelligence software programs which can mine databases of customer information and analyze the factors that are associated with customer attrition, such as dissatisfaction with service or technical support, billing disputes, or a disagreement over company policies. More sophisticated predictive analytics software use churn prediction models that predict customer churn by assessing their propensity of risk to churn. Since these models generate a small prioritized list of potential defectors, they are effective at focusing customer retention marketing programs on the subset of the customer base who are most vulnerable to churn.\n\nFinancial services such as banking and insurance use applications of predictive analytics for churn modeling, because customer retention is an essential part of most financial services' business models. Other sectors have also discovered the power of predictive analytics, including retailing, telecommunications and pay-TV operators. One of the main objectives of modeling customer churn is to determine the causal factors, so that the company can try to prevent the attrition from happening in the future. Some companies want to prevent their \"good\" customers from deteriorating (e.g., by falling behind in their payments) and becoming less profitable customers, so they introduced the notion of partial customer churn.\n\nCustomer attrition merits special attention by mobile telecom service providers worldwide. This is due to the low barriers to switching to a competing service provider especially with the advent of Mobile Number Portability (MNP) in several countries. This allows customers to switch to another provider while preserving their phone numbers. While mature markets with high teledensity (phone market penetration) have churn rates ranging from 1% to 2% per month, high growth developing markets such as India and China are experiencing churn rates between 3% to 4% per month. By deploying new technologies such churn prediction models coupled with effective retention programs, customer attrition could be better managed to stem the significant revenue loss from defecting customers.\n\nCustomer attrition is a major concern for US and Canadian banks, because they have much higher churn rates than banks in Western Europe. US and Canadian banks with the lowest churn rates have achieved customer turnover rates as low as 12% per year, by using tactics such as free checking accounts, online banking and bill payment, and improved customer service. However, once banks can improve their churn rates by improving customer service, they can reach a point beyond which further customer service will not improve retention; other tactics or approaches need to be explored.\n\nChurn or Customer attrition is often used as an indicator of customer satisfaction. However the churn rate can be kept artificially low by making it difficult for the customers to resiliate their services. This can include ignoring resiliations requests, implementing lengthy and complicated resiliation procedures to follow through by an average consumer and various other barriers to resiliation. Thus, churn can improve while customer satisfaction deteriorates. This practice is short sighted and will backfire. However, it was shown to be common in telephone companies and among internet providers.\n\nScholars have studied customer attrition at European financial services companies, and investigated the predictors of churn and how the use of customer relationship management (CRM) approaches can impact churn rates. Several studies combine several different types of predictors to develop a churn model. This model can take demographic characteristics, environmental changes, and other factors into account.\n\nResearch on customer attrition data modeling may provide businesses with several tools for enhancing customer retention. Using data mining and software, one may apply statistical methods to develop nonlinear attrition causation models. One researcher notes that \"...retaining existing customers is more profitable than acquiring new customers due primarily to savings on acquisition costs, the higher volume of service consumption, and customer referrals.\" The argument is that to build an \"...effective customer retention program,\" managers have to come to an understanding of \"...why customers leave\" and \"...identify the customers with high risk of leaving\" by accurately predicting customer attrition.\n\nIn the business context, \"churn\" refers both to customers' migration and to their loss of value. So, \"churn rate\" refers, on the one hand, to the percentage of customers who end their relation with the organization, or, on the other hand, to the customers who still receive their services, but not as much or not as often as they used to.\nCurrent organizations face therefore a huge challenge: to be able to anticipate to customers’ abandon in order to retain them on time, reducing this way costs and risks and gaining efficiency and competitivity.\nThere are in the market advanced analytics tools and applications, especially designed to analyze in depth the enormous amount of data inside the organizations, and to make predictions based on the information obtained from analyzing and exploring those data. They aim to put at the service of marketing departments and agencies –and of all business users- the necessary weapons to:\n\nThere are organizations that have developed international standards regarding recognition and sharing of global best practice in customer service in order to reduce customer attrition. The International Customer Service Institute has developed The International Customer Service Standard to strategically align organizations so they focus on delivering excellence in customer service, whilst at the same time providing recognition of success through a 3rd Party registration scheme.\n\nNot all customer attrition is bad. For many firms, it is useful and desirable that unprofitable customers should churn away. This is known as customer divestment of unprofitable customers. However, simply because a customer is unprofitable does not mean that the customer should be divested, because there are strategic reasons for retaining unprofitable customers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17014742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17014742", "title": "Desktop outsourcing", "text": "Desktop outsourcing\n\nDesktop outsourcing is the process in which an organization contracts a third party to maintain and manage parts of its IT infrastructure. Contracts vary in depth and can range from Computer hard- and software maintenance to Desktop virtualisation, SaaS-implementations and Helpdesk operation. It is estimated, that 32% of U.S. and Canadian IT organisations make use of desktop outsourcing in 2014. Recent market reports suggest the adoption of BYOD policies to allow the end-user a free choice of devices in their working environment may increase this market share.\n\nJustification for desktop outsourcing could include shifting focus and energy to areas of core competency, reducing staffing costs, and the routine maintenance, upgrades, and repairs associated with managing multitudes of PC systems and servers. (Applegate et al. 2007). Managers may also seek desktop outsourcing as a method of simplifying organisational structures to cut costs associated with them. For smaller companies it might also be more viable financially to outsource their desktop at a set price per machine, rather than creating an entire internal IT department. Recent market growth can also be attributed to the decreasing price of hardware, making replacement more favourable than repairs. Possible risks when desktop outsourcing are ensuring continued support for old a unique systems the company depends on, specifically if any of the systems in question were internally developed. This may cause the contractor to be unable to fulfil their contractual obligations, as in the case of the US Navy outsourcing their IT systems to EDS in 2003.\n\nA 2012 TechNavio market report forecasts that the desktop outsourcing market will grow by 4.65% yearly, between 2012 and 2016. Atos, CSC, HP and IBM are considered the leading desktop outsourcing vendors for that time frame. A Gartner report from 2013, however, considers the desktop outsourcing market to be in decline, with growth only occurring on the Latin American and Asia/Pacific markets.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9133131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9133131", "title": "Development Assistance Database", "text": "Development Assistance Database\n\nThe Development Assistance Database (DAD) is an Aid Information Management System (AIMS) developed by Synergy International Systems, for tracking development aid and managing official development assistance with transparency and accountability. DAD is widely adopted AIMS which has been established in more than 35 countries worldwide in close cooperation with UNDP and respective governments.\n\nDAD provides country governments and development partners with a consolidated source of data on development projects across all donors, demonstrates \"who is doing what, when and where\" in managing foreign aid, enables harmonization of development projects with national priorities, facilitates management and coordination of development efforts in the country by and promotes results-driven decision-making and aid effectiveness.\n\nDAD serves /has served as the official government AIMS in Afghanistan, Armenia, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Comoros, Georgia, Ghana, Guatemala, India, Indonesia, Iraq (including Kurdistan Regional Government), Kazakhstan, Kenya, Maldives, Mauritania, Nigeria, Lesotho, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Russia, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Somalia (including Somaliland), Solomon Islands, Tajikistan, Thailand, Ukraine, Vietnam, Yemen and Zambia.\n\nOriginally known as the Donor Assistance Database, the DAD was re-branded as the Development Assistance Database on August 2, 2005. The first Donor Assistance Database was a PC system developed in the scope of the G7 Support Implementation Group project for Russia in 1996 to monitor aid assistance donated from the international community. The first Donor Assistance Database tracked 20,000 projects and over US $100 billion in Official Development Assistance delivered between 1991 and 2001. The DAD was then adapted as a tool for the Newly Independent States of the former Soviet Union to monitor development assistance from the international community. These first generation implementations include Armenia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Tajikistan.\n\nMost of these implementations have taken place through a partnership between the software company Synergy International Systems, and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). This partnership led to the signing of a Long Term Agreement in July, 2005.\n\nOnline, offline and mobile collection of aid information – DAD’s customized data entry forms with validation control enable to submit and update aid information though web-based interface, in offline mode which is specifically for use in areas with limited or no Internet access as well as through smartphones and tablets.\n\nSector Profile – This functionality displays aggregate data related to particular sectors, including aid flows and projects in a given sector, donors involved, and results achieved. The Sector Profile can have all relevant information on sector portfolio performance, logistics etc.\n\nMonitoring and Evaluation (M&E\")\" – DAD enables to link aid projects with the government's policy priorities and national development strategies, and monitor progress in respect to targets/goals to track progress toward development results.\n\nData visualization and analytics – DAD offers a suite of web-based querying, analytics, visualization, and reporting tools - graphs, charts, tables, reports– for visualizing and interpreting aid information.\n\nExecutive dashboard – This decision-support tool displays data snapshots of aid flows (pledges, commitments, disbursements, and expenditures) and enables simultaneous viewing of all analytical outputs.\n\nGeographic Information System - DAD platform contains a Geographic Information System (GIS) mapping feature that allows to view geo-referenced data on project activities and results at various geographic levels and also to query or filter data on the web-based dynamic maps.\n\nAid Effectiveness Portal – DAD provides a range of knowledge sharing and collaboration tools to make aid information available to the public.\n\nIntegration – DAD can interface with relevant external and internal data sources in order to automate data exchange to enable effective flow of information and prevent duplication of effort and silos of information.\n\nMulti-lingual capability – DAD can be adapted to the specific needs of a given country, including the localization of the software into the national language.\n\nDAD Rwanda is Rwanda’s official development aid (ODA) coordination system. It is used by the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MINECOFIN) to track and manage aid funds and development results across all major donors and NGOs. The system captures the national Donor Performance Assessment Framework (DPAF) mutual accountability framework, indicators and standard definitions and is used for annual Rwanda ODA Effectiveness reports. In 2010 an upgrade of the DAD resulted in establishing a new MTEF module with the view of systematically capturing forward-spending plans of Development Partners to feed into the MTEF process. DAD Rwanda was also integrated with Rwanda’s SmartFMIS budgeting platform that resulted in more external funds flowing directly to Ministry of Planning for spending. Transparent governance has improved Rwanda’s Business Environment rankings and Rwanda’s data-driven model for aid management has been emulated by Burundi, Cameroon, Mauritania and Central African Republic.\n\nLaunched in 2011 Iraq Development Management System (IDMS) is a web-based planning, budgeting and results tracking system used by the Iraq Ministry of Planning (MoP) to manage the entire cycle of government and donor-funded projects. IDMS covers 3000 projects with a total value of US$186 billion under the National Development Plan (NDP) 2010-2014. The system automates submission of new project proposals, annual and monthly budget preparation, advanced performance tracking, analysis, and reporting features. It uses both English and Arabic, and provides public access to data on key accountability metrics. IDMS was developed in partnership with UNDP, USAID-Tatweer, the EU and UNOPS.\n\nFollowing the devastating 2004 Asian tsunami with the support of UNDP, Development Assistance Database was established in tsunami affected countries - Sri Lanka, Maldives and Thailand and Indonesia, to track financial and technical assistance, as well as results related to tsunami recovery work.\n\nDAD Sri Lanka – The Integrated National Development Information System (INDIS) was first introduced in Sri Lanka in 2005 following the devastating 2004 Asian tsunami to help the Government of Sri Lanka to track disaster needs, plan recovery programs and promote visibility and accountability in project spending and performance. INDIS allowed reconstruction agencies to report their projects and share information on objectives, funding sources, implementation partners and project progress online, with the ultimate goal of facilitating efficient aid coordination.\n\nDAD Indonesia - Synergy built the Recovery Aceh Nias (RAN) Database for the Government of Indonesia to support its coordination and management of the post-tsunami recovery effort. The RAN assisted the Government to align proposed projects with national reconstruction priorities, ensuring a coordinated plan for the delivery of aid. The RAN Database was the central tool for coordinating tsunami recovery activities and to date has tracked $3.7 billion in disbursements. Synergy was awarded the Innovative Government Technology Award in the Information Management category at the 2008 FutureGov Summit for the development of the Recovery Aceh Nias (RAN) Database installed for the BRR – Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency of the Government of Indonesia.\n\nDAD Maldives - Synergy was contracted by the government of Maldives to implemented the Development Assistance Database (DAD) that was later linked with the National Recovery Reconstruction Plan (NRRP). This helped to implement a key tenet of the Paris Declaration by “aligning” projects with national priorities as outlined in the NRRP and add the accountability mechanism.\n\nDAD Thailand - Synergy customized the DAD for the Thailand International Cooperation Agency located within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Launched in 2005, DAD Thailand, has significantly improved coordination and monitoring of the long-term international support to tsunami recovery in Thailand.\n\nThe Development Assistance Database (DAD) Community of Practice (CoP) is a global forum of practitioners who share a common commitment to advancing development effectiveness through the application of DAD.\n\nThe DAD CoP currently has over 80 members from about 20 countries, including Afghanistan, Armenia, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Comoros, India, Iraq, Kenya, Lesotho, Mauritania, Moldova, Mozambique, Namibia, Pakistan, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, and Yemen. The International Aid Transparency Initiative (IATI) also participates in the DAD CoP.\n\nThree DAD CoP forums have been organized so far - DAD CoP 2014, Nairobi, Kenya, DAD CoP 2011, Yerevan, Armenia and DAD CoP 2009 Yerevan, Armenia.\n\nSynergy International Systems\n\n"}
{"id": "17106978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17106978", "title": "DocPoint", "text": "DocPoint\n\nDocPoint is a commercial document management system. DocPoint targets a wide\nvariety of audiences ranging from corporations and government institutions, to\nsmall and medium enterprises across a broad spectrum of market verticals.\n\nDocPoint is designed to meet the requirements of:\n\nDocPoint simplifies regulatory compliance with the following standards:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24352448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24352448", "title": "Feedforward (management)", "text": "Feedforward (management)\n\nIn management, feed forward is giving a control impact in a downlink to a subordinate to a person or an organization from which you are expecting an output. A feed forward is not just a pre-feedback, as a feedback is always based on measuring an output and sending respective feedback. A pre-feedback given without measurement of output may be understood as a confirmation or just an acknowledgment of control command.\n\nHowever, a feed forward is generally imposed before any willful change in output may occur. All other changes of output determined with feedback may for example result from distortion, noise or attenuation It usually involves giving a document for review and giving an ex post information on that document which you have not already given.\n\nHowever, social feedback is the response of the supreme hierarch to the subordinate as an acknowledgement of a subordinate's report on output, hence the subordinate's feedback to the supreme.\n\nFeedforward as a management term has been used by Avraham Kluger since 2006 \n\n"}
{"id": "2544706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2544706", "title": "Fortune European Businessman of the Year", "text": "Fortune European Businessman of the Year\n\nFortune magazine gives an annual award for the person it considers to be the European Businessman of the Year. Fortune is based in the United States, but it has a European edition which features this award prominently. Currently the award is announced in January for the preceding calendar year. Other organisations also issue similar awards.\n"}
{"id": "14981627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14981627", "title": "Future map (organizational planning)", "text": "Future map (organizational planning)\n\nThe future map is a method for building scenarios based on the collection of anticipated events.\n\nThe concept is based on the idea that a group of people who integrate the partial visions of its members into a common, shared, discussed, large enough, collection of anticipated events it can eventually reveal its own \"shared future\".\n\nBecause the FutureMap methodology is dynamic and implemented on a wiki-platform the Future projected by the group is constantly under revision. By process, the community learns how to adapt to future changes and increases its ability to face \"unexpected events\", it improves what the author calls its future-readiness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33063358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33063358", "title": "Global Peter Drucker Forum", "text": "Global Peter Drucker Forum\n\nThe Global Peter Drucker Forum is an international management conference dedicated to the management philosophy of Peter Drucker. Drucker, who lived from 1909 to 2005, was a management professor, writer, and consultant, frequently referred to as a \"management guru.\" The Forum is held annually in November, in Drucker's home town of Vienna, Austria and is put on by the Peter Drucker Society Europe, an affiliate of the Drucker Institute at Claremont Graduate University.\n\nThe fourth Global Peter Drucker Forum was scheduled to be held on 15 and 16 November of 2012. The theme for this meet is \"CAPITALISM 2.0: NEW HORIZONS FOR MANAGERS\". \nThe third Global Peter Drucker Forum was held on November 3 and 4, 2011 at the Hall of Sciences at the old Vienna University on the theme of \"A Quest for Legitimacy: How Managers Can Shape the Future.\" \n\nSpeakers at the conference included the philosopher Charles Handy, Harvard professor Rakesh Khurana, daughter of the late C.K. Prahalad and author Deepa Prahalad, director and founder of the Legatum Centre at MIT Iqbal Quadir, Adrian Wooldridge of \"The Economist\". Additionally, 12 essayists were selected as winners of Drucker Challenge 2011.\n\nThe second Global Peter Drucker Forum took place at the Liechtenstein Palace on November 18 and 19, 2010 under the sponsorship of the European Foundation for Management Development. The 2nd Forum marked the launch of the first Peter Drucker Challenge, an essay competition honoring Drucker.\n\nThe first Global Peter Drucker Forum was held on November 19, 2009, marking what would have been the 100th birthday of the late Peter Drucker. The forum included presentations by management philosopher and author Charles Handy, Kellogg School of Management professor Philip Kotler, economist Peter Lorange, economist and consultant Fredmund Malik, C.K. Prahalad of the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and Simon-Kucher & Partners chairman Hermann Simon.\n\nThe Peter Drucker Challenge was added to the Forum in 2010. The challenge is an essay competition open to you business leaders. The topic of the challenge changes annually but is related to the works of Peter Drucker.\n\nThe 2011 Peter Drucker Challenge focused on the topic of, \"management, what is it good for?\". The competition closed in August and the winners were announced by Peter Drucker Society Europe. Jury was composed of Deepa Prahalad, John Peters and Elizabeth Haas Edersheim.\n\nThe 2010 Peter Drucker Challenge received 214 entries. The competition was judged by Danica Purg, who was named \"Dean of the year\" by the Academy for International Business, chief executive for Emerald Group Publishing John Peters and author Elizabeth Haas-Edersheim. The judges selected 12 top essayists, with first place going to Florian Ramseger.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3828266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3828266", "title": "Google Founders' Award", "text": "Google Founders' Award\n\nThe Google Founders' Award was a special award for entrepreneurial achievement awarded to groups at Google Inc. \n\nThe awards are given in the form of stock grants, and the program was initiated in 2004 by Google founders Sergey Brin and Lawrence E. Page to reward groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "29052592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29052592", "title": "Grade (consulting)", "text": "Grade (consulting)\n\nIn information technology consulting and management consulting, a grade aims to explicitly recognize a certain professional level, both within the organization and to customer organizations. A grade is separated from a place in the line hierarchy of a company, it underlines the very possibility of recognizing a person (top) level without being necessarily in a management functions.\n\nThe most commonly used system of grading consultants is the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13889958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13889958", "title": "Incremental operating margin", "text": "Incremental operating margin\n\nIncremental operating margin is the increase or decrease of income from continuing operations before stock-based compensation, interest expense and income-tax expense between two periods, divided by the increase or decrease in revenue between the same two periods.\n"}
{"id": "58126743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58126743", "title": "Kosmos Holding", "text": "Kosmos Holding\n\nKosmos Global Holding S.L., also known as Kosmos Holding or Kosmos, is a global sports and media investment group headquartered in Barcelona, Spain.\n\nFounded in 2017 by FC Barcelona and Spanish national football team player Gerard Piqué, the company is backed by Hiroshi Mikitani, chairman and CEO of Rakuten. The other founders of Kosmos are Edmund Chu, Nullah Sarker, and Michael Evans.\n\nOn February 26, 2018, Kosmos announced plans to invest $3 billion over 25 years in the Davis Cup by BNP Paribas. Kosmos will partner with the International Tennis Federation to transform the tournament. On August 6, 2018, Larry Ellison published a letter announcing that he will be joining Kosmos as an investor.\n\nKosmos partnership with the International Tennis Federation to revamp the Davis Cup has been criticized by the tennis community. Many claim that the partnership will take away from the traditions of the 118-year-old tennis event. In a secret meeting held in Orlando, Florida, on August 16, 2018, the changes proposed by Kosmos received a 71 percent approval at the International Tennis Federation annual general meeting. Proposals require a two-thirds majority to pass. While France and USA voice strong support for the changes and voted in favor of the move, others, such as Australia, were against the new format.\n\nAfter the vote, French player Nicolas Mahut tweeted, \"The Davis Cup died, and a part of the history of our sport flew away for a handful of dollars\". Other players on the circuit including Novak Djokovic, Andy Murray, and Rafael Nadal have publicly supported the new idea. Lleyton Hewitt of Australia strongly opposes the new initiative as an erosion of the 100-year-old tradition of the Davis Cup.\n"}
{"id": "29683255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29683255", "title": "LSE Alternative Investment Conference", "text": "LSE Alternative Investment Conference\n\nThe LSE SU Alternative Investments Conference (also known as the LSE AIC) is an international conference on hedge funds, private equity and venture capital held annually in London, United Kingdom by the Alternative Investments Society (AIS), a Student’s Union society at the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE).\n\nThe Alternative Investments Society was founded in 2006 by a group of undergraduate students at the LSE, and continues to be run by students from the university. The first Alternative Investments Conference was a one-day event hosted on the LSE campus in 2007, and was attended by 200 students who heard from several notable investors. The AIC has evolved considerably over its twelve-year history, having changed venues and ultimately becoming the world’s largest student conference on hedge funds, private equity and venture capital.\n\nThe Conference takes place over two days at the five-star London Marriott Hotel Grosvenor Square, bringing together over 40 senior level industry leaders (see notable past speakers) and 320 student delegates from many of the world’s leading educational institutions. Delegates come from a range of backgrounds, including both undergraduates and postgraduates studying finance, law, engineering, history as well as many other disciplines. Admission to the Conference is competitive, with only 4.3% of applicants to AIC 2017 being selected to attend. The Conference is international in character, with applicants coming from over 200 universities located across more than 120 countries world wide.\n\nThe format of the Conference sees delegates attend keynote speeches, panel discussions and workshop sessions designed to allow for them to learn from and interact with experienced professionals from within the investment community. Networking events are also held during the Conference by the AIC’s partner firms, as well as a dinner for all attending delegates hosted during the evening of the first day of the event. Sponsor firms of the AIC include Point72 Asset Management, Dartmouth Partners, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, Terra Firma Capital Partners, GAM, Amicus, Bain & Company, Bain Capital, 3i, Patron Capital, Lansdowne Partners, Stable Asset Management, and Dechert.\n\nThe Conference is well regarded on campus, as well as outside of the LSE, having been cited in the media a number of times and described by the Financial Times as 'a chance for the best brains in asset management to meet'.\n\nSeveral keynote sessions from past conferences are also available to watch online.\n\nSeveral notable past speakers at the AIC include:\n\nThe Alternative Investments Conference 2019 will be held at the London Marriott Hotel Grosvenor Square, on January 21 & 22 2019. This will be the thirteenth annual edition of the Conference, and will mark over 3,300 students having attended the AIC since its inception.\n\n"}
{"id": "523104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=523104", "title": "Managerial economics", "text": "Managerial economics\n\nManagerial economics deals with the application of the economic concepts, theories, tools, and methodologies to solve practical problems in a business. It helps the manager in decision making and acts as a link between practice and theory\". It is sometimes referred to as business economics and is a branch of economics that applies microeconomic analysis to decision methods of businesses or other management units. \n\nAs such, it bridges economic theory and economics in practice. It draws heavily from quantitative techniques such as regression analysis, correlation and calculus. If there is a unifying theme that runs through most of managerial economics, it is the attempt to optimize business decisions given the firm's objectives and given constraints imposed by scarcity, for example through the use of operations research, mathematical programming, game theory for strategic decisions, and other computational methods.\n\nManagerial decision areas includes:\nAlmost any business decision can be analyzed with managerial economics techniques, but it is most commonly applied to:\n\nAt universities, the subject is taught primarily to advanced undergraduates and graduate business students. It is approached as an integration subject. That is, it integrates many concepts from a wide variety of prerequisite courses. In many countries it is possible to read for a degree in Business Economics which often covers managerial economics, financial economics, game theory, business forecasting and industrial economics.\n\nManagerial economics to a certain degree is prescriptive in nature as it suggests course of action to a managerial problem. Problems can be related to various departments in a firm like production, accounts, sales, etc.\n\n(a) Operational issues\n\n(b) Environmental issues\n\nDemand is the willingness of potential customers to buy a commodity. It defines the market size for a commodity, and at a disaggregated level the composition of the customer base. Analysis of demand is important for a firm as its revenue, profits, and income of its employees depend on it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58152057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58152057", "title": "Managing by wire", "text": "Managing by wire\n\nManaging by Wire is a management strategy for enterprises of a dynamically changing markets with a high level of concurrency.\n\nThe concept forces switching from a conventional make-and-sell model to sense and response to the rapidly changing customer needs using most modern information technologies. As an analogue a fly-by-wire concept invented in 1950s for jets is presented. According to fly-by-wire a pilot must focus on general flight parameters while information technologies control the plain and reacts to changing environment.\n\nManaging by Wire was first presented in \"Harvard Business Review\" in 1993 by Stephan Haeckel and Richard Nolan.\n\nThe key principle is to create a digital model of the enterprise describing (at the most available detail level) processes taking part. As a digital model is created managing of the enterprise must move their focus from manipulating real-world processes to the programming procedures and changes to the digital model, which in turn influence to the real-world processes.\n"}
{"id": "28046168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28046168", "title": "McGill Executive Institute", "text": "McGill Executive Institute\n\nThe McGill Executive Institute is the corporate education and management development unit of the McGill University Desautels Faculty of Management in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. It provides a variety of public business seminars as well as custom executive education and coaching for all levels of management.\n\nFounded in 1956, the Institute has a full-time staff of learning design and program managers working with professors at McGill’s Faculties of Management, Law, Arts, Education and Medicine, external guest experts in specific fields, as well as visiting professors from universities worldwide. The Institute’s clientele includes businesses, not-for-profit organizations and government/public sector services.\n\nAfter establishing the first management diploma in 1906, McGill University began offering evening classes in business education in 1912. Following Canada's post World War II expansion, McGill University responded to the needs of senior executives by offering seminars in personnel management, marketing, and finance.\n\nConcurrent to business seminars offered by McGill, the Executive Development Institute, a private business education organization, began to offer the Executive Development Course (EDC) in 1949, in affiliation with the Montreal Board of Trade. It was developed with support from the Graduate School of Business at Harvard University. A precursor to the existence of many MBA and later EMBA programs, the EDC was designed to provide a comprehensive look at management practices in strategy, human resources, marketing, negotiations and financial acumen.\n\nIn 1956, the McGill Management Institute was founded to facilitate the more effective delivery of business seminars offered at McGill University. In 1973, the Executive Development Institute merged with the McGill Management Institute and, under the McGill banner, continued the facilitation of the EDC. The merger coincided with a move to its current home in the Bronfman building at McGill University on Sherbrooke Street in Montreal, where it underwent a significant expansion of its offerings. By 1984, the McGill Management Institute was offering 70 day-time seminars and 20 evening courses each year, in addition to the EDC.\n\nIn 1993, the McGill Management Institute was renamed the McGill International Executive Institute. It took its current name, the McGill Executive Institute, in 2002. It is a division of the Desautels Faculty of Management.\n\nThe McGill Executive Institute has been noted for its approach to action-based learning, as well as for its international dimension. In his 2009 work, \"Executive Education in Canadian Firms\", Bruce Gordon R. Fowler states the following:\n\nEach year, the McGill Executive Institute provides approximately 20 to 40 open enrolment seminars addressing a number of business topics. The Institute’s longest running program is the Executive Development Course which was launched in 1949. The EDC has been expanded over the years, and is currently offered in three successive modules: the Executive Development Course, the Advanced Management Course, and Integrated Management Thinking. Together, these are referred to by the Institute as the Mini-MBA Series.\n\nThe McGill Executive Institute also designs and delivers customized learning solutions specifically for an organization’s team of managers or executives. Services range from short workshops delivered in English, French or bilingual formats to global initiatives with delivery of modules to participants across management levels over several years.\n\nThe McGill Executive Institute also offers an International Masters in Practicing Management (IMPM), as well as the Advanced Leadership Program (ALP). These longer, global programs occur over several modules and across multiple international locations, in conjunction with other universities: The Indian Institute of Management in Bangalore, India; Lancaster University in the UK; Korea Development Institute School of Public Policy and Management in Seoul, Korea; and INSEAD in France. Both the ALP and the IMPM were co-founded and are co-directed by Professor Henry Mintzberg.\n\nWell-known McGill faculty members include Professor Henry Mintzberg on advanced leadership issues and Professor Nancy Adler on organizational behavior. Recent guest speakers of note have included business leaders Daniel Lamarre, Larry Smith, Jim Cherry, Alan Allnutt, Paul Côté and Pierre Boivin.\n\nThe McGill Executive Institute partners with the Institute of Corporate Directors (ICD) in Canada to deliver the Director’s Education Program. It is also a registered education provider with the Project Management Institute (PMI) and collaborates with the Canadian Corporate Counsel Association to deliver development programs for lawyers on financial literacy.\n\n"}
{"id": "54071918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54071918", "title": "Memorandum of conversation", "text": "Memorandum of conversation\n\nMemorandum of conversation (abbrev.: MEMCON) and also memorandum of a conversation and memo to the file refers to a method of contemporaneous documentation of a conversation in the form of a memorandum used by the United States federal government.\n\n\"The Weekly Standard\" characterized the use of the tactic in the U.S. government as among \"the most basic ways of Washington\".\n\nTypically an individual will document the events of the conversation as soon as possible after the occurrence. All material statements and discussed items are quoted and described as accurately as possible soon after the discussion and filed for future reference. Memcons function as documentation of historical events, such as conversations between heads of state and law enforcement officials. Specific developments discussed, the time of the meeting, location, and individuals in attendance are all documented in-depth within the memo.\n\nUnited States Department of Justice attorneys and Federal Bureau of Investigation special agents commonly make use of memoranda of conversation. A majority of intermediate-rank managerial staff and bureaucrats within the U.S. federal government consistently make use of the method. The creation of a memorandum of understanding allows federal employees to memorialize and keep a record of their conversations and transactions.\n\nMemoranda to file are used in investigations in the private sector. For example, the fraud unit of a large corporation may use memoranda to file, to report individual interviews and significant telephone conversations. Generally, \"the memorandum will show the name of the author, date of preparation, the case name or number, and the specific subject covered. It will also contain the detailed narrative of the event, interview, or other investigative activity described and should be written as close in time as circumstances permit to those events.\"\n\nFormer Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and subsequently Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, Brent Scowcroft, who served as such in the U.S. presidential administration of Gerald R. Ford, kept copious documentation of his meetings in the form of memorandum of conversation. He would take handwritten notes, and immediately have them transcribed in typewritten format with the assistance of his staff from the United States National Security Council. The Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library and Museum contains over 1,000 such memorandum of conversation documents relating to the Presidency of Richard Nixon and Presidency of Gerald Ford, mainly related to national security of the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "28836625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28836625", "title": "Mobile enterprise asset management", "text": "Mobile enterprise asset management\n\nMobile enterprise asset management (or mobile EAM) refers to the mobile extension of work processes for maintenance, operations and repair of corporate or public-entity physical assets, equipment, buildings and grounds. It involves management of work orders (planned, break/fix or service requests) via communication between a mobilized workforce and computer systems to maintain an organization’s facilities, structures and other assets.\n\nThe idea behind mobile EAM as a business practice is that it enables remote workers – employees who spend part or all of their time away from a central office – access to data from the organization’s computer application software for enterprise asset management (commonly referred to as an enterprise system, EAM system or backend system), typically using a handheld or other mobile computer. This is to distinguish from the term mobile asset management, which refers more broadly to the actual tools, instruments and containers organizations use to track and secure equipment and other such assets frequently on the move.\n\nIn the mobile EAM process, the organization eliminates a need for paper forms or other data reporting and communication methods (push-to-talk and radio) to move work order information to and from the point where the work is being performed.\n\nWhile enterprise asset management encompasses the management of an organization’s entire asset portfolio across processes including equipment addition/ reduction, replacement, over-hauling, redundancy setup and maintenance budgets, mobile enterprise asset management is focused, by definition, strictly on the wireless automation of asset management data for such processes.\n\nWhen viewed and used on a handheld device, mobile work order applications provide details such as location, stepwise job plans, safety alerts, lock-outs and prior work history on the asset, giving a maintenance technician or other remote worker more detailed asset information as well as the ability to transmit work data to the organization’s enterprise system when completed – through a wireless network, docking station or other synchronization method.\n\nUsing computer software to achieve standard mobile EAM practices, organizations often report such advantages as an increase in timely, accurate data flow between their remote workers and central management such as planners and schedulers, which thereby improves capital and labor allocation decision processes (including an ability to schedule more planned/preventive maintenance work). \nWith the proliferation of smartphone and other mobile computing technologies, asset managers can expect an ever more tech-savvy workforce, lower costs in mobile devices and a higher propensity of feature-rich, workflow-specific mobile applications.\n\nNearly all challenges in mobile EAM practices can be traced to two factors: time and labor resources (including IT or information technology management) and investment costs.\n\nDeveloping and implementing a mobile application architecture on the enterprise scale is not an easy undertaking by any means, as mobile applications are faced with a diversity of device operating systems, output media (voice and data) and connectivity methods, contrasting with a PC (personal computer) environment where in most cases software requires relatively few, if major, updates and lower upfront costs. Organizations looking to implement mobile EAM applications often seek the help of technology consulting firms and spend months researching, planning and selecting an implementation strategy.\n\nThe use of mobile enterprise application platforms (MEAPs), designed around service-oriented architecture principles for multiple systems integration and custom modification, and other forms of wireless computing technology for mobile EAM solutions is growing rapidly, particularly in industries where physical assets form a significant cost proportion of organizations’ total assets. These industries can include:\n\nIn such high-value asset scenarios, the asset lifecycle improvements introduced by the increase in enterprise data flow of mobile EAM processes can bring significant savings, particularly when part of an enterprise-wide capital and labor management strategy that integrates multiple systems in an enterprise architecture (EAM system, mobile EAM application, labor dispatch/scheduling software, GIS, etc.).\n\nIn a 2009 study, market analyst Gartner, Inc. forecasted, “for the MEAP and packaged mobile application market…we now expect market growth annually of 15 to 20% through 2013.” Gartner attributes this anticipated growth to enterprises’ increasing willingness (and ability) to extend decision-relevant information to employees, who are themselves increasingly mobile.\n\nFor EAM practices as a whole, this means that an increasing proportion of organizations in capital-intensive industry sectors (such as those above) are adopting mobile technology as an integral part of their enterprise asset management strategy – corresponding with an enterprise-wide emphasis on whole life planning, life cycle costing, planned and proactive maintenance and other industry best practices.\n\n"}
{"id": "68033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68033", "title": "Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index", "text": "Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index\n\nThe Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index is a seasonally adjusted index released by the Institute for Supply Management measuring business activity in the United States service economy as part of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report on Business.\n\nAn index greater than 50 indicates growth in business activity.\n"}
{"id": "3424368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3424368", "title": "Operation Enterprise", "text": "Operation Enterprise\n\nOperation Enterprise (or OE) is a high school and college student program sponsored by the American Management Association.\n\nEstablished in 1963, OE is a leadership training and career development program held on college campuses around the country, typically during June and July. It is designed to teach the necessary skills to succeed in business. The intensive, eight-day residential experience focuses on management, negotiation, conflict resolution, strategic planning and ethics, and improves the student's leadership, communication and presentation skills.\n\nSince its inception, more than 10,000 students have participated in OE.\n\n"}
{"id": "1699107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1699107", "title": "PaperWorks", "text": "PaperWorks\n\nPaperWorks was a computer program introduced by Xerox Corporation in 1992, which allowed a business traveler to communicate with his or her personal computer while away from the office.\n\nPaperWorks could be used to send and retrieve documents between the fixed computer system and the business traveler, by using fax machines. \n\nThe software created special machine-readable forms, similar to the type of forms used to score standardized tests. (Related topic: OMR)\n\nThe user would then fax the form back to the central computer, commanding one of several tasks to be performed. For example:\n\nThe underlying technology for PaperWorks, called \"DataGlyphs\", was developed at Xerox PARC. \n\n"}
{"id": "36383774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36383774", "title": "Practicing without a license", "text": "Practicing without a license\n\nPracticing without a license is the act of working without the licensure offered for that occupation, in a particular jurisdiction. Most activities that require licensure also have penalties for practicing without a valid, current license. In some jurisdictions, a license is offered but not required for some professions.\n\nFields where practicing without a license may carry civil or criminal penalties include lawyer, physician, physician assistant, optometrist, podiatrist, surgeon, coroner, medical examiner, paramedic, funeral director, osteopath, chiropractor, dentist, pharmacist, engineer, pilot, broadcasting, nurse, veterinarian, midwife, teacher, psychologist, surveyor, detective, social worker, architect, barber, hairdresser, electrologist, tattooist, cosmetologist, real estate agent, plumber, florist, accountant, and masseuse. If a person offering their services is licensed in one of these professions, any member of the public has a right to know if that person is validly licensed or not by the licensing authority. Anyone who claims to have a license and refuses to identify themselves properly by first and last name can possibly lose any one or all of their licenses. In many jurisdictions, it is illegal for service providers to hide their identities for purposes of making it difficult to verify licensure and past disciplinary actions or license violations.\n\nLicense requirements vary widely with jurisdiction, sometimes even within a single country. Practicing a professional discipline without a license may be legal in some jurisdictions. For example, nine U.S. states have passed health freedom laws that protect alternative practitioners such as herbalists from prosecution for \"practicing medicine without a license.\" In the area of mental health, Oregon offers broad licensing exemptions for professional counselors and marriage and family therapists, allowing people to practice these professions either with or without a license. Colorado requires registration but not licensing for psychotherapists. Other states also have exemptions or registration requirements instead of, or in addition to licensing for some professions.\n\nOther occupations, such as operating a business or working as a professional driver or mariner, may require specialized licensure as well. Operating a business without proper licenses can result in financial and sometimes criminal penalties. These licenses can include a general business license, a liquor license, a specialized drivers license, and other types regulated by local, regional, state, or federal requirements. Certain occupations may require obtaining appropriate intellectual property licenses, such as music licensing, brand licensing, patent licensing, software licensing, and other permissions for use.\n\nNon-professional activities may also require licenses for participation. These include driver's license, amateur radio license, dog license, firearms license, hunting license, marriage license, pilot license. Using certain products or services may also require obtaining a license, such as a software license. Operating without these licenses can lead to civil and criminal penalties.\n\nPenalties vary depending on the severity of the infraction, but practicing without a valid, current license may be punishable by one or more methods, including community service, fine, restitution, probation and temporary or permanent loss of the license. Criminal charges can lead to incarceration, as they can range from a misdemeanor to a felony, depending on the severity of the infraction.\n\nOn July 6, 1885, Louis Pasteur, a chemist who was a pioneer in microbiology, treated Joseph Meister after the boy was mauled by a dog infected with rabies with a vaccination treatment that had thus far only been tested on animals. This was technically illegal considering Pasteur was not a licensed physician, but he and his colleagues agreed that it was necessary considering his treatment seemed the only way to save the boy from a likely death. the treatment was successful, Pasteur was feted as a hero, and charges were never filed.\n\nAnother more modern example is the case of Frank Abagnale, who was accused of impersonating an airline pilot, lawyer, and teaching assistant.\n\nThe \"yogurt defense\" was made famous by the trial of Carol Downer, one of the developers of menstrual extraction. She was arrested at her self-help group and charged with practicing medicine without a license, as she inserted yogurt into the vagina of another woman to treat a yeast condition. Carol Downer was acquitted; the jury did not equate inserting yogurt with practicing medicine.\n\nBlack Jack is a Japanese comic book series created by Tezuka Osamu that is about the world's greatest surgeon, who chooses to remain unlicensed. This allows Black Jack to charge extortionate amounts of money instead of the standard fees agreed upon by the Japanese Medical Association. It also lets him perform extremely dangerous, often medically implausible or impossible operations, that are not legally allowed. Black Jack is often viewed as the Japanese equivalent to Batman, in his willingness to routinely break laws to save lives for which he is frequently imprisoned by the police. It is notable that Black Jack actually completed his college medical education and carries a driver's license, though he encourages other unlicensed doctors who have no such formal training. Like many of Osamu's works, Black Jack is extraordinarily critical of the medical establishment, and is notable for raising Japanese public awareness of medical corruption.\n\nThe majority of superheroes in comic books investigate crimes without detectives' licenses. In Detective Comics, The Question, Dick Grayson, Detective Chimp John Constantine and John Jones/Martian Manhunter are all licensed detectives or police officers, while Wally West, the third Flash is a professional crime scene investigator. Jonah Hex is a bounty hunter operating under the loose legal framework of the wild west. The Green Lantern Corps patrol the D.C. universe and enforce the ancient intergalactic laws of the guardians of Oa. In Marvel Comics, Frank Castle used to be a policeman, but after his wife and child were shot to death, he left the force forever and became the mass murdering vigilante The Punisher.\n\nBatman is one of only three members of the Justice League with any medical training but is the only one who lacks an official doctorate and license to practice medicine. Nevertheless, he occasionally performs surgery on his teammates despite being the son of the doctor Thomas Wayne. In Marvel Comics, the former neurosurgeon Stephen Strange, in desperate search of a cure for his crippled hands, wasted all of his money on alternative medicine, which did not heal him. Homeless, Doctor Strange performed back alley surgeries for cash, barely able to hold the instruments.\n\nVictor Frankenstein, though often incorrectly referred to as a doctor, is only a medical student, and as such operated on his monster without a license. Prior to the monster's vivification, Frankenstein and his assistant Igor were also acting as unlicensed morticians.\n\nThe movie Patch Adams, among other historical inaccuracies, showed the title character practicing medicine without a license, and getting his equipment by stealing from a hospital.\n\nThe USA Network drama \"Suits\"' protagonist, Michael \"Mike\" Ross, gets a high-flying job at the fictitious Pearson Hardman law firm without having the necessary license to practice law.\n\n"}
{"id": "44300158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44300158", "title": "RCASE", "text": "RCASE\n\nRoot Cause Analysis Solver Engine (informally RCASE) is a proprietary algorithm developed from research originally at the Warwick Manufacturing Group (WMG) at Warwick University. RCASE development commenced in 2003 to provide an automated version of root cause analysis, the method of problem solving that tries to identify the root causes of faults or problems. RCASE is now owned by the spin-out company Warwick Analytics where it is being applied to automated predictive analytics software.\n\nThe algorithm has been built from the ground up to be particularly suitable for the following situations:\nRCASE is considered to be an innovator in the field of Predictive analytics and falls within the category of \"classification algorithms\". Because it was built to handle the data types above, it has been proven to have many advantages over other types of classification algorithms and machine learning algorithms such as decision trees, neural networks and regression techniques. It does not require hypotheses.\n\nIt has since been commercialised and made available for operating systems such as SAP, Teradata and Microsoft. RCASE originated from manufacturing and is widely used in applications such as Six Sigma, quality control and engineering, product design and warranty issues. However it is also used in other industries such as e-commerce, financial services and utilities where root cause analysis is required.\n\nMotorola, the home of Six Sigma, used the research technology behind RCASE to support their quality processes. It was used to eliminate \"No Fault Found\" quality issues for a particular mobile phone model.\n\nRCASE is non-statistical and thus does not require any hypotheses. If the key parameters causing the issue or fault in a process are not present in a dataset, it will still narrow the search space and advise where the root cause may lie. This is a different approach to statistical theories which try to find a best fit.\n\nRCASE is based on optimised combinatorial theory and runs on either a grid cluster or a high performance in-memory database. The software will interface with all MES and ERP systems. The result is a security system monitoring and preventing defective products from being produced. The output from the analysis will be markers that identify either an exact root cause of failure or a parametric region pointing high probability of failure (i.e. data-driven guidance on where to look next to gather data and resolve the root cause exactly).\n\nThe software can be installed on Linux or Microsoft operating systems and deployed as On-Premises or Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS” or “cloud”).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24020232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24020232", "title": "Revenue Technology Services", "text": "Revenue Technology Services\n\nRevenue Technology Solutions began as a division Control Data Corporation. It developed a yield management system for Republic Airlines on a mainframe in 1982. Revenue Technology Services Corporation was spun off as an independent company through a purchase by YMS, Inc. in 1991.\n\nRevenue Technology Services provides global revenue management and profit optimization software and consulting services. The verticals supported are airlines, cargo, coach, cruise/ferry lines, and railroads. Delivered products include revenue management for passenger and cargo, pricing management and business intelligence / analytics.\n"}
{"id": "35248456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35248456", "title": "Saltire Prize", "text": "Saltire Prize\n\nThe Saltire Prize, named after the flag of Scotland, is the national award for advances in the commercial development of marine energy.\n\nTo be considered for the £10 million award teams must demonstrate, in Scottish waters, a commercially viable wave or tidal stream energy technology \"that achieves the greatest volume of electrical output over the set minimum hurdle of 100GWh over a continuous 2 year period using only the power of the sea.\"\n\nThe Saltire Prize is open to any individual, team or organisation from across the world who believes they have wave or tidal energy technology capable of fulfilling the challenge. Applications can be submitted between March 2010 and January 2015. Already there are five competitors registered.\n\n• The Saltire Prize Lecture - delivered at the Scottish Renewables Marine Conference every September, it focuses on the challenges in converting our world lead in wave and tidal energy to an industry of commercial scale, and in securing the economic, environmental and social benefits that this industry can bring. The lecture is designed to promote knowledge exchange between academics, industry, financiers and government.\n\n• The Saltire Prize Medal - created to recognise outstanding contributions to the development of marine renewable energy. The Medal is awarded every March at the Scottish Renewables Annual Conference, Exhibition and Dinner.\n\n• The Junior Saltire Prize - launched in 2011, this is aimed at primary and secondary school pupils and was designed to help raise awareness of the opportunities that Scotland has to exploit its marine renewables potential. It is sponsored by Skills Development Scotland and awards are presented to teams in three age groups: p5-7, s1-3 and s4-6.\n\n• A Saltire Prize-sponsored doctorate in collaboration with the Energy Technology Partnership (ETP) - This was announced in August 2012. The research will consider how marine energy projects can be designed to maximise economic energy production while protecting the environment.\n\n• Power of the Sea - a one off junior photography competition sponsored by the Saltire Prize, aimed at raising awareness of the natural environment and its potential for marine energy. In December 2012, four young photographers from Scottish primary schools were selected by renowned Scottish photographer, David Eustace, as the national winners.\n\nWhen it was first announced in 2008 it was the world's largest ever single prize for innovation in marine renewable energy.\n\nThe prize is overseen by the Challenge Committee. Saltire Prize policy is the responsibility of the Offshore Renewables Policy Team in the Scottish Government's Energy and Climate Change Directorate.\n\nPelamis Wave Power, ScottishPower Renewables, Aquamarine Power and MeyGen are all companies that have all entered the race for the Saltire Prize, in a phase of the contest that will run until 2017.\n\nIn 2011 the inaugural Saltire Prize Medal was awarded to Professor Stephen Salter, who led the team which designed the Salter's Duck device in the 1970s. Dr Richard Yemm was awarded the medal in 2012. Professor Peter Fraenkel, MBE, a pioneer for the development of marine turbines, won the 2013 medal. and the 2014 medal went to Allan Thomson of Aquamarine Power.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19404227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19404227", "title": "Sohn Conference Foundation", "text": "Sohn Conference Foundation\n\nThe Sohn Conference Foundation was founded in 2006 to raise money to support medical research, the development of research equipment, and programs to help children with cancer and other childhood illnesses. more than $85 million has been raised. The Sohn Conference was founded in 1995 in memory of Ira Sohn, a Wall Street professional, who died of cancer at the age of 29. At that time the Conference raised money for Tomorrow’s Children’s Fund. The Foundation has 501(c)(3) non-profit status.\n\nLaunched in 1995 as the Ira Sohn Research Conference, it is now called the Sohn Investment Conference. It was created after the premature death from cancer of Ira W. Sohn, by his friends and colleagues Douglas Hirsch, Lance Laifer and Daniel Nir, together with Sohn’s mother Judith Sohn and brother Evan.\n\nIn May 2016, the Foundation and CNBC announced a partnership to present the Sohn Investment Conferences in collaboration. The first conference presented as a partnership took place in New York City on May 4, 2016.\n\n\nEach year the conference brings together about 3,000 investors and hedge fund managers who present their views and ideas about investing. According to the \"Wall Street Journal\", the Sohn Investment Conference “is the Superbowl of investing conferences.” The conference can be a showcase for some historic messages, the most prominent being when David Einhorn predicted the failure of Lehman Brothers.\nNext Wave Sohn was launched in May 2014. It showcases the next generation of hedge fund managers whose resumes and past performances predict that they will become Wall Street’s future stars. Next Wave Sohn is held in the morning before the main conference event. It is in the same format and spirit as the main conference, but for emerging funds instead.\n\n\n\nStudents and professional investors are invited each year to submit an investment idea with a 12-month time horizon ahead of the annual Sohn Investment Conference in New York. The contest is judged by five major fund managers such as Bill Ackman and David Einhorn. The winner is given the opportunity to present the idea at the conference during a ten-minute pitch. Past winners include:\n\n2011: Sunjay Gorawara- Indiana University undergraduate student.\n\n2012: Shantanu Agrawal- Pacific Investment Management Co vice president.\n\n2013: Simeon McMillan- Columbia Business School student\n\n2014: Michael Guichon- Columbia Business School student\n\n2015: Angelo Martorell- Wharton School of Business student\n\n2016: Marc Grow- Columbia Business School student\n\n2017: Dylan Adelman- Wharton School of Business student\n\n2018: Andrew Walker- Rangeley Capital Head of Research\n\nFour finalists are awarded two tickets to the conference and access to the GLG network. Eight semi-finalists are also picked and given two tickets to the conference.\n\nIn March/April 2016 the Foundation held its first international scientific conference in collaboration with the New York Academy of Sciences to sponsor “Sohn Conference: Pediatric Cancer in a Post-Genomic World.”\n\nThe Foundation takes an investor’s approach to choosing strategies to fight pediatric cancer. Focused on the New York metropolitan area, the Foundation encourages collaboration among the area’s well-known research institutes. Among its goals are to support a new generation of cancer researchers; to support access to the most current technologies for treating cancer; and to improve the quality of life for children who are living with cancer.\n\nIn 2014, the Pershing Square Sohn Prize for Young Investigators in Cancer Research was launched by the Pershing Square Sohn Cancer Research Alliance. The award is bequeathed yearly to the most promising young scientists in New York City’s medical research institutions and universities.\n\nThe foundation gives grants to the following institutions:\n\nThe Foundation has partnered and seeded conferences across the globe, including Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, India, London, New York City, San Francisco, Tel Aviv, Monaco and Zurich.\n"}
{"id": "35670957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35670957", "title": "Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute", "text": "Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute\n\nThe Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute or SWF Institute, or SWFI, is a global corporation analyzing public asset owners such as sovereign wealth funds and other long-term governmental investors. Initially, the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute focused solely on sovereign wealth funds. It has branched out to cover all types of public institutional investors. The institute is a financial data vendor but provides information to the media as well. It was founded by Michael Maduell and Carl Linaburg in late 2007.\n\nSWFI sells data subscriptions to asset managers, banks, researchers, universities, governments, institutional investors, asset owners, corporations, law firms and other entities.\n\nThe SWFI came out with the Linaburg-Maduell Transparency Index in 2008. It is a 10-point scale based on ten principles of transparency, each adding one point to the index rating. The index is used by sovereign wealth funds in their annual reports.\n\nThe SWFI tracks direct deals in sovereign wealth funds. The value of global direct deals by sovereign-wealth funds hit $50.02 billion in the first half of 2014.\n\nSWFI tracks the assets of sovereign wealth funds, pensions, endowments and other asset owners. Norway's sovereign wealth fund crossed $1 trillion in assets in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "11430131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11430131", "title": "Taurus World Stunt Awards", "text": "Taurus World Stunt Awards\n\nThe Taurus World Stunt Awards is a yearly award ceremony held midyear that honors stunt performers in movies. It is held each year in Los Angeles. The first awards were given out in 2001. However the deciding committee has been around since the year 2000. The awards were created by Dietrich Mateschitz, the founder of Red Bull.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the videogame \"\", a player can be nominated for the Taurus World Stunt Awards.\n\nThe award ceremony is normally broadcast on American television channels such as Entertainment News (E!).\n"}
{"id": "41772890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41772890", "title": "Veritrade", "text": "Veritrade\n\nVeritrade is a privately owned commercial intelligence company founded in 1999, dedicated to providing information about International trade from multiple countries, in the form of digital publications.\n\nThrough the use of its database, Veritrade incorporates different products for varied sectors and industries in Peru and worldwide.\n\nVeritrade has developed several products that allow reading and analyzing data on foreign trade for each country, with different specifications catering to different types of industries, businesses and individual clients: Veritrade Business, Veritrade Analytic, Veritrade Motors and Verinews.\n\nThese products are based on the use of information technology and help clients to analize production, costs, etc.\n\nVeritrade collaborates with different online and printed media outlets providing foreign trade data and analysis. The most notable examples are articles in newspapers El Comercio, Perú21 and Gestión.\n\nIn May 2014, Veritrade provided foreign trade information relevant to an ongoing murder investigation, featured in a local news coverage.\n"}
{"id": "22435531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22435531", "title": "Willingness to accept", "text": "Willingness to accept\n\nIn economics, willingness to accept (WTA) is the minimum amount of money that а person is willing to accept to abandon a good or to put up with something negative, such as pollution. It is equivalent to the minimum monetary amount required for sale of a good or acquisition of something undesirable to be accepted by an individual. Conversely, willingness to pay (WTP) is the maximum amount an individual is willing to sacrifice to procure a good or avoid something undesirable. The price of any goods transaction will thus be any point between a buyer's willingness to pay and a seller's willingness to accept. The net difference between WTP and WTA is the social surplus created by the trading of goods.\n\nSeveral methods have been developed to measure consumer willingness to pay or accept payment. These methods can be differentiated whether they measure consumers' hypothetical or actual willingness to pay or accept and whether they measure consumer willingness to pay or accept directly or indirectly.\n\nChoice modelling techniques may be used to estimate the value of the WTP or WTA through a choice experiment.\n\nUnlike WTP, WTA is not constrained by an individual's wealth. For example, the willingness to pay to stop the ending of one's own life can only be as high as one's wealth, while the willingness to accept compensation to accept the loss of one's life would be an extremely high number (or maybe infinite, meaning that there would be no finite acceptable payment amount).\n\nLet \"u\"(\"w\", \"x\") be an individual's utility function, where \"w\" is the person's wealth and \"x\" is a dummy variable that takes the value 1 in the presence of an undesired feature and takes the value 0 in the absence of that feature. The utility function is assumed to be increasing in wealth and decreasing in \"x\". Also, define \"w\" as the person's initial wealth. Then the \"willingness to accept\" is defined by\n\nThat is, the willingness to accept payment in order to put up with the adverse change equates the pre-change utility (on the right side) with the post-change utility including compensation.\n\nIn contrast, the \"willingness to pay\" is defined by\n\nThat is, the willingness to pay to avoid the adverse change equates the post-change utility, diminished by the presence of the adverse change (on the right side), with utility without the adverse change but with payment having been made to avoid it.\n\nThe concept extends readily to a context of uncertain outcomes, in which case the utility function above is replaced by the expected value of a von Neumann-Morgenstern utility function.\n\nThe standard assumptions of economic theory imply that when income effects are small, the gap between WTP and WTA should be negligible. Thus indifference curves are drawn without reference to current endowments. This leads to the wide acceptance of the \"Coase theorem\" assertion that, subject to income effects, the allocation of resources will be independent of the assignment of property rights when costless trades are possible. This is to say, the allocation of property rights does not influence the way externalities are internalized by the market. However, many experiments, such as that by Daniel Kahneman, Jack L. Knetsch and Richard Thaler showed that measures of WTA greatly exceed measures of WTP. Another well-known example was documented by Ziv Carmon and Dan Ariely, who found that willingness to accept for tickets to a major basketball game was more than 10 times larger than the willingness to pay. One explanation is that the endowment effect makes people value a good or service more if they possess it.\n\nHowever, Plott and Zeiler argue that \"...observed gaps [between WTA and WTP] are symptomatic of subjects' misconceptions about the nature of the experimental task\" and that \"the differences reported in the literature reflect differences in experimental controls for misconceptions as opposed to differences in the nature of the commodity.\"\n\nWTP and WTA are important factors for public policy. Many economic decisions are based upon the implicit assignment of property rights. When looking at a lake which is being polluted by a nearby factory, the WTA and WTP for treatment of an effluent treatment plant may have different consequences based upon how property rights are politically assigned. If lakeside residents have no property right to an effluent-free lake, then their willingness to pay to treat the lake's water supply would be considered. Conversely, if the lakeside residents are found to have a property right to a clean lake, then their willingness to accept compensation for a polluted lake would be considered.\n\n"}
{"id": "2683953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2683953", "title": "Work card", "text": "Work card\n\nA work card is like an Identity Card which verifies that a person has been given work, or is eligible to perform work in a given profession or jurisdiction. The work card is not a work visa, although it may be used in conjunction with a work visa, permanent resident card or other documentation.\n\nWork cards are often used in countries with high unemployment to certify that the individual meets certain legal requirements (such as head of household, or with dependent children) making him or her eligible for work.\n\nWork cards are also used in certain industries like construction (where specialized training and safety skills are required) or gambling (where background and credit checks are required to reduce the incidence of crime).\n\nWork cards are used in some employment situations, such as prostitution, so that government officials may track the number of workers in a given industry. Frequent renewal of work cards may also be required to ensure that workers undergo regular health check-ups, or to gather information on working conditions or the incident of crime (such as assault against the prostitute, or a prostitute's criminal background).\n\nWork cards are increasingly used in the European Union (EU) to verify an individual's citizenship in a member-nation, and the kind of work which that individual may engage in. For example, citizens of states with provisional membership in the EU must obtain both an EU work card and a work card from nation in which they wish to work.\n\nIn cases where a union has won the closed shop, a work card may be issued by a trade union. The work card will permit the non-union worker to work in the industry or for the employer with union permission.\n\n\n"}
