{"id": "41952259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41952259", "title": "Adobe Marketing Cloud", "text": "Adobe Marketing Cloud\n\nAdobe Experience Cloud (AEC), formerly Adobe Marketing Cloud (AMC), is a collection of integrated online marketing and Web analytics products by Adobe Systems. \n\nAdobe Marketing Cloud includes a set of analytics, social, advertising, media optimization, targeting, Web experience management and content management products aimed at the advertising industry and hosted on Amazon Web Services. Like other Adobe Cloud services (e.g., Adobe Creative Cloud), the Adobe Marketing Cloud allows users with valid subscriptions to download the entire collection and use it directly on their computers with open access to online updates.\n\nThe Adobe Marketing Cloud collection was introduced to the public in October 2012 as Adobe began retiring the Omniture name it acquired in October 2009. Products of the defunct company were then integrated step by step into the new Cloud service which includes the following eight applications: Adobe Analytics, Adobe Target, Adobe Social, Adobe Experience Manager, Adobe Media Optimizer, Adobe Campaign, Audience Manager and Primetime. In November 2013, Adobe Systems introduced mobile features to its Marketing Cloud, making smartphones and other mobile devices new targets for analytics.\n\nOn September 15, 2009, Omniture, Inc. and Adobe Systems announced that Adobe would be acquiring Omniture, an online marketing and web analytics business unit in Orem, Utah. The deal of $1.8 billion, was completed on October 23, 2009, and is now joined by other Adobe acquisitions such as Day Software and Efficient Frontier, as the main components of Adobe's Digital Marketing Business Unit. Around 2012, Adobe withdrew the Omniture brand while its products were being integrated into the Adobe Marketing Cloud.\n\nOn May 21, 2018 Adobe announced the acquisition of Magento for 1.68$ billion. The addition of the Magento Commerce will enable commerce features to be integrated into the Adobe Experience Cloud. \n\nIn the same year, on September 20, 2018 Adobe acquired the marketing automation company Marketo.. The acquisition is expected to close in Q4 2018.\n"}
{"id": "44511538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44511538", "title": "Agricultural machinery industry", "text": "Agricultural machinery industry\n\nThe agricultural machinery industry or agricultural engineering industry is the part of the industry, that produces and maintain tractors, agricultural machinery and agricultural implements. This branch is considered to be part of the machinery industry.\n\nThe agricultural machinery industry emerged in Britain and the United States in the 19th century. Until then the common tools of farming were the plough and the sickle. These iron agricultural implements were often made by blacksmiths in the local village, who regularly also acted as farrier. In the first part of the 19th century some of the early agricultural machine manufacturers arose from these blacksmith workshops, such as John Deere who started up with the production of ploughs in series in the 1840s. \n\nOther companies arose from the introduction of horse drawn reaping, which replaced the type of hand reaper in use since biblical times. A company as the McCormick started up with building these kind of harvesting machines around the 1840s. And another origin of agricultural industry was the introduction of combined harvesting, threshing and cleaning in the 1830s. The Case Corporation for example started building those in 1842 as the Racine Threshing Machine Works. Until early 20th century most of those machinery were powered by horses.\n\nMid 19th century the portable steam-powered plowing engines were introduced. They were used in pairs, placed on either side of a field to haul a plow back and forth between them using a wire cable. These portable engines were also used to power threshing machines, mills and pumps. The portable steam engines were produced by specific agricultural machinery maker, such as Ransomes, Sims & Jefferies who had started as brass and iron-founder making casting ploughshares late 18th century.\n\nLate 19th century in Britain more companies such as Richard Garrett & Sons and Mann’s Patent Steam Cart and Wagon Company developed steam tractors for direct ploughing, but the heavy, wet soil of England meant that these designs were less economical than a team of horses. In the United States, where soil conditions permitted, steam tractors were used to direct-haul plows. Steam-powered agricultural engines remained in use well into the 20th century until reliable internal combustion engines had been developed.\n\nCollins (1987) recalled that the impact of the agricultural machinery industry in the 19th century was still limited. He stated : \"prior the third quarter of the nineteenth century the impact of machinery in agriculture was slight compared with that in manufacturing industry. Some operations such as barn work and hay and corn harvesting had been largely mechanized by 1880 but, up to the Second World War, many were still performed by hand labour and large numbers of workers were still required for seasonal tasks such as hop- and fruit-picking and vegetable cultivations.\"\n\nIn the beginning of the 20th century in the UK the Agricultural machinery industry \"although composed of many hundreds of firms, was dominated by a few large ones, chiefly in the eastern counties of England. The total output of the industry was estimated to be worth 6.5 million pounds in 1913, or about 5 percent of the total value of the output of the mechanical engineering industry at the first Census of Production in 1907.\"\nIn the first decennia the internal combustion engine; first the petrol engine, and later diesel engines; became the main source of power for the next generation of tractors. Early companies expanded into the tractor business, such as John Deere which bought the Waterloo Gasoline Engine Company in 1918, which manufactured the popular Waterloo Boy tractor. In the 1930s new technologies as rubber ties and hydrologics were introduced in tractors and other farm machinery. The diesel engines also contributed to the development of the self-propelled, combined harvester and thresher, or combine harvester (also shortened to 'combine'). Instead of cutting the grain stalks and transporting them to a stationary threshing machine, these combines cut, threshed, and separated the grain while moving continuously through the field.\n\nIn the second part of the 20th century the production of agricultural machinery in development countries rose rapidly. In the 1960s a country as the UK exported more than 60% of its production to Western Europe, Australia, USA, Canada and South Africa, and main manufacturers started production plants abroad. Another trend was the increased concentration among manufacturers. In the 1970s in the UK six companies supplied 75% of the total output.\n\nThe further mechanization of agriculture in the 20th century made possible by the agricultural machinery industry had a huge impact of the economic structure of society. In the developed countries the total labour force engaged in agriculture dropped from about 75% in 1800 to less than 5% late 20th century. In developing countries, in late 20th century still 75% of all land \"was farmed with only hand-tools and draught-animal technology.\" In Turkey still 48% and in India 66.5% of the labor were working in agriculture, according to the FAO Production Yearbook 1990.\n\nA 2013 report by the VDMA gave the following preview of the current developments in the agricultural machinery industry:\n\nThe agricultural machinery industry produces agricultural machinery, machinery used in the operation of agricultural areas and farms. Main types are:\nIn developed countries overall the largest segment of agricultural equipment sales is tractors.\n\nAgricultural machinery manufacturers exist in sizes from small and medium business to multinationals. James & Akrasanee (1988) stipulated that those forms have different production management, and can be classified into three groups:\n\nThe two largest agricultural machinery manufacturers worldwide based on revenue (in 2012): \n\nIn the United States the revenue of tractor & agricultural machinery manufacturing sector increased from about 35 billion U.S. dollars in 2009 to 42 billion U.S. dollars in 2014.\n\nSome of the more important agricultural machinery associations are:\n\n\nAccording to the CEMA, the European association representing the European agricultural machinery industry, Europe was the largest producer of agricultural machinery globally in 2013: \nIn total, the production of agricultural machinery worldwide in 2013 generated about 95 billion euros, based on a report \"Agricultural Machinery November 2013 : Market Perspectives 2014\" by the VDMA, a German engineering association. Another recent statistic mentioned, that the agricultural machinery industry in 2010 generated worldwide about $56 billion.\n\nYuan'en (2007) stated, that the \"Chinese government has attached great importance to agriculture, rural areas and farmers, made a series of policies that favorite to the farmers, added the financial subsidy to the agriculture, especially constituted the subsidy policies for the farmers on their agricultural machinery purchasing.\"\n\nA 2013-2014 report acknowledged that \"China's agricultural machinery industry has achieved rapid development, the gross output value of agricultural machinery exceeded RMB 300 billion, total power of agricultural machinery surpassed 1 billion kilowatts, and the integrated mechanization level of agricultural crops exceeded 50%, demonstrating that China has entered into a mechanized production-oriented period... Tractors and harvesting machinery are the most important agricultural machinery products in China, with annual output of 2.25 million units and 1.114 million units in 2012 separately...\" \n\nGyanendra (2006) recalled, that \"the early agricultural mechanization in India was greatly influenced by the technological development in England. Irrigation pumps, tillage equipment, chaff cutters, tractors and threshers were gradually introduced for farm mechanization. The high yielding varieties with assured irrigation and higher rate of application of fertilizers gave higher returns that enabled farmers to adopt mechanization inputs, especially after Green revolution in 1960s.\"\n\nThe Turkish Ministry of Economy (2011) explained that \"Turkey is one of the few countries of the world which is self-sufficient in food. At present Turkey is the largest producer and exporter of agricultural products in the Near East and North Africa... The agricultural machinery industry is about 1000 manufacturers countrywide... Companies manufacturing agricultural machinery and equipment except tractors are mostly small and medium size companies. The sector employs about 15,000 workers... The value of agricultural machinery and spare parts and agricultural tractors and trailers exports was US$ 313 million in 2009.\"\nWith a volume of 28 billion euros (2014) agricultural machinery production in the European Union (EU) represented 28 per cent of world total according to VDMA. Out of the EU total, the share of Germany is 27 per cent, followed by Italy (17 per cent) and France (14 per cent). All leading international manufacturers have several production sites on the European continent, and their products from these factories in general are destined for the high end customers who yield for efficiency and accuracy on the fields. \n\nThe EU production of tractors was 187,000 units, correspondent to a value of 9.4 billion euros (2014). Outside the EU, a major production site for tractors is the Minsk Tractor Works (Belarus) with a high market share in the neighbouring countries, especially within the Commonwealth of Independent States. The leading countries for tractor production in the EU are Germany and Italy (with John Deere, Case New Holland, AGCO and Same Deutz-Fahr being the major brands). Germany is also the major place for the manufacturing of harvesting, spraying, fertilizing and seeding equipment. Italy and France have a primary position for soil working machines and transportation vehicles. The majority of the agricultural machinery companies are small and medium-sized and family owned. \n\nOne third of the EU production is destined to markets outside the union, mainly to the Eastern European markets, but also to North America and, increasingly, to Asia. \n\nAfter a peak in 2003 and 29 billion euros of turnover, the sector experienced an economic downturn in 2014/2015. The strategy of the European industry is to keep its leading technological position and to diversify its market presence into the high potential regions (e.g. Asia). \n\nThe AEM (2014) stated that \"U.S. domestic sales of agricultural machinery and equipment rose from about $20 billion in 1999 to $38 billion in 2012. Since 1998 and through 2012, U.S. exports of agricultural equipment have grown relatively quickly, more than doubling from about $4 billion to $8.7 billion.\n\nGraciela summarized (2008) that \"the agricultural machinery industry in Argentina depends for growth on higher exports and further progress towards internationalization, which are strategic goals for the largest firms. Given the dynamism of global demand for this type of machinery, the conclusion is that the sector can increase its sales in export markets, where some of its products are competing well.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "24580848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24580848", "title": "Aurora Fashions", "text": "Aurora Fashions\n\nAurora Fashions was a holding company of several retail fashion brands, formed in 2009 to purchase a number of businesses from the collapsed Mosaic Fashions. The company operates over 1250 stores in 38 countries, including franchises, under the Oasis, Warehouse and Coast brands.\n\nIn March 2011, the company announced plans to spin-off Karen Millen, which was completed in 2012. Karen Millen was separated from the group to be owned by Aurora's parent Kaupthing Bank.\n\nAurora announced further plans in March 2013 for a wider restructuring. As part of this, Coast was also separated from the rest of the group, under the ownership of Kaupthing, and it was planned that Oasis and Warehouse would be merged under a new single parent company, Fresh Channel. The two brands were eventually demerged as the Oasis and Warehouse Group, led by Liz Evans.\n"}
{"id": "38053091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38053091", "title": "Business History Review", "text": "Business History Review\n\nThe Business History Review is a scholarly quarterly published by Cambridge University Press for Harvard Business School. \"Business History Review\" is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering the field of business history. It was established in 1954 by Harvard University Press as the continuation of the \"Bulletin of the Business Historical Society\".\n\nThe journal is one of the leading scholarly journals in the field of business history alongside \"Enterprise & Society\" and \"Business History\".\n\nThe \"Business History Review\" traces it origins to 1926 with the publication of Harvard’s \"Bulletin of the Business Historical Society\". The Bulletin aimed “to encourage and aid the study of the evolution of business in all periods and in all countries” and devoted much space to describing the growing archival collections of Harvard’s Baker Library. Henrietta Larson, whose \"Guide to Business History\" (1948) also documented the scope of available research materials, was editor from 1938 to 1953.\n\nIn 1954, the \"Bulletin\" changed its name to \"Business History Review\" and took its current format of publishing peer-reviewed research articles and book reviews. In these years, the intellectual framework of the field of business history was defined by the work of Alfred D. Chandler Jr., who published 11 research articles in the journal. One of the most popular (with 212 Google Scholar cites) was his 1959 piece “The Beginnings of ‘Big Business’ in American Industry,” which explored the question of why large, vertically integrated corporations were formed in the late nineteenth-century and why they took the structure they did. Another highly cited article (240 Google Scholar cites) from 1970 was “The Emerging Organizational Synthesis in American History” by Louis Galambos, which also focused on explaining the growth of bureaucratic structures in the United States.\n\nIn 1974, \"Business History Review\" published its first special issue on the multinational corporation. Included in the issue was an article on oil companies operating in South America by Mira Wilkins, who pioneered the field of international business history. The journal also expanded its focus beyond the workings of business enterprise to cover business-government relations. In 1975, Thomas K. McCraw, who edited the journal from 1994 to 2005, published “Regulation in America: A Review Article.” In 2011, the current editors, Walter A. Friedman and Geoffrey Jones (academic), listed the \"BHR\"'s core subjects as innovation, globalization, entrepreneurship, business and the environment, business and government, and business and democracy. In 2015, the journal had an impact factor of .625 (with a 5-year impact factor of .895) and was rated as a 4 by the British Academic Journal Guide (a 4* is the highest rating).\n\n"}
{"id": "10147369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10147369", "title": "Business analytics", "text": "Business analytics\n\nBusiness analytics (BA) refers to the skills, technologies, practices for continuous iterative exploration and investigation of past business performance to gain insight and drive business planning. Business analytics focuses on developing new insights and understanding of business performance based on data and statistical methods. In contrast, business intelligence traditionally focuses on using a consistent set of metrics to both measure past performance and guide business planning, which is also based on data and statistical methods.\n\nBusiness analytics makes extensive use of statistical analysis, including explanatory and predictive modeling, and fact-based management to drive decision making. It is therefore closely related to management science. Analytics may be used as input for human decisions or may drive fully automated decisions. Business intelligence is querying, reporting, online analytical processing (OLAP), and \"alerts.\"\n\nIn other words, querying, reporting, OLAP, and alert tools can answer questions such as what happened, how many, how often, where the problem is, and what actions are needed. Business analytics can answer questions like why is this happening, what if these trends continue, what will happen next (predict), and what is the best outcome that can happen (optimize).\n\nBanks, such as Capital One, use data analysis (or \"analytics\", as it is also called in the business setting), to differentiate among customers based on credit risk, usage and other characteristics and then to match customer characteristics with appropriate product offerings. Harrah’s, the gaming firm, uses analytics in its customer loyalty programs. E & J Gallo Winery quantitatively analyses and predicts the appeal of its wines. Between 2002 and 2005, Deere & Company saved more than $1 billion by employing a new analytical tool to better optimize inventory. A telecoms company that pursues efficient call center usage over customer service may save money as well.\n\n\n\nAnalytics have been used in business since the management exercises were put into place by Frederick Winslow Taylor in the late 19th century. Henry Ford measured the time of each component in his newly established assembly line. But analytics began to command more attention in the late 1960s when computers were used in decision support systems. Since then, analytics have changed and formed with the development of enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems, data warehouses, and a large number of other software tools and processes.\n\nIn later years the business analytics have exploded with the introduction to computers. This change has brought analytics to a whole new level and has brought about endless possibilities. As far as analytics has come in history, and what the current field of analytics is today, many people would never think that analytics started in the early 1900s with Mr. Ford himself.\n\nBusiness analytics depends on sufficient volumes of high quality data. The difficulty in ensuring data quality is integrating and reconciling data across different systems, and then deciding what subsets of data to make available.\n\nPreviously, analytics was considered a type of after-the-fact method of forecasting consumer behavior by examining the number of units sold in the last quarter or the last year. This type of data warehousing required a lot more storage space than it did speed. Now business analytics is becoming a tool that can influence the outcome of customer interactions. When a specific customer type is considering a purchase, an analytics-enabled enterprise can modify the sales pitch to appeal to that consumer. This means the storage space for all that data must react extremely fast to provide the necessary data in real-time.\n\nThomas Davenport, professor of information technology and management at Babson College argues that businesses can optimize a distinct business capability via analytics and thus better compete. He identifies these characteristics of an organization that are apt to compete on analytics:\n\n"}
{"id": "8421154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8421154", "title": "Business college", "text": "Business college\n\nA business college is a school that provides education above the high school level but could not be compared to that of a traditional university or college. Unlike universities and even junior and community colleges, business colleges typically train the student for a specific vocational aspect, usually clerical tasks such as typing, stenography or simple bookkeeping.\n\nThe goal of a business college is not to provide a thorough education, as is the model of modern universities in the liberal arts fields, but rather to provide training for a very specific task. Traditionally, credits earned at a business college do not transfer to other colleges or universities and students cannot earn a bachelor's degree, though an associate degree may be offered.\n\nIn recent decades the number of these institutions has been declining as business colleges have been finding more competition coming from community colleges, which provide both vocational as well as liberal arts classes and are often able to offer the classes at a lower rate of tuition, as they are usually nonprofit and subsidized by one or more levels of government. Business colleges should not be confused with business schools which typically offer a Master of Business Administration (MBA) program after a student has completed a bachelor's degree.\n\nIn the US, business colleges are sometimes also called proprietary colleges, especially when they grant associate degrees or higher.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1725756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1725756", "title": "Business directory", "text": "Business directory\n\nA business directory is a website or printed listing of information which lists businesses within niche based categories. Businesses can be categorized by niche, location, activity, or size. Business may be compiled either manually or through an automated online search software. Online yellow pages are a type of business directory, as is the traditional phone book.\n\nThe details provided in a business directory may vary. They may include the business name, addresses, telephone numbers, location, contact information, type of service or products the business provides, the number of employees, the served region and any professional associations. Some directories include a section for user reviews, comments, and feedback. Business directories in the past would take a printed format but have recently been upgraded to websites due to the advent of the internet.\n\nMany business directories offer complimentary listings in addition to the premium options. There are many business directories and some of these have moved over to the internet and away from printed format. Whilst not being search engines, business directories often have a search function, enabling users to search businesses by Zip Code, country, state, area or city.\n\nBusiness directories can be in either hard copy or in digital format. Ease of use and distribution means that many trade directories have a digital version.\n\n"}
{"id": "4706893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4706893", "title": "Business executive", "text": "Business executive\n\nA business executive is a person responsible for running an organization, although the exact nature of the role varies depending on the organization.\n\nExecutives run companies or government agencies. They create plans to help their organizations grow.\n\nThe business executive occupation covers many jobs. These positions include chief executive officer, department store manager, and small business operator. Executives are in charge of their organization. They create and review goals for the company. They work closely with a team of upper-level staff or assistants. This team may make both long- and short-range plans to achieve these goals. Once the plans are set, executives make sure the company follows the changes. They do this by meeting with the managers of all the departments and getting progress reports. Executives are typically elected by the organization's owners, shareholders, board of directors. The term usually refers to the person running the organization or someone involved in the upper-level management role of a corporation, company, as opposed to being the founder, owner, or majority shareholder of the organization.\n748\n\nExecutives' duties depend on how many people are on their staff. Some executives oversee general managers in different areas. In larger organizations, they may direct one area, such as marketing, finance, or legal services. For example, in the financial area, executives may direct the buying or selling of land or other investments. Other executives get more involved. They may hire and train new staff. They may direct staff in what tasks need to be done. They may choose computer systems to record data, such as budgets. When complaints arise, executives may direct investigations to resolve what occurred in the agency or between staff members.\n\nA large part of an executive's job is developing relationships with people outside the organization. These people may be customers or contributors. One way executives create relationships is by giving speeches at conferences. Executives may also serve on the boards of community groups. These activities promote the company and its leader.\n\nIn addition, executives oversee budgets. They use budgets to analyze how well the organization is running. They make suggestions about where to cut expenses. Executives may also suggest where improvements could be made. Executives also negotiate contracts with outside agencies. They need good persuasion skills to keep costs down. Some executives write yearly reports to let their communities know what has been accomplished.\n\nGovernment executives oversee agencies that develop laws and regulations. They meet regularly with their citizens. They learn how voters feel about the issues. Officials need to do these reality checks to see if they have the citizens' support. Executives also promote economic growth within their communities. They plan and organize different activities to help meet these goals. Government executives make connections between the United States and other countries. They help to promote international trade.\n\nThe government executive occupation also covers many jobs. They range from city council member, mayor, and governor, all the way up to President of the United States. Some of these positions are elected. Other officials are appointed to their jobs. In smaller communities, many of these jobs may be volunteer positions. Sometimes these jobs run through only part of the year.\n"}
{"id": "3593875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3593875", "title": "Business mathematics", "text": "Business mathematics\n\nBusiness mathematics is mathematics used by commercial enterprises to record and manage business operations. Commercial organizations use mathematics in accounting, inventory management, marketing, sales forecasting, and financial analysis. \n\nMathematics typically used in commerce includes elementary arithmetic, elementary algebra, statistics and probability. Business management can be done more effectively in some cases by use of more advanced mathematics such as calculus, matrix algebra and linear programming.\n\n\"Business mathematics, \" sometimes called \"commercial math\" or \"consumer math\", is a group of practical subjects used in commerce and everyday life. In schools, these subjects are often taught to students who are not planning a university education. In the United States, they are typically offered in high schools and in schools that grant associate's degrees; elsewhere they may be included under Business studies. The emphasis in these courses is on computational skills and their practical application, with practical application being predominant. \n\nA (U.S.) business math course might include a review of elementary arithmetic, including fractions, decimals, and percentages. Elementary algebra is often included as well, in the context of solving practical business problems. The practical applications typically include checking accounts, price discounts, markups and Markup, payroll calculations, simple and compound interest, consumer and business credit, and mortgages and revenues.\n\n\"Business Mathematics\" comprises mathematics courses taken at an undergraduate level by business students. The two most common here are \"Business Calculus\" and \"Business Statistics\". Programs often also cover matrix operations as above, and may include a separate module on interest calculations.\n\nThese courses are usually focused on problems from the business world, and the syllabus is adjusted correspondingly. Thus for example, whereas in a regular calculus course students would study trigonometric functions, courses here would not typically cover this area. Correspondingly, these courses typically do not go into the same depth as standard courses in the mathematics or science fields. (Although see Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and Bachelor of Business Science.) \n\nNote that economics majors, especially those planning to pursue graduate study in the field, are encouraged to instead take regular calculus, as well as linear algebra and other advanced math courses, especially real analysis. Some programs (instead) include a module in \"mathematics for economists\", providing a bridge between the above \"Business Mathematics\" courses and mathematical economics and econometrics.\nOperations management (and management accounting) may similarly include supplementary coursework in relevant quantitative techniques, generally linear programming as above, as well as other optimization methods.\n\nAt the postgraduate level, \"generalist\" management and finance programs include quantitative topics which are foundational for the study in question - often exempting students with an appropriate background. These are usually \"interest mathematics\" and statistics, both at the above level. MBA programs often also include basic operations research (linear programming, as above) with the emphasis on practice, and may combine the topics as \"quantitative analysis\"; MSF programs may similarly cover applied econometrics.\n\nMore technical Masters in these areas, such as those in management science and quantitative finance, will entail a deeper, more theoretical study of operations research and econometrics, and extend to further advanced topics such as mathematical optimization and stochastic calculus. These programs do not include \"Business mathematics\" \"per se\".\n\nWhere mathematical economics is not required, graduate economics programs often include \"quantitative techniques\", which covers (applied) linear algebra and multivariate calculus, and may include the above topics; regardless, econometrics is usually a separate course, and is dealt with in depth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50497601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50497601", "title": "COMATCH", "text": "COMATCH\n\nCOMATCH is an online marketplace that connects companies of all sizes with independent business consultants and industry experts registered in their network for project-based work. COMATCH is based in Berlin, Germany, and acts besides the DACH region in Benelux, Scandinavia, France, UK and UAE.\n\nThrough the combination of an algorithm and a personal check, they \"match\" the most suitable consultant with the project's requirements. Access to the platform is not available for everyone: after the registration, an assessment based on the CV and personal interviews takes place. In the end, only 50% are passing the quality assessment and will be accepted. Most of the registered consultants worked for the big top tier consultancies like McKinsey, BCG or Roland Berger. \n\nThe registration and requesting projects are free for consultants and clients, a cost of 15% of the daily rate only occur after successful matching for the client.\n\nCOMATCH's clients range from startups and small business to large enterprises including Zalando, Clariant and buw Consulting as well as consultancies. By June 2018, more than 5000 consultants from over 60 countries have successfully registered.\n\nCOMATCH GmbH was founded in October 2014 by the former McKinsey consultants Dr. Christoph Hardt and Dr. Jan Schächtele with the support of Venture Capital Company Atlantic Labs (Christophe Maire). The startup launched its website in March 2015. Only a few months later, the company expanded with a branch in Amsterdam in November 2015. Three months after entering the Dutch market, COMATCH has expanded into the Nordics. In 2017 the startup extended its service into France, opened a branch office in Paris and accelerated the internationalization with a Dubai Media City office. In 2018 the company entered UK's consulting industry.\n\nIn August 2015 COMATCH raised a six-figure sum in a seed round from Christophe Maire's Atlantic Labs, btov, a venture capital firm with hubs in St. Gallen and Berlin, and some business angels. The second round of funding was closed in June 2016. The round, estimated to be worth €4 million, was led by Munich-based Acton Capital Partners, and further included existing investors Atlantic Labs and btov Partners. In March 2018, COMATCH has raised €8 million in Series B funding, once again led by Acton Capital Partners with participation from Atlantic Labs and btov. The fresh capital was used to expand the company’s position as market leader in the DACH region and enable it to also become a leader on a European level.\n\nIn September 2017 COMATCH published the survey \"The DNA of the Independent Consultant\". It is the biggest European survey among independent consultants to understand their drive and working situation. Moreover, the company releases an annual business magazine called COMAG featuring expert insights and business tips provided by consultants and contributors like Richard Branson or Markus Merck. The first issue's theme was \"expectations\", the second COMAG is investigating \"dynamics\". \n\nIn June 2015 COMATCH was introduced as the \"startup of the week\" in the German newspaper WirtschaftsWoche and in 2017 co-founder Christoph Hardt won the CEO award of UK-based Finance Monthly. In their annual \"Wachstumsranking,\" Gründerszene ranked the company among the top 10 fastest growing startups in Germany 2017. Due to the kununu score of 4,75 out of 5, COMATCH was among the Top 100 mid-sized companies in the German service sector 2017.\n"}
{"id": "1624953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1624953", "title": "Cabotage", "text": "Cabotage\n\nCabotage () is the transport of goods or passengers between two places in the same country by a transport operator from another country. It originally applied to shipping along coastal routes, port to port, but now applies to aviation, railways, and road transport as well.\n\nCabotage rights are the right of a company from one country to trade in another country. In aviation, it is the right to operate within the domestic borders of another country. Most countries do not permit aviation cabotage, and there are strict sanctions against it, for reasons of economic protectionism, national security, or public safety. One notable exception is the European Union, whose Member States all grant cabotage rights to each other.\n\nCabotage originally meant simply coasting trade, from the French \"caboter\", to travel by the coast. Its ultimate origin is uncertain. The air transport meaning is attested in 1933.\n\nCabotage laws apply to merchant ships in most countries that have a coastline so as to protect the domestic shipping industry from foreign competition, preserve domestically owned shipping infrastructure for national security purposes, and ensure safety in congested territorial waters.\n\nFor the history of cabotage in UK law, see Navigation Acts.\n\nIn the United States, the Merchant Marine Act of 1920 (Jones Act) requires that all goods transported by water between U.S. ports be carried on U.S.-flag ships, constructed in the United States, owned by U.S. citizens, and crewed by U.S. citizens and U.S. permanent residents. The Passenger Vessel Services Act of 1886 states that no foreign vessels shall transport passengers between ports or places in the United States, either directly or by way of a foreign port.\n\nIndonesia implemented a cabotage policy in 2005 after previously allowing foreign-owned vessels to operate relatively freely within the country.\n\nIn the Philippines, the Tariff and Customs Code of the Philippines (Republic Act No. 1937) which is also known as the Cabotage Law restricts coastwise trade or the transport of passengers and goods within the country, to vessels with Philippine registry which has to secure a coastwise license from the Maritime Industry Authority. After the passage of Foreign Ships Co-Loading Act or the Republic Act No. 10668 in 2015, foreign vessels with cargo intended to be exported out the country may dock in multiple ports in the country before transiting to a foreign port.\n\nIn the EU, rights to cabotage in newly-admitted Member States (in particular, Greece, Spain and Portugal) were restricted; but this introductory provision was abandoned after criticism in the light of the Paros ferry disaster.\n\nThe Hague–Visby Rules, a convention which imposes duties on maritime carriers, apply only to \"carriage of goods by sea between ports in two different states\", and thus do not apply to cabotage shipping. However, section 1(3) of the UK Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1971 declares that the Rules \"shall have effect ... where the port of shipment is a port in the United Kingdom, whether or not the carriage is between ports in two different States ...\".\n\nCabotage rights remain rare in passenger aviation. The Chicago Convention prohibits member states from granting cabotage on an exclusive basis, which has limited the availability of cabotage as a bargaining chip in bilateral aviation agreement negotiations. Cabotage is not granted under most open skies agreements.\n\nCarriers licensed under EU law are permitted to engage in cabotage in any EU member state, with some limitations. Ryanair, easyJet, Vueling, Wizz Air, and Aer Lingus have bases and operate domestic services outside their home countries.\n\nThe Closer Economic Relations agreement allows Australian air carriers to fly domestically and internationally from New Zealand and vice versa. An Australian carrier, Jetstar (a Qantas subsidiary), flies domestic routes within New Zealand. Air New Zealand offers one international destination from Australia outside New Zealand, flying between Sydney, Australia and Rarotonga of the Cook Islands. Previously, Qantas Jetconnect, Pacific Blue (a Virgin Australia subsidiary) and Ansett New Zealand were Australian-owned airlines based in New Zealand that operated domestic New Zealand services.\n\nAustralia also permits foreign-owned airlines incorporated under Australian law (such as Tiger Airways Australia and the domestic arm of Virgin Australia) to operate on domestic routes, although it prohibits such airlines from operating international routes as Australian flag carriers.\n\nChile has the most liberal cabotage rules in the world, enacted in 1979, which allow foreign airlines to operate domestic flights, conditional upon reciprocal treatment for Chilean carriers in the foreign airline's country. This unusual regime is partly due to Chile's geographical need for air service, and partly to incentivize liberalization in other countries amid the international expansion of its flag carrier LATAM Chile, which now has major operations in many other Latin American countries. Like Australia, Chile allows foreign companies to set up Chilean subsidiaries to offer domestic flights in Chile, regardless of reciprocity.\n\nBefore 1991, Lufthansa was prohibited from flying to West Berlin, so Pan Am, British Airways, and Air France operated the routes between West Germany and West Berlin. For a short time in the late 1980s, Trans World Airlines also flew between then-West Germany and West Berlin. During this time, Pan Am flew to Tegel, in Berlin, from Munich-Riem Airport (now closed) and Frankfurt. Air France flew from Düsseldorf. British Airways flew from Münster-Osnabrück, Hannover, and some other cities.\n\nIn 2003–2004, the United States Department of Transportation authorized Polynesian Airlines to provide temporary cabotage service in American Samoa after the existing US flag carrier ceased operations, one of very few instances where the US has granted cabotage rights in an emergency.\n\nIn October 2007, the United Kingdom granted Singapore carriers the right to fly domestic UK routes as part of an open skies agreement, which also allows British carriers to fly to any city from Singapore.\n\nReciprocal cabotage rights exist by treaty between New Zealand and Brunei and between the People's Republic of China and Albania.\n\nThe \"modified sixth freedom\" refers to the right to carry passengers between two points in country A through a hub in country B; for instance, a Boston-Toronto-Seattle itinerary. Such services are currently considered to constitute cabotage and are not permitted. In 2002, the United States fined Asiana Airlines for selling tickets from the mainland US to Guam and Saipan via Seoul.\n\nCertain airlines operate services within a foreign country without the right to carry local traffic. For instance, Qantas operates service between New York and Los Angeles solely for use by international connecting passengers. Such services are not generally considered to be cabotage.\n\n"}
{"id": "1647998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1647998", "title": "Canned response", "text": "Canned response\n\nCanned responses are predetermined responses to common questions.\n\nIn fields such as technical support, canned responses to frequently asked questions may be quick and convenient for both the customer and the technical adviser. In text-based technical support systems, the operator may insert a canned response triggered by keystrokes or from a drop-down menu, rather than typing the same answer repeatedly or pasting from some other resource. For example, if a support representative at an ISP's technical support team is asked to explain how to add an attachment to an email, rather than typing in all the details, the support representative may choose the response from a drop down menu, and it gets inserted into the response. The representative is more productive this way, and the user receives a more carefully crafted answer. Some programs have built-in functions which allow canned responses, and other software is available which can insert canned responses into any other application.\n\nCanned responses, however, can have disadvantages. Sloppy or pressured support people could end up using canned responses as a quick fix when they actually do not really resolve the customer's problem or are only tangentially relevant to the user's problem.\n\n"}
{"id": "57914778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57914778", "title": "Catalonia Trade &amp; Investment", "text": "Catalonia Trade &amp; Investment\n\nCatalonia Trade & Investment (Catalan: \"Agència per a la Competitivitat de l'Empresa, ACCIÓ\") is the Catalan Government’s agency that promotes foreign investment and business competitiveness. Headquartered in Barcelona, it currently operates globally through a network of 40 offices all over the world.\n\nCatalonia Trade & Investment’s mission is to promote innovation, internationalisation, trade and funding of Catalan companies and startups. It also provides support, insight and advice to international companies interested in investing in Catalonia and Barcelona.\n\nFounded in 2008 as a result of merging the public office Commercial Promotion Consortium of Catalonia (Catalan: Consorci de Promoció Comercial de Catalunya, COPCA) and the Innovation and Business Development Center (Catalan: Centre d'Innovació i Desenvolupament Empresarial, CIDEM).\n\nThe first foreign office of COPCA and CIDEM was established in Tokyo in 1988. During the same period the first American office in New York was established. In 1989 two offices were opened in Europe (London and Paris) and one in North Africa (Casablanca). In 1992 the first Middle East office in Dubai was opened.\n\nSince COPCA and CIDEM merged and became Catalonia Trade & Investment, the number of exterior offices has grown until the current 40. In fact, the latest offices were opened in 2017 in Amsterdam, Nairobi, Tehran and Zagreb-Belgrade. The agency covers 100 markets in the five continents.\n\nCatalonia Trade & Investment is part of the Catalan Ministry of Business and Knowledge. Its current CEO is Joan Romero, appointed in June 2017. The agency has several departments including Innovation, Internationalization, Investment and Finance, among others.\n\nList of departments:\n\nCatalonia Trade & Investment’s promotes business competitiveness of Catalan companies and supports international companies interested in investing in Catalonia & Barcelona. It is in charge of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13748453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13748453", "title": "Charles Egan Gallery", "text": "Charles Egan Gallery\n\nThe Charles Egan Gallery opened at 63 East 57th Street (Manhattan) in about 1945, when Charles Egan was in his mid-30s. Egan's artists helped him fix up the gallery: \"Isamu Noguchi did the lighting... Willem de Kooning and Franz Kline painted the walls.\" \n\nA group show the next year included works by de Kooning, Joseph Stella, Josef Albers, Mark Rothko, Paul Klee and Georges Braque. \n\nIn 1948, Charles Egan Gallery held a solo exhibition of de Kooning's black and white paintings. Irving Sandler wrote that because of this exhibition, \"de Kooning was established as a major Abstract Expressionist ... soon to be the most influential artist of his generation.\"\n\nIn 1949 Joseph Cornell had his first show at the Charles Egan Gallery.\n\nIn 1950, Robert De Niro, Sr. had his first show at the Egan Gallery, where he continued to show until 1955.\n\nIn 1952 George McNeil had his first show at the Egan Gallery, and subsequent solo shows in 1953 and 1954, and where he continued to show until the mid-1950s. \n\nIn 1954 Knox Martin had his first one-man show at the Charles Egan Gallery. \n\nAmong the other artists Mr. Egan showed were Louise Bourgeois, Robert De Niro, Sr., George McNeil, Elias Goldberg, Peter Golfinopoulos, Philip Guston, Raoul Hague, Julius Hatofsky, Franz Kline, Noguchi, Reuben Nakian, Robert Rauschenberg, Aaron Siskind, Jack Tworkov and Esteban Vicente. \n\nThe gallery moved to the Fuller Building at 41 East 57th Street in New York City during the 1950s and closed in 1972.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10214818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10214818", "title": "Chief human resources officer", "text": "Chief human resources officer\n\nA chief human resources officer (CHRO) is a corporate officer who oversees all aspects of human resource management and industrial relations policies, practices and operations for an organization. Similar job titles include: \"chief people officer\", \"chief personnel officer\", \"executive vice president of human resources\" and \"senior vice president of human resources\". Roles and responsibilities of a typical CHRO can be categorized as follows: workforce strategist, organizational and performance conductor, HR service delivery owner, compliance and governance regulator, and coach and adviser to the senior leadership team and the board of directors. CHROs may also be involved in board member selection and orientation, executive compensation, and succession planning. In addition, functions such as communications, facilities, public relations and related areas may fall within the scope of the CHRO role. Increasingly, CHROs report directly to chief executive officers and are members of the most senior-level committees of a company (e.g., executive committee or office of the CEO).\n\nThe role of the CHRO has evolved rapidly to meet the human capital needs of organizations operating across multiple regulatory and labor environments. Whereas CHROs once focused on organizations human resources in just one or two countries, today many oversee complex networks of employees on more than one continent and implement workforce development strategies on a global scale. CHROs are especially important now in helping companies navigate the workforce issues associated with expanding into emerging markets, and in developing labor policies to suit different regions of the world while preserving a company’s core culture.\n\nThe strategic role of the CHRO has also expanded as workforces are increasingly composed of knowledge workers, and companies require better systems to compete for scarce high-skilled workers. Rather than focusing exclusively on human resource issues and service delivery, CHROs must concentrate on creating strong talent pipelines to both enhance organizational decision-making and secure future growth. These changes in the business landscape have required the CHRO to heighten the focus on talent, capabilities and company culture.\n\nAccording to an annual survey conducted by the largest industry group for CHROs, the HR Policy Association in the United States, top CHRO concerns over the years fall roughly into three broad categories: talent, capabilities, and culture.\n\nTalent management includes building the quality and depth of talent, including a focus on succession and leadership/employee development. In a separate survey of over 200 U.S. and European CHROs, University of South Carolina professor Patrick Wright found that nearly all participants cited 'talent' as the top priority on their CEO's agenda for HR.\n\nManaging corporate capabilities includes dealing with rapid changes in technology, globalization, and the increasingly complex external context of government regulations and public policy (impacting union and employee relations, executive compensation, health care, retirement programs, health and safety, etc.).\n\nThe key capabilities required are expected to vary by company based on business strategy and the competitive global environment. Adapting to new technologies and sources of information and communications are essential to success for all companies. Other capabilities the HR function must help the company develop include: managing the external context, managing a multi-generational workforce, adapting to change, and operating effectively in different cultures and business structures.\n\nCultural issues include organizational change, agility, social networking, ethics and values, innovation, customer focus, employee engagement, diversity and inclusiveness, and multiculturalism.\n\nThe human resources function has a leadership role in helping shape the culture of the company. Ensuring that the values of the company are communicated and understood at all levels, providing clarity as to the expected behavior of all employees and the development of a high performance culture are important aspects of the CHRO role. When an employee’s behavior is inconsistent with the values of the company, the human resources function is responsible for ensuring that such situations are dealt with fairly. The HR function also helps the organization establish and maintain high levels of employee engagement and commitment.\n\nIncreasingly, companies are relying on external partners, joint-ventures, as well as merged and acquired companies as sources of innovation, capabilities and growth. Establishing a culture that is supportive of such external partnerships is an area where the HR function plays an important role.\n\nSummarizing the findings of a recent study of HR leaders, Randy MacDonald, former CHRO for IBM, indicated that the three key workforce gaps CHROs cite as the biggest opportunities for HR are: \n\nThe CHRO is the top HR position, but those who attain this role arrive there by working in a variety of functions both within the HR function and other functional and leadership roles both inside their company and across industries and employers. In a 2011 survey of top HR leaders, roughly two-thirds of CHROs indicated they worked outside HR at some time in their career. There is also significant movement between companies with only 36% of US CHROs gaining their position through internal promotion. In terms of HR experience, one survey indicated that the most common area of functional experience for CHROs is talent management; the next most common experience is compensation and benefits, followed by organizational culture. Current CHROs have had broader functional experience in HR than their predecessors and are less likely to have had experience in labor relations than past CHROs.\n\nTwo recently published books about the CHRO profession, \"The Talent Masters: Why Smart Leaders Put People Before Numbers\", by Bill Conaty and Ram Charan; and \"The Chief Human Resource Officer, Defining the Role of Human Resource Leaders\" by Pat Wright, offer insights into the profession from its leading practitioners.\n\nThe perennial top priority for CHROs is talent management. In \"The Chief Human Resource Officer, Defining the Role of Human Resource Leaders\", Eva Sage-Gavin, former CHRO for the Gap emphasizes this point saying, \"... at the end of the day, you and your team are the experts at talent management and must be able to understand and identify good versus great talent… Identifying critical positions, the great attributes needed to fill them, and prioritizing recruiting strategies accordingly was the key to success, whether I was working with engineers, apparel designers, or international operations management.\" Kevin Cox, CHRO for American Express, argues that \"Great CHROs (and great CEOs) understand that talent needs to be developed in thoughtful, but not incremental, ways. Getting the balance right between ‘stretch’ and ‘in over her head’ isn’t easy, but it is vital to the success of a world-class talent strategy.\"\n\nThe CHRO helps the company build sustainable competitive advantage through the selection and development of top talent that possess capabilities that help differentiate the company from its competitors. Conaty and Charan emphasize this point in \"Talent Masters\" by noting that “Only one competency lasts. It is the ability to create a steady, self-renewing stream of leaders. Money is just a commodity. Talent supplies the edge. We can’t put it any better than Ron Nersesian, the head of Agilent Technologies’ Electronic Measurement Group: ‘Developing people’s talent is the whole of the company at the end of the day. Our products all are time- perishable. The only thing that stays is the institutional learning and the development of the skills and the capabilities that we have in our people.’”\n\nOther leading CHROs emphasize additional aspects of HR leadership, such as delivering results with a global team – a major challenge identified by Hugh Mitchell, CHRO for Royal Dutch Shell – and developing and communicating an employee value proposition that will differentiate the company in its efforts to attract and retain the caliber of talent needed to achieve its business objectives, as emphasized by Michael Davis, former CHRO for General Mills.\n"}
{"id": "50421011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50421011", "title": "Clock Software", "text": "Clock Software\n\nClock Software is a private limited company developing software and hardware solutions for the hospitality industry - property management system, restaurant point of sale, online booking engine, channel manager, self-service kiosk, mobile hotel app. Its headquarters is in London, UK.\n\nClock Software was incorporated in 1994 in Varna, Bulgaria, under the name Clock Ltd (Клок ООД). Initially, the company specialized in selling hardware and peripherals but soon switched its focus to the development of hotel software. In 1996 Clock launched their first property management system - ClockFront for Windows. At the time, a huge privatisation was going on as part of the transition of the country to democracy and market economy. All hotels, previously owned by the state, were changing ownership and needed new software to replace previous, often centralised, management systems. Clock Software took the chance to offer their software to the newly privatised hotels.\n\nIn 2006 Clock Software started to expand to countries outside Bulgaria and opened offices in Romania (2007) and Croatia (2008). The first markets where their products were adopted were Romania, Macedonia and Croatia.\n\nIn 2010 Clock took the decision to create a completely new hospitality software suite based on cloud technology. The new product was built around the idea of consolidation of separate applications into one cloud-based platform and switching from data-focused to guest-centered software model. A new branch was registered in London, UK under the name of Clock Software Ltd. to take over the international development and the distribution of the cloud-based software products, while the Bulgarian branch remained in charge of software development and support.\nClock Software launched their first cloud product, the free Internet reservation system InnHand, in 2012. In 2013 they launched the hotel management platform Clock PMS. A year later InnHand was discontinued and the company focused entirely on the new system. In 2016, the company released their first hardware device, a self-service kiosk.\n\nIts Windows-based installable software solutions Clock Software offers in Eastern Europe, while the latest cloud-based hotel management platform, Clock PMS, is available globally. Clock PMS has customers in 50+ countries (as of end of 2016) with Lark Hotels and McMillan Hotels among them. In 2015 Clock PMS was featured in the annual report by Software Advice \"Hotel Software User View report - 2015\" and in 2016 Clock Software was included in the Grant Thornton's report \"Emerging clouds in hotel technology | Spotlight on cloud-based PMS\" \n\nClock PMS is a property management system delivered as SaaS. It is hosted on Amazon Web Services (AWS) and is a certified partner of various third party providers: payment gateways - PayPal, Authorize.Net, Worldpay, Adyen; channel managers - RoomCloud and Yield Planet; door lock systems - ASSA ABLOY, hotel meta search websites - TripConnect by Tripadvisor\n\nClock PMS is a cloud based suite of software solutions for hotels, chains, vacation rentals and other accommodation providers. It includes the following modules:\nClock EVO - Property management system for Windows\nClock POSitive - Point of Sale system for Windows\nClock Effect - Inventory management system for Windows\n\n"}
{"id": "48218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48218", "title": "Commodity", "text": "Commodity\n\nIn economics, a commodity is an economic good or service that has full or substantial fungibility: that is, the market treats instances of the good as equivalent or nearly so with no regard to who produced them. Most commodities are raw materials, basic resources, agricultural, or mining products, such as iron ore, sugar, or grains like rice and wheat. Commodities can also be mass-produced unspecialized products such as chemicals and computer memory.\n\nThe price of a commodity good is typically determined as a function of its market as a whole: well-established physical commodities have actively traded spot and derivative markets. The wide availability of commodities typically leads to smaller profit margins and diminishes the importance of factors (such as brand name) other than price.\nThe word \"commodity\" came into use in English in the 15th century, from the French \"commodité\", \"amenity, convenience\". Going further back, the French word derives from the Latin \"commoditas\", meaning \"suitability, convenience, advantage\". The Latin word \"commodus\" (from which English gets other words including \"commodious\" and \"accommodate\") meant variously \"appropriate\", \"proper measure, time, or condition\", and \"advantage, benefit\".\n\nIn economics, the term \"commodity\" is used specifically for economic goods or services that have full or partial but substantial fungibility; that is, the market treats their instances as equivalent or nearly so with no regard to who produced them. Karl Marx described this property as follows: \"From the taste of wheat, it is not possible to tell who produced it, a Russian serf, a French peasant or an English capitalist.\" Petroleum and copper are examples of commodity goods: their supply and demand are a part of one universal market.\n\nNon-commodity items such as stereo systems have many aspects of product differentiation, such as the brand, the user interface and the perceived quality. The demand for one type of stereo may be much larger than demand for another.\n\nThe price of a commodity good is typically determined as a function of its market as a whole. Well-established physical commodities have actively traded spot and derivative markets.\n\nSoft commodities are goods that are grown, such as wheat, or rice.\n\nHard commodities are mined. Examples include gold, helium, and oil.\n\nEnergy commodities include electricity, gas, coal and oil. Electricity has the particular characteristic that it is usually uneconomical to store, and must therefore be consumed as soon as it is processed.\n\nCommoditization occurs as a goods or services market loses differentiation across its supply base, often by the diffusion of the intellectual capital necessary to acquire or produce it efficiently. As such, goods that formerly carried premium margins for market participants have become commodities, such as generic pharmaceuticals and DRAM chips. An article in \"The New York Times\" cites multivitamin supplements as an example of commoditization; a 50 mg tablet of calcium is of equal value to a consumer no matter what company produces and markets it, and as such, multivitamins are now sold in bulk and are available at any supermarket with little brand differentiation. Following this trend, nanomaterials are emerging from carrying premium profit margins for market participants to a status of commodification.\n\nThere is a spectrum of commoditization, rather than a binary distinction of \"commodity versus differentiable product\". Few products have complete undifferentiability and hence fungibility; even electricity can be differentiated in the market based on its method of generation (e.g., fossil fuel, wind, solar), in markets where energy choice lets a buyer opt (and pay more) for renewable methods if desired. Many products' degree of commoditization depends on the buyer's mentality and means. For example, milk, eggs, and notebook paper are not differentiated by many customers; for them, the product is fungible and lowest price is the main decisive factor in the purchasing choice. Other customers take into consideration other factors besides price, such as environmental sustainability and animal welfare. To these customers, distinctions such as \"organic versus not\" or \"cage free versus not\" count toward differentiating brands of milk or eggs, and percentage of recycled content or Forest Stewardship Council certification count toward differentiating brands of notebook paper.\n\nThis is a list of companies trading globally in commodities, descending by size as of October 28, 2011.\n\n\nIn the original and simplified sense, commodities were things of value, of uniform quality, that were produced in large quantities by many different producers; the items from each different producer were considered equivalent. On a commodity exchange, it is the underlying standard stated in the contract that defines the commodity, not any quality inherent in a specific producer's product.\n\nCommodities exchanges include:\n\nMarkets for trading commodities can be very efficient, particularly if the division into pools matches demand segments. These markets will quickly respond to changes in supply and demand to find an equilibrium price and quantity. In addition, investors can gain passive exposure to the commodity markets through a commodity price index.\n\nIn order to diversify their investments and mitigate the risks associated with inflationary debasement of currencies, pension funds and sovereign wealth funds allocate capital to non-listed assets such as a commodities and commodity-related infrastructure.\n\nThe inventory of commodities, with low inventories typically leading to more volatile future prices and increasing the risk of a \"stockout\" (inventory exhaustion). According to economist theorists, companies receive a convenience yield by holding inventories of certain commodities. Data on inventories of commodities are not available from one common source, although data is available from various sources. Inventory data on 31 commodities was used in a 2006 study on the relationship between inventories and commodity futures risk premiums.\n\nIn classical political economy and especially in Karl Marx's critique of political economy, a commodity is an object or a good or service (\"product\" or \"activity\") produced by human labour. Objects are external to man. However, some objects attain \"use value\" to persons in this world, when they are found to be \"necessary, useful or pleasant in life,\" \"Use value\" makes an object \"an object of human wants,\" or is \"a means of subsistence in the widest sense.\"\n\nAs society developed, people found that they could trade goods and services for other goods and services. At this stage, these goods and services became \"commodities.\" Commodities are defined as objects which are offered for sale or are \"exchanged in a market.\" In the marketplace, where commodities are sold, \"use value\" is not helpful in facilitating the sale of commodities. Accordingly, in addition to having use value, commodities must have an \"exchange value\"—a value that could be expressed in the market.\n\nPrior to Marx, many economists debated as to what elements made up exchange value. Adam Smith maintained that exchange value was made up of rent, profit, labour and the costs of wear and tear on the instruments of husbandry. David Ricardo, a follower of Adam Smith, modified Smith's approach on this point by alleging that labour alone is the content of the exchange value of any good or service. While maintaining that all exchange value in commodities was derived directly from the hands of the people that made the commodity, Ricardo noted that only part of the exchange value of the commodity was paid to the worker who made the commodity. The other part of the value of this particular commodity was labour that was not paid to the worker—unpaid labour. This unpaid labour was retained by the owner of the means of production. In capitalist society, the capitalist owns the means of production and therefore the unpaid labour is retained by the capitalist as rent or as profit. The means of production means the site where the commodity is made, the raw products that are used in the production and the instruments or machines that are used for the production of the commodity.\n\nHowever, not all commodities are reproducible nor were all commodities originally intended to be sold in the market. These priced goods are also treated as commodities, e.g. human labour-power, works of art and natural resources (\"earth itself is an instrument of labour\"), even though they may not be produced specifically for the market, or be non-reproducible goods.\n\nMarx's analysis of the commodity is intended to help solve the problem of what establishes the economic value of goods, using the labor theory of value. This problem was extensively debated by Adam Smith, David Ricardo and Karl Rodbertus-Jagetzow among others.\n\nAll three of the above-mentioned economists rejected the theory that labour composed 100% of the exchange value of any commodity. In varying degrees, these economists turned to supply and demand to establish the price of commodities. Marx held that the \"price\" and the \"value\" of a commodity were not synonymous. Price of any commodity would vary according to the imbalance of supply to demand at any one period of time. The \"value\" of the same commodity would be consistent and would reflect the amount of labour value used to produce that commodity.\n\nPrior to Marx, economists noted that the problem with using the \"quantity of labour\" to establish the value of commodities was that the time spent by an unskilled worker would be longer than the time spent on the same commodity by a skilled worker. Thus, under this analysis, the commodity produced by an unskilled worker would be more valuable than the same commodity produced by the skilled worker. Marx pointed out, however, that in society at large, an average amount of time that was necessary to produce the commodity would arise. This average time necessary to produce the commodity Marx called the \"socially necessary labour time\" Socially necessary labour time was the proper basis on which to base the \"exchange value\" of a given commodity.\n\nValue and price are not equivalent terms in economics, and theorising the specific relationship of value to market price has been a challenge for both liberal and Marxist economists. However, Marx held that the value and price of any commodity would coincide only when demand and supply were equivalent to each other.\n\n"}
{"id": "11448416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11448416", "title": "Community association manager", "text": "Community association manager\n\nA community association manager is a manager of a condominium or homeowners association (including single-family home subdivisions, townhouses, or mixed-use development). The position is frequently confused with a property manager, who deals with individual rental units or a group of rental units, like an apartment complex. The community manager deals with property owners and homeowners.\n\nPeople with this position are also sometimes called community managers, which is distinct from online community managers.\n\nOn-site manager: This type of manager works in the community which he or she manages.\n\nPortfolio manager: This type of community manager oversees several communities and is often paid on a commission basis.\n\nLarge-scale manager: Typically, large scale managers are also on-site managers. The Community Associations Institute offers certification for Large-scale managers and notes the following description: This designation allows a professional holding the PCAM (Professional Community Association Manager) designation to specialize in issues facing larger community associations. To be considered for this designation, the candidate must already be a manager of a large-scale community of over 1200 units, and a budget of at least $1.5m.\n\nThe state of Florida requires community association managers to hold a license. Performing duties as a CAM without a license is a violation of Florida Statutes. \n\nA link to the Department of Professional and Business Regulation, as well as a Frequently Asked Question PDF file, is included in the Reference section below.\n\nOrganizations like the Community Associations Institute offer rigorous courses for professional managers to obtain their certification. The Community Association Managers International Certification Board's (CAMICB) (A different organization) provides internationally accredited certifications. Some common certifications include Certified Manager of Community Associations (CMCA) offered through the CAMICB, Association Management Specialist (AMS), and Professional Community Association Manager (PCAM). Being able to find a professional management company is an important task for many board members.\n\nFlorida Specific Resource: Department of Business and Professional Regulation (DBPR) \nhttp://www.myfloridalicense.com/dbpr/pro/cam/\n\nFlorida \"CAM\" FAQ page (PDF): http://www.myfloridalicense.com/dbpr/pro/cam/documents/cam_faq.pdf\n"}
{"id": "49840402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49840402", "title": "Community contribution company", "text": "Community contribution company\n\nThe community contribution company is of corporate structure set up in 2012 in British Columbia, Canada. It is intermediate between a commercial, for-profit, model, and the charitable, non-profit organisation. Traditionally, non-profit organizations either depend a combination of government funding, philanthropy, and earned income. This corporate model was set up to help build earned income to secure long-term growth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49791445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49791445", "title": "Contract management software", "text": "Contract management software\n\nContract management software is the range of computer programmes, libraries and data used to support contract management, contract lifecycle management, and contractor management on projects. It may be used with project management software.\n\nMost sophisticated projects involving contractors now use contract management software instead of relying on the manual management of paper contracts. It has become an essential tool for keeping track of multiple activities with cost implications, and can be especially helpful for automating administration, ensuring compliance, monitoring risk, running reports and triggering alerts. In addition to these types of features, contract management software systems provide a centralized repository for employees to quickly access all contracts worldwide in one place. Having contracts stored in multiple locations can delay and interrupt the contracting process.\n\nContract management software is produced by many companies, working on a range of scales and offering varying degrees of customizability. Basic functions should include the ability to store contract documents, track changes to contract documents, search documents for a particular criterion, send key date alerts and to report required aspects of the contract. Other functions include managing a new contract request, capturing related data, following a document through a review and approval process, and collecting digital signatures.\n\nContract management software may also be an aid to project portfolio management and spend analysis, and may also monitor KPIs. Leading contract management software provides contract visibility, monitoring, and compliance to automate and streamline the contract lifecycle process.\n\nA centralized repository provides a critical advantage allowing for all contract documents to be stored and within one location. Having contracts stored in multiple locations can delay and interrupt the contracting process.\n\nVery large enterprises, such as capital expenditure (capex) projects, involve multiple parties and high risk and uncertainty. They are unlike traditional operating contracts in that they are subject to shared deadlines in unique situations. As the complexity of these unique projects increases, the relationships between parties become more important. This requires contract management software, or contract risk management software (CRMS), to become more dynamic and responsive.\n\nThe terms of these capex contracts necessarily involve assumptions at the start of the process, and are likely to change over the lifetime of the project lifecycle. For this reason, CRMS must be capable of recording one single instance of agreed changes to contract terms, and incorporating these changes in an auditable and legally robust way. With multiple decision makers involved, CRMS should also make accountability more transparent and enable faster decisions about variation proposals.\n\nwww.comforce.co - comforce® Contract Lifecycle Management System (Software de Administración y Gestión de Contratos y Proveedores\n"}
{"id": "6074982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6074982", "title": "Corporate sourcing", "text": "Corporate sourcing\n\nCorporate sourcing refers to a system where divisions of companies coordinate the procurement and distribution of materials, parts, equipment, and supplies for the organization. This is a supply chain, purchasing/procurement, and inventory function. This enables bulk discounting, auditing, and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance.\n\nDuties of a corporate sourcing agent include:\n\nSome of corporate sourcing agents:\nRichman Chemical, Onetouch, Worldwide Brands, SAOS\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4844867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4844867", "title": "Custom house", "text": "Custom house\n\nA custom house or customs house was a building housing the offices for the government officials who processed the paperwork associated with importing and exporting goods into and out of a country. Customs officials also collected customs duty on imported goods.\n\nThe custom house was typically located in a seaport or in a city on a major river, with access to the ocean. These cities acted as a port of entry into a country. The government stationed officials at such locations to collect taxes and regulate commerce.\n\nDue to advances in electronic information systems, the increased volume of international trade, and the introduction of air travel, the term \"custom house\" is now often an historical anachronism. There are many examples of buildings around the world that were formerly used as custom houses but have since been converted for other uses, such as museums or civic buildings.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, since 1386, the phrase \"custom house\" has been in use over the term \"customs house\". This was after a \"Custom House\" was erected at Wool Wharf in Tower Ward, to contain just the officials of the Great Custom on Wool and Woolfells. The singular form was used even though in later years the Custom House was the location of other Customs officials as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21255948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21255948", "title": "Data Discovery and Query Builder", "text": "Data Discovery and Query Builder\n\nData Discovery and Query Builder (DDQB) is a data abstraction technology, developed by IBM, that allows users to retrieve information from a data warehouse, in terms of the user's specific area of expertise instead of SQL.\n\nDDQB serves the user through a web based graphical user interface and configurable data abstraction model (DAM), which contains both an understanding of the user knowledge domain and the database below it.\n\nDDQB uses a set of Eclipse-based customization tooling and can be deployed as a set of Web Services.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33953744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33953744", "title": "Drink industry", "text": "Drink industry\n\nThe drink industry (also known as the beverage industry) produces drinks, in particular ready to drink products. Drink production can vary greatly depending on the product being made. ManufacturingDrinks.com explains that, \"bottling facilities differ in the types of bottling lines they operate and the types of products they can run\". Drinks may be canned or bottled (plastic or glass), hot-fill or cold-fill, and natural or conventional. Innovations in the drink industry, catalysed by requests for non-alcoholic drinks, include: drink plants, drink processing, and drink packing.\n\nThe largest global players in 2017 are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12840831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12840831", "title": "Electronic Case Filing System", "text": "Electronic Case Filing System\n\nElectronic Case Filing System (ECFS) is an automated system developed in Tarrant County, Texas that enables law enforcement agencies, criminal district attorney, county criminal courts, criminal district courts, and the defense bar to process and exchange information about criminal offenses. ECFS software does not work on the Apple Mac platform.\n\nECFS was conceived in November 2002 in Tarrant County, Texas. Initially, the purpose of the system was to enable law enforcement agencies to submit offense reports to the criminal district attorney's office for possible prosecution. In July 2003, the Criminal District Attorney's accepted the first electronic case filing via ECFS. Since that time, more than 100,000 cases have been filed in ECFS by the 47 Law Enforcement Agencies located in Tarrant County, Texas. ECFS was expanded in June 2004 to incorporate the Grand Jury function which is able to return Indictments to the Criminal District Courts on the same day that a True Bill is decided.\n\nIn January 2005, ECFS was extended to enable the Judges and their Court Staff to effectively manage the docket (case load) for each of the nine (9) Criminal District Courts. Since the implementation of ECFS, Tarrant County has been able to control the Jail population, despite a significant increase in the number of cases being filed. In August 2005, ECFS was extended to enable members of the Tarrant County Criminal Defense Lawyers Association to browse and view defendant, offense, and evidence via ECFS. Through this process, defense attorneys are no longer required to visit the Criminal District Attorney's Office to view and copy file.\n\nSince January 2006, the Criminal District Attorney's Office has been completely paperless and all Offense Reports are submitted via ECFS and made available to Law Enforcement Agencies, County and District Courts, and Defense Attorneys. In July 2006, ECFS was extended to allow criminal defendants to be masgistrated electronically. This process also allows the Office of Attorney appointments to be notified that the defendant has requested that defense counsel be appointed which triggers a business process that captures financial information, facilitates a determination of indigency, and when appropriate appoints defense counsel.\n\nIn 2005, the Tarrant County Criminal Defense Lawyer's Association, a non-profit charitable association, implemented its own software design to enable all attorney's, whether members of TCCDLA or not, to access the ECFS system. The software only works on PCs and will not work on Apple's Mac platform. The process enables an attorney to access his or her case files from any computer on the World Wide Web, and is secure and reliable. TCCDLA has continuously revised its software process to enable access 24-7, with little down time. TCCDLA also installed computers in the Tarrant County Justice Center that allow subscribers to access files while in the courthouse. Storm's Edge Technologies is the computer software company that exclusively provides support and design of the TCCDLA ECFS access system.\n\nCriminal District Attorney's Office:\n\n\nInformation technology:\n\n\nTarrant County Criminal Defense Lawyer's Association:\n\nStorm's Edge Technologies:\n\n"}
{"id": "12640130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12640130", "title": "Enterprise information management", "text": "Enterprise information management\n\nEnterprise information management (EIM) is a field of interest within information technology. It specializes in finding solutions for optimal use of information within organizations, for instance to support decision-making processes or day-to-day operations that require the availability of knowledge. It tries to overcome traditional IT-related barriers to managing information at an enterprise level.\n\nEIM combines enterprise content management (ECM), business process management (BPM), customer experience management (CEM), and business intelligence (BI). Whereas BI and ECM focus on the management of structured and unstructured information respectively, EIM does not make this distinction but approaches the management of information from the perspective of the whole enterprise..\n\n"}
{"id": "31055761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31055761", "title": "Enterprise planning system", "text": "Enterprise planning system\n\nAn enterprise planning system covers the methods of planning for the internal and external factors that affect an enterprise.\n\nThese factors generally fall under PESTLE. PESTLE refers to political, economic, social, technological, legal and environmental factors. Regularly addressing PESTLE factors falls under operations management. Meanwhile, addressing any event, opportunity or challenge in any one or many factors for the first time will involve project management.\n\nAs opposed to enterprise resource planning (ERP), enterprise planning systems have broader coverage. Enterprise planning systems address the resources that are available or \"not\" available to an enterprise and its ability to produce products or resources and/or provide services. It also considers those factors that will positively or negatively affect the firm's ability to run these actions.\n\nEnterprise planning systems will tend to vary and are flexible. These are due to the periodic and adaptive nature of strategy formation. These will also have tactical aspects. Typically, enterprise planning systems are part of a firm's knowledge base or corporate structure whether it formally identified and structured or simply executed these when the need appeared.\n\nAn enterprise planning system will address at least three basic purposes to help the enterprise: \n\nAn enterprise will plan for tactical moves for quick reaction to the PESTLE threats that affect its survival. For instance, right after Japan's Fukushima nuclear power plant has experienced explosions due to the earthquake and the tsunami that followed, several enterprises (within and outside Japan) have publicly announced their course of actions to address the emergency.\n\nMeanwhile, an enterprise will plan for longer term strategic actions to address its competition or improve its competitiveness. For instance, enterprises will plan for, set budgets, implement and use strategic information systems as “information systems or information technology investments can be a source of competitive advantage”.\n\nMost significantly, an enterprise will plan for using the PESTLE opportunities that are available to it. The profit and benefit motives justify most enterprise planning systems.\n\nA fourth noteworthy purpose for enterprise planning systems is preparedness against terrorist attacks. As noted in the US Presidential Directive for Critical infrastructure protection, terrorist groups are likely to attack commercial infrastructure for economic sabotage. Enterprises that are providing products or services that are critical to the economic system of a nation are potential targets of extremists.\n\nTwo major characteristics of EPSs are (1) variety and (2) flexibility. For instance, technological risks abound as even enterprise software are prone to obsolescence and disruptive innovations. Technology is not stagnant. Thus, variety and flexibility work to the advantage of a strategically adaptive or agile enterprise as PESTLE conditions change.\n\nTo illustrate this some more, ERP software prescribes processes to realize its promised benefits. However, compliance to these rigid, prescribed processes is often assumed rather than real. In many cases, the ERP software is accepted but the practices within the enterprise reflect inconsistencies with the prescribed processes of the software. In a sense, variety and flexibility in a standard ERP implementation will still manifest in many ways such as \"workarounds, shadow systems, various forms of unintended improvisations, and organizational 'drift'\" as the knowledge workers in the enterprise adapt to the realities of daily activities.\n\nWith changing real world conditions, at least three components can structure enterprise strategy. These are: \n\nFrameworks of analysis usually drive a firm's strategy. These enable the firm to cope with the actions of its competitors, demands of its consumers or clients, nature of its operating environments, effects of government regulations in the places where it does business, or opportunities that are available among other factors. Here, team planning is crucial. One group will normally specialize in one aspect like operations or government regulations. Managing the interrelation of PESTLE factors requires teamwork in the enterprise planning process.\n\nA sample framework for general analysis is the SWOT analysis. Another is the Balanced Scorecard for performance measurement analysis.\n\nEnterprise strategy can also refer to the mix of structured actions that address the political, economic, social, technological, legal and environmental factors that affect a business or firm. These structured actions can be local, transnational, global or combination of local, transnational or global. Hence, enterprises can have any of the following geographic strategies in their plans:\n\nMoreover, since management actions occur simultaneously in an enterprise, strategic planners can consider operations or project portfolio management (PPM) as crucial elements in an enterprise's strategic planning guide.\n\nFor instance, the need to have strategic priorities across many projects in companies with multiple product development projects have made executives borrow principles from investment portfolio management to better manage the distribution of resources compared with the assessed risks for each project.\n\nThus, PESTLE factors lead to strategy formation that will enable the enterprise to adapt to changing conditions. Meanwhile, the strategies that have been formed from the analytical framework processes of evaluating an enterprise's condition will lead to detailed plans which could be part of a firm's manual of operations or projects portfolio thrusts for funding and execution across the units or geographic coverage of the enterprise.\n\nEnterprise planning and budgeting go hand-in-hand as the wherewithal to execute plans will determine the success or failure of an enterprise strategy. In another light, expanding or limiting the budget for a particular operations aspect of the enterprise or an ongoing project in favor of another will signal changes to an enterprise's strategy. Hence, planning and budgeting are integral parts of any enterprise planning systems as these impact the strategic directions of the enterprise.\n\nFor instance, enterprise projects tend to be mutually dependent with other projects to leverage a firm's engineering, financial and technology resources. A market research project will trigger a research, development and engineering (RD&E) project for a new product. In turn, this RD&E project could trigger a production strategy project to manufacture the new product at the most efficient locations to bring it closer to its target consumers. Hence, cutting the RD&E project budget in half or increasing it twice will have profound effects in the long term direction of an enterprise as this will affect the other units of the firm undertaking projects that are linked to the RD&E project.\n\nEnterprise planning and budgeting can be generally classified into:\n\nCentralized. Headquarters or executive management directs all planning and budgets from the top then downwards in the organization hierarchy. It will closely follow Frederick Winslow Taylor's Principles of Scientific Management.\n\nDevolved. Middle managers set plans effectively steering the enterprise's strategic direction. Executive management takes into account that the enterprise has knowledge workers that are experts in their respective fields. The Management Board approves the proposed strategic direction under certain financial constraints such as expected returns on investment or equity.\n\nHybrid. Executive management determines and sets the strategic direction of the enterprise based on the inputs of middle managers and the rank and file. In this set up, plans and budgets are negotiated.\n\nEssentially, enterprise plans and budgets can be detailed in a top-down approach, generalized in a bottom-up approach, or combined in a top-down and bottom-up approach.\n\nEnterprise group planning will typically refer to the involvement of the major units of an enterprise such as the finance, marketing, production or technology departments. It can also refer to the involvement of the geographic units of a transnational or global firm. Some enterprises also involve external parties in their group planning where inputs from the crucial parts of the supply chain, cooperation and collaboration, or outsiders-looking-in are part of the firm's strategy.\n\nEnterprise group planning will usually manifest in regular board of directors' or management committee' meetings with varying frequencies such as monthly, quarterly or annually. Traditional meetings have required the physical presences of representatives from the various business units of the enterprise. With improvements in telecommunications, enterprise group planning can be conducted through video conferencing where participants may be dispersed geographically. However, video conferencing still appears to be an inadequate substitute when warm, interpersonal relations are part of the firm's culture.\n\nYet for fast-paced events like natural disasters or a meltdown of the financial markets that require immediate action from the enterprise, video conferencing might be the only option. Troubleshooting that requires the major resources of the enterprise will also entail enterprise group planning. Here, enterprise planning systems take a tactical form rather than a strategic focus to preserve the stability or ensure the survival of the enterprise.\n\nEnterprise transition plans will generally refer to change management-related actions in the case of mergers or in the implementation of an enterprise-wide project. The transition plan will cover the elimination of redundant functions in the case of a merger or the incorporation of new processes into business operations in the case of a technology project.\n\nEnterprise planning software will have varied or depth of coverage but will not essentially refer to enterprise resource planning software. This will include planning-centric software and the tools to support strategic and tactical planning for and across the enterprise, such as:\n\n"}
{"id": "2903105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2903105", "title": "Entrepreneurial network", "text": "Entrepreneurial network\n\nIn business, entrepreneurial networks are social organizations offering different types of resources to start or improve entrepreneurial projects. Having adequate human resources is a key factor for entrepreneurial achievements. Combined with leadership, the entrepreneurial network is a social network not only necessary to properly run the business or project, but also to differentiate the business from similar projects. \n\nThe goal of most entrepreneurial networks is to bring together a broad selection of professionals and resources that complement each other's endeavors. Initially, a priority is to aid successful business launches. Subsequently, to provide motivation, direction and increase access to opportunities and other skill sets. Promotion of each member's talents and services both within the network and out in the broader market increases opportunities for all participants.\n\nOne of the key needs of any startup is capital, and often entrepreneurial networks focus on providing such financial resources, particularly tailored to their membership demographic.\n\nEntrepreneurial networks may also become community involved, endorsing reforms, legislation or other municipal drives that accommodate their organization's goals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49107824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49107824", "title": "Epos Now", "text": "Epos Now\n\nEpos Now is a cloud-based software provider, specialising in the design and manufacture of electronic point of sale (commonly referred to as EPOS), which encompasses features including but not limited to reporting, stock control, and CRM for retail and hospitality businesses. Epos Now software can be operated from any device or platform with a web-browser or by using Epos Now's IOS or Android app.\n\nEpos Now's UK headquarters are located in Norwich, England and their US headquarters are in Orlando, Florida. Founded in June 2011, the company was a pioneer in cloud-technology in the EPOS industry and is notable for being the first EPOS company to introduce an AppStore to their customers, which allows users to customise their system. The Epos Now AppStore was introduced in December 2014. Epos Now's innovation was recognised in 2016, when the company won a Queen's Award for Enterprise, the UK's highest accolade for business success.\n\nEpos Now is the UK's 13th fastest growing private technology company, and the fastest growing EPOS company in the UK.\n\nEpos Now was founded by Jacyn Heavens in 2011 with no external investment. CEO and founder Jacyn Heavens identified a gap in the market for an affordable EPOS system whilst managing a bar, and after searching for an EPOS system that would be suitable for his business, he started building software that would suit business owners like himself. The Epos Now Appstore was officially launched in September 2015, making it the first Appstore to be released within the EPOS industry. There are over 20,000 businesses using Epos Now.\n\nIn 2015, Epos Now was awarded 'Epos Innovation of the Year' by Retail Systems, and was shortlisted for EDP Business Awards and Tech Cities 2015.\n\nIn 2016 Epos Now was shortlisted for the UK Cloud Awards in the \"Most Innovative SMB Product of the Year\" category and the Engagement & Loyalty Awards in the \"Most Innovative Technology\" category. Epos Now was also a finalist in 2016 The Grocer Gold Awards, for the \"Technology Supplier of the Year\" category.\n\nOn 21 April 2016 it was announced the Epos Now had won a Queen's Award for Enterprise in the Innovation category.\n\nEpos Now were named Gold Stevie Award winners for The International Business Awards as \"The Most Innovative company of the Year 2016\".\n\nEpos Now won three Eastern Daily Press Business Awards in 2016 in the categories of; Employer of the Year, Tech Innovator of the year and Business of the Year sponsored by Barclays. \n\nThe company made the Tech Track 100 three years running, being named the 13th and 32nd and 53rd fastest growing tech company in the UK and named 30th fastest growing company in 2016's Deloitte Fast 50 with a growth of 597%. Epos Now were named 179th fastest growing tech company in the Deloitte 2016 Fast 500 EMEA. Epos Now were named Europes 46th fastest growing company in the Financial Times 1000 listing.\n\nEpos Now were recognised for their commitment to the professional development of their employees winning a Princess Royal Training Award in 2017.\n\nEpos Now were noted as 'Best SaaS Product for small business/SMBs' in the 2017 SaaS Awards.\n"}
{"id": "49478368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49478368", "title": "First Isabela Cooperative Bank", "text": "First Isabela Cooperative Bank\n\nFirst Isabela Cooperative Bank, stylized as FICOBank, is a cooperative bank started in the mid-1970s. It is primarily engaged in financial intermediation between and among: farmers, fishers and their organizations; micro, small and medium entrepreneurs; rural, urban and overseas workers; and professionals, pensioners and other segments of the market. It also provides mobile-money, money-transfer/remittance and cash-dispensing services to the public. As of June 2018, FICOBank has 34 banking units located in the provinces of Isabela, Quirino, Nueva Vizcaya, Cagayan, Tarlac, Nueva Ecija, Bataan, Pampanga, Pangasinan and Bulacan.\n\nThe Philippine Cooperative Program of the ‘70s during the Marcos administration paved the way for the organization of cooperative banks in the country. A group of technocrats led by Dr. Orlando J. Sacay, the recognized father of the Philippine cooperative banking system, worked for the enactment of Presidential Decree 175, espousing the formation of economic institutions or cooperatives. Composed of small farmers, these cooperatives were primarily organized to look after their own interests.\n\nTo serve as foundation of the cooperative rural banks and area marketing cooperatives, \"samahang nayon\" (pre-cooperatives) were organized in the rural areas. Thus, the triangular approach to rural development—production (under the \"samahang nayon\"), credit (under a cooperative rural bank), and marketing (under an area marketing cooperative)—was put into operation. It was envisioned that there would be social equity, if these three vital functions of rural development will be placed in the hands of the farmers.\n\nIn 1973, the Regional Cooperative Development Program for Cagayan Valley (RCDP-CV) was launched to develop the farming communities of the region. With financial assistance from the Canadian International Development Agency, the program sought to: improve farm productivity; diversify agricultural production; increase household income; and install a system of cooperatives, as an indispensable support mechanism. The institution of the cooperative rural banking system, as a major component of the program, was in line with the recognition of the importance of rural finance for development.\n\nThe Bank was officially formed on September 10, 1976 . It was the time when the authorized representatives of two cooperatives and 47 \"samahang nayon\" unanimously agreed and voluntarily joined together to establish a cooperative rural bank in the province of Isabela. The primordial objective for its establishment was to provide financing to farmers and small entrepreneurs who have limited resources and access to banking services.\n\nOriginally, the Bank was registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), as First Isabela Cooperative Rural Bank Inc. (FICRBI). On February 14, 1979, it acquired its juridical personality through SEC’s stamp of approval and registration. It was re-registered with the Bureau of Cooperative Development of the Ministry of Local Government and Community Development (BCOD-MLGCD) on April 10, 1979, under Certificate of Registration No. FF-119. The Central Bank of the Philippines granted the Bank its Certificate of Authority, numbered B-1000, on December 21, 1979 to operate as a cooperative rural bank. As such, it is vested with the rights to exercise all authority and powers, to do and perform all acts and to transact all businesses, which may be legally done by rural banks under the Rural Banking Act, and to do all other things incident thereto, as may be determined by the Monetary Board of the Central Bank of the Philippines (now known as Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas).\n\nThe Bank was formally inaugurated on January 2, 1980. Being a cooperative bank, FICRBI (now FICOBank) is under the supervision of both the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) and the Cooperative Development Authority (CDA). The latter was created by the enactment of Republic Act 6939. Together with Republic Act 6938 or the 1990 Cooperative Code of the Philippines, they are known as the twin Cooperative Laws of the country. In compliance with the provisions of the said laws, FICOBank obtained CDA’s confirmation of its registration, as a cooperative bank. Its Certificate of Confirmation, numbered 661, was issued by CDA on March 11, 1991.\n\nAfter staying at the CAVADECO compound in Cauayan City, Isabela for about 15 years, FICOBank moved out and began its branching initiative to other parts of the province and its neighboring provinces in the region. In 1995, it opened its first branch in Roxas, Isabela. This was followed, in succession, by its branches in Alicia and Cauayan City, both in Isabela, in 1996. The Maddela Branch in Quirino province was opened in 1998. In the same year, its Jones Branch, also in Isabela, became its fifth branch. In 2003, its Cauayan Branch was transferred to Santiago City. A year later, the Bank’s Corporate Office—the nerve center of its operations—was inaugurated in its present location in Cauayan City, Isabela. A branch in Dupax del Sur, the first operating unit of the Bank in the province of Nueva Vizcaya, was also opened in the same year. It was later transferred to the municipality of Solano. FICOBank established its foothold in the whole region by opening its branch in Solana, Cagayan in 2005.\n\nFew years later, two field offices in Diffun, Quirino and Aurora, Isabela were opened, and two more branches in the municipalities of Paniqui and Concepcion in Tarlac were inaugurated. Field offices in San Mateo, Ilagan City, Echague, Tumauini and Cabagan—all in Isabela—and in Bambang, Nueva Vizcaya were opened, one after the other. The Bank also opened one branch each in the municipalities of Dinalupihan and Orani in Bataan and in Cabanatuan City in Nueva Ecija, all in Region III. \n\nIn 2009, FICOBank opened its five new branches, one in Cagayan and four in Pangasinan. The northernmost town of Aparri is the site of the new branch in Cagayan, while the municipalities of Umingan, Malasiqui, Lingayen and Mangaldan are the locations of the new branches of the Bank in the province of Pangasinan. The Orani Branch in Bataan was also transferred to Urdaneta City in Pangasinan in the same year. The Bank’s 27th operating unit was officially opened in Tuguegarao City in 2010. \n\nIts field offices were converted into extension offices, and all became full-fledged branches afterward. Its banking offices in Umingan (Pangasinan), Cabagan (Isabela) and Mangaldan (Pangasinan) were transferred to Guimba (Nueva Ecija), Gapan City (Nueva Ecija) and San Fernando City (Pampanga), respectively. Later on, five more branches were opened in Cauayan City (Isabela), Baliwag (Bulacan), and San Jose City, Rizal and Zaragoza (all in Nueva Ecija). In December 2017, the Bank inaugurated its 33rd banking unit in Abulug (Cagayan). And six (6) months later thereafter, FICOBank opened another branch in Cagayan, particularly in Gonzaga.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3691948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3691948", "title": "Geomarketing", "text": "Geomarketing\n\nIn marketing, geomarketing (also called marketing geography) is a discipline that uses geolocation (geographic information) in the process of planning and implementation of marketing activities. It can be used in any aspect of the marketing mix – the product, price, promotion, or place (geo targeting). Market segments can also correlate with location, and this can be useful in targeted marketing.\n\nGeomarketing isapplied in the financial sector through identifying ATMs traffic generators and creating hotspots maps based on geographical parameters integrated with customer behavior.\n\nGeomarketing has a direct impact on the development of modern trade and the reorganization of retail types. Site selection becomes automated and based on scientific procedures that saves both time and money. Geomarketing uses key facts, a good base map, Whois data layers, consumer profiling, and success/fail criteria.\n\nGPS tracking and GSM localization can be used to obtain the actual position of the travelling customer.\n\nGeolocation software is used to display data that can be linked to a geographic region or area. It can be used to:\n\nSome of the software used includes Geoconcept Sales&Marketing Portal, MapInfo, ArcGIS (ESRI), RegioGraph (GfK), WIGeoWeb (WIGeoGIS) assorted open source like Mapwindow, DIVA (which while normally used for bio-diversity creates very visually pleasing density maps), GRASS (which works in Linux and Windows environments) GeoEdge (tracking local ads and pages). Several other software are available. Indeed, Google Earth provides an excellent set of images that are always useful.\n\nLocation-based social media marketing uses geo-specific tools to draw imaginary perimeters that will display all of the social content posted by users in that particular area.\nA typical example for different web content by location is the FedEx website at FedEx.com where users have the choice to select their country geo —location first and are then presented with different site or article content depending on their selection.\n\nIndividuals can deliver different content in internet marketing, through paid or organic search results, based on the geographical geolocation of the targeted audiences.\n\n\nWe can define the geo-marketing as a strategy and mechanism that provides valuable information that helps in the process of making business decisions using geographical information. The functions of this to search and evaluate marketing opportunities, analyzing geographical information such as location residential areas, topography, it also analyzes demographic information such as age, genre, annual income and lifestyle. This information can be segmented as primary data and sub-segmented as secondary data; in addition, it helps us to develop successful promotional campaigns achieving our marketing goals. This also works with retail chain stores in the sales industry, real estate, and renewable energy, among others.\n\nWith geomarketing, the general data of a company changes to be more specific regarding their customers and market trends. This allows companies to use secondary data wisely, providing excellent results at low cost compared with traditional market research methods. All data is acquired accurately with GPS equipment and geographical information software, once the data is acquired, this information is processed by professionals in the field.\n\nGeomarketing has helped companies to acquire valuable information such as transit behaviors, most visited places or areas, etc., this information will help these companies to deliver the right message (or promotion), at the right time and place. Most companies use their mobile apps to obtain this information. Mobile apps became more sophisticated using GPS, Bluetooth, and also social networks to obtain their market information, this information helps to improve their promotional campaigns. According to comScore, about 60 percent of all Internet activities in the U.S. originates from mobile devices and about half of total Internet traffic flows through mobile apps.\n\nOne example of Geo Location is Google Maps - you can search in Google Maps Restaurants near me and it will show different options around your location. One important factor that companies (in this case restaurants) is that they must be sure to optimize their business in Google's directory list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50736890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50736890", "title": "Ghosting (employer)", "text": "Ghosting (employer)\n\nGhosting is the act in which a person interviews for a job and is led on that they may have a chance in getting the job, then no acknowledgement of the position being filled is ever conveyed to the interviewee.\n\n"}
{"id": "42363103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42363103", "title": "GoodData", "text": "GoodData\n\nGoodData is a software company headquartered in San Francisco, United States. The company markets business intelligence (BI) and big data analytics software for cloud computing.\n\nGoodData was founded in 2007 by Czech entrepreneur Roman Stanek. Stanek had previously founded and served as CEO at NetBeans, which was acquired by Sun Microsystems in 1999, as well as Systinet Corporation, which was acquired by Hewlett Packard in 2006. The company was founded in April 2007 as \"Good Data Corporation\" in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\nIt received investment in July 2008 from Tim O'Reilly, Esther Dyson, and private equity firm Windcrest Partners for a total sum of $2 million. In 2009, the company received funding from Andreessen Horowitz, O'Reilly AlphaTech Ventures, General Catalyst Partners, and Windcrest Partners across two rounds totaling $5 million. Funding continued with in 2010, 2011, 2012, and in late 2012, bringing its capital raised to $53.5 million. The company announced $22 million in funding led by TOTVS Ventures in 2013. As of March 2014, the company had 291 employees. In 2014, GoodData said it provided software to 30,000 companies.\n\nGoodData is a business intelligence platform as a service that combines an organization's internal and/or external data (both structured and unstructured) to monetize data. In March 2014, GoodData used the marketing term \"Open Analytics Platform\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33066054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33066054", "title": "Granvia l'Hospitalet", "text": "Granvia l'Hospitalet\n\nGranvia l'Hospitalet or Granvia l'H is a district (\"Districte VII\") in the municipality of L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, a south-western suburb of the Barcelona metropolitan area.\n\nPart of Granvia L'H is part of Gran Via business center of Barcelona and directly Fira de Barcelona, second largest trade fair and exhibition centres in Europe.\n\nThe Granvia area is served by line 8 of the Barcelona Metro and FGC commuter train network, at the Europa-Fira station, and also by the bus line 79.\n"}
{"id": "26186226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26186226", "title": "IAS 7", "text": "IAS 7\n\nInternational Accounting Standard 7: Statement of Cash Flows or IAS 7 is an accounting standard that establishes standards for cash flow reporting used in International Financial Reporting Standards.\n\nA statement of cash flows for the periods, is an integral \"Component of financial statements\" as per IAS 1 — Presentation of Financial Statements.\n\nIAS 7 was reissued in December 1992, retitled in September 2007, and is operative for financial statements covering periods beginning on or after 1 January 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "401433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401433", "title": "Index of articles related to the theory of constraints", "text": "Index of articles related to the theory of constraints\n\nThis is a list of topics related to the Theory of Constraints.\n\nBottleneck (Bn) \nThis is a resource that has just enough capacity or less capacity than is needed to satisfy the demand placed upon it. Bottlenecks may need to be taken into account when scheduling.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36986491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36986491", "title": "Kiss up kick down", "text": "Kiss up kick down\n\nKiss up kick down (or suck up kick down) is a neologism used to describe the situation where middle level employees in an organization are polite and flattering to superiors but abusive to subordinates. It is believed to have originated in the US, with the first documented use having occurred in 1993. The concept can be applied to any social interaction where one person believes they have power over another person and believes that another person has power over them.\n\nThe \"Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists\" described Robert McNamara, an American business executive and the eighth United States Secretary of Defense, as a classic case of the \"kiss up, kick down\" personality in August 1993.\n\nOn day 2 of the Senate confirmation hearings, April 12, 2005, for John R. Bolton, a Bush nomination for the US representative to the UN, the Senate panel focused on allegations that Bolton pressured intelligence analysts. Former State Department intelligence chief Carl W. Ford Jr. characterized Bolton as a \"\"kiss-up, kick-down\" sort of guy\", implying that he was always ready to please whoever had authority over him, while having very little regard for people working under him.\n\nCalum Paton, Professor of Health Policy at Keele University, describes \"kiss up kick down\" as a prevalent feature of the UK National Health Service culture. He raised this point when giving evidence at the Stafford Hospital scandal public inquiry. Credit is centralised and blame devolved. \"\"Kiss up kick down\" means that your middle level people will \"kiss-up\", they will please their masters, political or otherwise, and they will \"kick down\" to blame somebody else when things go wrong.\"\nFor example, NHS Trust bosses are nervous of reporting deficits and seek to under-report until it's too late. They seek to please their political superiors in the short term and shift blame down the line.\n\nSome systems theorists and management consultants, such as Gerald Weinberg, see the flow of blame in an organization as one of the most important indicators of that organization's robustness and integrity. Blame flowing downwards, from management to staff, or laterally between professionals, indicates organizational failure. In a blame culture, problem-solving is replaced by blame-avoidance. Weinberg emphasizes that blame coming from the top generates \"fear, malaise, errors, accidents, and passive-aggressive responses from the bottom\", with those at the bottom feeling powerless and lacking emotional safety.\n\n\"Kick up kiss-down\" has been suggested as a viable more healthy dynamic. Blame flowing upwards in a hierarchy, Weinberg argues, proves that superiors can take responsibility for their orders to their inferiors, and supply them with the resources required to do their jobs.\n\nThe workplace bully is often expert at knowing how to work the system. They can spout all the current management buzzwords about supportive management but basically use it as a cover. By keeping their abusive behavior hidden, any charges made by individuals about his or her bullying will always come down to your word against the bully's. They may have a \"kiss up kick down\" personality, wherein they are always highly cooperative, respectful, and caring when talking to upper management but the opposite when it comes to their relationship with those whom they supervise. Bullies tend to ingratiate themselves to their bosses while intimidating subordinates. The bully may be socially popular with others in management, including those who will determine\nthe bully's fate. Often, a workplace bully will have mastered \"kiss up kick down\" tactics that hide their abusive side from superiors who review their performance.\n\nAs a consequence of this \"kiss up kick down\" strategy: \n\n"}
{"id": "35866166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35866166", "title": "List of Airbus A220 orders and deliveries", "text": "List of Airbus A220 orders and deliveries\n\nThis article lists firm orders and deliveries for the Airbus A220 family of aircraft (formerly known as Bombardier CSeries), currently in production by CSALP (C Series Aircraft Limited Partnership), a partnership between Airbus, Bombardier Inc. and the Government of Québec.\n\n\nIn December 2009, United Airlines expressed interest in using the CS100 and CS300 for replacing its aging 737–300 and 737-500 aircraft, however a future order is unlikely as airline has made orders for the Airbus A319-100 and the Boeing 737-800.\n\nIn March 2010, easyJet stated that the company was having \"ongoing discussions with Bombardier regarding its CSeries. But the airline has since ordered the Airbus A320-200 and A320neo.\n\nIn March 2018, it was stated that Garuda Indonesia wanted to order the CS300 as a replacement for the Bombardier CRJ-1000.\n\n\nThe carrier, in June 2015, converted 10 of the CS100 on order to CS300 frames for delivery in 2017. 5 more CS100 aircraft were converted to CS300 in June 2016. The remaining 5 CS100 were convertible to the larger variant within the end of 2016; Swiss announced with their 2016 financial results in March 2017 that they finalized the conversion.\nThe firm order signed by this undisclosed airline was terminated due to financial difficulties of the customer and removed from the backlog during the first quarter of 2013.\nThis order was originally announced as signed by an undisclosed airline, reported as a major network carrier. It was disclosed in June 2013 that the airline was Gulf Air. It was at first announced as the first operator of the CS100 aircraft, however, Gulf Air deferred their deliveries until 2018, as part of its restructuring plan. As a result, Braathens Regional Aviation was to be the first airline to receive the CS100, but declined the role due to the program's delays.\nThe contract signed by this new startup airline was originally announced as firmed by an undisclosed European airline. Media sources initially reported the customer as \"Odyssey Airlines\". Bombardier revealed the identity of this customer during the 2013 Paris Air Show (June 17–23). At the end of March 2014, Odyssey CEO revealed that the CS100 the airline has on order would be delivered during 2016.\nThe lessor was originally disclosed as an unnamed customer. On October 18, 2013, Bombardier announced that CDB Leasing was the company that signed this conditional order and contextually added 15 options to the previous deal.\nThe airline was previously identified as an undisclosed airline in the Americas.\nPorter Airlines specified that the two conditions that would have led to a firm contract would have been the approval by the Government of Canada, the city of Toronto and the Toronto Port Authority of an amendment to the Tripartite Agreement, that bans jet aircraft from operating into Billy Bishop Toronto City Airport (Toronto Island) and a runway extension of on each end of the runway. The Government of Canada refused to open the agreement.\nairBaltic signed a top up firm order at the Singapore Airshow in February 2014 and initially requested to remain unidentified. According to numbers provided by Bombardier, this order consisted of converted options. On July 14, 2014, Bombardier revealed the top up order came from airBaltic.\nThis order by was included in Bombardier's Q1 2014 Financial Report but not officially announced by a Press Release until the 2014 Farnborough Airshow in July.\nThis airline, which asked to remain unidentified at the time, is an existing Bombardier customer based in Africa.\nFlightglobal reported that this top-up order came from existing customer Ilyushin Finance Co. The lessor's website also reports a total of 39 CS300 on order.\nDuring the second quarter of 2016, following bankruptcy proceedings of Republic Airways Holdings, Bombardier removed Republic's order from its production plan, despite retaining it on the backlog.\nDue to the economic situation in Russia, IFC revisited its order for 32 CS300 aircraft plus 10 option to 20 CS300 aircraft plus additional Bombardier Q400 aircraft.\nOn 17 June 2015 at the Paris Airshow, airBaltic confirmed it will be the launch operator of the CS300 in the fourth quarter of 2016. The airline received its first CS300 at the end of November 2016, commencing CSeries operations on the 14th December 2016.\nIn March 2017, Braathens Regional Aviation announced it would postpone all of its orders for the CSeries indefinitely after a new Swedish ticket tax was proposed which is expected to decrease passenger demand. Upon releasing of the second quarted financial result from Bombardier, the total order from Braathens Leasing is now consisting uniquely of CS100 aircraft, signifying a conversion by the customer completed during the quarter.\nDuring the first quarter results conference, Bombardier announced that Ilyushin Finance had reassigned 6 of their CS300 on order to GTLK State Transport Leasing Co., to be leased to Red Wings Airlines and operated in cooperation with Nordavia.\nIn June 2018 several news outlets have reported that a new start-up by David Neeleman, tentatively named Moxy Airways, was to order 60 CS300 aircraft to start operations in 2020. During the 2018 Farnbourough airshow, a consortium of investors signed a commitment with Airbus, with deliveries starting in 2021, although they dismissed the usage of Moxy in the name as that would be in conflict with the samely-named Moxy Hotels by Marriott International.\n\n"}
{"id": "1690376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1690376", "title": "List of legal entity types by country", "text": "List of legal entity types by country\n\nA business entity is an entity that is formed and administered as per corporate law in order to engage in business activities, charitable work, or other activities allowable. Most often, business entities are formed to sell a product or a service. There are many types of business entities defined in the legal systems of various countries. These include corporations, cooperatives, partnerships, sole traders, limited liability companies and other specifically permitted and labelled types of entities. The specific rules vary by country and by state or province. Some of these types are listed below, by country. For guidance, approximate equivalents in the company law of English-speaking countries are given in most cases, for example:\n\nHowever, the regulations governing particular types of entities, even those described as roughly equivalent, differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. When creating or restructuring a business, the legal responsibilities will depend on the type of business entity chosen.\n\n\n\n\n\nDutch, French or German names may be used.\n\n\n\n\nThere are three main types of business entity in Brunei, namely sole proprietorship, partnership and company.\n\nA private company contains the term \"Sendirian Berhad\" or \"Sdn. Bhd.\" as part of its name where as for a public company \"Berhad\" or \"Bhd.\" is used.\n\n\n\nIn Canada entities can be incorporated under either federal or provincial (or territorial) law. Unlimited liability corporations can be formed in Alberta \"AULC\" and Nova Scotia \"NSULC\".\n\nThe word or expression \"Limited\", \"Limitée\", \"Incorporated\", \"Incorporée\", \"Corporation\" or \"Société par actions de régime fédéral\" or the corresponding abbreviation \"Ltd.\", \"Ltée\", \"Inc.\", \"Corp.\" or \"S.A.R.F.\" forms part of the name of every entity incorporated under the Canada Business Corporations Act (R.S., 1985, c. C-44). ≈ Ltd. or Plc (UK)\n\nAs an exception, entities registered prior to 1985 may continue to be designated \"Société commerciale canadienne\" or by the abbreviation \"S.C.C.\"\n\nUnder the Canada Cooperatives Act (1998, c. 1), a co-operative must have the word \"cooperative\", \"co-operative\", \"coop\", \"co-op\", \"coopérative\", \"united\" or \"pool\", or another grammatical form of any of those words, as part of its name.\n\nUnlike in many other Western countries, Canadian businesses generally only have one form of incorporation available. The aforementioned AULC and NSULC are generally not used as operating business structures, but are instead used to create favorable tax positions for either Americans investing in Canada or vice versa.\n\nRather, Canadian businesses are generally formed under one of the following structures:\n\n\n\n\n\nTypes of legal person business entities:\n\n\nTypes of natural person business entities:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAn SE or SCE may be created by registration in any of the EU/EEA Member States, and is subject to the European Company Statute. It may relocate its registered office to any other EU/EEA Member State with minimal formalities.\n\n\nThe abbreviations are usually in Finnish, but Swedish names may also be used either as is or in combination with Finnish, e.g. \"Oy Yritys Ab\".\n\nIn the corporations of real estate law, the ownership or membership may be vested either in the real property or in a legal or natural person, depending on the corporation type. In many cases, the membership or ownership of such corporation is obligatory for a person or property that fulfils the legal requirements for membership or wishes to engage in certain activities.\n\nIn addition to native types, European Union types are implemented:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn Hungary, business entities are mainly regulated by the Companies Act of 2006, the Companies Registration Act of 2006 and the new Civil Code of 2013. All companies are required to indicate their type in their name.\n\n\n\n\nSituation in Ireland is similar to United Kingdom below, though without the class \"Community Interest Company\". There were two forms of Company Limited by Guarantee, but only the form \"without a share capital\" is now used. Irish names may also be used, such as \"cpt\" (cuideachta phoibli theoranta) for plc, and \"Teo\" (Teoranta) for Ltd.\n\n\n\nBusiness corporations are referred to as \"kaisha\" (会社) and are formed under the Companies Act of 2005. There are currently (2015) 4 types and each of them has legal personality:\nPartnerships are referred to as \"kumiai\" (組合). Each of these 4 types has no legal personality though other corporations, which include \"kumiai\" in their name, have:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNote: Any of these entities can be incorporated as a \"Capital Variable\" entity, in which case has to add the \" de C.V.\" sufix to its company name. Example: \"S.A. de C.V.\", \"S. de R.L. de C.V.\"\n\n\n\none of above mentioned form (Preduzetnik; O.D.; K.D.; A.D.; D.O.O.), as such it is registered in the Central Register of Companies. This form is a little bit specific and was created for companies that are domiciled registered in other countries and have its part in Montenegro.\n\n\n\n\n\nCompanies are registered on the Companies Register and with a regional Chamber of Commerce.\n\n\nThe Commercial Code establishes the following types of companies:\n\n\n\n\nThere are three main forms of business:\n\n(a) Sole Proprietorship\n(b) Partnership\n(c) Company\n\n\nIn a sole proprietorship, an individual on his/her own account carries out the business or profession. No formal procedure or formality is required for setting up a sole proprietary concern.\n\n\nA partnership is a business relationship entered into by a formal agreement between two or more persons or corporations carrying on a business in common. The capital for a partnership is provided by the partners who are liable for the total debts of the firms and who share the profits and losses of the business concern according to the terms of the partnership agreement.\n\nPartnerships (other than banking companies) are generally limited in size to twenty partners. The interest of a partner is transferable only with the prior consent of the other partner(s). However, a partner's right to a share of the partnership income may be received in trust for another person.\n\nFor taxation purposes, partnerships are classified into:\n\n(i) Registered Firms\n(ii) Unregistered Firms\n\nThe income of the registered firm is subject to Super Tax before distribution to the partners. Also the individual income of the partners is subject to income tax at the usual rates.\n\nFor unregistered firms, income tax is levied on the firm's income and the partners are not liable to pay tax on the shares of profit received from the unregistered firm(s).\n\n\nA company is a legal entity formed under the Companies Ordinance, 1984. It can have share capital or can be formed without share capital.\n\nA company having share capital may be formed as:\n\n(i) A company limited by shares.\n(ii) A company limited by guarantee.\n(iii) An unlimited company.\n\n\nThe liability of its members is limited to the extent of their shares in the paid-up capital of the company. These companies may further be classified as public limited and private limited companies.\n\n\n(i) Restricts the right to transfer its shares;\n(ii) Limits the number of its members to fifty; and;\n(iii) Prohibits any invitation to the public to subscribe for shares or debentures of the company.\n\nA private limited company is required to use the words \"(Private) Limited\" as the last words of its name.\n\n\nMeans a company having the liability of its members limited by memorandum to such amounts as the members may respectively undertake to contribute to the capital of the company in the event of its winding up. A company limited by guarantee is usually formed on a 'non profit basis'. Companies limited by guarantee use the words (Guarantee) Limited\" as the last words of their n\nUnlimited Company\n\nMeans a company having unlimited liability of its members\n\nhttps://www.secp.gov.pk\n\n\n\nOlder forms (now rarely used)\n\n\n\n\"Societăți comerciale\", abbreviated SC (Companies):\n\nlimited liability company \"societate cu raspundere limitata\" (SRL);\njoint stock company \"societate pe actiuni\" (SA);\n\n\n\n\nPrivate Limited Company, Sole Proprietorship and Partnership are the predominant types of business found in Singapore.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAccording to Code of Obligations (fifth book of Civil Code) (Act No: 6098)\n\nAccording to the Commercial Code (Act No: 6102)\n\nŞahıs şirketleri ≈ Partnerships (Unlike the partnerships in Anglo-American law, they also have legal personality like companies)\n\nSermaye şirketleri ≈ Companies\n\nAccording to the Capital Markets Act (Act No: 6362)\n\nAccording to the Cooperatives Act (Act No: 1136)\n\nOther entitites:\n\n\n\nCompany formation is regulated by the Ukrainian Civil Code and Commercial Code, Law of Commercial companies, Law of stock companies, law and order.\n\n\nIn the United States, the individual states incorporate most businesses. Very few special types are incorporated by the federal government.\n\nFor federal tax purposes, the Internal Revenue Service has separate entity classification rules. Under the tax rules, an entity may be classified as a corporation, a partnership, a Cooperative or a disregarded entity. A corporation may be taxed as either a C corporation or elect to be treated as a Subchapter S corporation. A disregarded entity has one owner (or a married couple as owner) that is not recognized for tax purposes as an entity separate from its owner. Types of disregarded entities include single-member LLCs; qualified sub-chapter S subsidiaries and qualified real estate investment trust subsidiaries. A disregarded entity's transparent tax status does not affect its status under state law. For example, for federal tax purposes, a sole-member LLC (SMLLC) is disregarded, so that all its assets and liabilities are treated as owned by its single member. But under state law, an SMLLC can contract in its own name and its owner is generally not personally liable for the debts and obligations of the entity. To be recognized as a Cooperative for tax purposes Cooperatives must follow certain rules under Sub Chapter T of the Internal Revenue Code.\n\nThe key word for a bank is \"national\". A bank chartered by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) must have the word \"national\" in its name. A bank chartered by a state cannot have \"national\" in its name.\n\nFor a savings bank (formerly called a savings and loan association) or credit union, the key word is \"federal\", and the same rules apply; a federally chartered savings bank or credit union must have the word \"federal\" in its name, while a state chartered savings bank or credit union cannot have \"federal\" in its name.\n\n\nMany federal governmental units are specially formed public corporations, while some private organizations have received a charter from Congress.\n\nThe following are the main business designations and types:\n\n\n\n\nRequired designations for corporations, by U.S. state, territory or commonwealth:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25077295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25077295", "title": "Market intelligence", "text": "Market intelligence\n\nMarket intelligence is the information relevant to a company’s markets, gathered and analyzed specifically for the purpose of accurate and confident decision-making in determining strategy in areas such as market opportunity, market penetration strategy, and market development.\n\nMarket intelligence includes the process of gathering data from the company’s external environment, whereas the Business intelligence process primarily is based on internal recorded events – such as sales, shipments and purchases. The purpose of incorporating Market Information or intelligence into the Business Intelligence process is to provide decision makers with a more “complete picture” of ongoing corporate performance in a set of given market conditions.\n\nEffective market intelligence needs accurate market information that is gathered with right tools and methods. To gather information companies can conduct surveys, interviews, visit and monitor competitors outlets or gather and buy data from different sources.\n\nTraditional interviews and surveys can be done either in-house or by using specialists agencies. As more and more markets are digitalized the market intelligence space has seen a lot of new digital tools that companies can use. There are tools such as Google Consumer Survey that enables companies to ask web users a question through Google network of online publishers. There are also specialist sites companies can buy market intelligence information and market intelligence software that companies can use to collect and monitor data from the internet.\n"}
{"id": "42471363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42471363", "title": "Network of International Business Schools", "text": "Network of International Business Schools\n\nThe Network of International Business Schools (NIBS) is an association of university-level schools of business that promotes the incorporation of a strong international dimension into management training and accredits schools that offer internationally oriented business curricula. NIBS and its various member institutions advocate for the creation of business education programs that integrate internationalist skills and perspectives, including the practice of foreign languages, the study of comparative management techniques, and the experience of working and studying abroad. They also facilitate cooperation between educational institutions in different countries, on the premise that this contributes to better relations between nations by deepening understanding of other cultures and social practices. NIBS was formed in 1993 and currently has approximately 70 member institutions in over 30 countries.\n\nMembers of NIBS recognize each other’s qualifications, have a common goal of collaboration, and encourage participation in the following:\n\n\nThe current president of NIBS is Hans van Oudheusden, who also serves as Head of International Relations at the School of Financial Management, Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences. Previously, the position was held by Dr. David Gillingham, who served in the role from its inception in 1993 until 2012, and by Ian Charles, who led the organization from 2012 to 2016.\n\nSince 2008, a key function of the organization has been the accreditation of internationally oriented schools of business around the world. NIBS accreditation is not intended to compete with long-established accreditation bodies, such as the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), the Association of MBAs (AMBA), or the European Quality Improvement System (EQUIS); rather, it focuses on the degree to which the business school has become international in all facets of its organization. The NIBS accreditation scheme is thus generally regarded as a supplement to other accreditations, as well as a signal that an institution is committed to \"deep\" internationalization.\n\nAny full member school of NIBS may apply for accreditation, which consists of a three-step process: completion of a self-assessment questionnaire on internationalization; a visit by an accreditation team; and a decision by the NIBS Board of Directors. As of March 2018, a total of 24 institutions have been accredited by NIBS. These include:\n\n\nNIBS operates an annual business conference to present research findings and examine issues related to international business education. The 2017 event will be held in Leeds, UK, and will focus on the role of business schools in preparing students for a rapidly changing global economy. NIBS is also publisher of the \"NIBS Journal\", a peer-reviewed academic journal focused on advancing business theory and practice with relevance to international managers. The organization also sponsors two student competitions aimed at cultivating skills in international business and raising awareness of the importance of an international perspective to management: A business plan competition, and a business case competition.\n\nFounded in 1996, the NIBS Worldwide Case Competition is among the longest-running undergraduate business case competitions in the world. In the current format, adopted in 2013, the event begins with a qualifying round, consisting of a written case analysis conducted under controlled conditions at participating universities. The results of this qualifying round are then used to select the 16 teams that will advance to the championship round, which is held in a host city that rotates from year to year. Past hosts of the championship round include:\n\nThe current champion of the NIBS Worldwide Case Competition is Ireland's Dublin Institute of Technology, which won the event held at Universidad del Istmo in February/March, 2018. The next edition of the competition will be hosted by Canada's University of Prince Edward Island in 2019.\n"}
{"id": "2538775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2538775", "title": "Predictive modelling", "text": "Predictive modelling\n\nPredictive modelling uses statistics to predict outcomes. Most often the event one wants to predict is in the future, but predictive modelling can be applied to any type of unknown event, regardless of when it occurred. For example, predictive models are often used to detect crimes and identify suspects, after the crime has taken place.\n\nIn many cases the model is chosen on the basis of detection theory to try to guess the probability of an outcome given a set amount of input data, for example given an email determining how likely that it is spam.\n\nModels can use one or more classifiers in trying to determine the probability of a set of data belonging to another set, say spam or 'ham'.\n\nDepending on definitional boundaries, predictive modelling is synonymous with, or largely overlapping with, the field of machine learning, as it is more commonly referred to in academic or research and development contexts. When deployed commercially, predictive modelling is often referred to as predictive analytics.\n\nPredictive modelling is often contrasted with causal modelling/analysis. In the former, one may be entirely satisfied to make use of indicators of, or proxies for, the outcome of interest. In the latter, one seeks to determine true cause-and-effect relationships. This distinction has given rise to a burgeoning literature in the fields of research methods and statistics and to the common statement that \"correlation is not the same as causation.\"\n\nNearly any regression model can be used for prediction purposes. Broadly speaking, there are two classes of predictive models: parametric and non-parametric. A third class, semi-parametric models, includes features of both. Parametric models make \"specific assumptions with regard to one or more of the population parameters that characterize the underlying distribution(s)\", while non-parametric regressions make fewer assumptions than their parametric counterparts.\n\nThe majority classifier takes non-anomalous data and incorporates it within its calculations. This ensures that the results produced by the predictive modelling system are as valid as possible.\n\nOrdinary least squares is a method that minimizes the sum of squared distances between observed and predicted values.\n\nThe generalized linear model (GLM) is a flexible family of models that are unified under a single method. Logistic regression is a notable special case of GLM. Other types of GLM include Poisson regression, gamma regression, and multinomial regression.\n\nLogistic regression is a technique in which unknown values of a discrete variable are predicted based on known values of one or more continuous and/or discrete variables. Logistic regression differs from ordinary least squares (OLS) regression in that the dependent variable is binary in nature. This procedure has many applications. In biostatistics, the researcher may be interested in trying to model the probability of a patient being diagnosed with a certain type of cancer based on knowing, say, the incidence of that cancer in his or her family. In business, the marketer may be interested in modelling the probability of an individual purchasing a product based on the price of that product. Both of these are examples of a simple, binary logistic regression model. The model is \"simple\" in that each has only one independent, or predictor, variable, and it is \"binary\" in that the dependent variable can take on only one of two values: cancer or no cancer, and purchase or does not purchase.\n\nGeneralized additive model is a smoothing method for multiple predictors that allows for non-parametric predictions.\n\nRobust regression includes a number of modelling approaches to handle high leverage observations or violation of assumptions. Models can be both parametric (e.g. regression with Huber, White, Sandwich variance estimators) and non-parametric(e.g. quantile regression).\n\nSemiparametric regression includes the proportional odds model and the Cox proportional hazards model where the response is a rank.\n\nPredictive models can either be used directly to estimate a response (output) given a defined set of characteristics (input), or indirectly to drive the choice of decision rules.\n\nDepending on the methodology employed for the prediction, it is often possible to derive a formula that may be used in a spreadsheet software. This has some advantages for end users or decision makers, the main one being familiarity with the software itself, hence a lower barrier to adoption.\nNomograms are useful graphical representation of a predictive model. As in spreadsheet software, their use depends on the methodology chosen. The advantage of nomograms is the immediacy of computing predictions without the aid of a computer.\n\nPoint estimates tables are one of the simplest form to represent a predictive tool. Here combination of characteristics of interests can either be represented via a table or a graph and the associated prediction read off the y-axis or the table itself.\nTree-based methods (e.g. CART, survival trees) provide one of the most graphically intuitive ways to present predictions. However, their usage is limited to those methods that use this type of modelling approach which can have several drawbacks. Trees can also be employed to represent decision rules graphically.\n\nScore charts are graphical tabular or graphical tools to represent either predictions or decision rules.\n\nA new class of modern tools are represented by web-based applications. For example, Shiny is a web-based tool developed by Rstudio, an R IDE. With a Shiny app, a modeller has the advantage to represent any which way he or she chooses to represent the predictive model while allowing the user some control. A user can choose a combination of characteristics of interest via sliders or input boxes and results can be generated, from graphs to confidence intervals to tables and various statistics of interests. However, these tools often require a server installation of Rstudio.\n\nUplift modelling is a technique for modelling the \"change in probability\" caused by an action. Typically this is a marketing action such as an offer to buy a product, to use a product more or to re-sign a contract. For example, in a\nretention campaign you wish to predict the change in probability that a customer will remain a customer if they are contacted. A model of the change in probability allows the retention campaign to be targeted at those customers on whom the change in probability will be beneficial. This allows the retention programme to avoid triggering unnecessary churn or customer attrition without wasting money contacting people who would act anyway.\n\nPredictive modelling in archaeology gets its foundations from Gordon Willey's mid-fifties work in the Virú Valley of Peru. Complete, intensive surveys were performed then covariability between cultural remains and natural features such as slope, and vegetation were determined. Development of quantitative methods and a greater availability of applicable data led to growth of the discipline in the 1960s and by the late 1980s, substantial progress had been made by major land managers worldwide.\n\nGenerally, predictive modelling in archaeology is establishing statistically valid causal or covariable relationships between natural proxies such as soil types, elevation, slope, vegetation, proximity to water, geology, geomorphology, etc., and the presence of archaeological features. Through analysis of these quantifiable attributes from land that has undergone archaeological survey, sometimes the \"archaeological sensitivity\" of unsurveyed areas can be anticipated based on the natural proxies in those areas. Large land managers in the United States, such as the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), the Department of Defense (DOD), and numerous highway and parks agencies, have successfully employed this strategy. By using predictive modelling in their cultural resource management plans, they are capable of making more informed decisions when planning for activities that have the potential to require ground disturbance and subsequently affect archaeological sites.\n\nPredictive modelling is used extensively in analytical customer relationship management and data mining to produce customer-level models that describe the likelihood that a customer will take a particular action. The actions are usually sales, marketing and customer retention related.\n\nFor example, a large consumer organization such as a mobile telecommunications operator will have a set of predictive models for product cross-sell, product deep-sell (or upselling) and churn. It is also now more common for such an organization to have a model of savability using an uplift model. This predicts the likelihood that a customer can be saved at the end of a contract period (the change in churn probability) as opposed to the standard churn prediction model.\n\nPredictive modelling is utilised in vehicle insurance to assign risk of incidents to policy holders from information obtained from policy holders. This is extensively employed in usage-based insurance solutions where predictive models utilise telemetry-based data to build a model of predictive risk for claim likelihood. Black-box auto insurance predictive models utilise GPS or accelerometer sensor input only. Some models include a wide range of predictive input beyond basic telemetry including advanced driving behaviour, independent crash records, road history, and user profiles to provide improved risk models.\n\nIn 2009 Parkland Health & Hospital System began analyzing electronic medical records in order to use predictive modeling to help identify patients at high risk of readmission. Initially the hospital focused on patients with congestive heart failure, but the program has expanded to include patients with diabetes, acute myocardial infarction, and pneumonia.\n\nIn 2018, Banerjee et. al. proposed a deep learning model - Probabilistic Prognostic Estimates of Survival in Metastatic Cancer Patients (PPES-Met) for estimating short-term life expectancy (>3 months) of the patients by analyzing free-text clinical notes in the electronic medical record, while maintaining the temporal visit sequence.The model was trained on a large dataset (10,293 patients) and validated on a separated dataset (1818 patients). It achieved an area under the ROC curve (AUC) of 0.89. To provide explain-ability, they developed an interactive graphical tool that may improve physician understanding of the basis for the model’s predictions. The high accuracy and explain-ability of the PPES-Met model may enable the model to be used as a decision support tool to personalize metastatic cancer treatment and provide valuable assistance to the physicians.\n\nPredictive modeling in trading is a modeling process wherein we predict the probability of an outcome using a set of predictor variables. Predictive models can be built for different assets like stocks, futures, currencies, commodities etc. Predictive modeling is still extensively used by trading firms to devise strategies and trade. It utilizes mathematically advanced software to evaluate indicators on price, volume, open interest and other historical data, to discover repeatable patterns.\n\nAlthough not widely discussed by the mainstream predictive modeling community, predictive modeling is a methodology that has been widely used in the financial industry in the past and some of the major failures contributed to the financial crisis of 2008. These failures exemplify the danger of relying exclusively on models that are essentially backward looking in nature. The following examples are by no mean a complete list:\n\n1) Bond rating. S&P, Moody's and Fitch quantify the probability of default of bonds with discrete variables called rating. The rating can take on discrete values from AAA down to D. The rating is a predictor of the risk of default based on a variety of variables associated with the borrower and historical macroeconomic data. The rating agencies failed with their ratings on the US$600 billion mortgage backed Collateralized Debt Obligation (CDO) market. Almost the entire AAA sector (and the super-AAA sector, a new rating the rating agencies provided to represent super safe investment) of the CDO market defaulted or severely downgraded during 2008, many of which obtained their ratings less than just a year previously.\n\n2) So far, no statistical models that attempt to predict equity market prices based on historical data are considered to consistently make correct predictions over the long term. One particularly memorable failure is that of Long Term Capital Management, a fund that hired highly qualified analysts, including a Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences winner, to develop a sophisticated statistical model that predicted the price spreads between different securities. The models produced impressive profits until a major debacle that caused the then Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan to step in to broker a rescue plan by the Wall Street broker dealers in order to prevent a meltdown of the bond market.\n\n1) History cannot always accurately predict the future: Using relations derived from historical data to predict the future implicitly assumes there are certain lasting conditions or constants in a complex system. This almost always leads to some imprecision when the system involves people.\n\n2) The issue of unknown unknowns: In all data collection, the collector first defines the set of variables for which data is collected. However, no matter how extensive the collector considers his/her selection of the variables, there is always the possibility of new variables that have not been considered or even defined, yet are critical to the outcome.\n\n3) Self-defeat of an algorithm: After an algorithm becomes an accepted standard of measurement, it can be taken advantage of by people who understand the algorithm and have the incentive to fool or manipulate the outcome. This is what happened to the CDO rating described above. The CDO dealers actively fulfilled the rating agencies' input to reach an AAA or super-AAA on the CDO they were issuing, by cleverly manipulating variables that were \"unknown\" to the rating agencies' \"sophisticated\" models.\n\n"}
{"id": "9629973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9629973", "title": "Refusal to deal", "text": "Refusal to deal\n\nThough in general, each business may decide with whom they wish to deal, there are some situations when a refusal to deal may be considered an unlawful anti-competitive practice, if it prevents or reduces competition in a market. The unlawful behaviour may involve two or more companies refusing to use, buy from or otherwise deal with a person or business, such as a competitor, for the purpose inflicting some economic loss on the target or otherwise force them out of the market. A refusal to deal (also known as a group boycott) is forbidden in some countries which have restricted market economies, though the actual acts or situations which may constitute such unacceptable behaviour may vary significantly between jurisdictions. \n\nAustralian Competition & Consumer Commission defines the refusal to deal as:\n\nThe Indian Competition Act 2002 defines the refusal to deal as:\n"}
{"id": "346264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=346264", "title": "Résumé", "text": "Résumé\n\nA résumé or resume is a document used by a person to present their backgrounds and skills. Résumés can be used for a variety of reasons, but most often they are used to secure new employment.\n\nA typical résumé contains a \"summary\" of relevant job experience and education, as its French origin implies. The résumé is usually one of the first items, along with a cover letter and sometimes an application for employment, which a potential employer sees regarding the job seeker and is typically used to screen applicants, often followed by an interview.\n\nThe curriculum vitae (CV) used for employment purposes in the UK (and in other European countries) is more akin to the résumé—a shorter, summary version of one's education and experience—than to the longer and more detailed CV that is expected in U.S. academic circles.\n\nGenerally, the résumé is substantially shorter than a CV in English Canada, the U.S. and Australia.\n\nIn South Asian countries such as India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh, biodata is often used in place of a résumé.\n\nAs has been indicated above, the word résumé comes from the French word meaning \"summary\". Leonardo da Vinci is credited with the first résumé, though his \"résumé\" takes the form of a letter written about 1481–1482 to a potential employer, Ludovico Sforza. For the next roughly 450 years, the résumé continued to be a mere description of a person, and included their abilities and past employment. In the early 1900s, résumés listed things like weight, height, marital status, and religion. It was not until 1950 that the résumé evolved into something more than words written on scraps of paper. By then, résumés were considered very much mandatory, and started to include information like personal interests and hobbies. It was not until the 1970s, the beginning of the Digital Age, that résumés took on a more professional look in terms of presentation and content.\n\nIn many contexts, a résumé is typically limited to one or two pages of size A4 or letter-size, highlighting only those experiences and qualifications that the author considers most relevant to the desired position. Many résumés contain keywords or skills that potential employers are looking for via applicant tracking systems, make heavy use of active verbs, and display content in a flattering manner. Acronyms and credentials after the applicant's name should be spelled out fully in the appropriate section of the résumé, greater chance of being found in a computerized keyword scan. Résumés can vary in style and length, but should always contain accurate contact information of the job seeker. A recent hiring simulation by ResumeGo concluded that a two-page resume was more likely to lead to being hired than a one-page resume.\n\nA résumé is a marketing tool in which the content should be adapted to suit each individual job application or applications aimed at a particular industry. The transmission of résumés directly to employers became increasingly popular as late as 2002. Job seekers were able to circumvent the job application process and reach employers through direct email contact and résumé blasting, a term meaning the mass distribution of résumés to increase personal visibility within the job market. However, the mass distribution of résumés to employers can often have a negative effect on the applicant's chances of securing employment as the résumés tend not to be tailored for the specific positions the applicant is applying for. It is usually, therefore, more sensible to optimize the résumé for each position applied for and its keywords. In order to keep track of all experiences, keeping a 'master résumé' document is recommended, providing job-seekers with the ability to customize a tailored résumé while making sure extraneous information is easily accessible for future use if needed.\n\nThe complexity or simplicity of various résumé formats tends to produce results varying from person to person, for the occupation, and to the industry. Résumés or CVs used by medical professionals, professors, artists and people in other specialized fields may be comparatively longer. For example, an artist's résumé, typically excluding any non-art-related employment, may include extensive lists of solo and group exhibitions.\n\nRésumés may be organized in different ways. The following are some of the more common résumé formats:\n\nA reverse chronological résumé lists a candidate's job experiences in chronological order, generally covering the previous 10 to 15 years. Positions are listed with starting and ending dates. Current positions on a résumé typically list the starting date to the present. The reverse chronological résumé format is most commonly used by those who are not professional résumé writers. In using this format, the main body of the document becomes the Professional Experience section, starting from the most recent experience and moving chronologically backwards through a succession of previous experience. The reverse chronological résumé works to build credibility through experience gained, while illustrating career growth over time and filling all gaps in a career trajectory. A chronological résumé is not recommended to job seekers with gaps in their career summaries. In the United Kingdom the chronological résumé tends to extend only as far back as the applicant's GCSE/Standard Grade qualifications.\n\nA functional résumé lists work experience and skills sorted by skill area or job function.\n\nThe functional résumé is used to focus on skills that are specific to the type of position being sought. This format directly emphasizes specific professional capabilities and utilizes experience summaries as its primary means of communicating professional competency. In contrast, the chronological résumé format will briefly highlight these competencies prior to presenting a comprehensive timeline of career growth through reverse chronological listings, with the most recent experience listed first. The functional résumé works well for those making a career change, having a varied work history or with little work experience. A functional résumé is also preferred for applications to jobs that require very specific skills or clearly defined personality traits. A functional résumé is a good method for highlighting particular skills or experiences, especially when those particular skills or experiences may have derived from a role which was held some time ago. Rather than focus on the length of time that has passed, the functional résumé allows the reader to identify those skills quickly.\n\nThe hybrid résumé balances the functional and chronological approaches. A résumé organized this way typically leads with a functional list of job skills, followed by a chronological list of employers. The hybrid has a tendency to repeat itself and is, therefore, less widely used than the other two.\n\nAs the search for employment has become more electronic, it is common for employers to only accept résumés electronically, either out of practicality or preference. This has changed much about the manner in which résumés are written, read, and processed. Some career experts are pointing out that today a paper-based résumé is an exception rather than the rule.\n\nMany employers now find candidates' résumés through search engines, which makes it more important for candidates to use appropriate keywords when writing a résumé. Larger employers use Applicant Tracking Systems to search, filter, and manage high volumes of résumés. Job ads may direct applicants to email a résumé to a company or visit its website and submit a résumé in an electronic format.\n\nMany employers, and recruitment agencies working on their behalf, insist on receiving résumés in a particular file format. Some require Microsoft Word documents, while others will only accept résumés formatted in HTML, PDF, or plain ASCII text.\n\nAnother consideration for electronic résumé documents is that they are parsed with natural language processors. Résumé parsers may correctly interpret some parts of the content of the résumé but not other parts. The best résumé parsers capture a high percentage of information regarding location, names, titles, but are less accurate with skills, industries and other less structured or rapidly changing data. Résumés written in a standard format are more likely to be correctly interpreted by résumé parsers, and thereby may make the candidate more findable.\n\nOne advantage for employers to online résumés is the significant cost saving compared to traditional hiring methods. Another is that potential employers no longer have to sort through massive stacks of paper.\n\nAs the Internet becomes more driven by multimedia, job-seekers have sought to take advantage of the trend by moving their résumés away from the traditional paper and email media.\n\nVideo, infographic, and even Vine résumés have gained popularity, though mainly in the creative and media industries.\n\nThis trend has attracted criticism from human resources management professionals, who warn that this may be a passing fad and point out that multimedia-based résumés may be overlooked by recruiters whose workflow is designed only to accommodate a traditional résumé format.\n\nMany résumé development agencies offer résumé evaluation services wherein they evaluate the résumé and suggest any necessary changes. Candidates are free to either do those changes themselves or may take help of the agency itself. Some career fields include a special section listing the lifelong works of the author: for computer-related fields, the softography; for musicians and composers, the discography; for actors, a filmography.\n\nKeeping résumés online has become increasingly common for people in professions that benefit from the multimedia and rich detail that are offered by an HTML résumé, such as actors, photographers, graphic designers, developers, dancers, etc. Job seekers are finding an ever-increasing demand to have an electronic version of their résumé available to employers and professionals who use Internet recruiting. Online résumé distribution services have emerged to allow job seekers to distribute their résumés to numerous employers of their choice through email.\n\nIn some sectors, particularly in the startup community, use of traditional résumé has seen a consistent decline. While standalone résumés are still used to apply for jobs, job-seekers may also view their résumés as one of a number of assets which form their personal brand and work together to strengthen their job application. In this scenario, résumés are generally used to provide a potential employer with factual information (e.g., achievements), while the social media platforms give insight into the job-seekers' motivations and personality in development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10627468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10627468", "title": "Structurer", "text": "Structurer\n\nIn finance, a structurer is a person who designs structured products and determines how the pay rules will distribute cash flows for a deal. Structurers will also typically build computer models to mimic the pay rules in order to see how collateral payments affect the bond payments. \nAll the above should be done before a deal settles, afterward it should be in the hands of the Bond administration to apply the rules as described in the deal legal documents.\n"}
{"id": "5918532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5918532", "title": "Undervalue transaction", "text": "Undervalue transaction\n\nAn undervalue transaction is a transaction entered into by a company who subsequently goes into bankruptcy which the court orders be set aside, usually upon the application of a liquidator for the benefit of the debtor's creditors. Under Australian insolvency law they are referred to as uncommercial transactions.\n\nUnder ordinary principles of contract law, the courts will not generally look into the adequacy of the consideration provided by either side. However, if a company is in real peril of going into bankruptcy, many legal systems provide a mechanism that transactions which are seriously commercially disadvantageous to the company can be unwound, so as to prevent prejudice to the creditors of the company.\n\nNormally, for a transaction to be set aside as an undervalue transaction, the liquidator or equivalent must demonstrate that:\n\nThe vulnerability period is the period of time immediately prior to the company going into bankruptcy. The length of the vulnerability period varies between countries, and some countries apply different vulnerability periods in different circumstances. For example, in the United Kingdom, the vulnerability period is either:\nThe period is calculated by reference to the period of time immediately preceding the company going into liquidation or administration.\n\nThe effect of a successful application to have a transaction declared as an undervalue transaction varies. Inevitably the other party to the transaction who received the benefit has to return the benefit (or account for it) it to the liquidator. In some countries the assets are treated in the normal way, and may be taken by any secured creditors who have a security interest which catches the assets (characteristically, a floating charge). However, some countries have \"ring-fenced\" recoveries of unfair preferences so that they are made available to the pool of assets for unsecured creditors.\n\nMany jurisdictions which have prohibitions on undervalue transactions also provide for an exception in the case of transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business where the directors are of a view that it is for the benefit of the company, and such transactions are usually either validated or presumed to be validated.\n\n"}
{"id": "375988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375988", "title": "Unfair competition", "text": "Unfair competition\n\nUnfair (or disloyal) competition in commercial law is a deceptive business practice that causes economic harm to other businesses or to consumers. It includes a number of areas of law involving acts by one competitor or group of competitors which harm another in the field, and which may give rise to criminal offenses and civil causes of action. The most common actions falling under the banner of unfair competition include:\n\n\nVarious unfair business practices such as fraud, misrepresentation, and unconscionable contracts may be considered unfair competition, if they give one competitor an advantage over others. In the European Union, each member state must regulate unfair business practices in accordance with the principles laid down in the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive, subject to transitional periods. (See also trade regulation law.)\n\n"}
{"id": "11463971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11463971", "title": "Vehicle leasing", "text": "Vehicle leasing\n\nVehicle leasing is the leasing (or the use) of a motor vehicle for a fixed period of time at an agreed amount of money for the lease. It is commonly offered by dealers as an alternative to vehicle purchase but is widely used by businesses as a method of acquiring (or having the use of) vehicles for business, without the usually needed cash outlay. The key difference in a lease is that after the primary term (usually 2, 3 or 4 years) the vehicle has to either be returned to the leasing company or purchased for the residual value.\n\nVehicle leasing offers advantages to both buyers and sellers. For the buyer, lease payments will usually be lower than payments on a car loan would be. Any sales tax is due only on each monthly payment, rather than immediately on the entire purchase price as in the case of a loan. Some consumers may prefer leasing as it allows them to simply return a car and select a new model when the lease expires, allowing a consumer to drive a new vehicle every few years without the responsibility of selling the old vehicle, or possible repair costs after expiry of the manufacturer's warranty. A lessee does not have to worry about the future value of the vehicle, while a vehicle owner does. For a business lessor there are tax advantages to be considered.\n\nFor the seller, leasing generates income from a vehicle the seller (or manufacturing corporation) still owns and will be able to lease again or sell through vehicle remarketing once the original (or primary) lease has expired. As consumers will typically use a leased vehicle for a shorter period of time than one they buy outright, leasing may generate repeat customers more quickly, which may fit into various aspects of a dealer's business model.\n\nLeasing's average retail market penetration rate in the United States for new passenger vehicles reached an all-time record high of 26.5% in February 2014. This represents a recovery from a severe drop during the financial crisis of 2007–08. As of 2016, leasing accounted for about 25 percent of total vehicle sales or 31 percent retail sales in the United States.\n\nThe prevalence of leasing in the United States for GM, Ford and Chrysler have been rising close to the industry norm since reaching low single digits in 2009, but still lower than BMW and Mercedes-Benz.\n\nLease agreements typically stipulate an early termination fee and limit the number of miles a lessee can drive (for passenger cars, a common number is 10,000 miles per annum though the amount can be stipulated by the customer and can be 12,000 to 15,000 miles per year). If the mileage allowance is exceeded, fees may apply. Dealers will typically allow a lessee to negotiate a higher mileage allowance, for a higher lease payment. Lease agreements usually specify how much wear on the vehicle is allowable, and the lessee may face a fee if that amount of wear has been exceeded. A lease with maintenance (commonly known in the UK as Contract Hire) can include all vehicle running costs excluding fuel and insurance.\n\nThe actual lease payments are calculated in a very similar way to loan payments, but instead of an APR, the company uses something called the money factor.\n\nAt the end of a lease's term, the lessee must either return the vehicle to or buy it from the owner. The end of lease price is usually agreed upon when the lease is signed.\n\nTypically a leasing company will have a minimum length of lease such as 24 months up-to 60 months. Recently a new view on leasing is that the market has grown for short term lease called 'flexi-lease'. Flexi-lease is when a person can lease a new vehicle for 3 months and then choose to hand the car/van back or indeed extend the lease for another period. This is almost the same as van hire but typically involves the finance or leasing company maintaining and being ultimately responsible for the vehicle.\n\nSimilarly to the US automotive market, leasing a vehicle enables you to have access to a vehicle that you might otherwise be unable to afford if you were to finance the full value. Compared to a PCP method of finance, leasing is far more benefical if you plan on changing your vehicle at the end of the initial contract, rather than taking ownership.\n\nIn the UK the leasing market has historically been dominated by businesses and fleet customers. In recent years however the market has shifted and now personal contracts have the biggest market share. This is largely influenced by increasing company car tax for drivers (BIK) and taxable allowances for businesses being affected by vehicle emissions. For company car users who opt out, a personal lease contract allows them to have a fixed monthly payment that's subsidised by their employer, but also allows for a more flexible choice of vehicles than a rigid company car policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "14252700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14252700", "title": "Whitewash waiver", "text": "Whitewash waiver\n\nWhitewash Resolution is a proposed resolution for the waiver of rights of independent shareholders to receive a mandatory takeover from the investor and its concert parties for the ordinary shares of the company not already owned or controlled by them.\n\nA whitewash waiver is a corporate law concept originating in Hong Kong and Singapore. In some cases an investor will apply to the Executive for the Whitewash Waiver, which, if granted, will be subject to the approval of independent shareholders.\n"}
