{"id": "14697061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14697061", "title": "AIDSRide", "text": "AIDSRide\n\nThe AIDSRides were a series of fundraising events organised by Pallotta TeamWorks which raised more than $105 million for critical AIDS services and medical research. About half of the money raised directly benefited AIDS patients.\n\nIn 2001, the San Francisco AIDS Foundation and the Los Angeles Gay and Lesbian Center ended their partnership with the California AIDSRide over concerns that not enough money was going to the charities. They hired Honeycutt Group, a consulting firm started by three former Pallotta TeamWorks employees, to organize AIDS/LifeCycle, a similar event. Dan Pallotta unsuccessfully sued the \"copycat\" event, but the competition and surrounding controversy made 2002 the event's last year.\n\nPallotta TeamWorks has organised several AIDSRides in North America:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30890892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30890892", "title": "Abu Salim prison", "text": "Abu Salim prison\n\nAbu Salim prison () is a maximum security prison in Tripoli, Libya. The prison was notorious during the rule of Muammar Gaddafi for alleged mistreatment and human rights abuses, including a massacre in 1996 in which Human Rights Watch estimated that 1,270 prisoners were killed. \n\nIn 2011, when the NTC invited investigators from CNN and other organizations it found only what appeared to be animal bones at that site and announced further investigations.\n\nAmnesty International has called for an independent inquiry into deaths that occurred there on 29 June 1996, an incident which some have referred to as the Abu Salim prison massacre. Human Rights Watch believes that 1,270 prisoners were killed. HRW also calls the prison a \"site of egregious human rights violations.\" Human Rights Watch also stated in a report that they were unable to independently verify the allegations of a massacre. The claims cited by Human Rights Watch are based on the testimony of a single former inmate, Hussein Al Shafa’i, who stated that he did not witness a prisoner being killed: \"I could not see the dead prisoners who were shot...\" The figure of over 1200 killed was arrived at by Al Shafa’i allegedly calculating the number of meals he prepared when he was working in the prison's kitchen. Al Shafa'i stated \"I was asked by the prison guards to wash the watches that were taken from the bodies of the dead prisoners...\"\n\nLibyan Government rejected the allegations about a massacre in Abu Salim. In May 2005, the Internal Security Agency head of the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya told Human Rights Watch that the prisoners captured some guards and stole weapons from the prison cache. The prisoners and guards died as security personnel tried to restore order, and the government opened an investigation on the order of the Minister of Justice. The Libyan official stated that more than 400 prisoners escaped Abu Salim in four separate break-outs prior to and after the incident: in July 1995, December 1995, June 1996 and July 2001. Among the escapees were men who then fought with Islamist militant groups in Afghanistan, Iran, and Iraq.\n\nJournalist Lindsey Hilsum explored the topic in her 2012 book \"Sandstorm\". She met with a number of families who claimed their family members had been at the prison. She describes the massacre number as an uncertain estimate for several reasons; the main problem being the government's long term silence about the whereabouts of prisoners and their condition. She also describes eyewitness accounts of a mass shooting.\n\nThe families of the disappeared and killed formed a loose association and held numerous protests in Benghazi. Lawyer Fathi Terbil helped represent them. He was arrested several times for his trouble. Saif al-Islam Gaddafi (son of the dictator) tried to resolve the issue via his Gaddafi International Foundation for Charity Associations circa 2007.\n\nThe Libyan government said in 2009, then controlled by the same people as at the time of the event, that the killings took place amid confrontation between the government and rebels from the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group, and that some 200 guards were killed too. In January 2011, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya confirmed that it was carrying out an investigation into the incident along with international investigators. Statements made in an interview with the BBC by the captured Mansour Dhao, a prominent figure in the Gaddafi regime, provides further evidence for the massacre.\n\nWhen the Arab Spring occurred in Tunisia and Egypt, lawyer Fathi Terbil was amongst the first arrested by Libyan authorities trying to stave off a revolution. The Abu Salim families gathered to protest his imprisonment, and this gathering eventually contributed to the revolution in Libya. Abdullah Senussi, Gaddafi's intelligence chief suspected by many to have been involved in the 1996 massacre, reportedly tried to ask Terbil to make the protests stop.\n\nOn 25 September 2011, soon after the previous government had been overthrown, the governing National Transitional Council (NTC) said that a mass grave had been discovered outside the prison. Khalid al-Sherif, a military spokesman for the NTC, said that the grave was located based on information from captured former regime officials. He stated: \"We have discovered the truth about what the Libyan people have been waiting for many years, and it is the bodies and remains of the Abu Salim massacre.\" Ibrahim Abu Shim, a member of the committee looking for mass graves, said that investigators believed 1,270 people were buried in the grave but the NTC needed help from the international community to find and identify the remains as they lacked the sophisticated equipment needed for DNA testing. However, when the NTC invited investigators from CNN and other organizations it found only what appeared to be animal bones at that site and announced further investigations.\n\nBefore the civil war, the lawyer Abdul Hafiz Ghoga took the legal representation for the families of people killed in the massacre and negotiated with Gaddafi about compensations. During the uprise Ghoga became speaker of the National Transitional Council, in April 2011 vice president, and held this position until January 2012.\n\n\nOn 24 January 2010, the Libyan authorities blocked access to YouTube after it featured videos of demonstrations in the Libyan city of Benghazi by families of detainees who were killed in Abu Salim prison in 1996, and videos of family members of Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi at parties.\n\nDuring the Libyan Civil War the prison was captured by the rebels on 24 August and all prisoners were set free. Among those confirmed to have been freed was volunteer rebel fighter Matthew VanDyke from Baltimore, Maryland, USA, a member of a rebel unit captured by the Libyan Army in Brega in March. An international campaign to free VanDyke had described him as a \"writer and journalist,\" but it was later revealed that he was a rebel fighter and prisoner of war.\n"}
{"id": "31256327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31256327", "title": "Accidental incest", "text": "Accidental incest\n\nAccidental incest is sexual activity or marriage between persons who were unaware of a family relationship between them which would be considered incestuous.\n\nThe laws of many jurisdictions void incestuous marriages, even if entered into without awareness of the kinship. If an incestuous relationship is suspected, DNA testing may be used. Some jurisdictions permit offspring of IVF donations access to donation records or to adoption records.\n\nPeople may be unaware of a kinship relationship between them in a number of circumstances. For example, artificial insemination with an anonymous donated sperm may result in offspring being unaware of any biological relations, such as paternity or half siblings. To reduce the likelihood of accidental incest, fertility clinics usually limit the number of times that a donor's sperm may be used. Some countries have laws limiting the number of children a donor can father. while others limit sperm donations based on family numbers to enable one family to have true siblings.\n\nTaiwan allows those conceived by artificial means to find out if they are related to a person they are considering marrying.\n\nAccidental incest may also arise in the following situations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "488743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=488743", "title": "Carbon monoxide poisoning", "text": "Carbon monoxide poisoning\n\nCarbon monoxide poisoning typically occurs from breathing in carbon monoxide (CO) at excessive levels. Symptoms are often described as \"flu-like\" and commonly include headache, dizziness, weakness, vomiting, chest pain, and confusion. Large exposures can result in loss of consciousness, arrhythmias, seizures, or death. The classically described \"cherry red skin\" rarely occurs. Long term complications may include feeling tired, trouble with memory, and movement problems. In those exposed to smoke, cyanide toxicity should also be considered.\nCarbon monoxide poisoning can occur accidentally or as an attempt to end one's life. CO is a colorless and odorless gas which is initially non-irritating. It is produced during incomplete burning of organic matter. This can occur from motor vehicles, heaters, or cooking equipment that run on carbon-based fuels. It can also occur from exposure to methylene chloride. Carbon monoxide primarily causes adverse effects by combining with hemoglobin to form carboxyhemoglobin (HbCO) preventing the blood from carrying oxygen. Additionally, myoglobin and mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase are affected. Diagnosis is based on a HbCO level of more than 3% among nonsmokers and more than 10% among smokers.\nEfforts to prevent poisoning include carbon monoxide detectors, proper venting of gas appliances, keeping chimneys clean, and keeping exhaust systems of vehicles in good repair. Treatment of poisoning generally consists of giving 100% oxygen along with supportive care. This should generally be carried out until symptoms are no longer present and the HbCO level is less than 10%. While hyperbaric oxygen therapy is used for severe poisonings, the benefit over standard oxygen delivery is unclear. The risk of death among those affected is between 1 and 30%.\nCarbon monoxide poisoning is relatively common, resulting in more than 20,000 emergency department visits a year in the United States. It is the most common type of fatal poisoning in many countries. In the United States non-fire related cases results in more than 400 deaths a year. Poisonings occur more often in the winter, particularly from the use of portable generators during power outages. The toxic effects of CO have been known since ancient history. The realization that hemoglobin was affected by CO was determined in 1857.\n\nCarbon monoxide is not toxic to all forms of life. Its harmful effects are due to binding with hemoglobin so its danger to organisms that do not use this compound is doubtful. It thus has no effect on photosynthesising plants. It is easily absorbed through the lungs. Inhaling the gas can lead to hypoxic injury, nervous system damage, and even death. Different people and populations may have different carbon monoxide tolerance levels. On average, exposures at 100 ppm or greater is dangerous to human health. In the United States, the OSHA limits long-term workplace exposure levels to less than 50 ppm averaged over an 8-hour period; in addition, employees are to be removed from any confined space if an upper limit (\"ceiling\") of 100 ppm is reached. Carbon monoxide exposure may lead to a significantly shorter life span due to heart damage. The carbon monoxide tolerance level for any person is altered by several factors, including activity level, rate of ventilation, a pre-existing cerebral or cardiovascular disease, cardiac output, anemia, sickle cell disease and other hematological disorders, barometric pressure, and metabolic rate.\n\nThe main manifestations of carbon monoxide poisoning develop in the organ systems most dependent on oxygen use, the central nervous system and the heart. The initial symptoms of acute carbon monoxide poisoning include headache, nausea, malaise, and fatigue. These symptoms are often mistaken for a virus such as influenza or other illnesses such as food poisoning or gastroenteritis. Headache is the most common symptom of acute carbon monoxide poisoning; it is often described as dull, frontal, and continuous. Increasing exposure produces cardiac abnormalities including fast heart rate, low blood pressure, and cardiac arrhythmia; central nervous system symptoms include delirium, hallucinations, dizziness, unsteady gait, confusion, seizures, central nervous system depression, unconsciousness, respiratory arrest, and death. Less common symptoms of acute carbon monoxide poisoning include myocardial ischemia, atrial fibrillation, pneumonia, pulmonary edema, high blood sugar, lactic acidosis, muscle necrosis, acute kidney failure, skin lesions, and visual and auditory problems.\n\nOne of the major concerns following acute carbon monoxide poisoning is the severe delayed neurological manifestations that may occur. Problems may include difficulty with higher intellectual functions, short-term memory loss, dementia, amnesia, psychosis, irritability, a strange gait, speech disturbances, Parkinson's disease-like syndromes, cortical blindness, and a depressed mood. Depression may occur in those who did not have pre-existing depression. These delayed neurological sequelae may occur in up to 50% of poisoned people after 2 to 40 days. It is difficult to predict who will develop delayed sequelae; however, advanced age, loss of consciousness while poisoned, and initial neurological abnormalities may increase the chance of developing delayed symptoms.\n\nOne classic sign of carbon monoxide poisoning is more often seen in the dead rather than the living – people have been described as looking red-cheeked and healthy (see below). However, since this \"cherry-red\" appearance is common only in the deceased, and is unusual in living people, it is not considered a useful diagnostic sign in clinical medicine. In pathological (autopsy) examination the ruddy appearance of carbon monoxide poisoning is notable because unembalmed dead persons are normally bluish and pale, whereas dead carbon-monoxide poisoned persons may simply appear unusually lifelike in coloration. The colorant effect of carbon monoxide in such postmortem circumstances is thus analogous to its use as a red colorant in the commercial meat-packing industry.\n\nChronic exposure to relatively low levels of carbon monoxide may cause persistent headaches, lightheadedness, depression, confusion, memory loss, nausea, hearing disorders and vomiting. It is unknown whether low-level chronic exposure may cause permanent neurological damage. Typically, upon removal from exposure to carbon monoxide, symptoms usually resolve themselves, unless there has been an episode of severe acute poisoning. However, one case noted permanent memory loss and learning problems after a 3-year exposure to relatively low levels of carbon monoxide from a faulty furnace. Chronic exposure may worsen cardiovascular symptoms in some people. Chronic carbon monoxide exposure might increase the risk of developing atherosclerosis. Long-term exposures to carbon monoxide present the greatest risk to persons with coronary heart disease and in females who are pregnant. In experimental animals, carbon monoxide appears to worsen noise-induced hearing loss at noise exposure conditions that would have limited effects on hearing otherwise. In humans, hearing loss has been reported following carbon monoxide poisoning. Unlike the findings in animal studies, noise exposure was not a necessary factor for the auditory problems to occur.\n\nCarbon monoxide is a product of combustion of organic matter under conditions of restricted oxygen supply, which prevents complete oxidation to carbon dioxide (CO). Sources of carbon monoxide include cigarette smoke, house fires, faulty furnaces, heaters, wood-burning stoves, internal combustion vehicle exhaust, electrical generators, propane-fueled equipment such as portable stoves, and gasoline-powered tools such as leaf blowers, lawn mowers, high-pressure washers, concrete cutting saws, power trowels, and welders. Exposure typically occurs when equipment is used in buildings or semi-enclosed spaces.\n\nRiding in the back of pickup trucks has led to poisoning in children. Idling automobiles with the exhaust pipe blocked by snow has led to the poisoning of car occupants. Any perforation between the exhaust manifold and shroud can result in exhaust gases reaching the cabin. Generators and propulsion engines on boats, especially houseboats, has resulted in fatal carbon monoxide exposures.\n\nPoisoning may also occur following the use of a self-contained underwater breathing apparatus (SCUBA) due to faulty diving air compressors.\n\nIn caves carbon monoxide can build up in enclosed chambers due to the presence of decomposing organic matter. In coal mines incomplete combustion may occur during explosions resulting in the production of afterdamp. The gas is up to 3% CO and may be fatal after just a single breath. Following an explosion in a colliery, adjacent interconnected mines may become dangerous due to the afterdamp leaking from mine to mine. Such an incident followed the Trimdon Grange explosion which killed men in the Kelloe mine.\n\nAnother source of poisoning is exposure to the organic solvent dichloromethane, found in some paint strippers, as the metabolism of dichloromethane produces carbon monoxide.\n\nThe precise mechanisms by which the effects of carbon monoxide are induced upon bodily systems, are complex and not yet fully understood. Known mechanisms include carbon monoxide binding to hemoglobin, myoglobin and mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase and restricting oxygen supply, and carbon monoxide causing brain lipid peroxidation.\n\nCarbon monoxide has a higher diffusion coefficient compared to oxygen, and the only enzyme in the human body that produces carbon monoxide is heme oxygenase, which is located in all cells and breaks down heme. Under normal conditions, carbon monoxide levels in the plasma are approximately 0 mmHg because it has a higher diffusion coefficient and the body easily gets rid of any CO made. When CO is not ventilated it binds to hemoglobin, which is the principal oxygen-carrying compound in blood; this produces a compound known as carboxyhemoglobin. The traditional belief is that carbon monoxide toxicity arises from the formation of carboxyhemoglobin, which decreases the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood and inhibits the transport, delivery, and utilization of oxygen by the body. The affinity between hemoglobin and carbon monoxide is approximately 230 times stronger than the affinity between hemoglobin and oxygen so hemoglobin binds to carbon monoxide in preference to oxygen.\n\nHemoglobin is a tetramer with four oxygen binding sites. The binding of carbon monoxide at one of these sites increases the oxygen affinity of the remaining three sites, which causes the hemoglobin molecule to retain oxygen that would otherwise be delivered to the tissue. This situation is described as carbon monoxide shifting the oxygen dissociation curve to the left. Because of the increased affinity between hemoglobin and oxygen during carbon monoxide poisoning, little oxygen will actually be released in the tissues. This causes hypoxic tissue injury. Hemoglobin acquires a bright red color when converted into carboxyhemoglobin, so poisoned cadavers and even commercial meats treated with carbon monoxide acquire an unnatural reddish hue.\n\nCarbon monoxide also binds to the hemeprotein myoglobin. It has a high affinity for myoglobin, about 60 times greater than that of oxygen. Carbon monoxide bound to myoglobin may impair its ability to utilize oxygen. This causes reduced cardiac output and hypotension, which may result in brain ischemia. A delayed return of symptoms have been reported. This results following a recurrence of increased carboxyhemoglobin levels; this effect may be due to a late release of carbon monoxide from myoglobin, which subsequently binds to hemoglobin.\n\nAnother mechanism involves effects on the mitochondrial respiratory enzyme chain that is responsible for effective tissue utilization of oxygen. Carbon monoxide binds to cytochrome oxidase with less affinity than oxygen, so it is possible that it requires significant intracellular hypoxia before binding. This binding interferes with aerobic metabolism and efficient adenosine triphosphate synthesis. Cells respond by switching to anaerobic metabolism, causing anoxia, lactic acidosis, and eventual cell death. The rate of dissociation between carbon monoxide and cytochrome oxidase is slow, causing a relatively prolonged impairment of oxidative metabolism.\n\nThe mechanism that is thought to have a significant influence on delayed effects involves formed blood cells and chemical mediators, which cause brain lipid peroxidation (degradation of unsaturated fatty acids). Carbon monoxide causes endothelial cell and platelet release of nitric oxide, and the formation of oxygen free radicals including peroxynitrite. In the brain this causes further mitochondrial dysfunction, capillary leakage, leukocyte sequestration, and apoptosis. The result of these effects is lipid peroxidation, which causes delayed reversible demyelinization of white matter in the central nervous system known as Grinker myelinopathy, which can lead to edema and necrosis within the brain. This brain damage occurs mainly during the recovery period. This may result in cognitive defects, especially affecting memory and learning, and movement disorders. These disorders are typically related to damage to the cerebral white matter and basal ganglia. Hallmark pathological changes following poisoning are bilateral necrosis of the white matter, globus pallidus, cerebellum, hippocampus and the cerebral cortex.\n\nCarbon monoxide poisoning in pregnant women may cause severe adverse fetal effects. Poisoning causes fetal tissue hypoxia by decreasing the release of maternal oxygen to the fetus. Carbon monoxide also crosses the placenta and combines with fetal hemoglobin, causing more direct fetal tissue hypoxia. Additionally, fetal hemoglobin has a 10 to 15% higher affinity for carbon monoxide than adult hemoglobin, causing more severe poisoning in the fetus than in the adult. Elimination of carbon monoxide is slower in the fetus, leading to an accumulation of the toxic chemical. The level of fetal morbidity and mortality in acute carbon monoxide poisoning is significant, so despite mild maternal poisoning or following maternal recovery, severe fetal poisoning or death may still occur.\n\nAs many symptoms of carbon monoxide poisoning also occur with many other types of poisonings and infections (such as the flu), the diagnosis is often difficult. A history of potential carbon monoxide exposure, such as being exposed to a residential fire, may suggest poisoning, but the diagnosis is confirmed by measuring the levels of carbon monoxide in the blood. This can be determined by measuring the amount of carboxyhemoglobin compared to the amount of hemoglobin in the blood.\n\nThe ratio of carboxyhemoglobin to hemoglobin molecules in an average person may be up to 5%, although cigarette smokers who smoke two packs per day may have levels up to 9%. In symptomatic poisoned people they are often in the 10–30% range, while persons who die may have postmortem blood levels of 30–90%.\n\nAs people may continue to experience significant symptoms of CO poisoning long after their blood carboxyhemoglobin concentration has returned to normal, presenting to examination with a normal carboxyhemoglobin level (which may happen in late states of poisoning) does not rule out poisoning.\n\nCarbon monoxide may be quantitated in blood using spectrophotometric methods or chromatographic techniques in order to confirm a diagnosis of poisoning in a person or to assist in the forensic investigation of a case of fatal exposure.\n\nA CO-oximeter can be used to determine carboxyhemoglobin levels. Pulse CO-oximeters estimate carboxyhemoglobin with a non-invasive finger clip similar to a pulse oximeter. These devices function by passing various wavelengths of light through the fingertip and measuring the light absorption of the different types of hemoglobin in the capillaries. The use of a regular pulse oximeter is not effective in the diagnosis of carbon monoxide poisoning as people with carbon monoxide poisoning may have a normal oxygen saturation level on a pulse oximeter. This is due to the carboxyhemoglobin being misrepresented as oxyhemoglobin.\n\nBreath CO monitoring offers an alternative to pulse CO-oximetry. Carboxyhemoglobin levels have been shown to have a strong correlation with breath CO concentration. However, many of these devices require the user to inhale deeply and hold their breath to allow the CO in the blood to escape into the lung before the measurement can be made. As this is not possible in people who are unresponsive, these devices may not appropriate for use in on-scene emergency care detection of CO poisoning.\n\nThere are many conditions to be considered in the differential diagnosis of carbon monoxide poisoning. The earliest symptoms, especially from low level exposures, are often non-specific and readily confused with other illnesses, typically flu-like viral syndromes, depression, chronic fatigue syndrome, chest pain, and migraine or other headaches. Carbon monoxide has been called a \"great mimicker\" due to the presentation of poisoning being diverse and nonspecific. Other conditions included in the differential diagnosis include acute respiratory distress syndrome, altitude sickness, lactic acidosis, diabetic ketoacidosis, meningitis, methemoglobinemia, or opioid or toxic alcohol poisoning.\n\nPrevention remains a vital public health issue, requiring public education on the safe operation of appliances, heaters, fireplaces, and internal-combustion engines, as well as increased emphasis on the installation of carbon monoxide detectors. Carbon monoxide is tasteless and odourless, and therefore can not be detected by visual cues or smell.\n\nThe United States Consumer Product Safety Commission has stated, \"carbon monoxide detectors are as important to home safety as smoke detectors are,\" and recommends each home have at least one carbon monoxide detector, and preferably one on each level of the building. These devices, which are relatively inexpensive and widely available, are either battery- or AC-powered, with or without battery backup. In buildings, carbon monoxide detectors are usually installed around heaters and other equipment. If a relatively high level of carbon monoxide is detected, the device sounds an alarm, giving people the chance to evacuate and ventilate the building. Unlike smoke detectors, carbon monoxide detectors do not need to be placed near ceiling level.\n\nThe use of carbon monoxide detectors has been standardized in many areas. In the US, NFPA 720-2009, the carbon monoxide detector guidelines published by the National Fire Protection Association, mandates the placement of carbon monoxide detectors/alarms on every level of the residence, including the basement, in addition to outside sleeping areas. In new homes, AC-powered detectors must have battery backup and be interconnected to ensure early warning of occupants at all levels. NFPA 720-2009 is the first national carbon monoxide standard to address devices in non-residential buildings. These guidelines, which now pertain to schools, healthcare centers, nursing homes and other non-residential buildings, include three main points:\n\nGas organizations will often recommend to get gas appliances serviced at least once a year.\n\nThe NFPA standard is not necessarily enforced by law. As of April 2006, the US state of Massachusetts requires detectors to be present in all residences with potential CO sources, regardless of building age and whether they are owner-occupied or rented. This is enforced by municipal inspectors, and was inspired by the death of 7-year-old Nicole Garofalo in 2005 due to snow blocking a home heating vent. Other jurisdictions may have no requirement or only mandate detectors for new construction or at time of sale.\n\nDespite similar deaths in vehicles with clogged exhaust pipes (for example in the Northeastern United States blizzard of 1978 and February 2013 nor'easter) and the commercial availability of the equipment, there is no legal requirement for automotive CO detectors.\n\nThe following guideline values (ppm values rounded) and periods of time-weighted average exposures have been determined in such a way that the carboxyhaemoglobin (COHb) level of 2.5% is not exceeded, even when a normal subject engages in light or moderate exercise:\n\nFor indoor air quality 7 mg/m3 (6 ppm) for 24 h (so as not to exceed 2% COHb for chronic exposure)\n\nInitial treatment for carbon monoxide poisoning is to immediately remove the person from the exposure without endangering further people. Those who are unconscious may require CPR on site. Administering oxygen via non-rebreather mask shortens the half-life of carbon monoxide from 320 minutes, when breathing normal air, to only 80 minutes. Oxygen hastens the dissociation of carbon monoxide from carboxyhemoglobin, thus turning it back into hemoglobin. Due to the possible severe effects in the fetus, pregnant women are treated with oxygen for longer periods of time than non-pregnant people.\n\nHyperbaric oxygen is also used in the treatment of carbon monoxide poisoning, as it may hasten dissociation of CO from carboxyhemoglobin and cytochrome oxidase to a greater extent than normal oxygen. Hyperbaric oxygen at three times atmospheric pressure reduces the half life of carbon monoxide to 23 (~80/3 minutes) minutes, compared to 80 minutes for oxygen at regular atmospheric pressure. It may also enhance oxygen transport to the tissues by plasma, partially bypassing the normal transfer through hemoglobin. However, it is controversial whether hyperbaric oxygen actually offers any extra benefits over normal high flow oxygen, in terms of increased survival or improved long-term outcomes. There have been randomized controlled trials in which the two treatment options have been compared; of the six performed, four found hyperbaric oxygen improved outcome and two found no benefit for hyperbaric oxygen. Some of these trials have been criticized for apparent flaws in their implementation. A review of all the literature concluded that the role of hyperbaric oxygen is unclear and the available evidence neither confirms nor denies a medically meaningful benefit. The authors suggested a large, well designed, externally audited, multicentre trial to compare normal oxygen with hyperbaric oxygen.\n\nFurther treatment for other complications such as seizure, hypotension, cardiac abnormalities, pulmonary edema, and acidosis may be required. Increased muscle activity and seizures should be treated with dantrolene or diazepam; diazepam should only be given with appropriate respiratory support. Hypotension requires treatment with intravenous fluids; vasopressors may be required to treat myocardial depression. Cardiac dysrhythmias are treated with standard advanced cardiac life support protocols. If severe, metabolic acidosis is treated with sodium bicarbonate. Treatment with sodium bicarbonate is controversial as acidosis may increase tissue oxygen availability. Treatment of acidosis may only need to consist of oxygen therapy. The delayed development of neuropsychiatric impairment is one of the most serious complications of carbon monoxide poisoning. Brain damage is confirmed following MRI or CAT scans. Extensive follow up and supportive treatment is often required for delayed neurological damage. Outcomes are often difficult to predict following poisoning, especially people who have symptoms of cardiac arrest, coma, metabolic acidosis, or have high carboxyhemoglobin levels. One study reported that approximately 30% of people with severe carbon monoxide poisoning will have a fatal outcome. It has been reported that electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) may increase the likelihood of delayed neuropsychiatric sequelae (DNS) after carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning.\n\nThe true number of cases of carbon monoxide poisoning is unknown, since many non-lethal exposures go undetected. From the available data, carbon monoxide poisoning is the most common cause of injury and death due to poisoning worldwide. Poisoning is typically more common during the winter months. This is due to increased domestic use of gas furnaces, gas or kerosene space heaters, and kitchen stoves during the winter months, which if faulty and/or used without adequate ventilation, may produce excessive carbon monoxide. Carbon monoxide detection and poisoning also increases during power outages, when electric heating and cooking appliances become inoperative and residents may temporarily resort to fuel-burning space heaters, stoves, and grills (some of which are safe only for outdoor use but nonetheless are errantly burned indoors).\n\nIt has been estimated that more than 40,000 people per year seek medical attention for carbon monoxide poisoning in the United States. 95% of carbon monoxide poisoning deaths in the United States are due to gas space heaters. In many industrialized countries carbon monoxide is the cause of more than 50% of fatal poisonings. In the United States, approximately 200 people die each year from carbon monoxide poisoning associated with home fuel-burning heating equipment. Carbon monoxide poisoning contributes to the approximately 5613 smoke inhalation deaths each year in the United States. The CDC reports, \"Each year, more than 500 Americans die from unintentional carbon monoxide poisoning, and more than 2,000 commit suicide by intentionally poisoning themselves.\" For the 10-year period from 1979 to 1988, 56,133 deaths from carbon monoxide poisoning occurred in the United States, with 25,889 of those being suicides, leaving 30,244 unintentional deaths. A report from New Zealand showed that 206 people died from carbon monoxide poisoning in the years of 2001 and 2002. In total carbon monoxide poisoning was responsible for 43.9% of deaths by poisoning in that country. In South Korea, 1,950 people had been poisoned by carbon monoxide with 254 deaths from 2001 through 2003. A report from Jerusalem showed 3.53 per 100,000 people were poisoned annually from 2001 through 2006. In Hubei, China, 218 deaths from poisoning were reported over a 10-year period with 16.5% being from carbon monoxide exposure.\n\nThe earliest description of carbon monoxide poisoning dates to at least 200 BC by Aristotle. Documented cases of carbon monoxide being used as a method of suicide date to at least 100 BC in ancient Rome. In the AD 350s, the Roman emperor Julian suffered from carbon monoxide poisoning in Paris, and later described it in his work \"Misopogon\": \"though the winter weather prevailed and continually increased in severity, even so I did not allow my servants to heat the house, because I was afraid of drawing out the dampness in the walls; but I ordered them to carry in fire that had burned down and to place in the room a very moderate number of hot coals. But the coals, though there were not very many of them, brought out from the walls quantities of steam and this made me fall asleep. And since my head was filled with the fumes I was almost choked. Then I was carried outside.\" This misunderstanding of the causes of carbon monoxide poisoning may have caused the death of Julian's successor, Jovian.\n\nJohn Scott Haldane identified carbon monoxide as the lethal constituent of afterdamp, the gas created by combustion, after examining many bodies of miners killed in pit explosions. Their skin was coloured cherry-pink from carboxyhaemoglobin, the stable compound formed in the blood by reaction with the gas. As a result of his research, he was able to design respirators for rescue workers. He tested the effect of carbon monoxide on his own body in a closed chamber, describing the results of his slow poisoning. In the late 1890s, he introduced the use of small animals for miners to detect dangerous levels of carbon monoxide underground, either white mice or canaries. With a faster metabolism, they showed the effects of poisoning before gas levels became critical for the workers, and so gave an early warning of the problem. The canary in British pits was replaced in 1986 by the electronic gas detector.\n\nAs part of the Holocaust during World War II, German Nazis used gas vans at Chelmno extermination camp and elsewhere to kill an estimated over 700,000 prisoners by carbon monoxide poisoning. This method was also used in the gas chambers of several death camps such as Treblinka, Sobibor and Belzec. Gassing with carbon monoxide started in action T4, the programme developed by the Nazis in Germany to murder the mentally ill and disabled people before the war started in earnest. The gas was supplied by IG Farben in pressurized cylinders and fed by tubes into the gas chambers built at various mental hospitals, such as Hartheim Euthanasia Centre. Many key personnel were recruited from the T4 programme to murder much larger numbers of people in the gas vans and the special gas chambers used in the death camps such as Treblinka. Exhaust fumes from tank engines for example, were used to supply the gas to the chambers.\n\nThe use of oxygen as treatment began in 1868. The use of hyperbaric oxygen in rats following poisoning was studied by Haldane in 1895 while its use in humans began in the 1960s.\n\nCarbon monoxide is produced naturally by the body as a byproduct of converting protoporphyrin into bilirubin. This carbon monoxide also combines with hemoglobin to make carboxyhemoglobin, but not at toxic levels.\n\nSmall amounts of CO are beneficial and enzymes exist that produce it at times of oxidative stress. Drugs are being developed to introduce small amounts of CO during certain kinds of surgery, these drugs are called carbon monoxide-releasing molecules.\n\n"}
{"id": "2154755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2154755", "title": "Dates of Epoch-Making Events", "text": "Dates of Epoch-Making Events\n\nDates of Epoch-Making Events is an entry in The Nuttall Encyclopaedia for its listing of the most important turning points in history, particularly western history. The work's list illustrates western culture's turning points and James Wood's views from the early 20th century. The events are listed as in the original listing, with modern footnotes.\n\nThe events chosen, with few errors, are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52454436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52454436", "title": "Devendrar Jayanti", "text": "Devendrar Jayanti\n\nDevendrar Jayanthi is a festival celebrated annually on 11 September. It is organised by various political parties, community organisations and civil societies in Southern Tamil Nadu to commemorate the memory of Immanuvel Devendrar, a freedom fighter and Indian National Congress leader who took part in the Quit India movement during the British Raj era. He worked in the Indian Army in independent India and later he fought for the rights of depressed class people of Southern Tamil Nadu, particularly for upliftment of Pallar caste. He was a close associate of chief minister K. Kamaraj.\n\nImmanuel Devendrar was a member of the Indian National Congress and a close associate of its leader, K. Kamaraj. At that time, Congress was supported by influential communities of southern Tamil Nadu, such as the Pallars and Nadars, and opposed by the Forward Block, which was itself favoured by the Maravar community. The two sides clashed during elections. Violence erupted notably in the districts of Ramanathapuram and Madurai which claimed over 40 lives. Devendrar was killed at this time and the anniversary of his death is today celebrated by various political parties and community organisations and civil societies as Devendrar Jayanthi.\n\nDevendrar Jayanti is among the celebrations sometimes criticised as being designed mainly as expressions of caste pride and political power, which sometimes turn into inter-caste violence. The critics claim that political parties used them as a form of vote bank politics.\n\nThese critics are rebutted by people who say that every caste has its own leader and the people are celebrating the memories of their leaders. Despite of these arguments every year the government is struggling to maintain the law and order during these celebrations.\n"}
{"id": "23081696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23081696", "title": "Digitas NewFront", "text": "Digitas NewFront\n\nThe Digitas NewFront is an annual marketing conference first held during Internet Week New York. Hosted by Digitas and its brand content entity, The Third Act, the event's stated purpose is to \"bring together content creators, distributors, talent and brands to harness creative media opportunities made possible in the age of digital marketing\". In 2009, it was broadcast via public webcast. The event was produced by Amanda Anderson.\n\nFirst launched in 2008, the event was titled \"Digital Content NewFront\". The event title was later shortened to \"The NewFront\" with the stated mission to \"explore and help evolve the brand content and distribution landscape\". The event showcased online video content companies like 60 Frames, MySpaceTV, MTV New Media, Generate, Next New Networks and Vuguru. Speakers and panelists included Michael Eisner, CEO of Tornate and Vuguru, former Disney CEO and Dmitry Shapiro, the founder of Veoh Networks.\n\nIn 2018, the NewFronts ran for one week rather than two.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10289455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10289455", "title": "Displace Me", "text": "Displace Me\n\nDisplace Me was a nationwide event hosted by the nonprofit Invisible Children Inc. on April 28, 2007. In 15 cities across the United States, 68,000 individuals came together to raise awareness about the situation of the displacement camps in northern Uganda.\n\nThe event had three main goals:\n\nDisplace Me was created to be an experiential event. To encourage the simulation, participants were asked to bring the following:\n\nWith 15 locations across the United States, participants had to travel long distances to reach their “camps.” The traveling aspect was reflective of the displaced individuals in northern Uganda who were given 48 hours to leave their homes and relocate to displaced camps throughout the region. Once Displace Me participants arrived at their camps, they built “huts” out of cardboard boxes. Throughout the remainder of the night, participants were rationed food and water and heard, via video, personal testimonies from those living in the IDP camps in the North.\n\nOther aspects of the event included a speech at every city from an individual personally connected with the conflict. Speakers included the Gulu District Chairman Norbert Mao, Invisible Children’s Ugandan Country Director Jolly Okot, and the Senior Adviser to the International Crisis Group John Prendergast, among others. First Lady Laura Bush also directly addressed the Displace Me participants via a prerecorded speech shown on video. Participants concluded the night by writing letters to their government leaders and the President of Uganda, calling friends and family who were not aware of the conflict, as well as holding 21 minutes of silence for the 21 years of war.\n\nDuring the night participants also helped film a video that was to be shown to members of the United States Senate. Participants in each city held up giant banners with their city's name and one to two phrases from the below statement.\n\n"}
{"id": "1216583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1216583", "title": "Farewell speech", "text": "Farewell speech\n\nA farewell speech or farewell address is a speech given by an individual leaving a position or place. They are often used by public figures such as politicians as a to the preceding career, or as statements delivered by persons relating to reasons for their leaving. The term is often used as a euphemism for \"retirement speech\", though it is broader in that it may include geographical or even biological conclusion. In the Classics, a term for a dignified and poetic farewell speech is \"apobaterion\" (ἀποβατήριον), standing opposed to the \"epibaterion\", the corresponding speech made upon arrival.\n\nMany U.S. presidential speeches have been given the moniker \"farewell address\" since George Washington's address in 1796. Some notable examples:\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "535329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=535329", "title": "Fictitious entry", "text": "Fictitious entry\n\nFictitious or fake entries are deliberately incorrect entries in reference works such as dictionaries, encyclopedias, maps, and directories. There are more specific terms for particular kinds of fictitious entry, such as Mountweazel, trap street, paper street, paper town, phantom settlement, and nihilartikel.\n\nFictitious entries are included either as a humorous hoax or as a copyright trap to reveal subsequent plagiarism or copyright infringement. \n\nThe neologism \"Mountweazel\" was coined by \"The New Yorker\" based on a fictitious biographical entry in the 1975 \"New Columbia Encyclopedia\".\n\nThe term \"nihilartikel\", combining the Latin \"nihil\" (\"nothing\") and German \"Artikel\" (\"article\"), is sometimes used.\n\nBy including a trivial piece of false information in a larger work, it is easier to demonstrate subsequent plagiarism if the fictitious entry is copied along with other material. An admission of this motive appears in the preface to Chambers' 1964 mathematical tables: \"those [errors] that are known to exist form an uncomfortable trap for any would-be plagiarist\". Similarly, trap streets may be included in a map, or invented phone numbers in a telephone directory.\n\nFictitious entries may be used to demonstrate copying, but to prove legal infringement, the material must also be shown to be eligible for copyright (see \"Feist v. Rural\", Fred Worth lawsuit or \"Nester's Map & Guide Corp. v. Hagstrom Map Co.\", 796 F.Supp. 729, E.D.N.Y., 1992.)\nMost listings of the members of the German parliament feature the fictitious politician Jakob Maria Mierscheid, allegedly a member of the parliament since 1979. Among other activities he is reported to have contributed to a major symposium on the equally fictitious stone louse in Frankfurt.\n\nFictitious entries in reference publications often occur in an attempt to catch plagiarism, such as: \n\n\nFictitious entries on maps may be called phantom settlements, trap streets, paper towns, cartographer's follies, or other names. They are intended to help unmask copyright infringements.\n\n\n\nOther examples of copyright infringement that do not fall under the above categories include: \n\n\nSome publications such as those published by Harvard biologist John Bohannon are used to detect lack of academic scrutiny, editorial oversight, fraud and/or p hacking on the part of authors or their publishers. Trap publications may be used by publishers to immediately reject articles citing them, or by academics to detect journals of ill repute (those that would publish them or works citing them).\n\nFictitious entries often occur in reference publications as a prank, or practical joke, in an attempt to be humorous, such as: \n\n\nFictitious entries occasionally feature in other publications in an attempt to be humorous, such as:\n\n\nMany publications have included false items and then challenged readers to identify it, including:\n\nFictitious entries are sometimes plot points in fiction, including:\n\n\nFictitious entries may be used to demonstrate copying, but to prove legal infringement, the material must also be shown to be eligible for copyright. However, due to the \"Feist v. Rural\", Fred Worth lawsuit where the Supreme Court ruled that \"information alone without a minimum of original creativity cannot be protected by copyright\", there are very few cases where copyright has been proven. Many of these cases that go to court are dismissed and the affected party is rewarded no compensation.\n\n\nOften times there will be errors in maps, dictionaries, and other publications, that are not deliberate and thus are not fictitious entries. For example, within dictionaries there are such mistakes known as ghost words, \"words which have no real existence […] being mere coinages due to the blunders of printers or scribes, or to the perfervid imaginations of ignorant or blundering editors.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16191394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16191394", "title": "Geohazard", "text": "Geohazard\n\nA geohazard is a geological state that may lead to widespread damage or risk. Geohazards are geological and environmental conditions and involve long-term or short-term geological processes. Geohazards can be relatively small features, but they can also attain huge dimensions (e.g., submarine or surface landslide) and affect local and regional socio-economy to a large extent (e.g., tsunamis).\n\nHuman activities, such as drilling through overpressured zones—could result in significant risk, and as such mitigation and prevention are paramount, through improved understanding of geohazards, their preconditions, causes and implications. In other cases, particularly in montane regions, natural processes can cause catalytic events of a complex nature, such as an avalanche hitting a lake causes a debris flow, with consequences potentially hundreds of miles away, or creating a lahar by volcanism.\n\nThe continued and multi-disciplinary investigation into the occurrence and implications of geohazards, in particular offshore geohazards in relation with the oil and gas exploration, lead to specific mitigation studies and establishing relevant prevention mechanisms.\n\n\nEleven distinct flood basalt episodes occurred in the past 250 million years, resulting in large volcanic provinces, creating plateaus and mountain ranges on Earth. Large igneous provinces have been connected to five mass extinction events. The timing of six out of eleven known provinces coincide with periods of global warming and marine anoxia/dysoxia. Thus, suggesting that volcanic CO2 emissions can force an important effect on the climate system.\n\n"}
{"id": "53794727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53794727", "title": "George Gigicos", "text": "George Gigicos\n\nGeorge Gigicos is an American campaign consultant who specializes in advance representation for Republican politicians. He served as White House Scheduling and Advance Director from the beginning of Donald Trump's presidency until July 31, 2017.\n\nGigicos is of Greek descent and has ancestry from Kalamata. He studied at Birmingham–Southern College in Alabama, graduating in 1990. Gigicos worked in advance planning for the United States Department of the Treasury under President George H. W. Bush and later worked as an event planner at the Orange County Convention Center in Florida. He founded a communications firm known as the Telion Corporation in 1999, and also worked for the Republican campaigns of George W. Bush, John McCain, and Mitt Romney. \n\nIn December 2016, \"Politico\" reported that Gigicos was one of Trump's campaign staffers being considered for a staff role in the Trump administration. The site reported that Gigicos was likely to be appointed as the director of White House advance. Trump appointed him as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of Advance on January 5, 2017. He served in the Trump Administration until July 31, 2017. \n"}
{"id": "53352269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53352269", "title": "Global Running Day", "text": "Global Running Day\n\nGlobal Running Day is a day that celebrates the sport of running. It is held annually on the first Wednesday of June. Participants of all ages and abilities pledge to take part in some type of running activity by submitting their names through the Global Running Day website. Global Running Day 2018 is scheduled for June 6.\n\nGlobal Running Day was formerly known as National Running Day and began in the United States. The first event was in 2009.\n\nThe inaugural Global Running Day was held on June 1, 2016. More than 2.5 million people from 177 countries pledged to run more than 9.2 million miles. New York City Mayor, Bill de Blasio, declared June 1, 2016 to be Global Running Day in the City of New York. 2014 Boston Marathon winner Meb Keflezighi led a group run from the Boston Run Base, and the Atlanta Track Club organized a “run around the clock” event, where at least one person from the Atlanta metro area would be running every hour of Global Running Day.\n\nThe Million Kid Run is the youth division of Global Running Day and aims to have one million kids around the world participate in Global Running Day. Its focus is on making fitness fun, and inspiring kids to embrace running as a way to remain healthy and fit. In 2016, 672,030 youths took part.\n\nMore than 100 organizations support Global Running Day and the Million Kid Run, including the Abbott World Marathon Majors, Atlanta Track Club, Boston Athletic Association, Competitor Group, Houston Marathon Foundation, International Association of Athletics Federations, Athletics for a Better World program, New York Road Runners, Running USA, USA Track & Field, and more\n"}
{"id": "301456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301456", "title": "Happy ending", "text": "Happy ending\n\nA happy ending is an ending of the plot of a work of fiction in which almost everything turns out for the best for the protagonists, their sidekicks, and almost everyone except the villains.\n\nIn storylines where the protagonists are in physical danger, a happy ending mainly consists of their survival and successful completion of the quest or mission; where there is no physical danger, a happy ending may be lovers consummating their love despite various factors which may have thwarted it. A considerable number of storylines combine both situations. In Steven Spielberg's version of \"War of the Worlds\", the happy ending consists of three distinct elements: The protagonists all survive the countless perils of their journey; humanity as a whole survives the alien invasion; \"and\" the protagonist father regains the respect of his estranged children. The plot is so constructed that all three are needed for the audience's feeling of satisfaction in the end. \n\nA happy ending is epitomized in the standard fairy tale ending phrase, \"happily ever after\" or \"and they lived happily ever after\". (\"One Thousand and One Nights\" has the more restrained formula \"they lived happily until there came to them the One who Destroys all Happiness\" (i.e. Death); likewise, the Russian versions of fairy tales typically end with \"they lived long and happily, and died together on the same day\".) Satisfactory happy endings are happy for the reader as well, in that the characters he or she sympathizes with are rewarded. However, this can also serve as an open path for a possible sequel. For example, in the 1977 film \"Star Wars\", Luke Skywalker defeats the Galactic Empire by destroying the Death Star; however, the story's happy ending has consequences that follow in \"The Empire Strikes Back\". The concept of a permanent happy ending is specifically brought up in the Stephen King fantasy/fairy tale novel \"The Eyes of the Dragon\" which has a standard good ending for the genre, but simply states that \"there were good days and bad days\" afterwards.\n\nA happy ending only requires that the main characters be all right. Millions of innocent background characters can die, but as long as the characters that the reader/viewer/audience cares about survive, it can still be a happy ending. Roger Ebert comments in his review of Roland Emmerich's \"The Day After Tomorrow\": \"Billions of people may have died, but at least the major characters have survived. Los Angeles is leveled by multiple tornadoes, New York is buried under ice and snow, the United Kingdom is flash-frozen, and lots of the Northern Hemisphere is wiped out for good measure. Thank god that Jack, Sam, Laura, Jason and Dr. Lucy Hall survive, along with Dr. Hall's little cancer patient.\"\n\nThe presence of a happy ending is one of the key points that distinguish melodrama from tragedy. In certain periods, the endings of traditional tragedies such as \"Macbeth\" or \"Oedipus Rex\", in which most of the major characters end up dead, disfigured, or discountenanced, have been actively disliked. In the Seventeenth Century, the Irish author Nahum Tate sought to improve William Shakespeare's \"King Lear\" in his own heavily modified version in which Lear survives and Cordelia marries Edgar. Tate's version dominated performances for a century and a half, Shakespeare's original nearly forgotten. Both David Garrick and John Philip Kemble, while taking up some of Shakespeare's original text, kept Tate's happy ending. Edmund Kean played \"King Lear\" with its tragic ending in 1823, but failed and reverted to Tate's crowd-pleaser after only three performances. Only in 1838 did William Macready at Covent Garden successfully restore Shakespeare's original tragic end – Helen Faucit's final appearance as Cordelia, dead in her father's arms, became one of the most iconic of Victorian images and the play's tragic end was finally accepted by the general public. Most subsequent critics have not found Tate's amendments an improvement, and welcomed the restoration of Shakespeare's original. Happy endings have also been fastened – equally, with no lasting success – to \"Romeo and Juliet\" and \"Othello\". \n\nThere is no universally accepted definition of what a happy ending is; such definitions can considerably vary with time and cultural differences. An interpretation of \"The Merchant of Venice\"s forced conversion of Shylock to Christianity is that it was intended as a happy ending. As a Christian, Shylock could no longer impose interest, undoing his schemes in the play and ending the rivalry between him and Antonio, but more important, contemporary audiences would see becoming a Christian as a means to save his soul (cf. Romans 11:15). In later times, Jews (and non-Jewish opponents of anti-Semitism) strongly objected to that ending, regarding it as depicting a victory for injustice and oppression and as pandering to the audience's prejudices.\n\nMost interpretations of the legend of Don Juan end with the protagonist rake being dragged off to Hell, in just retribution for his many sins (for example, the ending of Mozart's \"Don Giovanni\"). However, José Zorrilla - whose 1844 play \"Don Juan Tenorio\" is the version most well-known in the Spanish-speaking world - believed that a story should never end sadly, and must always have a happy ending. In Zorrilla's depiction, Don Juan is saved at the last moment from the flames of Hell by the selfless pure love of Doña Inés, a woman whom he wronged but who forgave him; she had made a deal with God to offer her own blameless soul on behalf of Don Juan's - thus redeeming Don Juan and taking him with her to Paradise.\n\nA \"Times\" review of \"The Spy Who Came in from the Cold\" strongly criticized John le Carré for failing to provide a happy ending, and gave unequivocal reasons why in the reviewer's opinion (shared by many others) such an ending is needed: \"The hero must triumph over his enemies, as surely as Jack must kill the giant in the nursery tale. If the giant kills Jack, we have missed the whole point of the story.\"\n\nGeorge Bernard Shaw had to wage an uphill struggle against audiences, as well as some critics, persistently demanding that his \"Pygmalion\" have a happy ending, i.e. that Professor Higgins and Eliza Doolitle would ultimately get married. To Shaw's great chagrin, [[Herbert Beerbohm Tree]] who presented the play in London's [[West End theatre|West End]] in 1914 had sweetened the ending and told Shaw: \"My ending makes money; you ought to be grateful. Your ending is damnable; you ought to be shot.\" The irritated Shaw added a postscript essay, \"'What Happened Afterwards\", to the 1916 print edition, for inclusion with subsequent editions, in which he explained precisely why in his view it was impossible for the story to end with Higgins and Eliza getting married. Nevertheless, audiences continued wanting a happy ending also for later adaptations such as the musical and film \"[[My Fair Lady]]\".\n\nIn numerous cases, [[Hollywood]] studios adapting literary works into film added a happy ending which did not appear in the original. \n\n\n[[Category:Endings]]\n[[Category:Narratology]]\n[[Category:Fiction]]\n[[Category:Plot (narrative)]]\n[[Category:Recurrent elements in fairy tales]]"}
{"id": "30082779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30082779", "title": "Hugh Freeze", "text": "Hugh Freeze\n\nDanny Hugh Freeze Jr. (born September 27, 1969) is an American football coach. He is currently the Offensive Coordinator for the University of Tennessee. He is the former head coach of the University of Mississippi. Freeze served as the head football coach at Lambuth University from 2008 to 2009 and at Arkansas State University in 2011. He was previously a successful high school football coach at Briarcrest Christian School in Memphis, Tennessee, where he coached Michael Oher and Greg Hardy. He would later follow both of them to the University of Mississippi.\n\nFreeze attended Senatobia High School and the University of Southern Mississippi, from which he graduated in 1992 with a Bachelor of Science degree in mathematics and a minor in coaching and sports administration.\n\nIn 1992, Freeze joined the staff at Briarcrest Christian School in Memphis, Tennessee, as the football team's offensive coordinator and defensive backs coach. Freeze also served as dean of students. In 1995, he was promoted to head coach. Freeze ran the no huddle spread offense and led his team to the state championship twice, in 2002 and 2004, and the regional championship each year from 1995 to 1998 and in 2001 and 2002. He received Region 8-AA Coach of the Year honors five times and Associated Press Coach of the Year honors six times. In ten years at Briarcrest, Freeze was 94–30 as head coach (.785 winning percentage) and 126–37 overall. Freeze was depicted in and motion picture \"The Blind Side\", about one of his former players, current free agent offensive tackle Michael Oher.\n\nWhile at Briarcrest Christian School, Freeze also coached the girls basketball team from 1992 to 2004, and actually had more success in this role, with an overall record of 305–63 (.829 winning percentage), seven straight championship appearances, and four championships.\n\nFollowing his dismissal from Ole Miss, some former students alleged that Freeze had engaged in inappropriate conduct with female students while at Briarcrest. Freeze has denied the allegation and the school has stated it is unaware of any sexual improprieties involving Freeze during his tenure at the school.\n\nIn 2005, the University of Mississippi hired Freeze as an assistant athletic director for football external affairs. The following season, he became the tight ends coach and recruiting coordinator, positions he held through 2007. After that season, he replaced head coach Ed Orgeron on an interim basis before the hiring of Houston Nutt. Freeze interviewed for the offensive coordinator position with Nutt, a position that eventually went to Kent Austin.\n\nIn January 2008, Lambuth University, a member of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), named Freeze its head coach. In 2008, he led Lambuth to an 8–4 record and a first round loss in the NAIA playoffs, marking their first appearance in the playoffs since 2004 under then head coach Vic Wallace. He was considered for the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga's head coaching position following the 2008 season, but remained at Lambuth University for another season and compiled a 20–5 overall record, and defeating opponents 41–17 on average. In 2009, he led the Eagles to their best regular season record in school history with an unblemished 11–0 mark. Lambuth advanced to the second round of the NAIA playoffs for first time in 11 years—having won one game before suffering elimination to finish 12–1 as the sixth-ranked team in the NAIA.\n\nIn 2010, he joined the staff at Arkansas State as offensive coordinator after a brief stint as offensive coordinator at San Jose State University under Mike MacIntyre. The Red Wolves finished with a 4–8 record, but their offensive rankings jumped from 95th in total offense and 90th in scoring offense in the NCAA Division I FBS to 43rd and 46th, respectively. The Red Wolves' offense broke nine school records including total plays (856), first downs (262), pass attempts (438), pass completions (266), completion percentage (.607), passing yards (3,057), passing yards per game (254.8), and passing touchdowns (23). The Red Wolves' offense averaged 403.4 yards per game, eclipsing over 300 yards all 12 times it took the field for the first time in the history of the program. A-State posted at least 400 yards of total offense in seven games during the 2010 campaign, the most ever as an NCAA FBS member, all in his first year as offensive coordinator. After the season, Freeze was promoted to replace head coach Steve Roberts.\n\nIn 2011, his only season as head coach at Arkansas State, he led the Red Wolves to a 10–2 record and their first Sun Belt Conference title since 2005. The Red Wolves' offense averaged 447.8 ypg (28th nationally, 1st in Sun Belt Conference) including 293.6 ypg passing and 154.2 ypg rushing. Freeze left Arkansas State before the Arkansas State's appearance in the GoDaddy.com Bowl following the season.\n\nOn December 5, 2011, Freeze was announced as the 37th head coach of the University of Mississippi. During the press conference to introduce Freeze as the head coach, he stated that he wanted to \"retire at Ole Miss.\" He was signed to a four-year contract with an annual salary of $1.5 million plus incentives up to $2.5 million.\n\nIn his first season at Ole Miss, Freeze led the Rebels to a 6–6 record in the regular season, making Ole Miss bowl eligible for the first time since 2009 with a 41–24 victory over Mississippi State in the Egg Bowl. His Rebels accepted a bid to play in the BBVA Compass Bowl in Birmingham, Alabama, on January 5, 2013. They beat the University of Pittsburgh 38–17 to finish 7–6.\n\nFreeze received national attention on National Signing Day 2013 as Ole Miss brought in the fifth ranked recruiting class in the country.\n\nFreeze won the 2014 Grant Teaff Coach of the Year award by the Fellowship of Christian Athletes.\n\nDuring Freeze's third season at Ole Miss, he led the Rebels to a 7–0 start, the program's best start since the Johnny Vaught era. By October, they had risen as high as third in the nation, their highest ranking at that late stage in the season in almost half a century. They ultimately finished 9–3, only the third time since Vaught's tenure that Ole Miss has won that many games in the regular season. That netted them an appearance in the 2014 Peach Bowl–their first major bowl appearance since the 1970 Sugar Bowl, and easily the biggest bowl they had attended since Vaught's tenure.\n\nOn September 19, 2015, Freeze's Rebels beat Alabama, 43–37, in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, making Freeze only the third head coach, along with Les Miles and Steve Spurrier, to defeat a Nick Saban-coached team in back-to-back years (Michigan's Lloyd Carr beat Saban's Michigan State Spartans in three consecutive years, '96–'98). The victory catapulted the Rebels to #3 in the AP rankings. They went on to tally their second straight nine-win season, and garnered a berth in the 2016 Sugar Bowl, where they won 48–20 over Oklahoma State. They finished ninth in the AP Poll and 10th in the Coaches' Poll—their first top-10 finishes in a final poll since 1969.\n\nIn January 2016, the NCAA charged Ole Miss with numerous recruiting violations. An investigation turned up evidence that Ole Miss employees and boosters arranged numerous \"impermissible benefits\" for players, such as car loans and cash. At least one recruit was suspected of getting help on his college entrance exam. \n\nThe investigation reopened soon after star offensive tackle Laremy Tunsil admitted taking money from one of Freeze's assistants. In February 2017—three months after suffering its first losing season since the year Freeze arrived—Ole Miss withdrew from bowl consideration for the upcoming season. The move came on the same day that the NCAA sent an updated notice of allegations charging the Rebels with eight additional violations. Most seriously, it accused Freeze of not monitoring his assistants, and also accused Ole Miss of not properly controlling the program.\n\nOn July 13, 2017, Freeze's predecessor, Houston Nutt, sued Ole Miss for defamation, contending that Freeze and school officials falsely blamed him for the violations. As part of discovery for the lawsuit, Nutt's attorneys filed a Freedom of Information Act request for calls Freeze made on his university-issued cell phone during January 2016. Nutt's attorneys contended that Freeze and others at Ole Miss leaked information to the press as part of an effort to smear their client. \n\nWhile reviewing those records, Nutt's attorneys discovered a call to a number associated with a female escort service, and alerted Ole Miss officials about it. Freeze claimed it was a misdialed number. School officials investigated, and discovered what they later described as \"a concerning pattern\" of similar calls dating back to shortly after he arrived in Oxford. On July 20, chancellor Jeff Vitter and athletic director Ross Bjork gave Freeze an ultimatum: resign or be fired for violating the morals clause of his contract. Freeze opted to resign; offensive coordinator Matt Luke was named interim coach.\n\nOn October 11, 2018, Freeze was named as the Offensive Coordinator for the Arizona Hotshots of the Alliance of American Football.\n\nFreeze and his wife Jill have three daughters; Ragan, Jordan and Madison. Freeze is a born again Christian and has been outspoken about his faith throughout his coaching career. He and his family attend Pinelake Church in Oxford.\n\n\nAssistant coaches under Hugh Freeze who became NCAA head coaches:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "360984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=360984", "title": "Jessica McClure", "text": "Jessica McClure\n\nJessica McClure Morales (born March 26, 1986) became famous on October 14, 1987, at the age of 18 months after she fell into a well in her aunt's backyard in Midland, Texas. Between that day and October 16, rescuers worked for 56 hours to free her from the well casing below the ground. The story gained worldwide attention (leading to some criticism as a media circus), and later became the subject of a 1989 ABC television movie \"\".\n\nMcClure's rescue proved to be a much more difficult ordeal than was first anticipated. Within hours of beginning the emergency procedure, the Midland Fire and Police Departments devised a plan that involved drilling another shaft parallel to the well and then drilling a tunnel at a right angle across to it. Enlisting the help of a variety of local (often out-of-work) oil-drillers, the Midland officials had hoped to free McClure in minutes. However, the first workers to arrive on the scene found their tools barely adequate to penetrate the hard rock around the well. It took about six hours to drill the shaft and longer to drill the tunnel, because the jackhammers used were designed for drilling downward, rather than sideways. A mining engineer eventually arrived to help supervise and coordinate the rescue effort. TV viewers watched as paramedics and rescuers, drilling experts and contractors worked tirelessly to save the baby's life. Meanwhile, they were reassured when they heard Jessica singing “Winnie the Pooh” from deep in the well. As long as she was still singing, they knew she was still alive. Forty-five hours after McClure fell into the well, the shaft and tunnel were finally completed.\n\nThe relatively new technology of waterjet cutting, used to cut through the hard rock surrounding the well, was a vital part of the rescue.\n\nRon Short, a muscular roofing contractor who was born without collar bones because of cleidocranial dysostosis and so could collapse his shoulders to work in cramped corners, arrived at the site and offered to go down the shaft. They considered his offer, but did not use it. One report said that he helped to clear tunneling debris away.\n\nMidland Fire Department paramedic Robert O'Donnell was ultimately able to inch his way into the tunnel and wrestle McClure free from the confines of the well, handing her to fellow paramedic Steve Forbes, who carried her up to safety.\n\nCNN was on the scene with around-the-clock coverage of the rescue effort. This massive media saturation of the ordeal prompted then-President Ronald Reagan to state that \"everybody in America became godmothers and godfathers of Jessica while this was going on.\"\n\nFrom the beginning and throughout the incident, the switchboard of local media outlet KMID-TV was flooded with telephone calls from news organizations and private individuals around the world, seeking the latest information on rescue efforts. In some cases, they shared their own insight into this and similar incidents.\n\nIn 1988, McClure and her parents appeared on \"Live with Regis and Kathie Lee\" to talk about the incident.\n\nThe photograph of McClure being rescued fetched the 1988 Pulitzer Prize for Spot News Photography to Scott Shaw of the \"Odessa American\".\n\nABC made a television movie of the story in 1989, \"\", starring Patty Duke and Beau Bridges. It featured many participants in the actual rescue and its coverage as extras.\n\nOn May 30, 2007, \"USA Today\" ranked McClure number 22 on its list of \"25 lives of indelible impact.\"\n\nFollowing McClure's rescue on October 16, 1987, surgeons had to amputate a toe due to gangrene from loss of circulation while she was in the well. She also has a scar on her forehead where her head rubbed against the well casing. She had 15 surgeries over the years and has no first-hand memory of the event. Her parents divorced a few years after the rescue.\n\nParamedic Robert O'Donnell, battling posttraumatic stress disorder as a result of the arduous rescue effort and struggling to cope with the abrupt decline of the fame and recognition that had been lavished on him following his heroic act, committed suicide in 1995.\n\nMcClure graduated from Greenwood High School, in a small community near Midland, in May 2004. On January 28, 2006, nineteen-year-old McClure married Daniel Morales at Church of Christ in Notrees, Texas, about 40 miles from Midland. They met at a day care center where she worked with his sister. They have two children, a boy born 2007 and a girl born 2009.\n\nWhen McClure turned 25 on March 26, 2011, she received a trust fund of donations worth up to $800,000. Her father said she had discussed setting up a trust fund for the college education of her children. It had earlier helped in the purchase of her present home, which is less than from the site of the incident.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20820712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20820712", "title": "Katie Martin", "text": "Katie Martin\n\nKatie Martin (born Katie Louise Van Veen on January 8, 1972) is an American consultant in eco-friendly special events, floral design, and green events and life styles.\n\nMartin was born in Washington, DC. She graduated from the University of Maryland, College Park, in 1994 with a BS in accounting. She has one son and is married to Neftali Miguel Vasquez Perez.\n\n\nMartin’s work also has been showcased in \"DC Modern Luxury Magazine\", \"Flower Magazine\", \"Catering Magazine\", \"Florists' Review\", \"Washington Woman\", \"Grace Ormonde\", \"Upscale Magazine\", \"Bride & Bloom\", \"Modern Bride\", \"My Day Magazine\", \"The Knot\", \"Engaged Magazine\", and \"La Bella Bride\".\n\nFounded in 1998, Martin's wedding and event planning company, Elegance & Simplicity Wedding & Event Designers, Inc. (located in Bethesda, Maryland with a sister office in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic) has planned about 3,500 weddings worldwide. Martin also founded and runs Green Life DC, a consulting firm that helps individuals, families, events and businesses be more environmentally friendly.\n\nCurrently Martin is writing a book on green weddings.\n\n"}
{"id": "43209882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43209882", "title": "Killing of Sergio Guereca", "text": "Killing of Sergio Guereca\n\nOn June 7, 2010, Jesus Mesa Jr., a U.S. Border Patrol agent, shot and killed Sergio Adrian Hernandez Guereca on the concrete riverbed separating Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico and El Paso, Texas. At the time of the shooting Guereca, a 15-year-old-Mexican national was standing on the Mexican side of the Mexico–United States border, while the agent was on the American side. The agent claimed after the shooting that he had used deadly force because Guereca had been throwing rocks.\nThe shooting led to a protracted court case which examined whether the 5th amendment protected Guereca's life even though he was not standing on US soil. The case was heard by the Supreme Court of the United States in February 2017.\n"}
{"id": "30835697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30835697", "title": "Led Zeppelin – The 1980s, Part One", "text": "Led Zeppelin – The 1980s, Part One\n\nLed Zeppelin – The 1980s, Part One was a planned autumn 1980 concert tour of North America by the rock band Led Zeppelin. It was scheduled to take place from 17 October through 15 November of that year and cover much of the East Coast and Midwest. The band cancelled the tour when drummer John Bonham died on 25 September, one day after the group's initial rehearsal for the tour.\n\nIn the wake of Led Zeppelin's turmoil-plagued 1977 American tour, which ended abruptly with the sudden death of his son Karac, singer Robert Plant had become averse to touring America with the band. His reluctance to do so persisted despite the success of the \"In Through the Out Door\" album and the band's return to the stage at the 1979 Knebworth Festival after a two-year absence. Following the conclusion of Led Zeppelin's successful Tour Over Europe 1980, however, Plant had a change of heart and informed Led Zeppelin's manager Peter Grant that he was willing to undertake an American tour with the band in the autumn of 1980. According to writer Mick Wall, though,\n\nGrant had been concerned about the band's lengthy absence from one of its primary markets, and had correctly viewed the European tour as a way of rekindling Plant's interest in performing in America. Relieved by Plant's change of heart and mindful of the singer's conditions, Grant began planning a nineteen-date tour covering the American East Coast and Midwest, and envisioned Led Zeppelin undertaking additional West Coast and UK tours in early 1981. The band began preparations for the tour with renewed optimism about Led Zeppelin's future, with John Paul Jones in particular commenting that the band had \"new energy\" and was \"almost in a rebirth situation.\" John Bonham's death, however, resulted in the scuttling of the band's touring plans, and ultimately in the demise of Led Zeppelin itself, with the breakup of the band officially announced on 4 December 1980.\n\nWhile Jones's view of the state of Led Zeppelin on the eve of the 1980 North American tour was a positive one, writer Chris Welch saw things differently. In his biography of Peter Grant, Welch questioned the wisdom of the band undertaking a U.S. tour at that point in time:\n\nWelch and writers Dave Lewis and Mick Wall particularly questioned John Bonham's physical and emotional fitness to tour North America at that stage. They note that by the fall of 1980 Bonham's dislike of touring, which had been steadily growing over the years, was virtually as strong as Plant's. He was particularly nervous about the potential backlash he might experience in the U.S. from his involvement in the backstage brawl at the Oakland Coliseum during Led Zeppelin's 1977 tour. As Bonham grew older, moreover, the demands of touring—along with the effects of his alcohol and drug use—took an increasing toll on his energy and stamina, and by 1980 he was struggling with fatigue. He had already permanently dropped his lengthy drum solos from the band's onstage performances. While he came across to Lewis at the time as \"delighted\" about the upcoming trek, Bonham privately confided on the eve of the ill-fated rehearsals for \"Led Zeppelin - The 1980s, Part One\" that he felt depressed and uneasy about going on tour, and that he felt his drumming was no longer up to scratch. He reportedly told Plant, \"I've had it with playing drums. Everybody plays better than me. I'll tell you what, when we get to the rehearsal, you play the drums and I'll sing.\" After that initial rehearsal on 24 September, he complained again about going on tour while engaging in a drinking binge that would prove to be fatal.\n\nIronically, on 25 September, at the same time the rest of the band and its entourage were learning of Bonham's death, thousands of Led Zeppelin fans in Chicago were eagerly obtaining copies of that day's \"Chicago Tribune\" containing mail order applications for the upcoming November concerts. This proved to be fruitless since the tour was immediately cancelled.\n\nThe intended tour itinerary was as follows:\nFor the concerts on this tour, the band intended to use a scaled-down approach similar to the one they used for the European tour, which entailed fewer lighting effects, less improvisation, and fewer extended solos than their 1970s concerts. The previously rehearsed but unperformed \"In Through the Out Door\" track \"Carouselambra\" was included in the tentative set-list.\n\n"}
{"id": "34258585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34258585", "title": "Let's Do It! World", "text": "Let's Do It! World\n\nLet's Do It! World is a global civic movement that started from Estonia, asking people worldwide to join a series of local, national and regional clean-up events. Among other projects, it is the founder of World Cleanup Day.\n\nThe Let's Do It! movement was first conceived in Estonia in year 2008, where a country clean-up action called Let's do it! (in Estonian: \"Teeme Ära!\") cleaned up 10,000 tons of illegal waste by more than 50,000 volunteers in one day. Following Estonia's lead many countries also started their own country clean-up events. In 2011 a new initiative called Let's do it! World was started with the aim of promoting massive clean-ups from 24 March 2012 till 15 September 2012. After a successful World Cleanup 2012 project the next bigger goal is to have World Cleanup Day in 2018.\n\nToday, the movement has grown into a network of 113 countries. All together, 14 million participants have been engaged in movement's activities.\n\nLet's Do It! World is an accredited member of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP).\n\nSince 2017, the movement uses W sign aka Three Fingers Up as a symbol. \n\nOn the 3rd of May 2008 over 50,000 people came out of their homes to clean up Estonia, the rest followed the process via all the media channels. That's 4% out of a population of 1,3 million - which would equal 15,3 million in the USA or 57 million in India. The idea spread from Estonia to the whole Europe and beyond. Next spring, in 2009, Latvia and Lithuania cleaned their countries with more than 250,000 people participating and have done it henceforth for three years, engaging more people each year. On 20 March 2010 Portugal cleaned their country with 200,000 people. Slovenia followed shortly, breaking all records with 270,000 people (which is 13% of the overall population of the country) taking part in the action. In the beginning of June the same year, Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine was cleaned. By the end of 2011 more than 2.5 million people have participated in Let’s Do It! cleanup actions in 16 countries – Estonia, India, Slovenia, Serbia, Finland, Romania, Latvia, Lithuania, Portugal, Bulgaria, Moldova, Ukraine, Cambodia, Russia, Hungary and Brazil.\n\nIn 2012, starting from 24 March until 25 September, a series of cleanups happened around the globe, on all continents, bringing together millions of volunteers in 96 countries. The action was initiated on 24 March 2012 by volunteers in Slovenia and Portugal.\n\nTo bring together doers and initiators and share existing experience – Let's Do It! teams were organizing workshops and regional gatherings, introducing the World Cleanup 2012 around the world. Each group or organisation was leading the cleanup action in their country.\nAfter a successful World Cleanup 2012 project, the network set more ambitious goals. During the Let's Do It! Clean World Conference held in Prishtina, Kosovo on the 6th-9th of February 2014, it was agreed, that the aim of the global movement is to clean up the whole World from illegally dumped solid waste and to then keep the planet clean. To reach the essential transformation in the global society, the leaders of country cleanups set the ambitious goal to involve 380 million people by 2018. According to Let's Do It! World, this is around 5% of the world’s population and is estimated to be the amount to create a lasting change.\n\nThe most massive cleanup actions (data: October 2014) within the movement have happened in Slovenia, Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Kosovo and in Albania.\n\nIn 2012, 289,000 Slovenians came out of the homes and cleaned up the entire country in just one day. This is 14% of the country's population.\n\nIn 2013, 375,000 cleaned up the country in Bulgaria in a one-day country cleanup action (13,9% of country's population).\n\nIn 2012, 210,000 people (10% of country's population) cleaned up Latvia from illegal waste in just one day.\n\nIn 2013, a massive civic cleanup action also took place in Kosovo, bringing together 132,000 people (7% of the population) and in the same year, Albania also had a massive cleanup action, uniting 147,000 people (5,25%) to clean up the country in just one day.\n\nIn 2015, 250,000 people (8,6% of country's population) cleaned up Lithuania from illegal waste in one day.\n\nIn 2015, over 500,000 people participated in Let's Do It! actions in Ukraine cleaning up illegal dump-sites around the country. \n\nAround 15 millions people in 158 countries took part on the World Clean Up Day, the 15th of September 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "104985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104985", "title": "List of events named massacres", "text": "List of events named massacres\n\nThe following is a list of events for which one of the commonly accepted names includes the word \"massacre.\"\n\n\"Massacre\" is defined in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" as \"the indiscriminate and brutal slaughter of people or (less commonly) animals; carnage, butchery, slaughter in numbers\". It also states that the term is used \"in the names of certain massacres of history\".\nThe first recorded use in English of the word \"massacre\" in the name of an event is due to Christopher Marlow who in c. 1600 referred to what is now known as the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre as \"The massacre at Paris\"\n\nThe purpose of the list is to trace such of the term \"massacre\" specifically.\nThere are many alternative terms with similar connotations, such as butchery, carnage, bloodbath, mass killing, atrocity, etc. as well as euphemisms such as \"Vespers\", \"Blutgericht\" or \"attack\", \"incident\", \"tragedy\" (etc.), use of which are outside the scope of this list.\n\"Massacre\" is also used figuratively to describe dramatic events that did not involve any deaths, such as the \"Hilo massacre\" and the \"Saturday Night Massacre\"; this usage is also outside of the scope of this list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29752766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29752766", "title": "List of fan conventions by date of founding", "text": "List of fan conventions by date of founding\n\nThe list of modern fan conventions for various genres of entertainment extends to the first conventions held in the 1930s. \n\nSome fan historians claim that the 1936 Philadelphia Science Fiction Conference, a.k.a. Philcon, was the first science fiction convention ever held. Others, such as Fred Patten and Rob Hansen, make this claim for the January 1937 event in Leeds, England, organized by the Leeds Science Fiction League, which was specifically organised as a conference, with a program and speakers. Out of this came the first incarnation of the British Science Fiction Association.\n\nWhile a few conventions were created in various parts of the world within the period between 1935-1960, the number of convention establishments increased slightly in the 1960s and then increased dramatically in the 1970s, with many of the largest conventions in the modern era being established during the latter decade. Impeti for further establishment of local fan conventions include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2281261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2281261", "title": "List of historical reenactment events", "text": "List of historical reenactment events\n\nThis is a list of historical reenactment events.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2650647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2650647", "title": "List of mass evacuations", "text": "List of mass evacuations\n\nThis list of mass evacuations includes emergency evacuations of a large number of people in a short period of time. An emergency evacuation is the movement of persons from a dangerous place due to the threat or occurrence of a disastrous event whether from natural or man made causes or as the result of war.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40106633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40106633", "title": "List of prison escapes", "text": "List of prison escapes\n\nThe following is a list of historically famous prison escapes, and of multiple prison escapes:\n\nThere have been many infamous escapes throughout history:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "487164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=487164", "title": "List of public lecture series", "text": "List of public lecture series\n\nRecurrent series of prestigious public lectures are presented in various countries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21396853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21396853", "title": "List of science and engineering blunders", "text": "List of science and engineering blunders\n\nThis is a list of engineering blunders, i.e., gross errors or mistakes resulting from grave lack of proper consideration, such as stupidity, confusion, carelessness, or culpable ignorance, which resulted in notable incidents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28380469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28380469", "title": "Louis A. McCall Sr.", "text": "Louis A. McCall Sr.\n\nLouis Anthony McCall Sr. (December 28, 1951 – June 25, 1997) was an American singer, songwriter, drummer, and event planner. McCall is best remembered as the co-founder and drummer of the American Funk/R&B band Con Funk Shun, which gained fame during the 1970s and 1980s with R&B songs such as: \"Ffun\" (1978), \"Chase Me\" (1979) and \"Baby I'm Hooked (Right into Your Love)\" (1983). McCall's wife is music business consultant and songwriter Linda Lou McCall. In 1997, McCall was murdered in a home invasion robbery at age 45.\n\nLouis A. McCall Sr. and singer/guitarist Michael Cooper formed Con Funk Shun as high school students in Vallejo, California. Adding members Karl A. Fuller, Paul A. Harrell, Cedric A. Martin, Felton C. Pilate and Danny A. Thomas, the band started out as a backing group for the Soul Children under the name Project Soul. They began working with Stax Records staff songwriters, and while recording at Audio Dimensions, a sound studio in Memphis, Tennessee, producer Ted Sturges both named the group (after an instrumental recording by The Nite-Liters) and produced their first album, \"Organized Con Funk Shun\".\n\nIn 1976, Con Funk Shun signed to Mercury Records, releasing eleven albums over a span of ten years. The group's 1977 album, \"Secrets\", was certified gold in the U.S., as were \"Loveshine\" (1978), \"Candy\" (1979), and \"Spirit of Love\" (1980). They scored a string of top ten hits on the \"Billboard\" black singles chart, including \"Ffun\" (#1 in 1977), \"Shake and Dance with Me\" (#5 in 1978), \"Chase Me\" (#4 in 1979), \"Got to Be Enough\" (#8 in 1980) and \"Too Tight\" (#8 in 1981). Tensions from within the group built over the 1980s, and the group's final album, \"Burning Love\", was recorded without songwriter and vocalist Felton Pilate, who had left Con Funk Shun following a physical altercation involving McCall. The band let McCall go after he missed two concert dates in order to deal with medical problems resulting from a teenage car crash. After leaving Mercury Records, the band broke up in 1986, but some members of the group reunited alongside touring musicians for concerts in the 1990s.\n\nAfter leaving Con Funk Shun in 1986, McCall joined forces with his wife, a music business consultant, and started an artist management company in the Washington, DC area. In 1989, they discovered Keith Martin, an aspiring R&B artist, and signed on as his managers. When Linda Lou McCall was hired by rapper MC Hammer in 1990, the McCalls put Martin on Hammer's \"Please Hammer, Don't Hurt 'Em\" tour as a backup musician and vocalist, which launched Martin's career in the music industry. In 1992, Linda Lou formed her own company, The Entertainment Qartel, Inc. (EQartel), specializing in music business administration and entertainment marketing and promotions. In addition to doing radio promotion for EQartel's Atlanta-based street team, the Rhyme Scene Unit, McCall also became a successful event planner, most notably producing a celebrity benefit for actor/activist Danny Glover at The Fairmont Hotel in San Francisco in January 1993.\n\nOn June 25, 1997, Louis McCall was found murdered outside a friend's home in Stone Mountain, Georgia, the apparent victim of a home-invasion robbery. His wife, Linda Lou, fought to keep the case active for eleven years, even asking the Governor of Georgia to assist in reopening the case in 2003. Finally, a suspect was indicted in 2007 in connection with the murder, but it took another year before the case made it to trial on July 21, 2008, with 29-year-old Marques Clair as defendant. Clair was originally arrested with another suspect in McCall's slaying in 1999, but prosecutors had dropped the charge due to the District Attorney's refusal to bring the case before a jury with insufficient evidence.\n\nJust two days after the start of Clair's murder trial, the proceedings were halted by Superior Court Judge Gregory Adams. A spokeswoman for the DeKalb County Georgia district attorney's office, Jada Hudspeth, stated that the suspension of the trial was \"based on an omission\" of information. Hudspeth said that District Attorney, Gwen Keyes Fleming, and her staff would evaluate the evidence in the case before deciding whether to retry Clair. On August 7, 2008, after a mistrial was declared, the charges against Clair were formally dismissed with prejudice.\n\nIn recognition of the fact that Louis McCall was born in Alameda, CA, his name was chosen by the Alameda City Planning Board in April 2014 for naming one of the streets in the proposed residential community, Alameda Landing.\n\nOn September 21, 2014, Louis McCall and the other six members of Con Funk Shun were honored by the National R&B Music Society with a Lifetime Achievement Award at a black tie dinner and award ceremony in Atlantic City, New Jersey. At the same event, McCall's wife Linda Lou was presented with the \"Unsung Heroine\" award for her key role in the success of Con Funk Shun and her continued role in keeping the group's legacy alive, in addition to her tireless contribution to R&B music for over four decades.\n\nAs well as being the band's leader, responsible for booking many of their most lucrative tours, Louis (along with Linda Lou) wrote several songs for Con Funk Shun, including \"California 1\", \"Bad Lady\", and \"Honey Wild\" (co-written with Con Funk Shun member Danny Thomas). In 2007, \"Honey Wild\", from the 1980 \"Spirit of Love\" album, was sampled by Lil Wayne for his Grammy Award-winning CD \"Tha Carter III\".\n\nIn 1968, at the age of sixteen, McCall was seriously injured in an automobile accident in Vallejo, California. He experienced medical problems in his adult life as a result of the accident.\n\nLouis met his wife, the former Linda Lou Bolden from Washington, DC, in 1973, when both were working at Stax Records. The couple married on January 15, 1976, in a civil ceremony in San Francisco, California. They had two children, Lindsay Chérie (born in 1979) and Louis Anthony II (born in 1982). McCall and his wife separated not long before his death, but the pair remained close both personally and professionally.\n\nMcCall's first grandchild, Liam Richard Long, was born on March 2, 2014, to his daughter Lindsay, a Tempe police officer, and her husband in Scottsdale, Arizona.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53370439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53370439", "title": "Maxine Lewis", "text": "Maxine Lewis\n\nMaxine Lewis is a producer, talent scout, and event planner for Harlem's Amateur Night (Showtime at the Apollo). She was Percy Sutton's spokeswoman.\n\nShe has worked for the Apollo theatre for decades as a producer for Showtime at the Apollo, and Apollo Kids at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. She has been an organizer for over 21 years for the 154/153 streets' Extended Family Reunion in Harlem, an event that brings residents from the neighborhood and residents that used to live in the area in July of each year.\nShe was born and raised in Harlem, New York City.\n\nMaxine Lewis is a Special Events Producer for Diamonds in the Rough Independent Entertainment from 1986 to till the present (31 years).\n\nPercy Sutton was the founder of Inner City Broadcasting Corporation. Which bought the Apollo Theatre in 1981. They rescued the Apollo Theatre from bankruptcy Court. The theatre was refurbished. She served as Percy Sutton's Executive Assistant for 19 years.\n\nIn 1992, Maxine organized and produced a memorial tribute for tap dancer Charles Coles known as Charles \"Honi\" Coles at the Apollo Theatre. She began working for Inner City Broadcasting Corporation in 1982. In 1984 she became the talent coordinator for amateur segments for Showtime at the Apollo and later segment producer for \"Apollo Kids\" segments for over 14 years. She traveled across the country looking for talent to be showcased. Some well known artists that she showcased were: Lyfe Jennings, Jermaine Paul, Ne-Yo, Jazmine Sullivan,\nLauren Hill, Canton Jones, Jessica Care Moore, and more. She has a featured segment on 90.3 WHCR FM radio for Street Corner Resources giving information and updates about resources and activities for adults.\nShe has been a community volunteer serving food for years for Thanksgiving and Christmas at the National Action Network in Harlem. She is a member of Perfecting Faith Church in Freeport, Long Island, where she utilizes her skills for community service in special events organizing and public relations work.\n\n2015 - Senior Citizen's Day by the New York State Office for the Aging for her community work honored for Community Service.\n\n2015 - Senator Díaz of the Bronx, New York City presents a Senior Citizen of the Year proclamation to Maxine Lewis \n\n2014 - Fannie Lou Hamer Honoree: for her work at the National Action Network National Crisis Manager (North Jersey Chapter)\n"}
{"id": "1016832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1016832", "title": "Media monitoring service", "text": "Media monitoring service\n\nA media monitoring service, a press clipping service or a clipping service as known in earlier times, provides clients with copies of media content, which is of specific interest to them and subject to changing demand; what they provide may include documentation, content, analysis, or editorial opinion, specifically or widely. These services tend to specialize their coverage by subject, industry, size, geography, publication, journalist, or editor. The printed sources, which could be readily monitored, greatly expanded with the advent of telegraphy and submarine cables in the mid- to late-19th century; the various types of media now available proliferated in the 20th century, with the development of radio, television, the photocopier and the World Wide Web. Though media monitoring is generally used for capturing content or editorial opinion, it also may be used to capture advertising content.\n\nMedia monitoring services have been variously termed over time, as new players entered the market, new forms of media were created, and as new uses from available content developed. An existing group may provide such a monitoring service, as it relates to their main purpose, while a monitoring agency generally provides such as their main business. Alternative terms for these monitoring services as well as the information they provide include:\n\n\nSince mass media traditionally was limited solely to print media, naturally the monitoring was also limited to these media. The world's first press clipping agency was established in London in 1852 by a Polish newsagent named Romeike. Actors, writers, musicians and artists would visit his shop to look for articles about themselves in his Continental stock. It was then that Romeike realised that he could turn this into a profitable business. \n\nAn agency named \"L'Argus de la presse\" was established in Paris in 1879 by Alfred Cherie, who offered a press-clipping service to Parisian actors, enabling them to buy reviews of their work rather than purchasing the whole newspaper.\n\nAs radio and later television broadcasting were introduced in the 20th century, press clipping agencies began to expand their services into the monitoring of these broadcast media, and this task was greatly facilitated by the development of commercial audio and video tape recording systems in the 1950s and 1960s. With the growth of the Internet in the 1990s, media monitoring service extended their services to the monitoring of online information sources using new digital search and scan technologies to provide output of interest to their clients.\n\nThen, in 1998, the now defunct WebClipping website was the first firm to start monitoring Internet based news media, moving the industry toward tracking digital news quickly.\n\nTypically, individual or organisational clients – e. g. private companies and corporations, charities, government departments and ministries – will subscribe to a media monitoring service to keep track of what is being said about them, their field of operations, their competitors, or other specified topics of interest.\n\nThe news monitoring industry provides government agencies, corporations, public relations professionals, and other organizations access to news information created by the media. Generally monitoring print, broadcast, and internet content for any mention of specific subjects of interest, a news monitoring company will analyze and provide feedback to their client in the form of press clippings, monitoring reports, and media analysis.\n\nFrom a cut & clip service, media clipping today has expanded to incorporate technology with information. Media monitoring clients can now opt to include print, broadcast and online to capture all their media exposure. While this technology has allowed some of the process to be automated, many media monitoring agencies still offer the services of trained professionals to review and validate results.\n\nService delivery happens at three fronts. Clients may get their original hard copy clips through traditional means (mail/overnight delivery) or may opt for digital delivery. Digital delivery allows the end user to receive via email all the relevant news of the company, competition and industry daily, with updates as they break. The same news may also be indexed (as allowed by copyright laws) in a searchable database to be accessed by subscribers. Another option of this service is auto-analysis, wherein the data can be viewed & compared in different formats.\n\nEvery organization that uses PR invariably uses news monitoring as well. In addition to tracking their own publicity, self-generated or otherwise, news monitoring clients also use the service to track competition or industry specific trends or legislation, to build a contact base of reporters, experts, leaders for future reference, to audit the effectiveness of their PR campaigns, to verify that PR, marketing and sales messages are in sync, and to measure impact on their target market. City, State, and Federal agencies use news monitoring services to stay informed in regions they otherwise would not be able to monitor themselves and to verify that the public information disseminated is accurate, accessible in multiple formats and available to the public. Some monitoring services specialize in one or more areas of press clipping, TV and radio monitoring, or internet tracking. Media analysis is also offered by most news monitoring services.\n\nTelevision news monitoring companies, especially in the United States, capture and index closed captioning text and search it for client references. Some TV monitoring companies employ human monitors who review and abstract program content; other services rely on automated search programs to search and index stories.\n\nOnline media monitoring services utilize automated software called spiders or robots (bots) to automatically monitor the content of free online news sources including newspapers, magazines, trade journals, TV station and news syndication services. Online services generally provide links but may also provide text versions of the articles. Results may or may not be verified for accuracy by the online monitoring service. Most newspapers do not include all of their print content online and some have web content that does not appear in print.\n\nIn the United States, there are trade associations formed to share best practices which include the North American Conference of Press Clipping Services and the International Association of Broadcast Monitors.\n\nIn English speaking countries, the service of media monitoring, collation & dissemination is fairly simple and most organizations which use Public Relations also use media monitoring. However, in multi-language & multi-dialect countries the challenge of collating data locally and disseminating in a translated language of business (usually English) is a daunting task. The situation in other multi-language countries is no different.\n\nThe second large challenge for Information Logistics is the growing number of media and the media types. For example, in a country like India there are over 50,000 registered print publications, 250+ TV channels, a growing number of relevant internet sites and several hundred new blogs that need to be captured every day. Several of these need to be translated for a 'heads-up' and analysis needs to be constant and real-time.\n\nAn author that recently published a book and who has a strong interest in tracking how well the book is received by critics may hire a media monitoring service. The service will have a method by which they extract any information about the author and their book from newly printed magazines, radio programs, television programs and so on. The author will receive a printed bundle of \"clippings\", i.e., the pages of the magazines and newspapers relating to them and their book. They may also receive recordings of any radio reviews, television programs and so on, which refer to his book.\n\nMost major companies and corporations subscribe to media monitoring services to keep track of any reports or comments in the media. A fast food company, for example, would receive summaries of coverage and/or copies of material drawn from a wide range of sources, including TV and radio news reports, commentaries on TV and radio shows, newspaper opinion/commentary columns, magazine articles and internet blogs.\n\nThe material collected would include any media items that relate to the company's commercial operations, its corporate reputation or its media image. This would include reports about or discussions of the fast food industry in general, and any media item that specifically mentions the company, its clients and suppliers, its competitors or related interest groups or other specified subjects of interest, such as food/health regulations.\n\nThe International Association of Broadcast Monitors (IABM) is a worldwide trade association made up of news retrieval services which record, monitor and archive broadcast news sources including television, radio and internet. It acts as a \"clearinghouse\" or \"forum\" for discussion on topics of collective concerns and acts as a united voice for the news monitoring industry.\n\nFIBEP (Federation Internationale des Bureaux d’Extraits de Presse/International Federation of the Press Clipping Services) is a professional media monitoring organization. The FIBEP was established in 1953 in Paris and has close to 100 members from 44 countries. Every 18 months, the members of FIBEP members organize a three-day FIBEP-Congress. In work groups, workshops, reports and discussion circles, members discuss market trends.\n\nTwo parallel cases developed in 2012, one in the United States, and one in the United Kingdom. In each case, the legality of temporary copies and the online media monitoring service offered to clients, was in dispute. Essentially the two cases covered the same issue (media clippings shown to clients online) and with the same defendant, Meltwater Group. The plaintiff differed, being a UK copyright collection society (UK) rather than Associated Press (US), but upon parallel grounds.\n\nThe activity was ruled unlawful in the US (under the \"fair use\" doctrine) and lawful in the UK (under UK and EU copyright law, in summary on the basis that mere viewing is never an infringement, and temporary copies to enable a lawful purpose are themselves lawful).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38861905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38861905", "title": "Metal Open Air", "text": "Metal Open Air\n\nMetal Open Air (also known simply as MOA) was an unsuccessful 2012 heavy metal festival. It took place between 20–22 April, at the Parque Independência, 25 km southeast from downtown São Luís, Maranhão, northeastern Brazil. Due to problems with the payment of artists and the accommodation and security of the audience, the festival was ultimately cancelled on its last day.\n\nOriginally, it was supposed to be a Brazilian version of the famous German Wacken Open Air. However, the promoters failed to obtain official permission to use the name, so they decided to switch it for Metal Open Air. From that moment on, several bands, including Shaman, Megadeth, Symphony X and Anthrax, started to confirm their performances, though a few have cancelled, including Shadowside, Krisiun, and Volbeat, mostly for logistical reasons.\n\nBy February/March 2012, the official announced line-up was as follows (act names in bold are headliners; El Diablo is an entertainment group that prepared rock night parties after every headliner performance):\n\nThe headliners of the second day, the Rock and Roll All Stars, were a supergroup composed of Gene Simmons, Joe Elliott, Matt Sorum, Duff McKagan , Gilby Clarke, Glenn Hughes, Ed Roland, Sebastian Bach, Steve Stevens, Mike Inez, Billy Duffy and Charlie Sheen, who was to be the festival's master of ceremonies.\n\nShortly before and even during the festival, several bands cancelled their performances. British thrash band Venom, for example, had their visas sent to Africa instead of Brazil by mistake, thus making it impossible for them to take part of MOA and two other South American festivals. Hansi Kürsch, vocalist for German power metal quartet Blind Guardian, stated:\n\nAquiles Priester, from Hangar, also cancelled his band's participation, stating:\n\nTerra Prima's members didn't receive their air tickets to São Luís nor the confirmation of their accommodations in the city.\n\nSymphony X, one of the few bands that managed to take on the stage and perform, posted a note some days later, thanking their fans for the show and criticizing the event's structure:\n\nDave Mustaine, from Megadeth, also thanked his fans and regretted the festival's organization:\n\nRicardo Confessori, drummer for Shaman, publicly contested Anthrax guitarist Scott Ian for canceling the band's performance at the festival, accusing him of not giving a good excuse for the fans, to which Ian replied that the problem was \"the whole terrible organization. We never want to cancel but they made it impossible.\"\n\nIn the end, a total of 30 of the 47 invited bands cancelled their performances due to the severe logistical, structural and financial problems regarding the festival. As for the fans, some had to camp inside stables, with almost no electricity, lack of places to buy food, beverage and hygiene products and only one public toilet.\n\nSoon after MOA was cancelled, both companies responsible for the festival (Negri Concerts and Lamparina Filmes e Produções) accused each other of breaking contractual rules.\n"}
{"id": "13745047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13745047", "title": "Natural hazard", "text": "Natural hazard\n\nA natural hazard is a natural phenomenon that might have a negative effect on humans or the environment. Natural hazard events can be classified into two broad categories: geophysical and biological. Geophysical hazards encompass geological and meteorological phenomena such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, wildfires, cyclonic storms, floods, droughts, avalanches and landslides. Biological hazards can refer to a diverse array of disease, infection, infestation and invasive species.\n\nMany geophysical hazards are related; for example, submarine earthquakes can cause tsunamis, and hurricanes can lead to coastal flooding and erosion. Floods and wildfires can result from a combination of geological, hydrological, and climatic factors. It is possible that some natural hazards are intertemporally correlated as well. An example of the distinction between a natural \"hazard\" and a natural \"disaster\" is that the 1906 San Francisco earthquake was a disaster, whereas living on a fault line is a hazard. Some natural hazards can be provoked or affected by anthropogenic processes (e.g. land-use change, drainage and construction).\n\nAn avalanche occurs when a large snow (or rock) mass slides down a mountainside. An avalanche is an example of a gravity current consisting of granular material. In an avalanche, lots of material or mixtures of different types of material fall or slide rapidly under the force of gravity. Avalanches are often classified by the size or severity of consequences resulting from the event.\n\nAn earthquake is the sudden relof energy stored as lithospheric stress that radiates seismic waves. At the Earth's surface, earthquakes may manifest with a shaking or displacement of the ground; when the earthquake occurs on the seafloor, the resulting displacement of water can sometimes result in a tsunami. Most of the world's earthquakes (90%, and 81% of the largest) take place in the 40,000-km-long, horseshoe-shaped zone called the circum-Pacific seismic belt, also known as the Pacific Ring of Fire, which for the most part bounds the Pacific Plate. Many earthquakes happen each day, few of which are large enough to cause significant damage.\n\nCoastal erosion is a physical process by which shorelines in coastal areas around the world shift and change, primarily in response to waves and currents that can be influenced by tides and storm surge. Coastal erosion can result from long-term processes (see also beach evolution) as well as from episodic events such as tropical cyclones or other severe storm events.\n\nA lahar is a type of natural event closely related to a volcanic eruption, and involves a large amount of material originating from an eruption of a glaciated volcano, including mud from the melted ice, rock, and ash sliding down the side of the volcano at a rapid pace. These flows can destroy entire towns in seconds and kill thousands of people, and form flood basalt.\nThis is based on natural events.\n\nA landslide is a mass displacement of sediment, usually down a slope. It can be caused by pressure pulling natural objects down a declining hill.\n\nA sinkhole is a localized depression in the surface topography, usually caused by the collapse of a subterranean structure such as a cave. Although rare, large sinkholes that develop suddenly in populated areas can lead to the collapse of buildings and other structures.\n\nA volcanic eruption is the point in which a volcano is active and releases its power, and the eruptions come in many forms. They range from daily small eruptions which occur in places like Kilauea in Hawaii, to megacolossal eruptions (where the volcano expels at least 1,000 cubic kilometers of material) from supervolcanoes like Lake Taupo (26,500 years ago) and Yellowstone Caldera. According to the Toba catastrophe theory, 70 to 75 thousand years ago, a supervolcanic event at Lake Toba reduced the human population to 10,000 or even 1,000 breeding pairs, creating a bottleneck in human evolution. Some eruptions form pyroclastic flows, which are high-temperature clouds of ash and steam that can travel down mountainsides at speed exceeding an airliner.\n\nA blizzard is a severe winter storm with icy and windy conditions characterized by low temperature, strong wind and heavy snow.\n\nA drought is a period of below-average precipitation in a given region, resulting in prolonged shortages in the water supply, whether atmospheric, surface water or ground water.\nScientists warn that global warming and climate change may result in more extensive droughts in coming years. These extensive droughts are likely to occur within the African continent due to its very low precipitation levels and high temperatures.\n\nA hailstorm is a natural hazard where a thunderstorm produces numerous hailstones which damage the location in which they fall. Hailstorms can be especially devastating to farm fields, ruining crops and damaging equipment.\n\nA heat wave is a hazard characterized by heat which is considered extreme and unusual in the area in which it occurs. Heat waves are rare and require specific combinations of weather events to take place, and may include temperature inversions, katabatic winds, or other phenomena. There is potential for longer-term events causing global warming, including stadial events (the opposite to glacial \"ice age\" events), or through human-induced climatic warming.\n\nCyclone is a large scale air mass that rotates around a strong center of low atmospheric pressure.\n\nHurricane, tropical cyclone, and typhoon are different names for the cyclonic storm system that forms over the oceans. It is caused by evaporated water that comes off of the ocean and becomes a storm. The Coriolis effect causes the storms to spin.. \"Hurricane\" is used for these phenomena in the Atlantic and eastern Pacific Oceans, \"tropical cyclone\" in the Indian, and \"typhoon\" in the western Pacific.\n\nAn ice storm is a particular weather event in which precipitation falls as ice, due to atmosphere conditions. It causes damage.\n\nA tornado is a natural disaster resulting from a thunderstorm. Tornadoes are violent, rotating columns of air which can blow at speeds between and , and possibly higher. Tornadoes can occur one at a time, or can occur in large tornado outbreaks associated with supercells or in other large areas of thunderstorm development. Waterspouts are tornadoes occurring over tropical waters in light rain conditions.\n\nClimate change can increase or decrease weather hazards, and also directly endanger property due to sea level rise and biological organisms due to habitat destruction.\n\nGeomagnetic storms can disrupt or damage technological infrastructure, and disorient species with magnetoception.\n\nA flood results from an overflow of water beyond its normal confines of a body of water such as a lake, or the accumulation of water over land areas.\n\nWildfire is a fire that burns in an uncontrolled and unplanned manner. Wildfires can result from natural occurrences such as lightning strikes or from human activity.\n\nDisease is a natural hazard that can be enhanced by human factors such as urbanization or poor sanitation. Disease affecting multiple people can be termed an outbreak or epidemic.\n\nIn some cases, a hazard exists in that a human-made defense against disease could fail, for example through antibiotic resistance.\n\nEach of the natural hazard types outlined above have very different characteristics, in terms of the spatial and temporal scales they influence, hazard frequency and return period, and measures of intensity and impact. These complexities result in \"single-hazard\" assessments being commonplace, where the hazard potential from one particular hazard type is constrained. In these examples, hazards are often treated as isolated or independent. An alternative is a \"multi-hazard\" approach which seeks to identify all possible natural hazards and their interactions or interrelationships.\n\nMany examples exist of one natural hazard triggering or increasing the probability of one or more other natural hazards. For example, an earthquake may trigger landslides, whereas a wildfire may increase the probability of landslides being generated in the future. A detailed review of such interactions across 21 natural hazards identified 90 possible interactions, of varying likelihood and spatial importance. There may also be interactions between these natural hazards and anthropic processes. For example, groundwater abstraction may trigger groundwater-related subsidence.\n\nEffective hazard analysis in any given area (e.g., for the purposes of disaster risk reduction) should ideally include an examination of all relevant hazards and their interactions. To be of most use for risk reduction, hazard analysis should be extended to risk assessment wherein the vulnerability of the built environment to each of the hazards is taken into account. This step is well developed for seismic risk, where the possible effect of future earthquakes on structures and infrastructure is assessed, as well as for risk from extreme wind and to a lesser extent flood risk. For other types of natural hazard the calculation of risk is more challenging, principally because of the lack of functions linking the intensity of a hazard and the probability of different levels of damage (fragility curves). \"ThinkHazard!\" is an online tool that provides an overview of the hazards from eight natural hazards (river floods, earthquakes, water scarcity, cyclones, coastal floods, tsunamis, volcanoes and landslides) developed by the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery in partnership with other institutions.\n\nIn 2000, the United Nations launched the International Early Warning Programme to address the underlying causes of vulnerability and to build disaster-resilient communities by promoting increased awareness of the importance of disaster risk reduction as an integral component of sustainable development, with the goal of reducing human, economic and environmental losses due to hazards of all kinds (UN/ISDR, 2000). \n\nThe 2006-2007 United Nations International Disaster Reduction Day theme was “Disaster reduction education begins in school”. The Foundation of Public Safety Professionals launched an international campaign with an international open essay or documentary competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9610206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9610206", "title": "Old Home Week", "text": "Old Home Week\n\nOld Home Week or Old Home Day is a practice that originated in the New England region of the United States similar to a harvest holiday or festival. In its beginning in the 19th–20th century it involved a municipal effort to invite former residents of a village, town, or city—usually individuals who grew up in the municipality as children and moved elsewhere in adulthood—to visit the \"Old Home\", the parental household and home town. Some municipalities celebrate the holiday annually, while others celebrate it every few years.\n\nIn the late 20th and early 21st century, the practice has spread to other parts of North America and has become a broader celebration with an emphasis on local culture and history. From the Wilmington, Vermont town web site:\n"}
{"id": "23815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23815", "title": "Pope Joan", "text": "Pope Joan\n\nPope Joan, 855–857, (\"Ioannes Anglicus\") was, according to popular legend, a woman who reigned as pope for a few years during the Middle Ages. Her story first appeared in chronicles in the 13th century and subsequently spread throughout Europe. The story was widely believed for centuries, but most modern scholars regard it as fictional.\n\nMost versions of her story describe her as a talented and learned woman who disguised herself as a man, often at the behest of a lover. In the most common accounts, due to her abilities, she rose through the church hierarchy and was eventually elected pope. Her sex was revealed when she gave birth during a procession, and she died shortly after, either through murder or natural causes. The accounts state that later church processions avoided this spot, and that the Vatican removed the female pope from its official lists and crafted a ritual to ensure that future popes were male. In the 16th century, Siena Cathedral featured a bust of Joan among other pontiffs; this was removed after protests in 1600.\n\nJean de Mailly's chronicle, written around 1250, contains the first mention of an unnamed female pope, and it inspired several more accounts over the next several years. The most popular and influential version is that interpolated into Martin of Opava's \"Chronicon Pontificum et Imperatorum\", later in the 13th century. Martin introduced details that the female pope's birth name was John Anglicus of Mainz, that she reigned in the 9th century, and that she entered the church to follow her lover. The legend was generally accepted as true until the 16th century, when a widespread debate among Catholic and Protestant writers called the story into question; various writers noted the implausibly long gap between Joan's supposed lifetime and her first appearance in texts. It was actually a Protestant scholar, David Blondel, who ultimately demonstrated the impossibility of the Pope Joan story \"from start to finish.\" Pope Joan is now widely accepted to be fictional, though the legend remains influential in art, literature, drama, and film.\n\nThe earliest mention of a female pope appears in the Dominican Jean de Mailly's chronicle of Metz, \"Chronica Universalis Mettensis\", written in the early 13th century. In his telling, the female pope is not named, and the events are set in 1099. According to Jean:\n\nJean de Mailly's story was picked up by his fellow Dominican Stephen of Bourbon, who adapted it for his work on the \"Seven Gifts of the Holy Ghost\". However, the legend gained its greatest prominence when it appeared in the third \"recension\" (edited revision) of Martin of Opava's \"Chronicon Pontificum et Imperatorum\" later in the 13th century. This version, which may have been by Martin himself, is the first to attach a name to the figure, indicating that she was known as \"John Anglicus\" or \"John of Mainz.\" It also changes the date from the 11th to the 9th century, indicating that Joan reigned between Leo IV and Benedict III in the 850s. According to the \"Chronicon\":\n\nOne version of the \"Chronicon\" gives an alternative fate for the female pope. According to this, she did not die immediately after her exposure, but was confined and deposed, after which she did many years of penance. Her son from the affair eventually became Bishop of Ostia, and ordered her entombment in his cathedral when she died.\n\nOther references to the female pope are attributed to earlier writers, though none appears in manuscripts that predate the \"Chronicon\". The one most commonly cited is Anastasius Bibliothecarius (d. 886), a compiler of \"Liber Pontificalis\", who was a contemporary of the female Pope by the \"Chronicon\"'s dating. However, the story is found in only one unreliable manuscript of Anastasius. This manuscript, in the Vatican Library, bears the relevant passage inserted as a footnote at the bottom of a page. It is out of sequence, and in a different hand, one that dates from after the time of Martin of Opava. This \"witness\" to the female pope is likely to be based upon Martin's account, and not a possible source for it. The same is true of Marianus Scotus's \"Chronicle of the Popes\", a text written in the 11th century. Some of its manuscripts contain a brief mention of a female pope named Johanna (the earliest source to attach to her the female form of the name), but all these manuscripts are later than Martin's work. Earlier manuscripts do not contain the legend.\n\nSome versions of the legend suggest that subsequent popes were subjected to an examination whereby, having sat on a so-called \"sedia stercoraria\" or \"dung chair\" containing a hole, a cardinal had to reach up and establish that the new pope had testicles, before announcing \"Duos habet et bene pendentes\" (\"He has two, and they dangle nicely\"), or \"habet\" (\"he has them\") for short.\n\nThere were associated legends as well. In the 1290s, the Dominican Robert of Uzès recounted a vision in which he saw the seat \"where, it is said, the pope is proved to be a man\". Pope Joan has been associated with marvelous happenings. Petrarch (1304–74) wrote in his \"Chronica de le Vite de Pontefici et Imperadori Romani\" that after Pope Joan had been revealed as a woman:\n\nHowever, the attribution of this work to Petrarch may be incorrect.\n\nFrom the mid-13th century onward, the legend was widely disseminated and believed. Joan was used as an \"exemplum\" in Dominican preaching. Bartolomeo Platina, the scholar who was prefect of the Vatican Library, wrote his \"Vitæ Pontificum Platinæ historici liber de vita Christi ac omnium pontificum qui hactenus ducenti fuere et XX\" in 1479 at the behest of his patron, Pope Sixtus IV. The book contains the following account of the female Pope:\nPope John VIII: John, of English extraction, was born at Mentz (Mainz) and is said to have arrived at popedom by evil art; for disguising herself like a man, whereas she was a woman, she went when young with her paramour, a learned man, to Athens, and made such progress in learning under the professors there that, coming to Rome, she met with few that could equal, much less go beyond her, even in the knowledge of the scriptures; and by her learned and ingenious readings and disputations, she acquired so great respect and authority that upon the death of Pope Leo IV (as Martin says) by common consent she was chosen pope in his room. As she was going to the Lateran Church between the Colossean Theatre (so called from Nero's Colossus) and St. Clement's her travail came upon her, and she died upon the place, having sat two years, one month, and four days, and was buried there without any pomp. This story is vulgarly told, but by very uncertain and obscure authors, and therefore I have related it barely and in short, lest I should seem obstinate and pertinacious if I had admitted what is so generally talked. I had better mistake with the rest of the world, though it be certain, that what I have related may be thought not altogether incredible.\nReferences to the female Pope abound in the later Middle Ages and Renaissance. Giovanni Boccaccio wrote about her in \"De Mulieribus Claris\" (1353). The \"Chronicon\" of Adam of Usk (1404) gives her a name, Agnes, and furthermore mentions a statue in Rome that is said to be of her. This statue had never been mentioned by any earlier writer anywhere; presumably it was an actual statue that came to be taken to be of the female pope. A late-14th-century edition of the \"Mirabilia Urbis Romae\", a guidebook for pilgrims to Rome, tells readers that the female Pope's remains are buried at St. Peter's. It was around this time that a long series of busts of past Popes was made for the Duomo of Siena, which included one of the female pope, named as \"Johannes VIII, Foemina de Anglia\" and included between Leo IV and Benedict III.\n\nAt his trial in 1415, Jan Hus argued that the Church does not necessarily need a pope, because, during the pontificate of \"Pope Agnes\" (as he also called her), it got on quite well. Hus's opponents at this trial insisted that his argument proved no such thing about the independence of the Church, but they did not dispute that there had been a female pope at all.\n\nIn 1587, Florimond de Raemond, a magistrate in the parlement de Bordeaux and an antiquary, published his first attempt to deconstruct the legend, \"Erreur Populaire de la Papesse Jeanne\" (also subsequently published under the title \"L'Anti-Papesse\"). The tract applied humanist techniques of textual criticism to the Pope Joan legend, with the broader intent of supplying sound historical principles to ecclesiastical history, and the legend began to come apart, detail by detail. Raemond's \"Erreur Populaire\" went through successive editions, reaching a fifteenth as late as 1691.\n\nIn 1601, Pope Clement VIII declared the legend of the female pope to be untrue. The famous bust of her, inscribed \"Johannes VIII, Femina ex Anglia,\" which had been carved for the series of papal figures in the Duomo di Siena about 1400 and was noted by travelers, was either destroyed or recarved and relabeled, replaced by a male figure, that of Pope Zachary.\n\nThe legend of Pope Joan was \"effectively demolished\" by David Blondel, a mid-17th century Protestant historian, who suggested that Pope Joan's tale may have originated in a satire against Pope John XI, who died in his early 20s. Blondel, through detailed analysis of the claims and suggested timings, argued that no such events could have happened.\n\nThe 16th-century Italian historian Onofrio Panvinio, commenting on one of Bartolomeo Platina's works that refer to Pope Joan, theorized that the story of Pope Joan may have originated from tales of Pope John XII; John reportedly had many mistresses, including one called Joan, who was very influential in Rome during his pontificate.\n\nAt the time of the Reformation, various Protestant writers took up the Pope Joan legend in their anti-Catholic writings, and the Catholics responded with their own polemic. According to Pierre Gustave Brunet, Various authors, in the 16th and 17th centuries, occupied themselves with Pope Joan, but it was from the point of view of the polemic engaged in between the partisans of Lutheran or Calvinist reform and the apologists of Catholicism.\nAn English writer, Alexander Cooke, wrote a book entitled \"Pope Joane: A Dialogue between a Protestant and a Papist\", which purported to prove the existence of Pope Joan by reference to Catholic traditions. It was republished in 1675 as \"A Present for a Papist: Or the Life and Death of Pope Joan, Plainly Proving Out of the Printed Copies, and Manscriptes of Popish Writers and Others, That a Woman called Joan, Was Really Pope of Rome, and Was There Deliver'd of a Bastard Son in the Open Street as She Went in Solemn Procession\". The book gives an account of Pope Joan giving birth to a son in plain view of all those around, accompanied by a detailed engraving showing a rather surprised looking baby peeking out from under the Pope's robes. Even in the 19th century, authors such as Ewaldus Kist and Karl Hase discussed the story as a real occurrence. However, other Protestant writers, such as David Blondel and Gottfried Leibniz, rejected the story.\n\nMost modern scholars dismiss Pope Joan as a medieval legend. One of Britain's preeminent historians dismisses the myth with a logical assessment of evidence. The \"Oxford Dictionary of Popes\" declares that there is \"no contemporary evidence for a female Pope at any of the dates suggested for her reign\", but nonetheless acknowledges that Pope Joan's legend was widely believed for centuries, even by Catholics.\n\nThe 1910 \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" elaborated on the historical timeline problem:\n\nBetween Leo IV and Benedict III, where Martinus Polonus places her, she cannot be inserted, because Leo IV died 17 July 855, and immediately after his death Benedict III was elected by the clergy and people of Rome; but, owing to the setting up of an Antipope, in the person of the deposed Cardinal Anastasius, he was not consecrated until 29 September. Coins exist which bear both the image of Benedict III and of Emperor Lothair, who died 28 September 855; therefore Benedict must have been recognized as pope before the last-mentioned date. On 7 October 855, Benedict III issued a charter for the Abbey of Corvey. Hincmar, Archbishop of Reims, informed Nicholas I that a messenger whom he had sent to Leo IV learned on his way of the death of this Pope, and therefore handed his petition to Benedict III, who decided it (Hincmar, ep. xl in P.L., CXXXVI, 85). All these witnesses prove the correctness of the dates given in the lives of Leo IV and Benedict III, and there was no interregnum between these two Popes, so that at this place there is no room for the alleged Popess.\n\nIt has also been noted that enemies of the papacy in the 9th century make no mention of a female pope. For example, Photios I of Constantinople, who became Patriarch in 858 and was deposed by Pope Nicholas I in 863, was an enemy of the pope. He vehemently asserted his own authority as patriarch over that of the pope in Rome, and would have made the most of any scandal of that time regarding the papacy; but he never mentions the story once in any of his voluminous writings. Indeed, at one point he mentions \"Leo and Benedict, successively great priests of the Roman Church\".\n\nRosemary and Darroll Pardoe, authors of \"The Female Pope: The Mystery of Pope Joan\", theorize that if a female pope did exist, a more plausible time frame is 1086 and 1108, when there were several antipopes; during this time the reign of the legitimate popes Victor III, Urban II, and Paschal II was not always established in Rome, since the city was occupied by Henry IV, Holy Roman Emperor, and later sacked by the Normans. This also agrees with the earliest known version of the legend, by Jean de Mailly, as he places the story in the year 1099. De Mailly's \"account\" was acknowledged by his companion Stephen of Bourbon.\n\nPeter Stanford, a British writer and former editor of \"The Catholic Herald\", concluded in \"The Legend of Pope Joan: In Search of the Truth\" (2000) \"Weighing all th[e] evidence, I am convinced that Pope Joan was an historical figure, though perhaps not all the details about her that have been passed on down the centuries are true\". Stanford's work has been criticised as \"credulous\" by one mainstream historian.\nAgainst the lack of historical evidence to her existence, the question remains as to why the Pope Joan story has been popular and widely believed. Philip Jenkins in \"\" suggests that the periodic revival of what he calls this \"anti-papal legend\" has more to do with feminist and anti-Catholic wishful thinking than historical accuracy.\n\nThe \"sede stercoraria\", the throne with a hole in the seat, now at St. John Lateran (the formal residence of the popes and center of Catholicism), is to be considered. This and other toilet-like chairs were used in the consecration of Pope Pascal II in 1099. In fact, one is still in the Vatican Museums, another at the Musée du Louvre. The reason for the configuration of the chair is disputed. It has been speculated that they originally were Roman bidets or imperial birthing stools, which because of their age and imperial links were used in ceremonies by Popes intent on highlighting their own imperial claims (as they did also with their Latin title, \"Pontifex Maximus\").\n\nAlain Boureau quotes the humanist Jacopo d'Angelo de Scarparia, who visited Rome in 1406 for the enthronement of Gregory XII. The pope sat briefly on two \"pierced chairs\" at the Lateran: \"... the vulgar tell the insane fable that he is touched to verify that he is indeed a man\", a sign that this corollary of the Pope Joan legend was still current in the Roman street.\n\nMedieval popes, from the 13th century onward, did indeed avoid the direct route between the Lateran and St Peter's, as Martin of Opava claimed. However, there is no evidence that this practice dated back any earlier. The origin of the practice is uncertain, but it is quite likely that it was maintained because of widespread belief in the Joan legend, and it was thought genuinely to date back to that period.\n\nAlthough some medieval writers referred to the female pope as \"John VIII\", a genuine Pope John VIII reigned between 872 and 882. Due to the Dark Ages' lack of records, confusion often reigns in the evaluation of events.\n\nA problem sometimes connected to the Pope Joan legend is the fact that there is no Pope John XX in any list. It is said this reflects a renumbering of the popes to exclude Joan from history. Historians have known since Louis Duchesne's critical edition of the \"Liber Pontificalis\" that the \"renumbering\" was actually due to a misunderstanding in the textual transmission of the official papal lists. In the course of the 11th century, in the time after John XIX, the entry for John XIV had been misread as referring to two different popes of this name. These two popes then came to be distinguished as \"Iohannes XIV\" and \"Iohannes XIV bis\" (\"John XIV the second\").\n\nThe existence of a second Pope John XIV was widely accepted in the 13th century, hence the numbering of Popes John XV through XIX was regarded as being erroneous. When Petrus Hispanus was elected pope in 1276 and chose the papal name John, he decided to correct this error by skipping the number XX. He numbered himself John XXI, thus acknowledging the presumed existence of John XIV \"bis\" in the 10th century.\n\nIn 2018, an analysis of several silver coins from the 850s A.D, done by researchers from Flinders University indicated that they were inscribed with the name Johannes Anglicus. From the dating of the 850s, when there were missing papal records, led the researchers to believe the legend was genuine.\n\nPope Joan has remained a popular subject for fictional works. Plays include Ludwig Achim von Arnim's \"Päpstin Johanna\" (1813), a fragment by Bertolt Brecht (in \"Werke\". Bd. 10), and a monodrama, \"Pausin Johanna\" by Cees van der Pluijm (1996).\n\nThe Greek author Emmanuel Rhoides' 1866 novel, \"The Papess Joanne\", was admired by Mark Twain and Alfred Jarry and freely translated by Lawrence Durrell as \"The Curious History of Pope Joan\" (1954). The American Donna Woolfolk Cross's 1996 historical romance, \"Pope Joan\", was recently made into a German musical as well as the movie described below. Other novels include Wilhelm Smets's \"Das Mährchen von der Päpstin Johanna auf’s Neue erörtert\" (1829), Marjorie Bowen's \"Black Magic\" (1909), Ludwig Gorm's \"Päpstin Johanna\" (1912), Yves Bichet's \"La Papesse Jeanne\" (2005), and Hugo N. Gerstl's \"Scribe: The Story of the Only Female Pope\" (2005).\n\nThere have been two films based on the story of Pope Joan: \"Pope Joan\" (1972), directed by Michael Anderson, was titled \"The Devil's Imposter\" in the US. In 2009, it was recut to include more of John Briley's original script and released as \"She... who would be Pope\". Also in 2009, another film with the title \"Pope Joan\" was released, this one a German, British, Italian and Spanish production directed by Sönke Wortmann and produced by Bernd Eichinger, based on Cross's novel.\n\nThe play \"Top Girls\" by Caryl Churchill featured Pope Joan as a character, who was invited to a restaurant along with other historically important women in the past by a modern-day woman, Marlene, to discuss the restriction of feminism in the past.\n\nPope Joan is referenced in the video game \"Persona 5\", as the inspiration for Johanna, one of the titular personas (cognitive beings used by humans to battle demons) belonging to Makoto Niijima.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56393119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56393119", "title": "Precious Moloi-Motsepe", "text": "Precious Moloi-Motsepe\n\nDr Precious Moloi-Motsepe is a South Africa fashion entrepreneur and a philanthropist. Her company ran the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week in Johannesburg and Cape Town.\n\nMoloi-Motsepe was brought up in Soweto. Her father was a teacher and her mother was a nurse. She attended Wits University and became a hospital physician and general practitioner. In 1993 she opened a women’s health clinic in Johannesburg.\n\nIn 1989, she married Patrice Motsepe, a lawyer who was also brought up in Soweto.\n\n\"Forbes\" Magazine estimated her family's wealth at $2.5 billion and noted that they were South Africa's wealthiest black couple. They have said that they intend to donate half their wealth to charity.\n\nShe was the head of the Motsepe Family Foundation in 2017. She has a strong interest in fashion and in 2007 she founded an organisation called African Fashion International which encourages young South African designers. She ran the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week in her home city and in Cape Town. In 2017, the Cape Town event was abandoned by Moloi-Motsepe after high winds in March and rescheduled for the following April.\n"}
{"id": "28962098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28962098", "title": "Riders of Judgment", "text": "Riders of Judgment\n\nRiders of Judgment is the fifth book chronologically in Frederick Manfred's \"The Buckskin Man Tales\", which trace themes through five novels set in the 19th Century Great Plains. The story fictionalizes Wyoming's Johnson County War, based on Manfred's original research (which relied heavily on Johnson County Historian Thelma Condit). His analysis of events is close to the story as recounted in Helena Huntington Smith's \"The War on Powder River\", which was published about ten years after Manfred's novel.\n\nThe novel was the source for the made-for-television film \"The Johnson County War,\" starring Tom Berenger. Manfred's novelization uses Nate Champion, Jack Flagg, and John Tisdale as the models for his Hammett brothers, Cain, Harry, and Dale, and turns Frank Canton into a strange family nemesis called variously Hunt Lawton and Link Keeler. Manfred changes the names of the county and the nearby towns.\n\n"}
{"id": "23604200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23604200", "title": "Robert Isabell", "text": "Robert Isabell\n\nBruce Robert Isabell (June 2, 1952 – July 8, 2009) was an American event planner who was behind lavish and innovative events including weddings and funerals of the richest and most famous. He helped make Christmas at the White House during the Presidency of Bill Clinton and helped create innovative events that made Studio 54 in Manhattan into the place to be in the late 1970s and early 1980s.\n\nIsabell was born in Duluth, Minnesota, where he worked in a flower shop as a youth. After graduating from high school he moved to Minneapolis.\n\nHe moved to New York City in the 1970s and was hired by Ian Schrager at Studio 54, after Schrager had seen the creative designs Isabell had developed while he was working for event planner Renny Reynolds who had done work at the club and was the leading planner in his day. Schrager described how Isabell \"never tried to do too much, it was never design on steroids, yet there was always the razzle-dazzle\".\n\nHe started on his own operating a floral shop within Bergdorf Goodman in Midtown Manhattan. He established \"a full-service event-production house\" in the city's West Village where he would oversee the creation of events around the world, in which the entire setting including flowers, lighting, sound and table decorations would be part of his craft. Anna Wintour of \"Vogue\" magazine described him as \"the king of the event world\" who was \"a magician\" and the first person that top hostesses would approach to create spectacular events. Isabell created roughly 30 events for writer and editor Tina Brown. She regarded him as \"sort of a genius\" who had the ability to \"take any space and make magic in it\". For over a decade, he designed the annual Met Ball for \"Vogue\".\n\nIn the late 1970s, he had four tons of glitter dumped on the floor of Studio 54 for a New Year's Eve event, with club co-owner Ian Schrager describing how guests felt \"like you were standing on stardust\". Bracketed between the 1986 wedding of Edwin Schlossberg to Caroline Kennedy and the 1996 nuptials of John F. Kennedy, Jr. and Carolyn Bessette, he worked on the 1994 funeral of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. For the July 1995 wedding of billionaire Robert Warren Miller's daughter Marie-Chantal to Pavlos, Crown Prince of Greece at Saint Sophia in Bayswater, London, Isabell created a virtual Greek temple in a tent, including pillars topped with roses, with a budget variously estimated at $5–8 million. For the wedding of Alexandra von Fürstenberg, Marie-Chantal's sister, to Prince Alexandre Egon von Fürstenberg, son of Diane von Fürstenberg, Isabell transformed a tent in Battery Park into a Chinese teahouse complete with a throne room that included hanging lanterns and bamboo trees. For Christmas 1998 at the Clinton White House, Isabell created a massive fir wreath with 1,500 lights individually colored a shade he called \"Presidential blue\". \n\nHis last project was an Independence Day event he co-prepared for Lally Weymouth in Southampton, New York. Ian Schrager stated that Isabell had headed home from The Hamptons on the night of July 4 and had not been heard from before his death.\n\nA resident of Manhattan's Greenwich Village, Isabell was found dead on July 8, 2009, aged 57, in his townhouse at 16 Minetta Lane, where he had suffered a fatal myocardial infarction (heart attack). He is survived by his mother, two brothers and a sister.\n"}
{"id": "1381851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1381851", "title": "Romanes Lecture", "text": "Romanes Lecture\n\nThe Romanes Lecture is a prestigious free public lecture given annually at the Sheldonian Theatre, Oxford, England.\n\nThe lecture series was founded by, and named after, the biologist George Romanes, and has been running since 1892. Over the years, many notable figures from the Arts and Sciences have been invited to speak. The lecture can be on any subject in science, art or literature, approved by the Vice-Chancellor of the University.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe text of each Romanes Lecture is generally published by Oxford University Press using the \"Clarendon Press\" imprint, and where appropriate the citation for an individual lecture is listed in the published works of each author's entry in Wikipedia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25588455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25588455", "title": "Social media newsroom", "text": "Social media newsroom\n\nA social media newsroom is a company resource, set up to increase the functionality and usability of the traditional online newsroom. \n\nSocial media newsrooms (SMNs) are intended to encourage dialogue and information sharing. Unlike online newsrooms, content is accessible to more than just journalists, but to all those with whom the company engages such as bloggers, their prospects, customers, business partners and investors. It gives these stakeholders access to news, public relations announcements, images, audio, video and other multimedia files.\n\nIn addition to posting press releases and corporate news, companies can integrate other social content from sites such as YouTube, Flickr and Slideshow as well as streams from corporate Twitter accounts. Traditional tools for journalists such as corporate fast facts, leadership information, a multimedia library, financial information, awards and other recent media coverage are also included in an SMN.\n\nExamples of companies effectively using social media newsrooms include Opel Group, Pressat, First Direct, MyNewsdesk, Scania and Newport Beach.\n"}
{"id": "58561186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58561186", "title": "The Markup", "text": "The Markup\n\nThe Markup is an American nonprofit organization based in New York City that will focus on data driven journalism covering the ethics and impact of technology on society. Markup was co-founded by two former ProPublica journalists Julia Angwin and Jeff Larson. The idea was conceived in April 2018, and expects to launch in early 2019.\n\nLike ProPublica, all of their content will be licensed under a Creative Commons license.\n\nAccording to Julia Angwin, The Markup plans to collect and create public data sets through public records requests, automated data collection, crowdsourcing of information and creation of tools, for example at ProPublica they built a browser extension to analyze Facebook ads.\n\nThe Markup received $20 million gift from Craigslist founder Craig Newmark. They also raised $2 million from the Knight Foundation and an additional $1 million from Ford Foundation, MacArthur Foundation and the Ethics and Governance of Artificial Intelligence Initiative.\n"}
{"id": "40553209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40553209", "title": "The Sound of Music Live!", "text": "The Sound of Music Live!\n\nThe Sound of Music Live! is a television special that was originally broadcast by NBC on December 5, 2013. Produced by Craig Zadan and Neil Meron, the special was an adaptation of Rodgers and Hammerstein's Broadway musical \"The Sound of Music\". The television special starred country singer and \"American Idol\" winner Carrie Underwood as Maria von Trapp, and was performed and televised live from Grumman Studios in Bethpage, New York.\n\nSpearheaded by NBC chairman Bob Greenblatt, the network positioned the special as being a live television \"event\". In preparing for the broadcast, Meron and Zadan emphasized the logistical challenges that they would face due to the live aspects of the special, and the fact that \"The Sound of Music Live!\" was an adaptation based on the musical itself and not the 1965 film version. Meron felt that if the telecast were successful, the concept could become \"another kind of entertainment that can exist on TV.\" By her request, Underwood's casting as Maria was personally endorsed by Julie Andrews, who starred in the 1965 film.\n\nThe production was met with mixed reviews; much of its criticism was directed towards the casting of Carrie Underwood to play Maria, whom critics (including the real-life von Trapp family) believed was not experienced enough in theatre to portray such an iconic role. While her vocal performance was praised, her acting was described by critics as \"amateur\", \"lifeless\" and lacking emotion. The production was a ratings success for NBC; with a total of 18.62 million live viewers, \"The Sound of Music Live!\" brought the network its highest Thursday night viewership for an entertainment program since the series finale of \"Frasier\" in 2004, and prompted NBC to sign Zadan and Meron on to produce more live musicals for the network in the future.\n\nMaria Rainer, a postulant at Nonnberg Abbey in Salzburg, is contemplating the day she has spent in the mountains (\"The Sound of Music\"). When she returns to the Abbey, she learns from the Mother Abbess that she is to be the new governess for the von Trappe children. Before she leaves the Abbey, Mother Abbess asks her to teach her the song that she's always singing (\"My Favorite Things\"). When Maria arrives at the von Trappe house, she is greeted coldly by the Captain and introduced to the children, who enter with military precision. Maria finds that the Captain has emotionally closed himself off since the death of his wife and decides to teach his children the basics of singing to gain their trust and acceptance.\n\nA month, later the captain returns home with Elsa Schraeder, whom he is courting, and their friend Max Detweiler, who is looking for the perfect local singing group to perform at the annual Kaltzberg Festival. When his children arrive dressed in clothes Maria had made from her old bedroom curtains he is outraged and embarrassed. Maria then confronts him and tells him how he does not know or understand his children and that they need him but this only upsets him more and he orders her to return to Nonnberg Abbey. However, upon hearing his children sing to Schraeder, his eyes are open to the truth Maria had been speaking and he embraces his children and ask Maria to stay on as governess.\n\nHe then throws a grand party for Schraeder and when the band plays the Ländler, the captain's youngest son asks Maria to teach him the dance and the captain steps in to help. As the two dance an unspoken attraction begins to arise in the two and Maria puts a stop to the dancing. However, this unspoken attraction did not go unnoticed by Brigitta who confronts Maria on this. Though Maria strongly denies it she begins to realize that Brigitta is telling the truth. Then, Schraeder calls the children out to say good night to the guests and Max is instantly smitten with the idea to have the children sing in the festival and during all the hustle and bustle Maria sneaks off unnoticed and returns to the Abbey, where she confides in the Mother Abbess that she has fallen in love with the captain but that she is ready to take the orders of poverty, obedience and chastity. The Mother Abbess denies her this and encourages her to take face her problem head-on and to find the life she was born to live.\n\nMaria then returns to the von Trapp home and is warmly greeted by the children, who no longer feel the joys of singing due to her sudden departure. When she finds out that the captain intends to marry Schraeder she decides to see her duties through until arrangements can be made for a new governess. However, the political differences between Schraeder and the captain cause the two to realize that they have no future together and she leaves. Meanwhile, the captain confronts Maria and the two admit their feelings for each other. The two agree to marry at the Abbey and while the two are on honeymoon, Germany invades Austria.\n\nWhen they return, the captain is ordered to accept a commission in the German Navy and report immediately to Bremerhaven. Maria, thinking quickly, hands the Admiral the program for the Kaltzberg Festival showing that the von Trapp Family Singers are scheduled to perform, so the captain couldn’t possibly leave right away. They are granted permission to perform. During the finale, Max announces that a guard of honor is waiting to escort the captain away as soon as the concert is over. Maria leads the family in one more song to which they escape to one by one and flee to the Abbey. The Nazi soldiers search the Abbey for the von Trapps to no avail, as the family decides to flee Austria over the mountains with Maria's help.\n\n\n\nBenanti had previously portrayed Maria von Trapp on Broadway in 1998. Craig Zadan and Neil Meron, who had previously worked with Borle on the NBC musical drama television series \"Smash\", served as executive producers. Other credits include Rob Ashford and Beth McCarthy-Miller as directors, Ashford also was the choreographer, Priscilla Taussig served as producer, David Chase as music director and Derek McLane as production designer. Catherine Zuber was costume designer and Bernie Telsey was the casting director. The production is taken from the book by Howard Lindsay and Russel Crouse and is based off the memoir, \"The Story of the Trapp Family Singers\" by Maria von Trapp.\n\nOn June 30, 2012, NBC's chairman Bob Greenblatt announced the network's plans to broadcast a live adaptation of the Broadway musical \"The Sound of Music\" in 2013. On November 30, 2012, the network announced that country music and fourth season of \"American Idol\", winner performer Carrie Underwood would star as Maria von Trapp in the production. In a statement, Greenblatt justified Underwood's involvement, saying that \"[Maria] was an iconic woman who will now be played by an iconic artist.\" On September 16, 2013, NBC revealed the full cast of the special, and released a promotional image depicting Underwood as Maria von Trapp, wearing blond braids and a dirndl, referencing one of Julie Andrews' \"most iconic moments\" from the film adaptation. Prior to being cast, Underwood personally asked Andrews for her endorsement of the role and the production, stating that \"whenever I do a cover of somebody's song or whatever, I always get permission of the artist first.\"\n\nProduced on a budget of around $9 million, \"The Sound of Music Live!\" was broadcast live from a soundstage built at Grumman Studios in Bethpage, New York. NBC, as well as producers Craig Zadan and Neil Meron, emphasized that the production was not a remake of the film, but an adaptation of the musical itself; Meron iterated that \"the audience will discover, within the first few minutes of watching the show, that they are not seeing a TV version of the movie. They'll know right away it's \"The Sound of Music\", but it's a different \"Sound of Music\" than they are accustomed to seeing on film.\" Meron felt that if successful, the broadcast could \"open the door to another kind of entertainment that can exist on TV.\" He also praised the involvement of Underwood as the star of the production, believing that she was a quick learner, and \"has all of the qualities of Maria.\" Greenblatt was highly supportive of the project, as he was, in the words of Zadan, a \"passionate devotee of theater\". Zadan considered the production to be \"one of the profoundly complicated, amazing experiences we’ve ever had\", noting the additional challenges created by the live broadcast.\n\nPromoted by NBC as a \"three-hour holiday event\", \"The Sound of Music Live!\" was aired as part of a push by NBC to air more live entertainment specials. Among its most popular programs in recent years have been those with live components (such as \"The Voice\" and \"Sunday Night Football\"); NBC's Jennifer Salke believed that the increased level of social network interaction possible in a live broadcast, along with the feeling of being part of an \"event\", would encourage viewers to watch the special live instead of on-demand or from a recording. NBC's previous attempt at event television, \"The Million Second Quiz\", was met with mixed reviews and viewership, but NBC did indicate that Subway's advertising throughout the series brought a higher level of awareness to the brand. The television special was also the first live musical special in almost fifty years on NBC.\n\nRetail chain Walmart served as the presenting sponsor for \"The Sound of Music Live!\". NBC also produced five themed Walmart commercials to air throughout the special, featuring scenes of a family using products from the store set to songs from \"The Sound of Music\". The five ads were timed to air during the commercial break following the scene where the song was featured; NBC's advertising chief Dan Lovinger considered the ads to be a way to \"enhance the excitement\" of the presentation for families.\n\nPrior to the broadcast, members of the real-life von Trapp family were critical of casting Underwood to play Maria, agreeing with the notion that she would be a good singer but a poor actor. They suggested that Anne Hathaway, who played Fantine in the 2012 film adaptation of \"Les Misérables\" for which she won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress, would have been a better choice. \"The Sound of Music Live!\" received mixed reviews from entertainment critics, commending the show for its scope and supporting cast while questioning Underwood's acting capabilities.\n\nKevin Fallon of \"The Daily Beast\" wrote: \"Naturally, Underwood sounded astounding, as alive as those damned hills, every time she was asked to stand on top of things and belt. But whether it was because of nerves or lack of experience, her acting was painfully lifeless and amateur throughout the first two thirds of the lengthy ordeal. The singer, it seems, is a proud graduate of the school of 'If I don't blink, they'll think I'm acting!'\" Verne Gay of \"Newsday\" liked Underwood's performance, commenting that not only could she sing, but \"she is a luminous stage presence who had the guts to take on one of the most iconic roles of the stage or screen.\"\n\nBrian Lowry of \"Variety\" described the production \"as lifeless as [its] alpine backdrops.\" Marc Bernardin of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" commended the production's aesthetics but called it a \"very expensive karaoke\", and he wrote that Underwood \"doesn’t acquit herself so well when it comes to the carrying the emotional weight of the production.\" He also panned Moyer, criticizing his vocal performance and describing \"his attempt at conveying an emotional hollowness\" as \"mildly constipated\" and \"clenched.\" However, he lauded Benanti, Borle and McDonald's \"strong\" performances.\n\n18.62 million viewers watched \"The Sound of Music Live!\", making it the most-watched program of the night. It had a 4.6 rating, 13 share in the 18–49 demographic, which led all networks. It attracted NBC's largest non-sports Thursday audience since the series finale of \"Frasier\" in 2004 (which averaged 22.6 million viewers), and NBC's largest non-sports audience on any night since the 2007 Golden Globe Awards. The special performed the best with women in the 25–54 demographic, reaching a household rating of 7.0 for that demographic during the primetime broadcast. It did particularly well in Oklahoma City, the capital of Underwood's home state, where it was watched by 28% of TV viewers. At least 38.69 million viewers watched a portion of \"The Sound of Music Live!\". Factoring in DVR viewership over the week following the broadcast, the special was viewed by 21.84 million, with 3.1 million within the first three days.\n\nFollowing its original airing, an encore presentation of \"The Sound of Music Live!\" aired on December 14, 2013, attracting 3.1 million viewers. It notably displaced one of NBC's two traditional airings of the film \"It's a Wonderful Life\" (the other being on Christmas Eve), which was bumped ahead to December 20, 2013.\n\nNBC's Bob Greenblatt considered the production to be a success, and signed Meron and Zadan to produce another live musical for the 2014 holiday season. Greenblatt felt that there were enough recognizable, family-friendly musicals to make events like \"The Sound of Music Live!\" an annual tradition, and he indicated that NBC received e-mails and phone calls from various theatrical rightsholders, expressing interest in having their musicals adapted in a similar fashion, In January 2014, NBC announced that it would broadcast a live version of \"Peter Pan\" in December 2014, and at NBC's upfronts in May 2014, Greenblatt announced that NBC had also obtained rights to produce an adaptation of \"The Music Man\", although the network did not announce any timeframe for the production. It was later revealed that \"The Music Man\" project was put on hold for a live performance of \"The Wiz\". Interest in the concept also spread to competing networks: in April 2014, Fox announced that it would produce a of \"Grease\", which aired in January 2016. NBC aired \"Hairspray Live!\" later that year.\n\nThe special also had an influence on viewership for ABC's annual broadcast of the 1965 film version of \"The Sound of Music\"; with 6.5 million viewers and a 1.3 share, it was ABC's highest-rated airing of the film since 2007, although it was beaten by NBC's \"Sunday Night Football\".\n\nThe broadcast has been nominated for four Emmy Awards for the 66th Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Music Direction, Outstanding Directing for a Variety Special, Outstanding Special Class Program and Outstanding Technical Direction, Camerawork, Video Control for a Miniseries, Movie, or Special in 2014. It won the Emmy for Outstanding Technical Direction, Camerawork, Video Control for a Miniseries, Movie, or Special.\n\nA soundtrack for the broadcast was released on December 3, 2013 and consists of 22 studio recordings. Walmart outlets exclusively released a nine-track instrumental (sing-along) bonus CD with the soundtrack. It peaked at number 17 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and number 2 on the \"Billboard\" Soundtracks chart. The soundtrack had sold 103,000 copies as of January 2, 2014.\n\nA DVD of the special was released on December 17, 2013, through Universal Studios Home Entertainment. The DVD includes a behind-the-scenes look, titled \"The Making of \"The Sound of Music Live!\"\" and a preview of the soundtrack. It was released on DVD in Canada on January 7, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29071145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29071145", "title": "World news", "text": "World news\n\nWorld news or international news or even foreign coverage is the news media jargon for news from abroad, about a country or a global subject. For journalism, it is a branch that deals with news either sent by foreign correspondents or news agencies, or – more recently – information that is gathered or researched through distance communication technologies, such as telephone, satellite TV or the internet.\n\nAlthough in most of the English-speaking world this field is not usually regarded as a specific specialization for journalists, it is so in nearly all the world. Particularly in the United States, there is a blurred distinction between world news and \"national\" news when they include directly the national government or national institutions, such as wars in which the US are involved or summits of multilateral organizations in which the US are a member.\n\nAt the birth of modern journalism, most news were foreign, as registered by the courants of the 17th century in West and Central Europe, such as the \"Daily Courant\" (England), the \"Nieuwe Tijudinger\" (Antwerp), the \"Relation\" (Strasbourg), the \"Avisa Relation oder Zeitung\" (Wolfenbüttel) and the \"Courante Uyt Italien, Duytsland & C.\" (Amsterdam). Since these papers were aimed at bankers and merchants, they brought mostly news from other markets, which usually meant other nations. In any case, it is worthy to remark that nation-states were still incipient in 17th-century Europe.\n\nFrom the 19th century on, with newspapers already established in Europe, the United States and a few other countries, innovations in telecommunications such as the telegraph made news from abroad easier to be spread. The first news agencies were then founded, like AFP (France), Reuters (UK), Wolff (currently DPA, Germany) and the AP (US).\n\nWar journalism is one of the best known subfields of world news (although war coverage can be national for the media of belligerent countries themselves).\n\nThere are essentially two types of reporters who do foreign reporting: the foreign correspondent (full-time reporter employed by a news source) and the special envoy (sent abroad to cover a specific subject, temporarily stationed in a location).\n\nThe correspondent is a reporter based in a foreign city (often the capital of a country) covering a region, a country or sometimes even an entire continent. He or she regularly files stories to the news editor. He/she gathers materials for these stories from local officials, members of the community, and the local media, as well as from events he/she directly witnesses. Correspondents typically stay in touch with the local community and maintain contacts with other journalists and correspondents in order to identify strategic sources in the government, among diplomats, members of the military and other organizations on the ground who may provide important information.\n\nThe number of foreign correspondents has dropped significantly over the past 20 years or more. Often, a media company is either uninterested or unable to afford to support a single correspondent, such as in many developing countries. In some places, they cannot obtain visas due to political constraints, or otherwise dangerous conditions prohibit a media company from stationing a reporter there. In recent years, the drop in foreign correspondents has been due to cutbacks within media companies (often, but not always, a result of economics alone). Among English language newspapers, only eight daily newspapers have full-time correspondents in more than ten foreign stations, four from the US, three from the UK and one from India: \n\n35 – \"Wall Street Journal\" (US): Baghdad, Bangkok, Beijing, Beirut, Berlin, Brussels, Buenos Aires, Dubai, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Istanbul, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kabul, Kuala Lumpur, Lagos, London, Manila, Mexico City, Moscow, Mumbai, New Delhi, Paris, Prague, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, São Paulo, Seoul, Shanghai, Singapore, Taipei, Tokyo, Toronto, Zurich\n\n24 – \"New York Times\" (US): Baghdad, Beijing, Beirut, Berlin, Cairo, Caracas, Dakar, Hong Kong, Islamabad, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kabul, London, Mexico City, Moscow, Mumbai, Nairobi, New Delhi, Paris, Rome, São Paulo, Shanghai, Tokyo\n\n19 – \"Financial Times\" (UK): Beijing, Berlin, Bombay, Brussels, Dubai, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Moscow, Mumbai, New Delhi, New York, Paris, Taipei, Tokyo, Shanghai, Sydney, Washington\n\n17 – \"Washington Post\" (US): Baghdad, Beijing, Berlin, Bogotá, Cairo, Islamabad, Jerusalem, Kabul, London, Mexico City, Moscow, Nairobi, New Delhi, Paris, Shanghai, Tehran, Tokyo\n\n15 – \"The Guardian\" (UK): Accra, Bangkok, Beijing, Berlin, Brussels, Kabul, Islamabad, Jerusalem, Los Angeles, Madrid, New York, Paris, Rome, Tehran, Tokyo\n\n13 – \"The Daily Telegraph\" (UK): Beijing, Brussels, Jerusalem, Kabul, Los Angeles, Moscow, Nairobi, New Delhi, New York, Paris, Shanghai, Sydney, Washington\n\n13 – \"Los Angeles Times\" (US): Baghdad, Beijing, Beirut, Cairo, Islamabad, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kabul, London, Mexico City, Moscow, New Delhi, Seoul\n\n12 – \"The Hindu\" (India): Addis Ababa, Beijing, Colombo, Dhaka, Dubai, Islamabad, Kathmandu, London, Moscow, Paris, Singapore, Washington \n\nWhen reporters working abroad have no permanent labor contract with media outlets, they are called stringers. Since they have no salary, stringers usually produce material for several different companies at once.\n\nA news agency is an organization of journalists established to supply news reports to news organizations: newspapers, magazines, and radio and television broadcasters. Such an agency may also be referred to as a wire service, newswire or news service. The bulk of major news agency services contains foreign news.\n\nThe major news agencies generally prepare hard news stories and feature articles that can be used by other news organizations with little or no modification, and then sell them to other news organizations. They provide these articles in bulk electronically through wire services (originally they used telegraphy; today they frequently use the Internet). Corporations, individuals, analysts and intelligence agencies may also subscribe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34341", "title": "Year", "text": "Year\n\nA year is the orbital period of the Earth moving in its orbit around the Sun. Due to the Earth's axial tilt, the course of a year sees the passing of the seasons, marked by change in weather, the hours of daylight, and, consequently, vegetation and soil fertility. The current year is 2018.\n\nIn temperate and subpolar regions around the planet, four seasons are generally recognized: spring, summer, autumn, and winter. In tropical and subtropical regions, several geographical sectors do not present defined seasons; but in the seasonal tropics, the annual wet and dry seasons are recognized and tracked.\n\nA calendar year is an approximation of the number of days of the Earth's orbital period as counted in a given calendar. The Gregorian calendar, or modern calendar, presents its calendar year to be either a common year of 365 days or a leap year of 366 days, as do the Julian calendars; \"see\" below. For the Gregorian calendar, the average length of the calendar year (the mean year) across the complete leap cycle of 400 years is 365.2425 days. The ISO standard ISO 80000-3, Annex C, supports the symbol \"a\" (for Latin \"annus\") to represent a year of either 365 or 366 days. In English, the abbreviations \"y\" and \"yr\" are commonly used.\n\nIn astronomy, the Julian year is a unit of time; it is defined as 365.25 days of exactly 86,400 seconds (SI base unit), totalling exactly 31,557,600 seconds in the Julian astronomical year.\n\nThe word \"year\" is also used for periods loosely associated with, but not identical to, the calendar or astronomical year, such as the seasonal year, the fiscal year, the academic year, etc. Similarly, \"year\" can mean the orbital period of any planet; for example, a Martian year and a Venusian year are examples of the time a planet takes to transit one complete orbit. The term can also be used in reference to any long period or cycle, such as the Great Year.\n\nEnglish \"year\" (via West Saxon \"ġēar\" (), Anglian \"ġēr\") continues Proto-Germanic \"*jǣran\" (\"*jē₁<nowiki>ran</nowiki>\").\nCognates are German \"Jahr\", Old High German \"jār\", Old Norse \"ár\" and Gothic \"jer\", from the Proto-Indo-European noun \"\" \"year, season\". Cognates also descended from the same Proto-Indo-European noun (with variation in suffix ablaut) are Avestan \"yārǝ\" \"year\", Greek (hṓra) \"year, season, period of time\" (whence \"hour\"), Old Church Slavonic \"jarŭ\", and Latin \"hornus\" \"of this year\". \n\nLatin \"annus\" (a 2nd declension masculine noun; \"annum\" is the accusative singular; \"annī\" is genitive singular and nominative plural; \"annō\" the dative and ablative singular) is from a PIE noun \"\", which also yielded Gothic \"aþn\" \"year\" (only the dative plural \"aþnam\" is attested).\n\nAlthough most languages treat the word as thematic \"*yeh₁r-o-\", there is evidence for an original derivation with an \"*-r/n\" suffix, \"*yeh₁-ro-\". Both Indo-European words for year, \"*yeh₁-ro-\" and \"*h₂et-no-\", would then be derived from verbal roots meaning \"to go, move\", \"*h₁ey-\" and \"*h₂et-\", respectively (compare Vedic Sanskrit \"éti\" \"goes\", \"atasi\" \"thou goest, wanderest\").\nA number of English words are derived from Latin \"annus\", such as annual, annuity, anniversary, etc.; \"per annum\" means \"each year\", \"anno Domini\" means \"in the year of the Lord\".\n\nThe Greek word for \"year\", , is cognate with Latin \"vetus\" \"old\", from the PIE word \"*wetos-\" \"year\", also preserved in this meaning in Sanskrit ' \"year\" and ' \"yearling (calf)\", the latter also reflected in Latin \"vitulus\" \"bull calf\", English \"wether\" \"ram\" (Old English \"weðer\", Gothic \"wiþrus\" \"lamb\").\n\nIn some languages, it is common to count years by referencing to one season, as in \"summers\", or \"winters\", or \"harvests\". Examples include Chinese 年 \"year\", originally 秂, an ideographic compound of a person carrying a bundle of wheat denoting \"harvest\". Slavic besides \"godŭ\" \"time period; year\" uses \"lěto\" \"summer; year\".\n\nIn the International System of Quantities (ISO 80000-3), the year (symbol, \"a\") is defined as either 365 days or 366 days.\n\nNo astronomical year has an integer number of days or lunar months, so any calendar that follows an astronomical year must have a system of intercalation such as leap years.\n\nIn the Julian calendar, the average (mean) length of a year is 365.25 days. In a non-leap year, there are 365 days, in a leap year there are 366 days. A leap year occurs every fourth year, or leap year, during which a leap day is intercalated into the month of February. The name \"Leap Day\" is applied to the added day.\n\nThe Revised Julian calendar, proposed in 1923 and used in some Eastern Orthodox Churches, \nhas 218 leap years every 900 years, for the average (mean) year length of days, close to the length of the mean tropical year, days (relative error of 9·10).\nIn the year 2800 CE, the Gregorian and Revised Julian calendars will begin to differ by one calendar day.\n\nThe Gregorian calendar attempts to cause the northward equinox to fall on or shortly before March 21 and hence it follows the northward equinox year, or tropical year. Because 97 out of 400 years are leap years, the mean length of the Gregorian calendar year is days; with a relative error below one ppm (8·10) relative to the current length of the mean tropical year ( days) and even closer to the current \"March equinox year\" of days that it aims to match. It is estimated that by the year 4000 CE, the northward equinox will fall back by one day in the Gregorian calendar, not because of this difference, but due to the slowing of the Earth's rotation and the associated lengthening of the day.\n\nHistorically, lunisolar calendars intercalated entire leap months on an observational basis.\nLunisolar calendars have mostly fallen out of use except for liturgical reasons (Hebrew calendar, various Hindu calendars).\n\nA modern adaptation of the historical Jalali calendar, known as the Solar Hijri calendar (1925), is a purely solar calendar with an irregular pattern of leap days based on observation (or astronomical computation), aiming to place new year (Nowruz) on the day of vernal equinox (for the time zone of Tehran), as opposed to using an algorithmic system of leap years.\n\nA calendar era assigns a cardinal number to each sequential year, using a reference point in the past as the beginning of the era.\n\nThe worldwide standard is the Anno Domini era (but the label Common Era is preferred by some). It was historically introduced in the 6th century and intended as counting years from the birth of Jesus.\n\nThe Anno Domini era is given the Latin abbreviation AD (for Anno Domini \"in the year of the Lord\"), or alternatively CE for \"Common Era. Years before AD 1 are abbreviated BC for Before Christ or alternatively BCE for Before the Common Era.\nYear numbers are based on inclusive counting, so that there is no \"year zero\".\nIn the modern alternative reckoning of Astronomical year numbering, positive numbers indicate years AD, the number 0 designates 1 BC, −1 designates 2 BC, and so on.\n\nFinancial and scientific calculations often use a 365-day calendar to simplify daily rates.\n\nA fiscal year or financial year is a 12-month period used for calculating annual financial statements in businesses and other organizations. In many jurisdictions, regulations regarding accounting require such reports once per twelve months, but do not require that the twelve months constitute a calendar year.\n\nFor example, in Canada and India the fiscal year runs from April 1; in the United Kingdom it runs from April 1 for purposes of corporation tax and government financial statements, but from April 6 for purposes of personal taxation and payment of state benefits; in Australia it runs from July 1; while in the United States the fiscal year of the federal government runs from October 1.\n\nAn academic year is the annual period during which a student attends an educational institution. The academic year may be divided into academic terms, such as semesters or quarters. The school year in many countries starts in August or September and ends in May, June or July. In Israel the academic year begins around October or November, aligned with the second month of the Hebrew Calendar.\n\nSome schools in the UK and USA divide the academic year into \"three\" roughly equal-length terms (called \"trimesters\" or \"quarters\" in the USA), roughly coinciding with autumn, winter, and spring. At some, a shortened summer session, sometimes considered part of the regular academic year, is attended by students on a voluntary or elective basis. Other schools break the year into \"two\" main semesters, a first (typically August through December) and a second semester (January through May). Each of these main semesters may be split in half by mid-term exams, and each of the halves is referred to as a \"quarter\" (or \"term\" in some countries). There may also be a voluntary summer session and/or a short January session.\n\nSome other schools, including some in the United States, have \"four\" marking periods. Some schools in the United States, notably Boston Latin School, may divide the year into \"five or more\" marking periods. Some state in defense of this that there is perhaps a positive correlation between report frequency and academic achievement.\n\nThere are typically 180 days of teaching each year in schools in the US, excluding weekends and breaks, while there are 190 days for pupils in state schools in Canada, New Zealand and the United Kingdom, and 200 for pupils in Australia.\n\nIn India the academic year normally starts from June 1 and ends on May 31. Though schools start closing from mid-March, the actual academic closure is on May 31 and in Nepal it starts from July 15.\n\nSchools and universities in Australia typically have academic years that roughly align with the calendar year (i.e., starting in February or March and ending in October to December), as the southern hemisphere experiences summer from December to February.\n\nThe Julian year, as used in astronomy and other sciences, is a time unit defined as exactly 365.25 days. This is the normal meaning of the unit \"year\" (symbol \"a\" from the Latin \"annus\") used in various scientific contexts. The Julian century of days and the Julian millennium of days are used in astronomical calculations. Fundamentally, expressing a time interval in Julian years is a way to precisely specify how many days (not how many \"real\" years), for long time intervals where stating the number of days would be unwieldy and unintuitive. By convention, the Julian year is used in the computation of the distance covered by a light-year.\n\nIn the Unified Code for Units of Measure, the symbol, \"a\" (without subscript), always refers to the Julian year, \"a\", of exactly seconds.\n\nThe SI multiplier prefixes may be applied to it to form \"ka\" (kiloannus), \"Ma\" (megaannus), etc.\n\nEach of these three years can be loosely called an \"astronomical year\".\n\nThe sidereal year is the time taken for the Earth to complete one revolution of its orbit, as measured against a fixed frame of reference (such as the fixed stars, Latin \"sidera\", singular \"sidus\"). Its average duration is days (365 d 6 h 9 min 9.76 s) (at the epoch J2000.0 = January 1, 2000, 12:00:00 TT).\n\nToday the mean tropical year is defined as the period of time for the mean ecliptic longitude of the Sun to increase by 360 degrees. Since the Sun's ecliptic longitude is measured with respect to the equinox, the tropical year comprises a complete cycle of the seasons; because of the biological and socio-economic importance of the seasons, the tropical year is the basis of most calendars. The modern definition of mean tropical year differs from the actual time between passages of, e.g., the northward equinox for several reasons explained below. Because of the Earth's axial precession, this year is about 20 minutes shorter than the sidereal year. The mean tropical year is approximately 365 days, 5 hours, 48 minutes, 45 seconds, using the modern definition. (= days of 86400 SI seconds)\n\nThe anomalistic year is the time taken for the Earth to complete one revolution with respect to its apsides. The orbit of the Earth is elliptical; the extreme points, called apsides, are the perihelion, where the Earth is closest to the Sun (January 3 in 2011), and the aphelion, where the Earth is farthest from the Sun (July 4 in 2011). The anomalistic year is usually defined as the time between perihelion passages. Its average duration is days (365 d 6 h 13 min 52.6 s) (at the epoch J2011.0).\n\nThe draconic year, draconitic year, eclipse year, or ecliptic year is the time taken for the Sun (as seen from the Earth) to complete one revolution with respect to the same lunar node (a point where the Moon's orbit intersects the ecliptic). The year is associated with eclipses: these occur only when both the Sun and the Moon are near these nodes; so eclipses occur within about a month of every half eclipse year. Hence there are two eclipse seasons every eclipse year. The average duration of the eclipse year is\n\nThis term is sometimes erroneously used for the draconic or nodal period of lunar precession, that is the period of a complete revolution of the Moon's ascending node around the ecliptic: Julian years ( days; at the epoch J2000.0).\n\nThe full moon cycle is the time for the Sun (as seen from the Earth) to complete one revolution with respect to the perigee of the Moon's orbit. This period is associated with the apparent size of the full moon, and also with the varying duration of the synodic month. The duration of one full moon cycle is:\n\nThe lunar year comprises twelve full cycles of the phases of the Moon, as seen from Earth. It has a duration of approximately 354.37 days. Muslims use this for celebrating their Eids and for marking the start of the fasting month of Ramadan.\nA Muslim calendar year is based on the lunar cycle.\n\nThe vague year, from \"annus vagus\" or wandering year, is an integral approximation to the year equaling 365 days, which wanders in relation to more exact years. Typically the vague year is divided into 12 schematic months of 30 days each plus 5 epagomenal days. The vague year was used in the calendars of Ancient Egypt, Iran, Armenia and in Mesoamerica among the Aztecs and Maya. It is still used by many Zoroastrian communities.\n\nA heliacal year is the interval between the heliacal risings of a star. It differs from the sidereal year for stars away from the ecliptic due mainly to the precession of the equinoxes.\n\nThe Sothic year is the interval between heliacal risings of the star Sirius. It is currently less than the sidereal year and its duration is very close to the Julian year of 365.25 days.\n\nThe Gaussian year is the sidereal year for a planet of negligible mass (relative to the Sun) and unperturbed by other planets that is governed by the Gaussian gravitational constant. Such a planet would be slightly closer to the Sun than Earth's mean distance. Its length is:\n\nThe Besselian year is a tropical year that starts when the (fictitious) mean Sun reaches an ecliptic longitude of 280°. This is currently on or close to January 1. It is named after the 19th-century German astronomer and mathematician Friedrich Bessel. The following equation can be used to compute the current Besselian epoch (in years):\n\nThe TT subscript indicates that for this formula, the Julian date should use the Terrestrial Time scale, or its predecessor, ephemeris time.\n\nThe exact length of an astronomical year changes over time.\n\nMean year lengths in this section are calculated for 2000, and differences in year lengths, compared to 2000, are given for past and future years. In the tables a day is 86,400 SI seconds long.\n\nAn average Gregorian year is 365.2425 days (52.1775 weeks, hours, minutes or seconds). For this calendar, a common year is 365 days ( hours, minutes or seconds), and a leap year is 366 days ( hours, minutes or seconds). The 400-year cycle of the Gregorian calendar has days and hence exactly weeks.\n\nThe Great Year, or equinoctial cycle, corresponds to a complete revolution of the equinoxes around the ecliptic. Its length is about 25,700 years.\n\nThe Galactic year is the time it takes Earth's solar system to revolve once around the galactic center. It comprises roughly 230 million Earth years.\n\nA seasonal year is the time between successive recurrences of a seasonal event such as the flooding of a river, the migration of a species of bird, the flowering of a species of plant, the first frost, or the first scheduled game of a certain sport. All of these events can have wide variations of more than a month from year to year.\n\nIn the International System of Quantities the symbol for the year as a unit of time is \"a\", taken from the Latin word \"annus\".\n\nIn English, the abbreviations \"y\" or \"yr\" are more commonly used in non-scientific literature, but also specifically in geology and paleontology, where \"kyr, myr, byr\" (thousands, millions, and billions of years, respectively) and similar abbreviations are used to denote intervals of time remote from the present.\n\nNIST SP811 and ISO 80000-3:2006 support the symbol \"a\" as the unit of time for a year. In English, the abbreviations \"y\" and \"yr\" are also used.\n\nThe Unified Code for Units of Measure disambiguates the varying symbologies of ISO 1000, ISO 2955 and ANSI X3.50 by using:\n\nwhere:\n\nThe International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) and the International Union of Geological Sciences have jointly recommended defining the annus, with symbol \"a\", as the length of the tropical year in the year 2000:\n\nThis differs from the above definition of 365.25 days by about 20 parts per million. The joint document says that definitions such as the Julian year \"bear an inherent, pre-programmed obsolescence because of the variability of Earth’s orbital movement\", but then proposes using the length of the tropical year as of 2000 AD (specified down to the millisecond), which suffers from the same problem. (The tropical year oscillates with time by more than a minute.)\n\nThe notation has proved controversial as it conflicts with an earlier convention among geoscientists to use \"a\" specifically for \"years ago\", and \"y\" or \"yr\" for a one-year time period.\n\nFor the following, there are alternative forms which elide the consecutive vowels, such as \"kilannus\", \"megannus\", etc. The exponents and exponential notations are typically used for calculating and in displaying calculations, and for conserving space, as in tables of data.\n\nIn astronomy, geology, and paleontology, the abbreviation \"yr\" for \"years\" and \"ya\" for years ago are sometimes used, combined with prefixes for thousand, million, or billion. They are not SI units, using \"y\" to abbreviate the English \"year\", but following ambiguous international recommendations, use either the standard English first letters as prefixes (t, m, and b) or metric prefixes (k, M, and G) or variations on metric prefixes (k, m, g). In archaeology, dealing with more recent periods, normally expressed dates, e.g. \"22,000 years ago\" may be used as a more accessible equivalent of a Before Present (\"BP\") date.\n\nThese abbreviations include:\nUse of \"mya\" and \"bya\" is deprecated in modern geophysics, the recommended usage being \"Ma\" and \"Ga\" for dates Before Present, but \"m.y.\" for the duration of epochs. This \"ad hoc\" distinction between \"absolute\" time and time intervals is somewhat controversial amongst members of the Geological Society of America.\n\nNote that on graphs, using \"ya\" units on the horizontal axis time flows from right to left, which may seem counter-intuitive. If the \"ya\" units are on the vertical axis, time flows from top to bottom which is probably easier to understand than conventional notation.\n\n\n"}
