{"id": "41270069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41270069", "title": "AccuSystems", "text": "AccuSystems\n\nAccuSystems LLC is an American company headquartered in Pueblo, Colorado that develops, licenses, supports, and sells document imaging software and electronic document management, primarily to the banking and finance industries. Over 200 banks currently use AccuSystems' software.\n\nIn 2002, AccuSystems made its first sale to People's Bank.\n\nAccuSystems' software, known as AccuAccount, is mainly used to electronically scan, store, and manage loan files and any other associated paperwork. In September 2010, AccuSystems announced the acquisition of Xtria RMS. Financial institutions use the Xtria RMS software, now known as Tickler, to track exceptions electronically.\n\nIn 2012, AccuSystems won the BankNews Innovative Solutions Award for Management Software Solutions.\n\nIn 2013, BankTech published a survey taken by AccuSystems that surveyed 80 community banks. The survey found that only 12% of banks are using paperless systems for issuing loans. The study is often used when discussing paperless systems in the US's banking industry.\n"}
{"id": "31619836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31619836", "title": "Applied unified communications", "text": "Applied unified communications\n\nApplied Unified Communications is the application of unified communications (SMS, e-mail, VoIP, Letters, IVR) to solve business problems by helping enterprises to increase profitability and operational efficiencies using targeted and personalised communications with their customers.\n"}
{"id": "12793598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12793598", "title": "Association of Consulting Engineers New Zealand", "text": "Association of Consulting Engineers New Zealand\n\nThe Association of Consulting Engineers New Zealand (ACENZ) is New Zealand's main business association representing engineers providing consultancy services in a wide range of disciplines. It was founded in 1959 as the consulting division of IPENZ, though it has been a separate entity since 1970. \n\nIt has 176 corporate members with a total of around 8,500 staff (2007 data), up from about 5,800 in 2001.\n\nApart from its functions as a representative of the interests of its member companies, it annually judges engineering awards for the most innovative and exceptional engineering projects of New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "34026570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34026570", "title": "Axess (CRS)", "text": "Axess (CRS)\n\nAxess (アクセス国際ネットワーク) is a Computer reservations system based in Japan which provides its services in the Japanese market. It originated as the IT department of Japan Airlines called Jalinfotech. In 1991 it was established as an independent company it began to be marketed to travel agencies in Japan. In 1995 Axess partnered with Sabre Holdings in order to provide travel agencies in Japan with booking and ticketing capabilities for a wider range of international airlines.\n\nOn April 23 2012 Travelport, the business services provider to the global travel industry, announced a long-term agreement with AXESS International Network, the leading Japanese GDS owned by Japan Airlines (JAL). Under the new agreement, AXESS will be hosted by Travelport in its Atlanta data center as a partition of the Travelport global distribution system. The new upgraded AXESS GDS system, which will provide enhanced functionality to connected travel agency users, will be implemented by 2013.\n\nBy adopting Travelport's technology infrastructure, the AXESS GDS system will be enhanced with improved connectivity to airlines and a significant increase in the range of fares, shopping, hotel and car rental capabilities available for use by Japanese travel agencies and corporations. \n\nAXESS confirmed it had selected Travelport as its partner due to the two companies' mutual alignment on strategic thinking and saw the agreement as a significant step forward in reinforcing AXESS's position as the GDS of choice in the Japanese travel industry. \n\n"}
{"id": "14501159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14501159", "title": "Binding corporate rules", "text": "Binding corporate rules\n\nBinding Corporate Rules or \"BCRs\" were developed by the European Union Article 29 Working Party to allow multinational corporations, international organizations, and groups of companies to make intra-organizational transfers of personal data across borders in compliance with EU Data Protection Law. The BCRs were developed as an alternative to the U.S. Department of Commerce EU Safe Harbor (which was for US organizations only, but has been declared invalid and replaced by the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S Privacy Shield Frameworks) and the EU Model Contract Clauses.\n\nBCRs are required to be approved by the data protection authority in each EU Member State (such as the Information Commissioner's Office in the United Kingdom, CNIL in France, AEPD in Spain, etc.) in which the organization will rely on the BCRs. The EU has developed a mutual recognition process under which BCRs approved by one member state's data protection authority (known as the \"lead\" authority) and two other \"co-lead\" authorities, may be approved by the other relevant member states who may make comments and ask for amendments. Other members states, not part of mutual recognition process, will be also involved by the lead authority and will apply their own independent review process within a limited time-frame. The overall process for BCR acceptance takes usually between 6 and 9 months. This time frame does not include the required Data Protection setup, which should be already implemented within the company in order to comply with the current directive and its local implementation.\n\nBCRs typically form stringent, intra-corporate global privacy policies, set of practices, processes and guidelines that satisfy EU standards and may be available as an alternative means of authorizing transfers of personal data (e.g., customer databases, HR information, etc.) outside of Europe.\n\nBCRs should be seen as a framework for having different elements (internal legal agreement, policies, training, audit, etc.) providing compliance with EU data protection regulations and effective privacy and data protection.\n\nIt has to be noticed that, while originally designed for providing legal ground to international transfers, BCRs became de facto a corporation demonstration of its capacity to comply \"at large\" with personal data processing requirements. A corporation having BCRs applies this framework independently of international transfers and should be seen as part of the \"Corporate Governance\" or \"Data Governance\"\n\nThe Article 29 Working Party issued several guidance documents on BCR content, acceptance criteria and submission process.\n\nBCRs by themselves do not \"authorize\" all transfers automatically for all EU member states. Most of member states still require a formal \"transfer notification\" which is normally granted if the BCRs have been accepted by the relevant country.\n\nThe following companies have obtained authorizations for BCRs:\n\n\nIn addition, the Article 29 Working Party has introduced guidance for BCRs for processors (also known as Processor BCR, as opposed to the traditional Controller BCR).\n"}
{"id": "2093407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093407", "title": "Business activity monitoring", "text": "Business activity monitoring\n\nBusiness activity monitoring (BAM) is software that aids in monitoring of business activities, key performance indicators, business / operational exceptions and business risks, as those activities are implemented in computer systems.\n\nThe term was originally coined by analysts at Gartner, Inc. and refers to the aggregation, analysis, and presentation of real-time information about activities inside organizations and involving customers and partners. A business activity can either be a business process that is orchestrated by business process management (BPM) software, or a business process that is a series of activities spanning multiple systems and applications. BAM is an enterprise solution primarily intended to provide a real-time summary of business activities to operations managers and upper management.\n\nThe goals of business activity monitoring is to provide real time information about the status and results of various operations, processes, and transactions. The main benefits of BAM are to enable an enterprise to make better informed business decisions, quickly address problem areas, and re-position organizations to take full advantage of emerging opportunities.\n\nOne of the most visible features of BAM solutions is the presentation of information on dashboards containing the key performance indicators (KPIs) used to provide assurance and visibility of activity and performance. This information is used by technical and business operations to provide visibility, measurement, and assurance of key business activities. It is also exploited by event correlation to detect and warn of impending problems.\n\nAlthough BAM systems usually use a computer dashboard display to present data, BAM is distinct from the dashboards used by business intelligence (BI) insofar as events are processed in real-time or near real-time and pushed to the dashboard in BAM systems, whereas BI dashboards refresh at predetermined intervals by polling or querying databases. Depending on the refresh interval selected, BAM and BI dashboards can be similar or vary considerably.\n\nSome BAM solutions additionally provide trouble notification functions, which allows them to interact automatically with the issue tracking system. For example, whole groups of people can be sent e-mails, voice or text messages, according to the nature of the problem. Automated problem solving, where feasible, can correct and restart failed processes.\n\nIn nearly all BAM deployments extensive tailoring to specific enterprises is required. Many BAM solutions seek to reduce extensive customization and may offer templates that are written to solve common problems in specific sectors, for example banking, manufacturing, and stockbroking. Due to the high degree of system integration required for initial deployment, many enterprises use experts that specialize in BAM to implement solutions.\n\nBAM is now considered a critical component of Operational Intelligence (OI) solutions to deliver visibility into business operations. Multiple sources of data can be combined from different organizational silos to provide a common operating picture that uses current information. Wherever real-time insight has the greatest value, OI solutions can be applied to deliver the needed information.\n\nAll BAM solutions process events. While most of the first BAM solutions were closely linked to BPM solutions and therefore processed events emitted as the process was being orchestrated, this had the disadvantage of requiring enterprises to invest in BPM before being able to acquire and use BAM. The newer generation of BAM solutions are based on complex event processing (CEP) technology, and can process high volumes of underlying technical events to derive higher level business events, therefore reducing the dependency on BPM, and providing BAM to a wider audience of customers.\n\nA bank might be interested in minimizing the amount of money it borrows overnight from a central bank. Interbank transfers must be communicated and arranged through automation by a set time each business day. The failure of any vital communication could cost the bank large sums in interest charged by the central bank. A BAM solution would be programmed to become aware of each message and await confirmation. Failure to receive confirmation within a reasonable amount of time would be grounds for the BAM solution to raise an alarm that would set in motion manual intervention to investigate the cause of the delay and to push the problem toward resolution before it becomes costly.\n\nAnother example involves a mobile telecommunications company interested in detecting a situation whereby new customers are not set up promptly and correctly on their network and within the various CRM and billing solutions. Low-level technical events such as messages passing from one application to another over a middleware system, or transactions detected within a database logfile, are processed by a CEP engine. All events relating to an individual customer are correlated in order to detect an anomalous situation whereby an individual customer has not been promptly or correctly provisioned, or set up. An alert can be generated to notify technical operations or to notify business operations, and the failed provisioning step may be restarted automatically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3593875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3593875", "title": "Business mathematics", "text": "Business mathematics\n\nBusiness mathematics is mathematics used by commercial enterprises to record and manage business operations. Commercial organizations use mathematics in accounting, inventory management, marketing, sales forecasting, and financial analysis. \n\nMathematics typically used in commerce includes elementary arithmetic, elementary algebra, statistics and probability. Business management can be done more effectively in some cases by use of more advanced mathematics such as calculus, matrix algebra and linear programming.\n\n\"Business mathematics, \" sometimes called \"commercial math\" or \"consumer math\", is a group of practical subjects used in commerce and everyday life. In schools, these subjects are often taught to students who are not planning a university education. In the United States, they are typically offered in high schools and in schools that grant associate's degrees; elsewhere they may be included under Business studies. The emphasis in these courses is on computational skills and their practical application, with practical application being predominant. \n\nA (U.S.) business math course might include a review of elementary arithmetic, including fractions, decimals, and percentages. Elementary algebra is often included as well, in the context of solving practical business problems. The practical applications typically include checking accounts, price discounts, markups and Markup, payroll calculations, simple and compound interest, consumer and business credit, and mortgages and revenues.\n\n\"Business Mathematics\" comprises mathematics courses taken at an undergraduate level by business students. The two most common here are \"Business Calculus\" and \"Business Statistics\". Programs often also cover matrix operations as above, and may include a separate module on interest calculations.\n\nThese courses are usually focused on problems from the business world, and the syllabus is adjusted correspondingly. Thus for example, whereas in a regular calculus course students would study trigonometric functions, courses here would not typically cover this area. Correspondingly, these courses typically do not go into the same depth as standard courses in the mathematics or science fields. (Although see Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and Bachelor of Business Science.) \n\nNote that economics majors, especially those planning to pursue graduate study in the field, are encouraged to instead take regular calculus, as well as linear algebra and other advanced math courses, especially real analysis. Some programs (instead) include a module in \"mathematics for economists\", providing a bridge between the above \"Business Mathematics\" courses and mathematical economics and econometrics.\nOperations management (and management accounting) may similarly include supplementary coursework in relevant quantitative techniques, generally linear programming as above, as well as other optimization methods.\n\nAt the postgraduate level, \"generalist\" management and finance programs include quantitative topics which are foundational for the study in question - often exempting students with an appropriate background. These are usually \"interest mathematics\" and statistics, both at the above level. MBA programs often also include basic operations research (linear programming, as above) with the emphasis on practice, and may combine the topics as \"quantitative analysis\"; MSF programs may similarly cover applied econometrics.\n\nMore technical Masters in these areas, such as those in management science and quantitative finance, will entail a deeper, more theoretical study of operations research and econometrics, and extend to further advanced topics such as mathematical optimization and stochastic calculus. These programs do not include \"Business mathematics\" \"per se\".\n\nWhere mathematical economics is not required, graduate economics programs often include \"quantitative techniques\", which covers (applied) linear algebra and multivariate calculus, and may include the above topics; regardless, econometrics is usually a separate course, and is dealt with in depth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5322744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5322744", "title": "Business process orientation", "text": "Business process orientation\n\nThe concept of business process orientation (BPO) is based upon the work of Deming (Walton, 1996), Porter (1985), Davenport and Short (1990), Hammer (1993, 1996 and 1999), Grover et al. (1995), and Coombs and Hull (1996). This body of work suggests that firms could enhance their overall performance by adopting a “process view” of the organization. Although many firms have adopted the BPO concept, little to no empirical data existed substantiating its effectiveness in facilitating improved business performance. McCormack (2000) conducted an empirical study to explore the relationship between BPO and enhanced business performance. The research results showed that BPO is critical in reducing conflict and encouraging greater connectedness within an organization, while improving business performance. Moreover, companies with strong measures of BPO showed better overall business performance. The research also showed that high BPO levels within organizations led to a more positive corporate climate, illustrated through better organizational connectedness and less internal conflict. Another empirical study by Kohlbacher (2009) reveals that BPO is positively associated with customer satisfaction, product quality, delivery speed and time-to-market speed.\n\nFor a central concept, one that has become something of a Holy Grail for 1990s managers, BPO has remained remarkably hard to pin down. Its champions argue that it is a new approach to management that replaces the rigid hierarchies of the past (\"I report to my boss\") with structures that are much flatter, more cooperative, more process-oriented (\"I report to my customer.\"). Many of us have had experience with both types of organization and we know intuitively what BPO feels like. Yet, if you're like me, you want a more solid foundation on which to make decisions and recommendations.\n\nMost of the literature on business process orientation has been in the popular press and lacks a research or empirical focus. Although empirical evidence is lacking, several models have emerged during the last few years that have been presented as the high performance, process oriented organization needed in today and tomorrow’s world. Deming, Porter, Davenport, Short, Hammer, Byrne, Imai, Drucker, Rummler-Brache and Melan have all defined what they view as the new model of the organization. According to each model’s proponent, the “building” of this model requires a new approach and a new way of thinking about the organization which will result in dramatic business performance improvements. This “new way of thinking” or “viewing” your organization has been generally described as business process orientation.\n\nProcess centering or building an organization with a business process orientation has led to many reported successes. Texas Instruments, Progressive Insurance and American Standard Companies have all been reported, albeit anecdotally, as receiving improved business performance from building a process orientation within an organization (Hammer 1996).\n\nProcess orientation, and its relationship to improved cross-functional interaction, was introduced almost fifteen years ago by Michael Porter. He introduced the concept of interoperability across the value chain as a major issue within firms (Porter 1985). W. Edwards Deming also contributed with the “Deming Flow Diagram” depicting the connections across the firm from the customer to the supplier as a process that could be measured and improved like any other process (Walton 1986). Thomas Davenport and James Short (1990) described a process orientation within an organization as a key component in the “New Industrial Engineering: Information Technology and Business Process Redesign.”\n\nMichael Hammer also presented the business process orientation concept as an essential ingredient of a successful “reengineering” effort. Hammer coined this term to describe the development of a customer focused, strategic business process based organization enabled by rethinking the assumptions in a process oriented way and utilizing information technology as a key enabler (Hammer, 1993). Hammer offers reengineering as a strategy to overcome the problematic cross-functional activities that are presenting major performance issues to firms and cites many examples of successes and failures in his series of books and articles. Hallmark and Wal-Mart are often put forward as success stories and IBM and GM as the failures.\n\nCulture is a major theme in the examples cited. A “business process culture” is a culture that is cross-functional, customer oriented along with process and system thinking. This can be expanded by Davenport’s definition of process orientation as consisting of elements of structure, focus, measurement, ownership and customers (Davenport 1993). Davenport also stressed commitment to process improvement that directly benefits the customer and business process information oriented systems as a major component of this culture\n\nFinally, Hammer (Hammer 1993, 1995, 1996, 1999) described “process thinking” as cross-functional and outcome oriented. He also used four categories to describe the components of an organization. These are:\n\n\nTo establish a more solid foundation, I would like to propose a definition and an approach to measuring BPO. The BPO concept has sufficient practitioners and researchers and has been implemented in enough companies that we now have the information we need to develop a testable statistical model. The trick, of course, is getting at that broad range of experience and boiling it down in scientifically acceptable ways to a point where practitioners can use it easily in the field.\n\nOur approach to building this foundation began with an extensive literature review, interviews with experts both in the U.S. and Europe and testing with experienced practitioners and experts to determine the key definition and variables within BPO. Using various statistical techniques (domain sampling, coefficient alpha testing, and factor analysis), we both determined the validity of various BPO variables and condensed those variables into a simpler composite list (survey instrument) that offered easy use in measuring BPO within an organization (McCormack 1999).\n\nOur research found that the practitioners and experts said a Business Process Oriented Organization comes down to this:\n\n\"An organization that emphasizes process as opposed to hierarchies, a process oriented way of thinking, outcomes and customers.\"\nWe also found that BPO also breaks into three elements:\n\n\nRecent research extends the elements of McCormack (1999) and concludes that the concept of BPO consists of the following components:\n\nBrache, A.P. & Rummler, G.A., (1990). Improving Performance: How to Manage the White Space on the Organization Chart. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.\n\nBrooks, S.S. (June 1995). Managing the horizontal revolution. HRMagizine, 40, pp. 52–58.\n\nBuxbaum, P.A. (1995). The horizontal company. Transportation and Distribution, (June 1995), 36, 82.\n\nByrne, John A. (December 13, 1993). The horizontal corporation. Business Week, pp. 76–81.\n\nDavenport, T.H, & Short, J.E. (1990). The new industrial engineering: information technology and business process redesign. Sloan Management Review. 31. 11-27.\n\nDavenport, T. H. (1993). Process Innovation: Reengineering Work Through Information Technology. Boston MA: Harvard Business School Press.\n\nDrucker, Peter F. (1988). The coming of the new organization. Harvard Business Review (January–February). pp. 45–53.\n\nHammer, M. & Champy, J. (1993). Reengineering the Corporation: A Manifesto for Business Revolution. (1st ed.) New York, NY: HarperBusiness.\n\nHammer, M. & Stanton, S.A. (1995) The Reengineering Revolution: A Handbook, (1st ed.) New York, NY: HarperBusiness.\n\nHammer, M. (1996). Beyond Reengineering: How the Process-Centered Organization is Changing Our Lives. New York, NY: HarperBusiness.\n\nHammer, M. (1999). How process enterprises really work. Harvard Business Review (November–December). pp. 108–118.\n\nHammer, M (2001), The Agenda – What every business must do to dominate the decade, Crown Business, New York\n\nImai, Masaaki (1986), Kaizen: The Key to Japan’s Competitive Success. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill Publishing Co.\n\nJaworski, B.J. & Kohli, A.K. (1993). Market orientation: Antecedents and consequences. Journal of Marketing, vol.57. (July 1993). 53-70.\n\nMelan, E. H. (1985). Process management in service and administrative operations. Quality Progress, pp. 52–59.\n\nMelan, E. H. (1989). Process management: A unifying framework for improvement. National Productivity Review, pp. 395–406.\n\nMcCormack, K.P. (1999 March). The Development of a Measure of Business Process Orientation. Paper presented at the European Institute for Advanced Studies in Management: Workshop on Organizational Design. Brussels, Belgium.\n\nPorter, M.E. (1985), Competitive Advantage: Creating & Sustaining Superior Performance. New York, NY: The Free Press.\n\nWalton, Mary (1986). The Deming Management Method, Perigee Books. New York, NY.\n"}
{"id": "22697384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22697384", "title": "Business sector", "text": "Business sector\n\nIn economics, the business sector or corporate sector - sometimes popularly called simply \"business\" - is \"the part of the economy made up by companies\". It is a subset of the domestic economy,\nexcluding the economic activities of general government, of private households, and of non-profit organizations serving individuals. An alternative analysis of economies, the three-sector theory, subdivides them into: \n\n\nIn the United States the business sector accounted for about 78 percent of the value of gross domestic product (GDP) . Kuwait and Tuvalu each had business sectors accounting for less than 40% of GDP .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17063370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17063370", "title": "Business war games", "text": "Business war games\n\nBusiness war gaming (Corporate war gaming) or business wargaming is an adaptation of the art of simulating moves and counter-moves in a commercial setting. Unlike military war games, or fantasy war games which can be set hundreds of years in the past, business war games are usually set in the present and are a relatively recent development, but they are growing rapidly.\n\nThe rationale for running a business war game is that it is a tool of particular value when the competitive environment is undergoing a process of change, as it allows decision makers to consider proactively how different players can react to the change, and to each other. The benefit of teams role playing competitors and developing more robust strategies is especially notable, and can be inferred from a quote such as the one below from Richard Clark, CEO of Merck and Co., who in an interview to USA Today said: \"I am a strong believer in if you’re going to develop a vision or a strategic plan for the future of a company that you have to engage the organization in doing that…it can’t be just the CEO or top 10 executives sitting in a sterile conference room.\"\".\n\nAt the Paul Merage School Of Business at University of California, Irvine the final exam for the competitive intelligence class is a war game in which the students role play various companies to try to win in the marketplace. Each year student teams have developed strategies - some of which have actually happened in the market place indicating that a war game is a very powerful predictive tool for businesss when planned properly.\n\nCurrently there are three schools of thought about business war game, depending on the underlying philosophy of their creators: \"Business is War\" war games, \"Business is a Game\" war games, and \"Business is Business\" war games. The three types have accordingly, different strengths and weaknesses, and are useful for different applications throughout business.\n\nSometimes abbreviated as 'BIW' war games, 'Business is War' games are a direct adaptation from the military war games, and envision competitors as the \"enemy\" and the goal as \"victory\" in a market \"battle\". These games are based on mathematical modeling of contestable markets, including chaos theory, random variable generation (Monte Carlo simulations), and econometric modeling of demand and supply conditions. Participants’ generated moves are fed into computer program which generates optimal solutions in the mathematical space. Not surprisingly these games come with a high price tag, and are advocated by large consulting firms which tend to work with the US military establishment.\n\n'BIG' war games regard business transactions as a game between participants with potentially conflicting goals. BIG advocates apply game theory, a branch of mathematics to business situations with the goal of finding an equilibrium, or \"stable\" solution (so called Nash equilibrium) whereby no one can further improve on the outcome. The solution can be computed over a large space of all possible (hypothetical) moves of the players. A leading proponent of this type of war games is Niall Fraser, a game theorist and the founder of a consultancy called Open Options. A variant on BIG is computer simulations’ games using simultaneous equations to solve for demand and supply equilibrium (not a game theory solution). Participants input numerical values for decisions on a wide range of business investments (in production, sales force, advertising, etc.), and receive a computer output of the equilibrium results.\n\nAlso referred to as 'BIB' regard business as neither a war nor a game. The goals and tactics of war are incompatible with business goals; competitors do not aim to defeat each other but to satisfy customers’ preferences better than others. Government precludes total victories and cooperation is as prevalent as competition. Similarly, BIB criticizes \"Business is Game\" thinking on the ground that hypothetical or generic moves are irrelevant or trivial, stable solutions are not a substitute for specific, real life practical and innovative strategies for management, and computer/mathematical simulations do not approach the complexity of competitive dynamics in real markets. Instead, BIB advocates using state-of-the-art competitor analysis techniques and real life competitive intelligence to generate an in-depth profiling of competitors through role playing. The goal of BIB is predicting most likely moves by most significant competitors or other third parties (customers, regulators) so that strategy can be pressure–tested in the most realistic setting. The creator of BIB games is Benjamin Gilad. A variation combines BIB war gaming with computer simulations. This approach, used by Mark Chussil, founder of Advanced Competitive Strategies, uses simulations to estimate the likely outcomes from moves made by a business, its competitors, and other relevant actors, across multiple scenarios. This approach allows for both competitive dynamics and quantitative analysis, at the cost of additional time to set up the war game.\n\nIn contrast to the often larger “Business is War”, “Business is a Game” and “Business is Business” war games, which all primarily deal with market level issues, Negotiation War Games are smaller in scope and only deal with business related negotiations. Even though the US military have long referred to the practice of ”War Gaming a negotiation”, the term ”Negotiation War Game” was first coined by Soren Malmborg in 2010.\n\nA \"NWG\" is a Business War Game conducted at negotiation level. I.e. A structured framework for conducting a preparatory Negotiation Simulation on a specific, upcoming negotiation.\n\nA Negotiation War Game is most often divided into three steps:\n1/ Gather Intelligence\n2/ Simulate Upcoming Negotiation\n3/ Debrief and calibrate negotiation strategy.\n\nBy adding Competitive Intelligence to the simulation, Negotiation War Gaming differentiates itself from normal mock negotiations and other training exercises. The act of gathering and including Competitive Intelligence on the forthcoming negotiation and its parties, lets participants in the Negotiation War Game gain an in-depth understanding of the negotiation itself and the negotiation parties.\n\nThe purpose of doing a Negotiation War Game is threefold; \n1/ Predicting your opponents' next move \n2/ Revealing opportunities, threats and issues \n3/ Developing and testing a calibrated negotiation strategy. \n\nEven though software applications can play an important role in the facilitation of a Role-Play Negotiation War Game, the method is inherently focused on role-play simulation. War Games can be used to prepare for virtually all two or three party negotiations. By gathering Competitive Intelligence on the actual negotiation (as well as the individuals involved) an accurate simulation can be created. A client’s employees will then become involved in the actual War Game by acting partly as the company itself, partly as the other negotiating party. Through a series of structured simulations, a tailor-made strategy can then be developed and calibrated.\n\nRole-Play Negotiation War Games are especially effective when preparing for Sales- and Procurement negotiations. Through more than 30 years of business usage and scientific research, the method has been shown to generate significantly better negotiation outcomes compared to other popular methods. (Please see Application section below for references).In 2010, 64,7% of young US Sales-Managers Role-Played their upcoming negotiations, making \"Pure Role-Play\" Negotiation War Gaming one of the most used negotiation preparation techniques in North America. \nA leading proponent and provider of these types of War Games is Outcome Simulations ApS led by Soren Malmborg. As of 2013, Outcome's Negotiation War Gaming method is taught in MBA courses on negotiation at Columbia Business School and NYU Stern School of Business.\n\nGiven the high budget requirements and long preparations time, BIW games are more appropriate for big companies' big decisions and large budgets, such as corporate games, involving top executives with considerable staff and consultant support. Corporate games are played over major portfolio decisions such as diversification and/or divestiture moves of the parent company (i.e., which acquisitions to go for, which business to get rid of), and over longer term horizons. BIW games are less appropriate for business units, or \"business\" strategy decisions, as their high price tag and extensive time required from top executives are no match for small scale games with more tailored application and flexible format. To fully understand the difference between corporate games played over corporate strategy (portfolio management) and business games played over business strategy (competitive strategy), read Michael Porter’s articles.\n\nGame theory and computer simulation games are appropriate for planning and decision support in industries in relatively stable state, known distributions of outcomes, and predictable competitors, as they are best suited for finding equilibrium solutions among a relatively large set of known variables (payoffs and moves). On the other hand, BIG games are handicapped in rapidly changing industries, markets where surprise moves by new players is a possibility, situations requiring innovative and creative approaches, and in decisions calling for specific practical ideas rather than more generic moves (such as raise, stay or lower prices by x%). Decision makers looking at war gaming should also be minded of game theory’s own lack of empirical support, as people seem to irrationally follow behaviors that do not result in their best outcome.\n\nBusiness war games employing role-playing and competitor analytical techniques are most beneficial in business strategy at the business unit, market, brands, product and project levels. BIB games have been applied with great success to new product launches, offensive and defensive moves against specific competitors (whose response is analyzed using the advanced competitor analysis techniques), in organizational development’s (training the next generation executive cadre) \"competitive landscape\" games, and in brand revival and new market entry situations. According to participants, BIB games provide touch reality-based challenge to strategies and plans that helps companies cope with uncertainty. They are less useful in conglomerate strategy as they apply to business strategy and not across unrelated industries. BIB are also more culture sensitive, and should be applied with caution in cultures where honest discussion of blindspots is less than appreciated. The methodological superiority of BIB games over other techniques received strong empirical support from a meta study on the effectivenes of predictions of competitive outcomes using \"role playing\".\n\n\"Pure Role-Play\" Negotiation War Games have shown to generate significantly better predictions of negotiation outcomes compared to other popular methods. \"Pure Role-Play\" Negotiation War Games have also been shown to ensure significantly lower prices in procurement negotiations, and greater writedowns in auditor vs. client negotiations concerning obsolete inventory. \"Pure Role-Play\" War Games have been used extensively in business negotiations. \"Pure Role-Play\" War Games are furthermore often used in politics. Negotiation War Gaming was used to prepare President Ronald Reagan for his negotiations with Gorbachev in Reykevik and Geneva in 1985 and 1986. Presidential candidate John Kerry used a Negotiation War Game to prepare for his first TV-duel with George W. Bush in 2002. Both President Barack Obama and Mitt Romney used the method prior to the 2012 presidential TV-duels. The NTC (National Training Center, Fort Irwin. Ca.) recommend that all U.S. and Canadian Army officers be trained in the method before deployment.\n\nBoard games can be used for business war games. In this case, they are war games for civilians applied with a marketing warfare analogy to a market situation. In this case, these authors talk about creative competitive intelligence.\n\nTo some, the war metaphor implicit in \"business war game\" is an accurate or useful depiction of business and competitive strategy. Others find the war metaphor potentially counterproductive. Some companies play up the war metaphor simply to encourage out-of-the-box thinking while others downplay it with terms such as \"strategy game.\"\n"}
{"id": "1647998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1647998", "title": "Canned response", "text": "Canned response\n\nCanned responses are predetermined responses to common questions.\n\nIn fields such as technical support, canned responses to frequently asked questions may be quick and convenient for both the customer and the technical adviser. In text-based technical support systems, the operator may insert a canned response triggered by keystrokes or from a drop-down menu, rather than typing the same answer repeatedly or pasting from some other resource. For example, if a support representative at an ISP's technical support team is asked to explain how to add an attachment to an email, rather than typing in all the details, the support representative may choose the response from a drop down menu, and it gets inserted into the response. The representative is more productive this way, and the user receives a more carefully crafted answer. Some programs have built-in functions which allow canned responses, and other software is available which can insert canned responses into any other application.\n\nCanned responses, however, can have disadvantages. Sloppy or pressured support people could end up using canned responses as a quick fix when they actually do not really resolve the customer's problem or are only tangentially relevant to the user's problem.\n\n"}
{"id": "20028070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20028070", "title": "Collaborative leadership", "text": "Collaborative leadership\n\nCollaborative leadership is a management practice which is focused on leadership skills across functional and organizational boundaries.\n\nThe phrase collaborative leadership first appeared in the mid-1990s in response to the twin trends of growth in strategic alliances between private corporations, and the formation of long-term public private partnership contracts to rebuild public infrastructure.\n\nKurt Lewin was first to apply cooperative system in scientific method in 1947 about individual nutrition in the United States.\n\nIn her 1994 \"Harvard Business Review\" article \"Collaborative Advantage\", Rosabeth Moss Kanter addressed leaders who recognize that critical business relationships exist \"that cannot be controlled by formal systems but require (a) dense web of interpersonal connections\". In their book published that same year, Chrislip and Larson looked at the attributes of great civic leaders in communities across the US and found some similar attributes. \"Collaboration needs a different kind of leadership; it needs leaders who can safeguard the process, facilitate interaction and patiently deal with high levels of frustration\" \n\nIn 2013, \"Harvard Business Review\" authors Nick Lovegrove and Matthew Thomas (co-founders of The InterSector Project), explore the complex relationship between the business, government and social sectors as it relates to said sectors role in addressing society's most pressing challenges; issues such as managing resource constraints, controlling health care costs, training the twenty-first-century workforce, developing and implementing smart-grid and intelligent-urbanization technologies, and stabilizing financial systems to foster sustainable economic growth. Their research suggests that the future of collaborative leadership depends on the ability of leaders to engage and collaborate with the business, government and social sectors (see below for the distinguishing characteristics of such leaders).\n\nHank Rubin author and founder of the Institute for Collaborative Leadership has written \"A collaboration is a purposeful relationship in which all parties strategically choose to cooperate in order to accomplish a shared outcome.\" In his book \"Collaborative Leadership: Developing Effective Partnerships for Communities and Schools,\" Rubin asks \"Who is a collaborative leader?\" and answers \"You are a collaborative leader once you have accepted responsibility for building - or helping to ensure the success of - a heterogeneous team to accomplish a shared purpose . Your tools are (1) the purposeful exercise of your behavior, communication, and organizational resources in order to affect the perspective, beliefs, and behaviors of another person (generally a collaborative partner) to influence that person's relationship with you and your collaborative enterprise and (2) the structure and climate of an environment that supports the collaborative relationship.\"\n\nRubin and Brock distinguish collaborative leadership from collective impact, defining the latter as \"...(beginning) when we, as a community, agree to a set of shared outcomes and then, individually, return to our home organizations and work with our staffs, boards, and volunteers to figure out what we - individually and organizationally - can best do to achieve those shared goals.\" Collaborative leadership is how we align and integrate across organizations.\n\nDavid Archer and Alex Cameron, in their 2008 book \"Collaborative Leadership: How to succeed in an interconnected world\", identify the basic objective of the collaborative leader as the delivery of results across boundaries between different organisations. They say \"Getting value from difference is at the heart of the collaborative leader's task... they have to learn to share control, and to trust a partner to deliver, even though that partner may operate very differently from themselves.\"\n\nProviding further exploration, in his 2015 book \"Enabling Collaboration – Achieving Success Through Strategic Alliances and Partnerships\" , Martin Echavarria argues that Collaborative Leadership is the result of individual collaborative leadership capability, as well as group leadership. In this respect, he argues that individuals can support and contribute to collaboration and do so from a leadership point of view; but at the group level, where collaboration can be behaviorally experienced. Echavarria cites the work of Enrique Pichon-Rivière, who developed the Operative Group method for working with groups, Wilfred Bion an influential British psychoanalyst, Kurt Lewin and others and describes the Operative Partnership Methodology for coaching teams to collaborate (an issue which is addressed vis-a-vis strategic alliances in said publication.\n\nThere have been a number of research projects and reviews of key lessons learned for collaborative leaders.\n\nNick Lovegrove and Matthew Thomas, writing for the \"Harvard Business Review\", interviewed over 100 leaders who possess a demonstrated ability to engage and collaborate across the business, government and social sectors. The authors identified six major, distinguishing characteristics:\n\n\nMadeline Carter, writing for the Center for Effective Public Policy as part of a research project funded by the United States Department of Justice and State Justice Institute, defines five qualities of a collaborative leader:\n\n\nArcher and Cameron list ten key lessons for successful collaborative leaders:\n\n\nRod Newing writing in a \"Financial Times\" supplement special report says \"If a collaboration is to be effective, each party must recognise and respect the different culture of the other\". And traditional development paths don't prepare leaders well for this \"traditional management development, is based on giving potential managers a team of people and a set of resources to control – and success is rewarded with more people and more resources to control. By contrast, collaboration requires managers to achieve success through people and resources outside their control and for this they have had no preparation\".\n\nSteven Wilson mentions in “Collaborative leadership: it’s good to talk,” four major key leadership traits that all highly collaborative leaders share:\nChantale Mailhot, Stephanie Gagnon, Anne Langley and Louis-Felix Binitte did a research project to examine the qualities of distributing leadership and the effects diversity has on groups. They found that \"coupling of leaders and objects helped to maintain the worldview of the different groups involved at different levels in the research project, while directing them towards project objectives\". In retrospect, the differences of each individual increases innovation due to the variety of minds at work. With everyone having their own qualities and prior experiences, the integration between them in a leadership role contributes to the overall experience. In this study, the case was made that collaborative leadership has many benefits and is more practical than just one person solely having the role as the leader.\n\nThe best thing a collaborative leader can do is to lead by example. They have to ‘walk the talk’, and be seen to model the right behaviors. Leaders must show a willingness take risks, continually question their own ideas, and reward others for their clear communication and valuable insights.\n\nThe need for collaborative leadership is being recognised in more and more areas;\nAn Ipsos MORI research report published in 2007 found that relationship management and collaborative leadership were the top two qualities or capabilities that Directors of organisations involved in large business partnerships would have liked to have had more access to when setting up or running a partnership.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4821982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4821982", "title": "Common fund", "text": "Common fund\n\nA common fund is a form of collective investment scheme based upon contractual law rather than being enacted through a trust, corporation or insurance policy.\n\nThe model for this type of arrangement is the Fonds commun de placement common in France and Luxembourg. The common contractual fund in Ireland is another prominent example.\n\n"}
{"id": "34793176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34793176", "title": "Copyright transfer agreement", "text": "Copyright transfer agreement\n\nA copyright transfer agreement is a legal document containing provisions for the conveyance of full or partial copyright from the rights owner to another party. It is similar to contracts signed between authors and publishers but does not normally involve the payment of remuneration or royalties. Such agreements are a key element of subscription-based academic publishing, and have been said to facilitate the handling of copyright-based permissions in print-only publishing. In the age of electronic communication, the benefits of copyright transfer agreements have been questioned, and while they remain the norm, open licenses as used in open access publishing have been established as an alternative.\n\nCopyright transfer agreements became common in the publishing business after the Copyright Act of 1976 in the United States and similar legislation in other countries redefined copyright as accruing to the author from the moment of creation (rather than publication) of a work. This required publishers to acquire copyrights from the author in order to sell the works or access to it, and written statements signed by the rights owner became necessary in order for the copyright transfer to be considered valid.\n\nGranting publishers the permission to copy, display and distribute the work is necessary for publishers to act as such, and copyright transfer agreements across a wide range of publishers have such provisions. The reach of copyright transfer agreements can go well beyond that, and \"[s]ome publishers require that, to the extent possible, copyright be transferred to them.\" This means that no one, including the authors, can reuse text, tables, or figures in other publications without first getting permission from the new copyright owner.\n\nCopyright transfer agreements also ask that the authors confirm to actually own the copyright for all the materials pertaining to a given act of publishing, and that the item for which the copyright is to be transferred has not been previously published and is not under consideration to be published elsewhere, to limit the frequency of duplicate publication and plagiarism.\n\nCritics have said that the copyright transfer agreement in commercial scholarly publishing is \"as much about ensuring long–term asset management as it is about providing service to the academic community\" because the practice seems to grant favor to the publisher in a way that does not obviously benefit the authors. Copyright transfer agreements often conflict with self-archiving practices or appear to do so due to ambiguous language.\n\nIn 2017, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in Johnson v. Storix upheld a copyright transfer involving no written assignment. In that case, the Author, Anthony Johnson sold software as a sole proprietor and incorporated his company in 2003 as Storix, Inc. Eight years later he gave 60% share of the corporation to his employees, who later removed him from the company and claimed ownership of the copyrights. The court upheld a jury decision that Johnson had made an oral agreement to transfer the copyright to the corporation upon its formation based on an annual report he wrote and signed a year later stating that he had transferred “all assets” from his sole proprietorship. The jury rejected Johnson's claim he intended only to transfer the license to sell the software, and further decided that Johnson became a work for hire upon forming the corporation, thereby also forfeiting all rights to his derivative works. This is the first case in which a document, not itself a contract or agreement and containing no reference to the copyrights, was considered a “note or memorandum” of copyright transfer, and the first time a sole owner of a company was designated a work for hire for copyright ownership purposes. This serves as a lesson that a “writing” required by the Copyright Act need not necessarily be “clear”, but may contain ambiguous language which can be interpreted by course of dealing by third parties to the alleged transaction. \n\nCopyright transfer agreements are one way to govern permissions based on copyright. Since the advent of digital publishing, various commentators have pointed out the benefits of author-retained copyright, and publishers have started to implement it using license agreements, wherein the author of the work retains copyright and gives the publisher the permission (exclusive or not) to reproduce and distribute the work. A third model is the so-called \"browse-wrap\" or \"click-wrap\" license model that is becoming more and more popular in the form of the Creative Commons licenses: it allows anyone (including the publisher) to reproduce and distribute the work, with some possible restrictions. Creative Commons licenses are used by many open access journals.\n\nCopyright transfer agreements are usually prepared by the publisher, and some print journals include a copy of the statement in every issue they published. If authors wish to deviate from the default phrasing – \"e.g.\", if they want to retain copyright or would not like to grant the publisher an exclusive right to publish – they can specify desired modifications, either by editing the document directly or by attaching an addendum to a copy of the default version. Publisher policies on the acceptance of such addenda vary, though. Some institutions offer instructions and assistance for staff in creating such addenda.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1957465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1957465", "title": "Creeping normality", "text": "Creeping normality\n\nCreeping normality or death by a thousand cuts is the way a major change can be accepted as the normal situation if it happens slowly, in unnoticed increments. The change would be regarded as objectionable if it took place in a single step or short period. \n\nThe phrase was coined by American scientist, Jared Diamond, in his 2005 book, . He had previously alluded to this theory while attempting to explain why in the course of long-term environmental degradation, Easter Island natives would, seemingly irrationally, chop down the last tree:\n\nIn his book, Diamond also refers to creeping normality as landscape amnesia. \n\nCreeping normality has been used to explain a number of different phenomenon, including the ones listed below: \n\nThe term has also been used several times in conjunction with the increase of maternity patients who present as obese and overweight. In their research article, authors Wilkinson, Poad, and Stapleton suggest that as the number of clinically obese or overweight pregnant women increase, the negative stigmatization with being so decreases. Schmeid, et al, states that as doctors see more women of an unhealthy weight, they are less likely to advise healthy weight gain goals during pregnancy, out of fear of fat-shaming. Because the shift in society to accept women of all body types has been so slow, physicians may not be aware that they are not addressing the gestational weight gain as soon as necessary. An anonymous survey was conducted from January to April, 2010, of obstetrics and gynecology residents. Of those surveyed, only \"7.6 percent selected correct BMI ranges for each category, and only 5.8 percent selected correct gestational weight gain ranges\". \n\nAntheaume and Barbelivien described the creeping normality that destroys businesses, causing them to not see the subtle, negative shifts in the community around them. The authors state that owners of family businesses are more likely to notice the small changes than a large corporation, however \"detecting a problem is no guarantee of the ability to solve it\". \n\nIn his thesis, Chon states that the increase in cybercrime fits the pattern for creeping normality. The number of websites involved in \"hacking and cybercrime activities\" has increased at a slow and steady pace, mostly below society's awareness. \n\nPeter Ho referred to creeping normality in his four-part IPS-Nathan lecture series in spring of 2017. In regards to several issues that Singapore is facing, he claimed that \"things get just a little bit worse each year than the year before, but not bad enough for anyone to notice\". One example is through climate change, where he stated that the country did not realize an increase of flooding was caused by rising temperatures, and not poor drainage as first suspected. \n\nThere are a number of metaphors related to creeping normality, including:\n"}
{"id": "50994297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50994297", "title": "CricHQ", "text": "CricHQ\n\nCricHQ is a digital platform for sport which combines competition management and administration software with live scoring and statistics for cricket clubs. It is based in Wellington, New Zealand, and was set up by CEO Simon Baker and former New Zealand cricketers Stephen Fleming and Brendon McCullum. It manages the administration of cricket test countries New Zealand, Sri Lanka, South Africa and Zimbabwe. A number of other national governing bodies also use its services from club level upwards (see National Governing Bodies section below).\n\nThe company provides a range of digital services to cricket organisations that typically use paper-based administration and scoring. The services include instant updates for fans, performance insights for coaches and the ability to set up cricket-related social networks. It also makes it easier to register players, organise competition draws and analyse demographics of sport participants.\n\nWhen the app was launched it was briefly one of the world's most downloaded sporting apps and since then it has amassed over 1 million Facebook fans.\n\nThe company has been described as \"one of New Zealand’s largely unsung tech success stories\" by one of New Zealand's leading technology journalists.\n\nIn October 2016, CricHQ's then-Executive Chair, Mike Loftus, was invited to visit India with New Zealand's Prime Minister, John Key, as part of a trade delegation.\n\nIn December 2016, former Saatchi & Saatchi Chair and CEO Kevin Roberts (businessman) was appointed as Chair of CricHQ's board.\n\nIn October 2017, CricHQ was put in voluntary receivership by majority shareholders Tembusu Partners who appointed insolvency experts KordaMentha to sell the business. CricHQ was purchased by a group of private investors and continues to trade. \n\nIn 2017, CricHQ acquired My Action Replay, a sportstech company based in Bristol. My Action Replay provides cameras and the capability for sports teams to livestream their games and to package up highlights to be hosted online. With CricHQ's customer base, the acquisition of My Action Replay could make CricHQ the largest broadcaster of cricket in the world.\n\nIn June 2015 CricHQ raised US$10m from Singapore private equity firm Tembusu Partners to expand globally including a doubling of staff in India, the world's largest cricketing nation.\n\nIn September 2016 it was revealed that CricHQ was seeking further investment of US$10M and was in discussions with investment bankers in the United States and United Kingdom. It also stated that the company was valued at US$70M while forecast to make a loss of more than US$4m in the 2016/17 financial year.\n\nIncoming Chair Kevin Roberts (businessman) revealed that he had invested a \"seven figure\" sum in the company in December 2016.\n\nAs well as having a partnership with the International Cricket Council, CricHQ signed Hong Kong as its 50th cricketing National Governing Body in August 2016. As of May 2017, 54 National Governing Bodies have been signed. The full list of National Governing Bodies that CricHQ has signed with is:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44355968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44355968", "title": "Critical process parameters", "text": "Critical process parameters\n\nCritical process parameters (CPP) in pharmaceutical manufacturing are key variables affecting the production process. CPPs are attributes that are monitored to detect deviations in standardized production operations and product output quality or changes in Critical Quality Attributes. Those attributes with a higher impact on CQAs should be prioritized and held in a stricter state of control. The manufacturer should conduct test to set acceptable range limits of the determined CPPs and define acceptable process variable variability. Operational conditions within this range are considered acceptable operational standards. Any deviation from the acceptable range will be indicative of issues within the process and the subsequent production of substandard products. Data relating to CPP should be recorded, stored, and analyzed by the manufacturer. CPP variables and ranges should be reevaluated after careful analysis of historical CPP data. Identifying CPPs is done in stage one of Process Validation: Process design are an essential part of a manufacturing control strategy.\n\nOne method of defining CPPs is to look at the effect of certain production processes on critical quality attributes. Those production parameters which have a measurable effect on those quality attributes that have been identified as critical can be considered CPPs and must always be in a state of control.\n"}
{"id": "9133131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9133131", "title": "Development Assistance Database", "text": "Development Assistance Database\n\nThe Development Assistance Database (DAD) is an Aid Information Management System (AIMS) developed by Synergy International Systems, for tracking development aid and managing official development assistance with transparency and accountability. DAD is widely adopted AIMS which has been established in more than 35 countries worldwide in close cooperation with UNDP and respective governments.\n\nDAD provides country governments and development partners with a consolidated source of data on development projects across all donors, demonstrates \"who is doing what, when and where\" in managing foreign aid, enables harmonization of development projects with national priorities, facilitates management and coordination of development efforts in the country by and promotes results-driven decision-making and aid effectiveness.\n\nDAD serves /has served as the official government AIMS in Afghanistan, Armenia, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Comoros, Georgia, Ghana, Guatemala, India, Indonesia, Iraq (including Kurdistan Regional Government), Kazakhstan, Kenya, Maldives, Mauritania, Nigeria, Lesotho, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Russia, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Somalia (including Somaliland), Solomon Islands, Tajikistan, Thailand, Ukraine, Vietnam, Yemen and Zambia.\n\nOriginally known as the Donor Assistance Database, the DAD was re-branded as the Development Assistance Database on August 2, 2005. The first Donor Assistance Database was a PC system developed in the scope of the G7 Support Implementation Group project for Russia in 1996 to monitor aid assistance donated from the international community. The first Donor Assistance Database tracked 20,000 projects and over US $100 billion in Official Development Assistance delivered between 1991 and 2001. The DAD was then adapted as a tool for the Newly Independent States of the former Soviet Union to monitor development assistance from the international community. These first generation implementations include Armenia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Tajikistan.\n\nMost of these implementations have taken place through a partnership between the software company Synergy International Systems, and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). This partnership led to the signing of a Long Term Agreement in July, 2005.\n\nOnline, offline and mobile collection of aid information – DAD’s customized data entry forms with validation control enable to submit and update aid information though web-based interface, in offline mode which is specifically for use in areas with limited or no Internet access as well as through smartphones and tablets.\n\nSector Profile – This functionality displays aggregate data related to particular sectors, including aid flows and projects in a given sector, donors involved, and results achieved. The Sector Profile can have all relevant information on sector portfolio performance, logistics etc.\n\nMonitoring and Evaluation (M&E\")\" – DAD enables to link aid projects with the government's policy priorities and national development strategies, and monitor progress in respect to targets/goals to track progress toward development results.\n\nData visualization and analytics – DAD offers a suite of web-based querying, analytics, visualization, and reporting tools - graphs, charts, tables, reports– for visualizing and interpreting aid information.\n\nExecutive dashboard – This decision-support tool displays data snapshots of aid flows (pledges, commitments, disbursements, and expenditures) and enables simultaneous viewing of all analytical outputs.\n\nGeographic Information System - DAD platform contains a Geographic Information System (GIS) mapping feature that allows to view geo-referenced data on project activities and results at various geographic levels and also to query or filter data on the web-based dynamic maps.\n\nAid Effectiveness Portal – DAD provides a range of knowledge sharing and collaboration tools to make aid information available to the public.\n\nIntegration – DAD can interface with relevant external and internal data sources in order to automate data exchange to enable effective flow of information and prevent duplication of effort and silos of information.\n\nMulti-lingual capability – DAD can be adapted to the specific needs of a given country, including the localization of the software into the national language.\n\nDAD Rwanda is Rwanda’s official development aid (ODA) coordination system. It is used by the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MINECOFIN) to track and manage aid funds and development results across all major donors and NGOs. The system captures the national Donor Performance Assessment Framework (DPAF) mutual accountability framework, indicators and standard definitions and is used for annual Rwanda ODA Effectiveness reports. In 2010 an upgrade of the DAD resulted in establishing a new MTEF module with the view of systematically capturing forward-spending plans of Development Partners to feed into the MTEF process. DAD Rwanda was also integrated with Rwanda’s SmartFMIS budgeting platform that resulted in more external funds flowing directly to Ministry of Planning for spending. Transparent governance has improved Rwanda’s Business Environment rankings and Rwanda’s data-driven model for aid management has been emulated by Burundi, Cameroon, Mauritania and Central African Republic.\n\nLaunched in 2011 Iraq Development Management System (IDMS) is a web-based planning, budgeting and results tracking system used by the Iraq Ministry of Planning (MoP) to manage the entire cycle of government and donor-funded projects. IDMS covers 3000 projects with a total value of US$186 billion under the National Development Plan (NDP) 2010-2014. The system automates submission of new project proposals, annual and monthly budget preparation, advanced performance tracking, analysis, and reporting features. It uses both English and Arabic, and provides public access to data on key accountability metrics. IDMS was developed in partnership with UNDP, USAID-Tatweer, the EU and UNOPS.\n\nFollowing the devastating 2004 Asian tsunami with the support of UNDP, Development Assistance Database was established in tsunami affected countries - Sri Lanka, Maldives and Thailand and Indonesia, to track financial and technical assistance, as well as results related to tsunami recovery work.\n\nDAD Sri Lanka – The Integrated National Development Information System (INDIS) was first introduced in Sri Lanka in 2005 following the devastating 2004 Asian tsunami to help the Government of Sri Lanka to track disaster needs, plan recovery programs and promote visibility and accountability in project spending and performance. INDIS allowed reconstruction agencies to report their projects and share information on objectives, funding sources, implementation partners and project progress online, with the ultimate goal of facilitating efficient aid coordination.\n\nDAD Indonesia - Synergy built the Recovery Aceh Nias (RAN) Database for the Government of Indonesia to support its coordination and management of the post-tsunami recovery effort. The RAN assisted the Government to align proposed projects with national reconstruction priorities, ensuring a coordinated plan for the delivery of aid. The RAN Database was the central tool for coordinating tsunami recovery activities and to date has tracked $3.7 billion in disbursements. Synergy was awarded the Innovative Government Technology Award in the Information Management category at the 2008 FutureGov Summit for the development of the Recovery Aceh Nias (RAN) Database installed for the BRR – Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency of the Government of Indonesia.\n\nDAD Maldives - Synergy was contracted by the government of Maldives to implemented the Development Assistance Database (DAD) that was later linked with the National Recovery Reconstruction Plan (NRRP). This helped to implement a key tenet of the Paris Declaration by “aligning” projects with national priorities as outlined in the NRRP and add the accountability mechanism.\n\nDAD Thailand - Synergy customized the DAD for the Thailand International Cooperation Agency located within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Launched in 2005, DAD Thailand, has significantly improved coordination and monitoring of the long-term international support to tsunami recovery in Thailand.\n\nThe Development Assistance Database (DAD) Community of Practice (CoP) is a global forum of practitioners who share a common commitment to advancing development effectiveness through the application of DAD.\n\nThe DAD CoP currently has over 80 members from about 20 countries, including Afghanistan, Armenia, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Comoros, India, Iraq, Kenya, Lesotho, Mauritania, Moldova, Mozambique, Namibia, Pakistan, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, and Yemen. The International Aid Transparency Initiative (IATI) also participates in the DAD CoP.\n\nThree DAD CoP forums have been organized so far - DAD CoP 2014, Nairobi, Kenya, DAD CoP 2011, Yerevan, Armenia and DAD CoP 2009 Yerevan, Armenia.\n\nSynergy International Systems\n\n"}
{"id": "7328421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7328421", "title": "Dignity of labour", "text": "Dignity of labour\n\nThe dignity of labour is the philosophy that all types of jobs are respected equally, and no occupation is considered superior and none of the jobs should be discriminated on any basis . Though one's occupation for his or her livelihood involves physical work or mental labour, it is held that the job carries dignity compared to the jobs that involve more intellect than body. Social reformers such as Basava and his contemporary Sharanas, as well as Mahatma Gandhi, were prominent advocates of the dignity of labour.\n\nThe Dignity of Labour is one of the major themes in the Christian ethics, and as such, it is upheld by the Anglican Communion, in Catholic social teaching, in Methodist principles, and in Reformed theology. In Roman Catholicism, usually titled \"The Dignity of work and the rights of workers\" the affirmation of the Dignity of Human Labour is found in several Papal encyclicals, most notably Pope John Paul II's \"Laborem Exercens\" published September 15, 1981.\n"}
{"id": "10512633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10512633", "title": "Dynamic capabilities", "text": "Dynamic capabilities\n\nIn organizational theory, dynamic capability is the capability of an organization to purposefully adapt an organization's resource base. The concept was defined by David Teece, Gary Pisano and Amy Shuen, in their 1997 paper \"Dynamic Capabilities and Strategic Management\", as \"the firm’s ability to integrate, build, and reconfigure internal and external competences to address rapidly changing environments\".\n\nThe term is often used in the plural form, dynamic capabilities, emphasizing that the ability to react adequately and timely to external changes requires a combination of multiple capabilities.\n\nThe phrase \"dynamic capabilities\" was introduced in a working paper by David Teece, Gary Pisano, and Amy Shuen.The final, peer-reviewed version was published in 1997.\n\nThe idea of dynamic capabilities is similar in some ways to the previously existing concept of operational capabilities; the latter pertains to the current operations of an organization, whereas the former, by contrast, refers to an organization's capacity to efficiently and responsively change these operations and develop its resources.\n\nThe main assumption of this framework is that an organization's basic competencies should be used to create short-term competitive positions that can be developed into longer-term competitive advantage. Nelson and Winter, in their 1982 book \"An Evolutionary Theory of Economic Change\", link the growth of the concept of dynamic capabilities to the resource-based view of the firm and the concept of \"routines\" in evolutionary theories of organization. Douma and Scheuder describe it as a bridge between the economics-based strategy literature and evolutionary approaches to organizations.\n\nThe resource-based view of the firm emphasizes sustainable competitive advantage; the dynamic capabilities view, on the other hand, focuses more on the issue of competitive survival in response to rapidly changing contemporary business conditions. Strategy scholars Gregory Ludwig and Jon Pemberton, in one of the few empirical studies on the topic, called for clarification of the specific processes of dynamic capability building in particular industries to make the concept more useful to senior managers who set directions for their firms.\n\nDynamic capabilities theory concerns the development of strategies for senior managers of successful companies to adapt to radical discontinuous change, while maintaining minimum capability standards to ensure competitive survival. For example, industries which have traditionally relied on a specific manufacturing process can't always change this process on short notice when a new technology arrives; when this happens, managers need to adapt their own routines to make the most of their existing resources while simultaneously planning for future process changes as the resources depreciate.\n\nThe New Dynamic Capabilities framework, posed by Amy Shuen in her analysis of Web 2.0, focuses on the firm's ability to quickly orchestrate and reconfigure externally sourced competences,ranging from Apple, Google Android, IBM Linux developer ecosystems to crowdsourced, crowdfunded open innovations such as the Obama08 mobile app—while leveraging internal resources such as platforms, know-how, user communities and digital, social and mobile networks. The New Dynamic Capabilities framework takes into account digital, information and network economics and the fall of the transaction costs of involved in using specialized services. According to Philip Cordes-Berszinn, though, more research is needed in order to measure the \"capabilities\" and to appropriately apply the ideas to practical management situations.\n\nA detailed description of processes and theoretical roots is provided by Arndt, Pierce, and Teece (2017). Teece, Pisano, and Shuen proposed three dynamic capabilities as necessary for an organization to meet new challenges: the ability of employees to learn quickly and to build new strategic assets; the integration of these new strategic assets, including capability, technology and customer feedback, into company processes; and lastly the transformation or reuse of existing assets which have depreciated. Teece refers to successful implementation of these three stages as developing \"corporate agility\".\n\nThe first stage, learning, requires employees and managers to reorganize their routines to promote interactions that lead to successful solutions to particular problems, to recognize and avoid dysfunctional activity and strategic blind spots, and to make appropriate use of alliance and acquisition to bring new strategic assets into the firm from external sources. A practical example of this is provided by Jean-Pierre Jeannet and Hein Schreuder, in their book \"From Coal to Biotech\", which lays out how the Dutch company DSM transformed itself twice using 'strategic learning cycles'.\n\nIn his 1988 book \"Managing Quality\", David A. Garvin states that quality performance depends on organisational routines for gathering and processing information, for linking customer experiences with engineering design choices and for coordinating factories and component suppliers. Increasingly competitive advantage also requires the integration of external activities and technologies through alliances and partnerships.\n\nEconomists Amit and Schoemaker pointed out in 1993 that success in fast changing markets depends on reconfiguring the firm’s asset structure to accomplish rapid internal and external transformation. Firms must develop processes to make changes inexpensively while accomplishing reconfiguration and transformation ahead of the competition. This can be supported by decentralization, local autonomy and strategic alliances.\n\nAnother \"dynamic capabilities\" concept is co-specialization. For example, the physical assets, human resources and the intellectual property of a company, having developed together over time, are more valuable in combination than separately, and give a firm a sustainable competitive advantage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9597318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9597318", "title": "EnergyCAP", "text": "EnergyCAP\n\nEnergyCAP is a family of energy management and energy accounting software products, used for tracking, managing, processing, reporting, benchmarking, and analyzing utility bills and energy and sustainability information. EnergyCAP also interfaces with the EPA Energy Star Portfolio Manager. Multiple versions of EnergyCAP -- Enterprise, Express, and Professional -- are available to meet user functional requirements.\n\nEnergyCAP's history dates back to 1980. In response to a growing demand for energy management software when PCs were in their infancy, Steven D. Heinz founded OmniComp, Inc. in 1980 and launched the development of EnergyCAP predecessor FASER Energy Accounting. FASER was first commercially released in 1982 for utility bill verification, tracking and reporting, and the calculation of the cost avoidance attributable to energy management activities (also called Measurement & Verification). The City of Denver also uses this software to track energy usage throughout their parks system. \n\nFASER became widely used by retail chains, government, universities, school districts and property managers. By the mid-1990s, FASER's thousands of users tracked an estimated five million bills a year valued at $2 billion. FASER and OmniComp were purchased by Enron Corporation in 1996. Following Enron's bankruptcy in late 2001, Heinz acquired the energy information assets and launched Good Steward Software, which was renamed to EnergyCAP, Inc. in January 2010. The team developed a new line of energy efficiency software products called EnergyCAP. EnergyCAP, Inc. is a five-time Energy Star Partner of the Year.\n\nEnergyCAP Enterprise is software for large organizations with comprehensive energy information management needs. Users include Fortune 1,000 companies; universities; military; and city, county, and state governments. EnergyCAP Express is utility bill and energy management software for small to medium-sized organizations like colleges, towns, and small- to medium-sized businesses. EnergyCAP Professional is oriented toward measurement and verification of energy savings for certain qualifying organizations, most notably school districts.\n\nEnergyCAP offers the following features: Account Tracking, Accounts Payable or G/L Export, Bill Accruals, Bill Audits, Electronic Bills from Vendor, Energy Contract Administration, Issue Tracker, Workflow Management, Benchmarking Charts, Budgets & Forecasts, Cost Avoidance (M&V), Energy Procurement, Rate/Tariff Analysis, Weather Data, Automated Report Distribution, Custom Spreadsheets for Data Export, Energy Dashboard, PowerViews, Reports, TreeView Navigation, Energy Star Benchmarking, Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Bill Splits, Move-In Utility Vacant Expense Recovery (MUVER), Submeters & Chargebacks, Interval (Time-Series) Data, Meter Data Import, Microsoft SQL Server, Unlimited Number of Users, Customizable User Permissions, Data Import Templates, Implementation Services, and Setup Wizards.\n\nCost Avoidance (Measurement & Verification) is the calculation of the savings attributable to energy management by comparing current bills with a normalized baseline year. The cost avoidance calculation engine of EnergyCAP complies with the International performance measurement and verification protocol, the U.S. Department of Energy's standard for energy performance measurement and verification. EnergyCAP adjusts for factors like changes in building square footage, type of primary use, billing period length, and weather.\n\n"}
{"id": "2935251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2935251", "title": "Energy industry", "text": "Energy industry\n\nThe energy industry is the totality of all of the industries involved in the production and sale of energy, including fuel extraction, manufacturing, refining and distribution. Modern society consumes large amounts of fuel, and the energy industry is a crucial part of the infrastructure and maintenance of society in almost all countries.\n\nIn particular, the energy industry comprises:\n\nThe use of energy has been a key in the development of the human society by helping it to control and adapt to the environment. Managing the use of energy is inevitable in any functional society. In the industrialized world the development of energy resources has become essential for agriculture, transportation, waste collection, information technology, communications that have become prerequisites of a developed society. The increasing use of energy since the Industrial Revolution has also brought with it a number of serious problems, some of which, such as global warming, present potentially grave risks to the world.\n\nIn some industries, the word \"energy\" is used as a synonym of energy resources, which refer to substances like fuels, petroleum products and electricity in general, because a significant portion of the energy contained in these resources can easily be extracted to serve a useful purpose. After a useful process has taken place, the total energy is conserved, but the ressource itself is not conserved, since a process usually transforms the energy into unusable forms (such as unnecessary or excess heat).\n\nEver since humanity discovered various energy resources available in nature, it has been inventing devices, known as machines, that make life more comfortable by using energy resources. Thus, although the primitive man knew the utility of fire to cook food, the invention of devices like gas burners and microwave ovens has increased the usage of energy for this purpose alone manyfold. The trend is the same in any other field of social activity, be it construction of social infrastructure, manufacturing of fabrics for covering; porting; printing; decorating, for example textiles, air conditioning; communication of information or for moving people and goods (automobiles).\n\nProduction and consumption of energy resources is very important to the global economy. All economic activity requires energy resources, whether to manufacture goods, provide transportation, run computers and other machines.\n\nWidespread demand for energy may encourage competing energy utilities and the formation of retail energy markets. Note the presence of the \"Energy Marketing and Customer Service\" (EMACS) sub-sector.\n\nThe energy sector accounts for 4.6% of outstanding leveraged loans, compared with 3.1% a decade ago, while energy bonds make up 15.7% of the $1.3trillion junk bond market, up from 4.3% over the same period.\n\nSince the cost of energy has become a significant factor in the performance of economy of societies, management of energy resources has become very crucial. Energy management involves utilizing the available energy resources more effectively that is with minimum incremental costs. Many times it is possible to save expenditure on energy without incorporating fresh technology by simple management techniques. Most often energy management is the practice of using energy more efficiently by eliminating energy wastage or to balance justifiable energy demand with appropriate energy supply. The process couples energy awareness with energy conservation.\n\nThe United Nations developed the International Standard Industrial Classification, which is a list of economic and social classifications. There is no distinct classification for an energy industry, because the classification system is based on \"activities\", \"products\", and \"expenditures according to purpose\".\n\nCountries in North America use the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). The NAICS sectors #21 and #22 (mining and utilities) might roughly define the energy industry in North America. This classification is used by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.\n\nThe Global Industry Classification Standard used by Morgan Stanley define the energy industry as comprising companies primarily working with oil, gas, coal and consumable fuels, excluding companies working with certain industrial gases.\nAdd also to expand this section: Dow Jones Industrial Average\n\nGovernment encouragement in the form of subsidies and tax incentives for energy-conservation efforts has increasingly fostered the view of conservation as a major function of the energy industry: saving an amount of energy provides economic benefits almost identical to generating that same amount of energy. This is compounded by the fact that the economics of delivering energy tend to be priced for capacity as opposed to average usage. One of the purposes of a smart grid infrastructure is to smooth out demand so that capacity and demand curves align more closely.\nSome parts of the energy industry generate considerable pollution, including toxic and greenhouse gases from fuel combustion, nuclear waste from the generation of nuclear power, and oil spillages as a result of petroleum extraction. Government regulations to internalize these externalities form an increasing part of doing business, and the trading of carbon credits and pollution credits on the free market may also result in energy-saving and pollution-control measures becoming even more important to energy providers.\n\nConsumption of energy resources, (e.g. turning on a light) requires resources and has an effect on the environment. Many electric power plants burn coal, oil or natural gas in order to generate electricity for energy needs. While burning these fossil fuels produces a readily available and instantaneous supply of electricity, it also generates air pollutants including carbon dioxide (CO), sulfur dioxide and trioxide (SOx) and nitrogen oxides (NOx). Carbon dioxide is an important greenhouse gas which is thought to be responsible for some fraction of the rapid increase in climate change seen especially in the temperature records in the 20th century, as compared with tens of thousands of years worth of temperature records which can be read from ice cores taken in Arctic regions. Burning fossil fuels for electricity generation also releases trace metals such as beryllium, cadmium, chromium, copper, manganese, mercury, nickel, and silver into the environment, which also act as pollutants.\n\nThe large-scale use of renewable energy technologies would \"greatly mitigate or eliminate a wide range of environmental and human health impacts of energy use\". Renewable energy technologies include biofuels, solar heating and cooling, hydroelectric power, solar power, and wind power. Energy conservation and the efficient use of energy would also help.\n\nIn addition, it is argued that there is also the potential to develop a more efficient energy sector. This can be done by:\nBest available technology (BAT) offers supply-side efficiency levels far higher than global averages. The relative benefits of gas compared to coal are influenced by the development of increasingly efficient energy production methods. According to an impact assessment carried out for the European Commission, the levels of energy efficiency of coal-fired plants built have now increased to 46-49% efficiency rates, as compared to coals plants built before the 1990s (32-40%). However, at the same time gas can reach 58-59% efficiency levels with the best available technology. Meanwhile, combined heat and power can offer efficiency rates of 80-90%.\n\nSince now energy plays an essential role in industrial societies, the ownership and control of energy resources plays an increasing role in politics. At the national level, governments seek to influence the sharing (distribution) of energy resources among various sections of the society through pricing mechanisms; or even who owns resources within their borders. They may also seek to influence the use of energy by individuals and business in an attempt to tackle environmental issues.\n\nThe most recent international political controversy regarding energy resources is in the context of the Iraq Wars. Some political analysts maintain that the hidden reason for both 1991 and 2003 wars can be traced to strategic control of international energy resources. Others counter this analysis with the numbers related to its economics. According to the latter group of analysts, U.S. has spent about $336 billion in Iraq as compared with a background current value of $25 billion per year budget for the entire U.S. oil import dependence\n\nEnergy policy is the manner in which a given entity (often governmental) has decided to address issues of energy development including energy production, distribution and consumption. The attributes of energy policy may include legislation, international treaties, incentives to investment, guidelines for energy conservation, taxation and other public policy techniques.\n\nEnergy security is the intersection of national security and the availability of natural resources for energy consumption. Access to cheap energy has become essential to the functioning of modern economies. However, the uneven distribution of energy supplies among countries has led to significant vulnerabilities. Threats to energy security include the political instability of several energy producing countries, the manipulation of energy supplies, the competition over energy sources, attacks on supply infrastructure, as well as accidents, natural disasters, the funding to foreign dictators, rising terrorism, and dominant countries reliance to the foreign oil supply. The limited supplies, uneven distribution, and rising costs of fossil fuels, such as oil and gas, create a need to change to more sustainable energy sources in the foreseeable future. With as much dependence that the U.S. currently has for oil and with the peaking limits of oil production; economies and societies will begin to feel the decline in the resource that we have become dependent upon. Energy security has become one of the leading issues in the world today as oil and other resources have become as vital to the world's people. However, with oil production rates decreasing and oil production peak nearing the world has come to protect what resources we have left in the world. With new advancements in renewable resources less pressure has been put on companies that produce the world's oil, these resources are, geothermal, solar power, wind power and hydro-electric. Although these are not all the current and possible future options for the world to turn to as the oil depletes the most important issue is protecting these vital resources from future threats. These new resources will become more useful as the price of exporting and importing oil will increase due to increase of demand.\n\nProducing energy to sustain human needs is an essential social activity, and a great deal of effort goes into the activity. While most of such effort is limited towards increasing the production of electricity and oil, newer ways of producing usable energy resources from the available energy resources are being explored. One such effort is to explore means of producing hydrogen fuel from water. Though hydrogen use is environmentally friendly, its production requires energy and existing technologies to make it, are not very efficient. Research is underway to explore enzymatic decomposition of biomass.\n\nOther forms of conventional energy resources are also being used in new ways. Coal gasification and liquefaction are recent technologies that are becoming attractive after the realization that oil reserves, at present consumption rates, may be rather short lived. See alternative fuels.\n\nEnergy is the subject of significant research activities globally. For example, the UK Energy Research Centre is the focal point for UK energy research while the European Union has many technology programmes as well as a platform for engaging social science and humanities within energy research.\n\nAll societies require materials and food to be transported over \"distances\", generally against some \"force\" of friction. Since application of force over distance requires the presence of a source of usable energy, such sources are of great worth in society.\n\nWhile energy resources are an essential ingredient for all modes of transportation in society, the transportation of energy resources is becoming equally important. Energy resources are frequently located far from the place where they are consumed. Therefore, their transportation is always in question. Some energy resources like liquid or gaseous fuels are transported using tankers or pipelines, while electricity transportation invariably requires a network of grid cables. The transportation of energy, whether by tanker, pipeline, or transmission line, poses challenges for scientists and engineers, policy makers, and economists to make it more risk-free and efficient.\n\nEconomic and political instability can lead to an energy crisis. Notable oil crises are the 1973 oil crisis and the 1979 oil crisis. The advent of peak oil, the point in time when the maximum rate of global petroleum extraction is reached, will likely precipitate another energy crisis.\n\nBetween 1985 and 2018 there have been around 69,932 deals in the energy sector. This cumulates to an overall value of 9,578 bil USD. The most active year was 2010 with about 3.761 deals. In terms of value 2007 was the strongest year (684 bil. USD), which was followed by a steep decline until 2009 (-55,8%).\n\nHere is a list of the top 10 deals in history in the energy sector:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36586261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36586261", "title": "Ernst &amp; Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award", "text": "Ernst &amp; Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award\n\nThe Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Awards or EY Entrepreneur of the Year Awards is an award sponsored by Ernst & Young in recognition of entrepreneurship. Founded in 1986 in Milwaukee with just one award, as of 2016, twenty-five programs were run in all fifty states of the United States and also run in more than sixty countries.\n\nDespite the name, the award can be given to multiple individuals per year; for example, in 2013 there were ten winners in the state of New York, with winners awarded in the categories of retail and consumer products; technology; family business; emerging; energy, chemical and mining; food products and services; real estate, hospitality, and construction; financial services; digital media; and transformational. In 2014, there were eleven national winners in the United States; with one individual recognized as the Overall Award Winner.\n\nThe Entrepreneur of the Year Awards have been awarded to over 10,000 people since 1986, averaging 400 recipients annually.\n\nAnnually, each of the overall country winners gather in Monte Carlo, Monaco, for the annual EY World Entrepreneur of the Year Award. EY Entrepreneur of the Year Nominees are reviewed by an independent judging panel composed of several distinguished business leaders and previous award recipients. All country winners will be inducted into the World Entrepreneur of the Year Academy and to the Entrepreneur of the Year Hall of Fame, on permanent display at Ernst & Young's US headquarters at 5 Times Square in New York City.\n\nAlong with the World Entrepreneur of the Year EY also bestows other award titles.\n\nRecognizes the achievements of business leaders who have taken their legacy to a new level. This award is peer-selected by EOY alumni that form the Global Alumni Council. Recipients of this award are considered to be EOY alumni.\n"}
{"id": "43656329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43656329", "title": "European Business History Association", "text": "European Business History Association\n\nThe European Business History Association (EBHA) is an academic association devoted to business history in Europe. It holds annual congresses (called conferences until 2013) and a bi-annual doctoral summer school. It is registered as a Scottish charity. Its constitution states its objectives as \"to advance the education of the public concerning all aspects of the history of business and management in Europe and in the environment in which they operate and to promote research into all such aspects\".\nIts aim is the organization of conferences and seminars, the publication of a newsletter and other materials, the encouragement of research in all aspects of business history, and specifically the promotion of collaborative projects based in several European countries such as The Performance of European Business in the 20th Century project per instance.\nThe association was established to enhance inter-European contacts and promote extra-European links among business historians, to encourage the exchange of business history graduate students and to promote teaching and interest in all such aspects.\n\nThe discussions to establish a European Business History Association followed in the wake of the successful foundation of the Association of Business Historians in Britain . Informal talks between Hans Pohl (University of Bonn), Geoffrey Jones (then at the University of Reading), and Tony Slaven (University of Glasgow) resulted in an invited meeting of representatives from a number of European countries in October 1993. This meeting was hosted and chaired by Tony Slaven at the Centre for Business History in Glasgow. The participants were not representative in any objective sense, but were those known to the organisers. They were Rolv Petter Amdam (BI Norwegian Business School, Norway), Michael Bibikov (Russia), Per Boje (Denmark), Hans Pohl (Germany), Keetie Sluyterman (University of Utrecht, Netherlands), Mary Rose, Geoff Jones and Tony Slaven (UK). That meeting reviewed models for an EBHA, objectives, and necessary steps to shape and establish a new association. Subsequent meetings chaired by Tony Slaven followed rapidly in Bonn in February 1994 and in Rotterdam in June 1994. By this time the initial group had been joined by François Crouzet (France), Ulf Olsson (Sweden), and Even Lange (Norway). The meeting in Rotterdam at Erasmus University in June 1994 established the first draft of objectives, the conditions of membership, the structure to be adopted for office bearers and members of council, and election procedures. The Erasmus meeting also decided that it was necessary to take the proposals to a wider forum to gain support for the creation of a European Business History Association; it was also decided to establish a steering committee to plan a first conference.\n\nThe Business History Conference held at Erasmus University in October 1994 was taken as the opportunity to present the proposals to a large representative group of business historians drawn from many European countries. Tony Slaven acted as spokesman for the steering group and presented proposals to a general meeting at the Erasmus conference. The conference gave its support to the proposals and to the existing planning group to act as a steering committee to bring the European Business History Association into being. The first newsletter was planned for October 1995 and an inaugural conference was planned for August/September 1996. The working group was established as an interim council of the proposed EBHA for a period of two years from October 1995. Further planning meetings of the interim council took place in the University of Reading in March 1995 and Matthias Kipping was adopted as the first editor of the EBHA Newsletter. At that meeting in Reading it was agreed to hold the inaugural conference in August 1996 to be hosted by Ulf Olsson in the University of Gothenburg. A subsequent meeting in London in July 1996 was held to discuss potential collaboration with Manfred Pohl representing the new established Centre for European Business History based in Frankfurt. At that time, however, it was agreed to develop the interests of the new groups independently.\n\nMembership is open to any individual interested in business history.\nEBHA has over 200 members drawn from 29 different European and non-European countries.\n\nAt the EBHA congress in Uppsala (2013), Centres for Business History and Business History Groups at European Universities and Business Schools have created a network in order to\n(1.) improve communication and exchange between the large research groups in Business History;\n(2.) improve cooperation and institutional support in research and teaching;\n(3) improve PhD education in Business History.\nThe Alliance is a network under the umbrella of the EBHA and it is open to all European research environments in Business History with at least four tenured positions within the respective University/Business School. These centres/groups are facing common challenges within their University/Business School, and they provide environments allowing for collaboration beyond conventional academic networking.\nThe Alliance meets annually in connection to the EBHA Congress.\n\n\nThe Centre for Business History was established in 1999 with the objective to strengthen the historical dimension in CBS research and teaching. Today, it consists of eight professors and five PhD and postdoc researchers that share a keen interest in the way history contributes to a better understanding of society and business.\n\n\nThe Centre for Business History in Scotland (CBHS), inaugurated in 1987, is Scotland’s only research unit in the discipline and counts as full members 13 business historians engaged in teaching and research. The prime objective of the CBH is to encourage, facilitate and conduct research in all aspects of business history, with particular emphasis on corporate governance, innovation and organisational change.\n\n\nThe Bocconi Business History group is based at Bocconi University, Milan (www.unibocconi.it), in the Department of Policy Analysis and Public Management. The group consists of tenured and non tenured scholars doing research in various fields of business history. The group is active in the organization of conferences and seminars both at national and international level. Broadly speaking, the research interests of its members include topics as entrepreneurship, history of fashion and creative industries, international business, family business and State-owned enterprises.\n\n\nCentre for Business History (CBH) at BI Norwegian Business School in Oslo was established in 1989 and, with a staff of 14 historians and 1 research coordinator, constitutes the largest group of economic and business historians in Norway. The Centre is a part of the Department of Innovation and Economic Organization at BI. CBH aims to improve the understanding of business institutions, interactions between companies and society as well as the dynamics of economic development. The research includes economic, political, social and cultural perspectives.\n\nThe main part of the research is commissioned work, organised in a way which shall secure the academic freedom of the researcher, through standardised contracts and also with book committees commenting on the manuscripts.\n\n\nEstablished in 1997 and part of Henley Business School at the University of Reading, the Centre for International Business History (CIBH) is the largest business history centre in the United Kingdom. CIBH strives to promote the study of the evolution of business and management in an international and comparative context. The Centre’s nine members mainly focus on various aspects of international business history, particularly on topics related to retailing, consumer goods industries, entrepreneurship, intellectual property, industrial finance, small firms, creative industries, and industrial clusters/districts. CIBH staff play active roles in various national and international business and economic history associations and are active participants at the main international conferences in these areas.\n\n\nBusiness History @ Erasmus brings together researchers with an interest in the history of business. The platform is an initiative by the School of History, Culture & Communication and the Rotterdam School of Management, both at Erasmus University Rotterdam, in the Netherlands.\n\n\nUppsala Centre for Business History (UCBH) is organizationally and economically associated with the Department of Economic History at Uppsala University.\nA large part of the research focuses on questions about the establishment and development of organizations and markets, primarily within the banking and financial sector of the economy. The dynamic interaction between organizations and institutions, both formal and informal, is considered an important factor in the analysis of development.\n\n\nBusiness History at Utrecht University focuses on the historical development of companies and entrepreneurs in their institutional context. As part of Economic and Social History (ESH) business history links to the central debate on the question why some countries are poor and others are rich. What is the role of business in economic growth and prosperity? Business History at UU is therefore closely related to the Centre for Global Economic History, the platform of the UU for pioneering research into the long term evolution of the world economy and its components. Business history is also an important part of the Commissioned Research group, which conducts research for third parties. This research often focuses on individual companies or sectors in their relationship to society. From these two perspectives business historians in Utrecht find their strength in the interaction between the scientific debate and individual case studies.\n\n\nThe Centre for Evolution of Global Business and Institutions (CEGBI) was inaugurated in 2009 with the aim of contributing with research to the understanding of how businesses and institutions around the world evolve, and also of helping to inform current management and policy issues. CEGBI’s main areas of research are international business history; global marketing; and governance, entrepreneurship and social enterprise. Distinctive features of CEGBI’s research include its interdisciplinarity and methodologies. It engages with topics of interest to business and management, economics, history, sociology, and law.\n\nThe inaugural conference in Gothenburg in August 1996 attracted over 230 participants by which time the initial paid up membership of the new EBHA was 214 members. First nominations and elections for council added Franco Amatori (Bocconi University) , Albert Carreras (Pompeu Fabra University), Wilfried Feldenkirchen, Ritta Hjerppe (Helsinki School of Economics), and Matthias Kipping to the first formally elected council. Tony Slaven was adopted as first President of EBHA with Geoff Jones as the first Secretary/Treasurer. It was decided in 1998 to hold an annual conference beginning with that held at Terni. Since then the association has met annually.\n\n2014 Utrecht, The Netherlands\n\n2013 Uppsala, Sweden\n\n2012 Paris, France (Joint with the Business History Society of Japan)\n\n2011 Athens, Greece\n\n2010 Glasgow, Scotland\n\n2009 Milan, Italy\n\n2008 Bergen, Norway\n\n2007 Geneva, Switzerland\n\n2006 Copenhagen, Denmark\n\n2005 Frankfurt, Germany\n\n2004 Barcelona, Spain\n\n2003 Lowell, USA (Joint with BHC)\n\n2002 Helsinki, Finland\n\n2001 Oslo, Norway\n\n2000 Bordeaux, France\n\n1999 Rotterdam, Netherlands\n\n1998 Terni, Italy\n\n1996 Gothenburg, Sweden\n\n2013-2015 Ray Stokes, University of Glasgow, UK\n\n2011-2013 Harm G. Schroeter, University of Bergen, Norway\n\n2010-2011 Albert Carreras, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Spain\n\n2008-2009 Per Boje, University of Southern Denmark\n\n2006-2007 Youssef Cassis, University of Geneva, Switzerland\n\n2004-2005 Mary Rose Lancaster University, UK\n\n2002-2003 Keetie Sluyterman, University of Utrecht, The Netherlands\n\n2000-2001 Franco Amatori, Bocconi University, Italy\n\n1998-1999 Geoffrey Jones, Harvard Business School, USA\n\n1993-1997 Tony Slaven, University of Glasgow, UK\n\nOther associations devoted to business history operate at national and international levels:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43597196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43597196", "title": "Foreign legal opinion", "text": "Foreign legal opinion\n\nA foreign legal opinion (or foreign law opinion) is an opinion of a law firm issued in cross-border commercial transactions certifying the effectiveness of the transaction under the applicable foreign law. Foreign legal opinions have become highly standardised over time, and most foreign legal opinions follow a fairly regimented format. The issuance of such opinions has become something of a sub-legal specialisation in itself, and books and articles are written on the subject of foreign legal opinions. A number of organisations issue template format opinions to indicate issues which are intended to be covered by such opinions, or standard form checklists for contents.\n\nThe original purpose of foreign legal opinion is grounded in the historical doctrine of \"ultra vires\". The concern was that when doing business with a corporation formed in a foreign country, proper due diligence required that a legal opinion be sought to ensure that the relevant foreign company had the necessary capacity and power to enter into the transaction, and that it would be binding upon it. Over time opinions expanded to cover related aspects of foreign law, such as whether payments might be subject to exchange controls or usury laws, whether it was necessary for any of the other parties to hold any licences or permits under the regulatory laws of the foreign country, whether there would be adverse tax consequences under the laws of the foreign country, whether foreign judgments were recognised and enforced in that country other collateral matters.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s with the expansions in cross-border lender by financial institutions, banks became increasingly concerned to ensure that foreign companies to whom they lent money provided a foreign legal opinion certifying the legal validity of the loan transaction and the enforceability of the banks' rights (including any security interests). In time these requires came to be reflected in the Basel capital adequacy requirements for banks, resulting in different, more favourable, capital weighting for loans supported by opinions.\n\nForeign legal opinions are now highly standardised. Typically such opinions will confirm the jurisdiction which they relate to, confirm the documents that they reviewed, list certain assumptions of fact, and then set out various opinion statements. After the opinion statements, they will typically make certain standard, generally applicable qualifications.\n\nThe opinion will ordinarily state the conclusions of law, but will not provide reasoning. This reflects the role of the foreign law opinion as a risk assessment tool. The opinion is normally issued in the format of an unqualified favourable statement of the effectiveness of the transaction (hedged in by appropriate assumptions of fact and general qualifications of law). Where there are areas of legal uncertainty, or issues which require clarification and analysis, the foreign legal opinion will often remain in the standardised format, but will be supplemented with a second, reasoned, opinion. In cross border transactions the negotiation and discussion of the format of the foreign law opinions elucidates areas of legal stress or risk in relation to the proposed transaction and foreign legal systems.\n\nStandard assumptions normally include assuming that documents and records reviewed by the law firm giving the opinion are accurate, that all copies they review are true copies, and that no provision of any other law (i.e. the laws of any country other than the country on whose laws the opinion is being given) adversely affects the opinion being expressed. In certain countries it is also standard to assume the genuineness of signatures and seals, but in other countries the foreign law firm may be expected to verify the accuracy of such signatures.\n\nThe substantive opinion statements a foreign legal opinion will make will ordinarily include:\n\nStandard qualifications are usually matters of general law which it is impractical to advise upon in the abstract, but which might undermine the effectiveness of the enforceability of the transaction. For example most opinions will indicate that if the foreign party goes into bankruptcy that will limit the ability to enforce obligations against it. Similarly, rights may be lost when statutory limitation periods expire. In certain countries enforcement of obligations may be subject to obligations of good faith and fair dealing, and the foreign legal opinion will normally point this out by way of qualification.\n\nThe foreign legal opinion will typically express opinions on various issues which might not ordinarily be governed by the laws of the foreign country under its own conflict of laws system. Because a cross border transaction might end up being considered by the courts of any of a number of countries, the addressee(s) of the opinion will wish to be assured that all relevant issues, if determined by that foreign law, would likely be resolved satisfactorily. The courts of a third country may apply different choice of law rules to determine the \"lex causae\" of a particular issue to the courts of the foreign country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5931204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5931204", "title": "Fraudulent trading", "text": "Fraudulent trading\n\nIn company law, fraudulent trading is doing business with intent to defraud creditors.\n\nWhere during the course of a winding-up, it appears to the liquidator that fraudulent trading has occurred, the liquidator may apply to the court for an order any persons who were knowingly parties to the carrying on of such business are to be made liable to make such contributions (if any) to the company's assets as the court thinks proper.\n\nConceptually, fraudulent trading is similar to a fraudulent conveyance, but the key distinction is that an application to have a transaction set aside as a fraudulent conveyance usually requires to the third party beneficiary to disgorge the benefit of the conveyance to undo the loss to the company's assets, whereas a court order in relation to fraudulent trading it is the responsible parties (usually the directors) who must make up the loss and the third party beneficiaries will usually retain the benefit. However, it is legally possible for a single transaction to be simultaneously fraudulent trading and a fraudulent conveyance, and to be the subject on concurrent applications. Some legal systems permit a director who makes a contribution to the company's assets pursuant to an order for fraudulent trading to subrogated to any claim that the company might have with respect to a fraudulent conveyance.\n\nIn practice, applications for orders in respect of fraudulent trading are rare because of the high burden of proof associated with fraud. Usually, even where fraudulent trading is suspected, an application is made with respect to an allegation of \"wrongful trading\" (or \"insolvent trading\") where the burden of proof is lower. Where applications are brought for fraudulent trading, it is usually because when the trading occurred, the company was not insolvent at that time (insolvency at the time of the trading is normally a requirement to establish wrongful trading, but not fraudulent trading).\n\nThe effect of a successful application for fraudulent trading varies between different legal systems. In some countries, the assets contributed by the directors are treated as general assets which may be taken by any secured creditors who may have a security interest which attaches to all the company's assets (characteristically, a floating charge). However, some countries have \"ring-fenced\" payments made for fraudulent trading so that they are made available to the pool of assets for unsecured creditors.\n\nFraudulent trading is entirely separate and distinct from \"insider trading\", which focuses purely upon the abuse of inside information in relation to financial markets for personal financial gain, and is wholly unrelated to creditor's rights or insolvency law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13443187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13443187", "title": "Galileo GDS", "text": "Galileo GDS\n\nGalileo is a computer reservations system (CRS) owned by Travelport. As of 2000 it had a 26.4% share of worldwide CRS airline bookings.\n\nIn addition to airline reservations, the Galileo CRS is also used to book train travel, cruises, car rental, and hotel rooms.\n\nThe Galileo system was moved from Denver, Colorado, to the Worldspan datacenter in Atlanta, Georgia, on September 28, 2008, following the 2007 merger of Travelport and Worldspan (although they now share the same datacenter, they continue to be run as separate systems). \n\nGalileo is subject to the Capps II and its successor Secure Flight program for the selection of passengers with a risk profile.\n\nGalileo is a member of the International Air Transport Association, of the OpenTravel Alliance and of SITA.\n\nGalileo traces its roots back to 1971 when United Airlines created its first computerized central reservation system under the name Apollo. During the 1980s and early 1990s, a significant proportion of airline tickets were sold by travel agents. Flights by the airline owning the reservation system had preferential display on the computer screen. Due to the high market penetration of the Sabre and Apollo systems, owned by American Airlines and United Airlines, respectively, Worldspan and Galileo were created by other airline groups in an attempt to gain market share in the computer reservation system market and, by inference, the commercial airline market. Galileo was formed in 1987 by nine European carriers -- British Airways, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, Alitalia, Swissair, Austrian Airlines, Olympic, Sabena, Air Portugal and Aer Lingus.\n\nIn response and to prevent possible government intervention, United Airlines spun off its Apollo reservation system, which was then controlled by Covia. Galileo International was born when Covia acquired Europe's Galileo and merged it with the Apollo system in 1992.\n\nThe Apollo reservation system was used by United Airlines until March 3, 2012, when it switched to SHARES, a system used by its former Continental Airlines subsidiary. Apollo is still used by Galileo International (now part of Travelport GDS) travel agency customers in the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Japan.\n\nGalileo UK was originally created from Travicom which was the world's first multi-access reservations system using the technology developed by Videcom. Travicom was a company launched by Videcom, British Airways, British Caledonian and CCL in 1976 which in 1988 became Galileo UK.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33397463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33397463", "title": "Georgia Statewide Minority Business Enterprise Center", "text": "Georgia Statewide Minority Business Enterprise Center\n\nThe Georgia Statewide Minority Business Enterprise Center is funded by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) and operated by the Enterprise Innovation Institute (EI2). The MBDA Business Center (MBC), Atlanta, Ga., is part of a national network of centers established to increase the number of minority-owned businesses and strengthen existing ones.\n\n"}
{"id": "18866574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18866574", "title": "Gerson Lehrman Group", "text": "Gerson Lehrman Group\n\nGerson Lehrman Group (GLG) is a New York based platform for professional learning that markets itself as a \"learning membership connecting businesspeople trying to solve problems to experts that can solve them\". The firm connects its clients with independent contractor consultants with topical or industry expertise in a variety of fields (termed \"Council Members\"), as well as executive education, larger team training, and the placement of experts in long-term advisory, operational, and board roles. GLG has a network of over 800,000 freelance consultants\n\nThe firm was founded in 1998 and has been backed by private equity firms Silver Lake Partners, Bessemer Venture Partners, and SFW Capital Partners. GLG is headquartered in New York City, with offices in 22 cities in 12 countries.\n\nGLG's clients include corporations, hedge funds, private equity firms, professional service firms, and non-profit organizations. GLG experts include consultants, physicians, scientists, engineers, lawyers, senior current and former c-level executives, and former government members.\n\nGerson Lehrman Group was founded by Yale Law School graduates Mark Gerson and Thomas Lehrman in 1998. Alexander Saint-Amand, a former Bloomberg reporter, joined GLG shortly after, and served as CEO until 2018.\n\nGLG, initially funded by friends and family, was formed as a publishing house to produce industry guidebooks for institutional investors. However, the founders discovered that their clients wanted to talk directly to experts in casual conversations, rather than reading formal written reports. Accordingly, in 1999, GLG abandoned its publishing business and began offering subscriptions to its network of experts. This business came to be called an expert network.\n\nGLG’s first customers were investors, and most of their growth from 1999 to 2005 was within the investment community. In 2006, they began working with big strategy consultancies and with companies in life sciences, chemicals and industrials, and technology. By 2010, The Wall Street Journal had described GLG as \"dominating the U.S. expert networking industry\".\n\nIn the design space, GLG is a pioneer of activity based working office design, which does away with seating assignments for workers.\n\nIn 2018, GLG named Paul Todd as its new CEO. Todd was previously the head of eBay's EMEA business since 2015.\n\nIn 2006, GLG worked with U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to provide new primary data and analysis relevant for any other recovery plans in the rebuilding of Louisiana following Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita. GLG has also done other philanthropy work with smaller charities.\n\nGLG now operates a global Social Impact Fellowship, an initiative that provides learning resources and expertise to a select group of nonprofits and social enterprises, at no cost.\n\nAs the use of alternative research providers within the financial industry has grown, brokerages themselves have been partnering with firms like GLG. On September 10, 2008, the company announced a deal with Credit Suisse, whereby analysts from the financial services giant would be able to tap into GLG’s experts as part of their research process. About 300 Credit Suisse analysts became members of the GLG expert network. In 2009, Gerson Lehrman Group announced a partnership with Frost & Sullivan, making the company's 800+ market researchers available to consult with GLG clients.\n\nIn July 2009, GLG announced that it has partnered with Amba Research, a leading financial services knowledge process outsourcing (KPO) firm that provides equity and credit research.\n\nOn July 8, 2010, GLG and Bloomberg announced a partnership that enables clients of the Bloomberg Professional platform to access the GLG expert network through the Bloomberg platform.\n\nIn October 2011, GLG partnered with and acquired a minority stake in Ushi, a leading China-based business social networking provider, and the largest competitor of LinkedIn in the region.\n\n\nThe expert network business model has drawn scrutiny for concerns relating to adherence to disclosure rules and insider trading within the investment industry. During 2005, for example, doctors who served as paid consultants to investment firms as a result of their role in an expert network generated a “fair share of controversy”. GLG was part of a lawsuit filed by Biovail in March 2006, in which Biovail claimed that its shares had been manipulated. In September 2006, GLG announced the creation of a proprietary system that helped identify and manage conflicts, leveraging its experience as a pioneer in its industry to craft risk-reducing rules for expert engagements.\n\nIn January 2007, it was reported that the company and Vista Research, then a Standard & Poor's affiliate, were part of an inquiry by the New York State Attorney General’s office into the consulting practices of investment firm clients. As of December 2007, the Attorney General had taken no action, and the investigation appeared to be dormant.\n\nGLG's compliance program of over 50 individuals has been cited as a reason for SFW Capital's $200 million investment in GLG.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28352336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28352336", "title": "Global Arab Network", "text": "Global Arab Network\n\nGlobal Arab Network (GAN) (in Arabic غلوبال اراب نتورك) is a comprehensive news and information service about the Arab world in English and Arabic, registered and based in London, UK.\n\nFounded in 2006, GAN covers news and information from the Middle East and North Africa concerning national and international affairs, relations between the Arab countries and the rest of the world, economy and business, foreign policy, science and technology, culture and society, entertainment and lifestyle. \".\n\nGlobal Arab Network is one of the Strategic Partners of The Middle East Association\n\n"}
{"id": "38090662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38090662", "title": "Globe Janakantha Shilpa Paribar", "text": "Globe Janakantha Shilpa Paribar\n\nGlobe Janakantha Shilpa Paribar (GJSP) is one of the largest Bangladeshi conglomerates. The industries under this conglomerate include construction, engineering, electrical cables, information technology, printing, media etc. It was founded in 1979 by Mohammad Shahidullah Khan eldest brother of current owner and chairman Mohammad Atikullah Khan. \n\nSmall, medium and large family owned businesses dominate over Bangladesh's $100 billion ($288 billion in PPP GDP) economy, which has been growing at over 5 percent a year since 1995.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12590602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12590602", "title": "International Young Publisher of the Year", "text": "International Young Publisher of the Year\n\nThe International Young Publisher of the Year is a British Council award programme, which has been developed with the support of the London Book Fair. It is targeted at publishers aged 25 to 35 from emerging economies. The winner receives a free exhibition stand at the next London Book Fair and a financial award. The winner then goes on to develop a publishing project between the UK and their country.\n\nThe final of the international competition with eight to ten participants is held every year to coincide with the London Book Fair. Finalists are selected in national competitions organised locally by the British Council's overseas offices.\n\nThe finalists take part in an industry tour, which familiarises them with the dynamics of the UK publishing sector and introduces them to leading players in the industry. The finalists develop a network between themselves and with their peers in the UK sector. The finalists are also asked to select works from their country, which they then present at a book pitch to an expert jury and the general public.\n\nAll the finalists have now formed an alumni network which pioneers the importance of business networking internationally for young entrepreneurs in the publishing business.\n\nIn 2007, the award was renamed International Young Publishing Entrepreneur, as part of a rebranding which coincided with the launch of the final awards in the programme. The British Council's Young Creative Entrepreneur programme now has nine international awards: communications, design, fashion, interactive, music, performing arts, publishing, screen and visual arts.\n\nAmong finalists from Argentina, Colombia, India, Lithuania, Mexico, Nigeria, the Philippines and Poland, the inaugural IYPY finalists went on a tour of the UK publishing industry to London, Cambridge, Tiptree, Newcastle, Edinburgh, Aberystwyth and Hay-on-Wye. Mexican publisher Eduardo Rabasa of Editorial Sexto Piso was chosen as the inaugural winner. The award was presented by Jude Kelly, OBE, a British Council board member.\n\nFinalists of the 2005 edition came from Argentina, Bulgaria, Latvia, Lebanon, Poland, Romania, Russia, South Africa, Thailand and Turkey, and Maria Deskur of Muchomor Publishers from Poland was chosen as the winner. Maria used her award to publish the teenage novel Operation Red Jericho by the British author Joshua Mowll in Polish. The award was presented by Lord Heseltine, of Haymarket Publishing.\n\nIn 2006 ten creative young publishers, from Argentina, Colombia, Jordan, Lebanon, Lithuania, Mexico, Oman, Slovenia, South Africa and Thailand, came to the UK to present their work to an international jury chaired by Simon Winder, Publishing Director at Penguin Press. Joanna El-Mir from Lebanese children's publisher was chosen as the winner. The award was presented by Alistair Burtenshaw, the Director of London Book Fair.\n\nThe 2007 event had finalists from Argentina, Egypt, Hungary, India, Malta, Romania, Slovenia, South Africa and Syria, and S. Anand of Navayana Publishing in Chennai, India was chosen as the winner. Anand leads the first independent imprint in India to deal exclusively with the issues of caste inequalities and identity politics. The event was preceded by a meeting of finalists from the previous editions, to officially form the IYPY alumni network. The award was presented by Liz Calder, Publishing Director of Bloomsbury.\n\nThe 2008 event had finalists from Argentina, Egypt, India, Lebanon, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Slovenia, UAE and Yemen.For the first time, the award went to a book retailer, Nashwan Al-Maghafi, the Managing Director of Yemen Bookshop, a business that he established in 1995 when he was 19. The award was presented by Cherie Booth QC, the wife of the former British Prime Minister and a longstanding supporter of the programme.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4996092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4996092", "title": "Laserfiche", "text": "Laserfiche\n\nLaserfiche is a privately owned software development company that creates enterprise content management, business process automation, workflow, records management, document imaging and webform software.\n\nLaserfiche is headquartered in Long Beach, California and has offices in Mexico, United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Canada.\n\nLaserfiche sells its software through value-added resellers distributed throughout the world.\n\nNien-Ling Wacker founded Compulink Management Center Inc., a custom software development company, in 1974. By the early 1980s, Wacker had identified an emerging need among her clients for an electronic document repository that would provide both secure storage and instant retrieval by any word or phrase in the document.\n\nThe concept for a PC-based document management system began in 1981 when a client, a large Japanese auto manufacturer, required litigation support for a large volume of documents. At the time, paralegals had to wade through thousands of pages of depositions, entering keywords into a database. Attorneys were limited to searching on keywords to find relevant testimony. Nien-Ling Wacker realized that if a full-text index of every page were available, the search capabilities would be greatly enhanced, and the amount of physical labor required to index the documents would decrease substantially. With the release of WORM drives that cost \"only\" $200 for 200MB of diskspace, the conceived system could be made cost effective.\n\nThe first version of Laserfiche was released in 1987, becoming the first DOS-based document imaging system in the world. The system used commercial off-the-shelf components such as OCR boards from Kurzweil, graphics monitors from Cornerstone, and scanner interface boards by Kofax.\n\nIn 1993 Laserfiche released the first PC-based client–server document imaging system, based on the NetWare Loadable Modules platform.\n\nIn 2002, Laserfiche 6 marked the company’s first foray into MSSQL-based document management. That year, the company also introduced Quick Fields, an automated document processing module, and WebLink, which provided read-only, Web-based access to documents stored in Laserfiche.\n\nIn 2004, Laserfiche 7 marked the company’s first offering for Oracle users.\n\nIn early 2008, the company released Laserfiche 8, with a re-written workflow engine and integration with Microsoft SharePoint. In August 2008, the company launched Laserfiche Rio, an enterprise content management offering with unlimited servers, named user licensing and bundled functionality including content management, business process management and a thin-client interface called Web Access.\n\nIn 2009, Laserfiche opened an international office in Hong Kong, creating a separate company Laserfiche International.\n\nIn 2010, Laserfiche filed a lawsuit against SAP for trademark infringement over the disputed trademark phrase \"Run Smarter\". In 2011, Laserfiche announced that the litigation had been settled amicably and involved a license of the “Run Smarter” trademark.\n\nIn 2011, Laserfiche released Laserfiche Mobile for iPhone, an app that allows users to capture images with the phone's built-in camera, store them in the Laserfiche repository and include them in digital workflows. Later that year, Laserfiche was listed as a Champion in Info-Tech Research Group’s Enterprise Content Management (ECM) for Process Workers Vendor Landscape. According to Info-Tech, “Laserfiche is a stalwart that is exploiting the new capabilities of emerging technology.\n\nIn 2012, Laserfiche released Laserfiche Mobile for iPad, an app that extends governance, risk and compliance standards to the iPad.\n\nLaserfiche said it was profitable since 1994, growing at what Wacker describes as a managed pace.\n\nLaserfiche has two main product lines: Laserfiche Rio and Laserfiche Avante.\n\nLaserfiche Rio is designed to meet the needs of large organizations that have more than 100 users. It combines content management functionality with business process management (BPM), security and auditing, unlimited servers and a thin-client interface. Add-ons include DoD 5015.2-certified records management functionality, public Web portals and production-level document capture and processing.\n\nLaserfiche Avante is an ECM suite for small to medium organizations with fewer than 100 users. It combines content management with workflow tools that automate business processes. Built on the Microsoft platform, Laserfiche Avante allows users to drag and drop e-mails from Outlook® into Laserfiche.\n\nThe Laserfiche Institute’s stated mission is to “teach staff, resellers and current and prospective clients how to use Laserfiche most effectively.” As a part of this mission, the Institute conducts conferences, web seminars and publishes document management guides, white papers and other educational content. The Institute also distributes educational materials through the Laserfiche Support Site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15715221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15715221", "title": "Latigent", "text": "Latigent\n\nLatigent LLC was an international provider of Business Intelligence, Enterprise RSS, and Call Center Reporting and Analytics software.\n\nLatigent, LLC of Chicago, IL, was founded in 2002, as a privately held and funded company, by Chris Crosby and Jason Kolb, two veterans of the contact center industry. Both founders believed that there was a more efficient way of using the information typically gathered in the contact center to better serve the customer and more profitably serve the enterprise. As a result, the Latigent BlueVue performance management product was born and introduced to the market in 2003.\n\nIn December 2005, Latigent released BlueVue II, a Business Information (BI) suite. Besides reporting functionality and complete data warehousing capabilities, BlueVue II also offered data integration capabilities for performance management.\n\nOn September 27, 2007 Cisco Systems announced a definitive agreement to acquire Latigent LLC.\n\n"}
{"id": "44294889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44294889", "title": "Major Field Test for Master of Business Administration", "text": "Major Field Test for Master of Business Administration\n\nThe Major Field Test for Master of Business Administration (MFT-MBA) is a national standardized exam administered in the United States at the end of MBA programs. It is a comprehensive exit exam. The MFT-MBA aims to assess skills, knowledge, and reasoning ability within the domain of standard MBA curriculum. It is administered by Educational Testing Service (ETS) and has been used in the MBA programs of over 300 U.S. universities.\n\nMost MBA programs require an exit exam to gauge students' comprehensive competency in the field of business management. The MFT-MBA began being offered in 2002. It was developed nationally by leading educators to assess the skills of graduating MBA students. It is also used as a tool to compare business programs across the United States. ETS issues an updated test every 3–4 years in attempt to ensure high content validity. The most recent test forms are 4BMF (February 2005 - June 2009), 4FMF (September 2009 - June 2013), and 4JMF (September 2013 – present).\n\nThe MFT-MBA is based on MBA core curriculum. Unlike tests that are not aligned to anything but their own curriculum, the MFT-MBA emphasizes content validity. In order to display normativity and ensure a consensus of what best reflects core curriculum, the content is constructed using results of a national curriculum survey. According to ETS, content experts from a diverse representation of higher education institutions (including Major Field Test users and nonusers) participate in this survey. Basing the exam on core curriculum makes it a level playing field exam, giving it meaningful results and enabling it to measure reasoning ability.\n\nThe test contains 124 multiple-choice questions. There are approximately 32 management questions, 31 marketing questions, 33 finance questions, and 28 managerial accounting questions. Half of the questions require the strategic integration of two or more subject areas. In addition to factual knowledge, the test evaluates the student's abilities to interpret materials, understand relationships, and analyze and solve problems. \n\nThe Major Field Test for MBA can only be taken once. The amount of time allotted for taking the test is three hours. It is taken on a computer. All exams are given at proctored facilities. Test takers are provided with scratch paper and pencils, but calculators are not permitted. All test questions present four answer options to choose from, only one of which is correct. \n\nA national scoring guide is issued annually. Scores range from 220-300. According to ETS, the overall scaled score on the MFT-MBA measures critical thinking and reasoning within the domain of standard MBA curriculum. The chart on the right provides a scoring summary at approximately every 10th percentile.\n\nForm 4BMF was last used in 2009 making the 2009 scoring guide 4BMF's last scoring guide. Form 4FMF was last used in 2013 making the 2013 scoring guide 4FMF's last scoring guide. The 2015 scoring guide is the most up to date guide for 4JMF (the current test form).\n\nSeveral universities such as Rutgers, LSU, and the University of Nebraska, Omaha give awards to recognize their students whom received top scores on the MFT-MBA. The honors society T10 uses the MFT-MBA to recognize the top 10% of MBAs in the United States.\n\nThe MFT-MBA and similar tests are used by business school accreditation bodies such as the International Assembly for Collegiate Business Education (IACBE), the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), and the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP) to satisfy their assessment and accountability requirements.\n\n"}
{"id": "6047249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6047249", "title": "Management fad", "text": "Management fad\n\nManagement fad is a term used to characterize a change in philosophy or operations implemented by a business or institution.\n\nThe term is subjective and tends to be used in a pejorative sense, as it implies that such a change is being implemented (often by management on its employees, with little or no input from them) solely because it is (at the time) \"popular\" within managerial circles, and not necessarily due to any real need for organizational change. The term further implies that once the underlying philosophy is no longer \"popular\", it will be replaced by the newest \"popular\" idea, in the same manner and for the same reason as the previous idea.\n\nSeveral authors have argued that new management ideas should be subject to greater critical analysis, and for the need for greater conceptual awareness of new ideas by managers. Authors Leonard J. Ponzi and Michael Koenig believe that a key determinant of whether any management idea is a \"management fad\" is the number and timing of published articles on the idea. In their research, Ponzi and Koenig argue that once an idea has been discussed for around 3–5 years, if after this time the number of articles on the idea in a given year decreases significantly (similar to the right-hand side of a bell curve), then the idea is most likely a \"management fad\".\n\nManagement fads are often characterized by the following:\n\nThe following management theories and practices appeared on a list of management fashions and fads compiled by Adrian Furnham, who arranged them in rough chronological order by their date of appearance, 1950s to 1990s:\n\n\nOther theories and practices which observers have tagged as fads include:\n\n\n\n\nFor a critique of the practice of branding new management ideas as fads, see\n\n\nFor a listicle see:\n"}
{"id": "3061255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3061255", "title": "Management style", "text": "Management style\n\nManagement consists of the planning, prioritizing, and organizing work efforts to accomplish objectives within a business organization. A management style is the particular way managers go about accomplishing these objectives. It encompasses the way they make decisions, how they plan and organize work, and how they exercise authority.\n\nManagement styles vary by company, level of management, and even from person to person. A good manager is one that can adjust their management style to suit different environments and employees. An individual’s management style is shaped by many different factors including internal and external business environments, and how one views the role of work in the lives of employees.\n\nInternal company factors that determine a management style include, but are not limited to, policies, priorities, and corporate culture, staff skill levels and motivation, and management structures.\n\nIn order to be effective a manager’s style and outlook must fit into the businesses organizational culture. Their style must adhere to the policies and procedures set forth by the organization, and they must be able to achieve company objectives. They are responsible for controlling an effective work team and must uphold organizational beliefs within that team. A manager who cannot do this would likely be deemed ineffective and removed from the position.\n\nStaff skill levels and motivation greatly affect management styles as it is necessary for a manager to accomplish objectives while maintaining a content and effective work team. Less skilled or motivated employees would require a style that is more controlling and fosters consistent supervision to ensure productivity. Highly motivated or skilled employees require less supervision and direction as they are typically more technically skilled than management and have the ability, and desire, to make more autonomous decisions. These employees would benefit from a management style that is less controlling or hands-off.\n\nHierarchical management structures call for decision to be made solely by upper management, and within the scope of a manager’s position in the hierarchy. These types of organizations require more controlling management styles in order to meet objectives and get things done as specified. Fatter structures with more decentralized decision-making benefit from management styles that encourage team communication and employee’s contribution with regard to decision-making.\n\nExternal factors affecting management styles are those that are outside of the control of the organization. These include, but are not limited to consumers, suppliers, competitors, the economy, and the law.\n\nSome examples of these factors are a competitor who offers a more autonomous environment for skilled employees and control the job pool; the economy for a specific manufactured good results in a spike in demand causing a production crisis; the laws for a specific industry change and require employees who have extensive knowledge and certification causing the company employees talent and motivation to change.\n\nDouglas McGregor introduced Theory X and Theory Y in 1957. This psychological concept proposed that how one viewed human relationships to those of an enterprise determined their style of management.\n\nTheory X proposes that people inherently lack the motivation and desire for responsibility and need to be closely supervised, directed, and tightly controlled in order to achieve team objectives. Without it, workers may become unwilling to work. This is considered the more conventional theory and results in management styles that have high degrees of control over employees.\n\nTheory Y conversely suggests that it is human nature to be motivated by objectives and gain satisfaction through the completion of work. Those who believe in Theory Y believe that it is the responsibility of management to foster environments where employees can develop potential and utilize their skills to achieve objectives. This perspective leads to management styles that give the workers more decision making control and provide less supervision.\n\nAll management styles can be categorized by three major types: Autocratic, Democratic, and Laissez-Faire, with Autocratic being the most controlling and Laissez-Faire being the least controlling.\n\nAutocratic management is the most controlling of the management styles. Variations of this style are authoritative, persuasive, and paternalistic. Autocratic managers make all of the decisions in the workplace. Communication with this type of management is one way, top-down to the employees. Employee ideas and contributions are not encouraged or necessary. Roles and tasks are clearly defined, and workers are expected to follow these directions without question while being consistently checked and supervised.\n\nThis type of style is particularly useful in organizations with hierarchical structures where management makes all of the decisions based on positioning in the hierarchy. Employees that benefit from this style of management include those who are new, unskilled, or unmotivated, as they need the supervision and clear direction. Managers can benefit greatly from using this style in times of crises or serious time constraints.\n\nThe advantages of the autocratic management style are little uncertainty, clearly defined roles and expectations for employees, and the speed of decision-making. All decisions are made by the manager and employees are expected to be compliant leaving little room for variation or confusion. Decision-making speed is ideal and is not slowed by conflicting thought or agendas.\n\nDisadvantages include lack of staff input with ideas are not encouraged or shared. This can lead to job dissatisfaction, absenteeism, and employee turnover. Because managers make all of the decisions, the employees is not inclined to act autonomously and may become too dependent on the manager. Not all employees want or need supervision, and as a result can become resentful and unhappy. Too many dissatisfied employees and the separation of power with an autocratic management style can lead to an ‘us vs them’ mentality.\n\nWith this management style there is little trust or confidence in employees. This manager dictates orders to employees and expect that they do exactly as required. These employees are unskilled. This requires constant teaching and coaching of the staff as well as consistent supervision.\n\nUsing this management style, the manager still makes all decisions for employees but then convinces employees that these decisions were made in the best interest of the team. The only real difference here is that it can establish a higher level of trust between management and staff.\n\nThe manager still makes all of the decisions in this style of management and treats the employees in a condescending or paternalistic way. The decisions are made in the best interest of the employees and the manager explains these decision and the importance of them to the employees. These employees may feel well taken care of and looked after by the paternalistic manager but may become resentful of not being taken seriously. This style breeds highly dependent employees.\n\nThe democratic management style involves managers reaching decisions with the input of the employees but being responsible for making the final decision. There are many variations of this style of management including consultative, participative, and collaborative styles. Employee ideas and contributions are encouraged, but not necessary. Communication is both top-down and bottom-up and makes for a cohesive team.\n\nThis type of style is versatile with the advantages being more diverse perspectives involved in decision making. As employees are being taken into account before the manager makes decisions, the employees feel valued which increases motivation and productivity.\n\nDisadvantages of the democratic management style are the time it takes to make a decision due to the gathering of ideas and opinions. There is also the potential conflict of different viewpoints playing a role in the decision making and as a result, employees can feel less valued if their input is not taken, leading to decreased morale and productivity.\n\nWith this management style trust and confidence is place in the employees and management actively seeks out their opinions.\n\nSimilar to consultative, management trusts the employees, but trusts them completely and not only seeks out their opinions and ideas, but they act on them. They work together to make decisions as a group and the staff is highly involved. As a result the employees feel valued, and show increased motivation and productivity. However a drawback to this style is that some employees do not want to be involved in decision making and can come to resent a manager with this style \n\nManagers with the collaborative style communicated extensively with employees and make decisions by the majority. The manager believes that involving everyone and making the team take ownership will result in the best decisions made. The main disadvantage of this style is that it is time-consuming, and sometimes the majority decision is not the best decision for the business entity, in which case, the manager should take control of the final choice.\n\nThe laissez-faire management style involves little or no interference from management. The staff do not need supervision and are highly skilled which allows management to take the hand’s off approach and leave the problem solving, and decision making to the staff. Variations of this style include the delegative style and what is referred to as bossless environments or self-managed teams.\n\nThis type of style works best in organizations with flatter decentralized management. Typically, the staff is highly skilled, more so than the management, and is trusted with setting the bar for innovation and setting the objectives.\n\nThe advantages of the Laissez faire are increased innovation and creativity through the autonomy of expert staff. Some examples of this type of employee are be teachers, creatives, and designers.\n\nDisadvantages include the risk of low productivity by unsupervised staff, loss of direction due to the hands-off style of management.\n\nA delegative management style allows employees to take full responsibility of their work areas. The manager assigns tasks with little or no direction and expects the staff to achieve results of their own accord. The manager retains responsibility for meeting objectives. The major drawbacks of this style are lack of uniformity among team members and uncoordinated efforts toward productivity. Also because little direction and guidance is given the team can lack direction and focus.\n\nAlthough self managed teams (SMT) and bossless environments are not management styles, they are a style of management chosen by an organization. Like the Laissez-Faire management style, employees in these environments are highly skilled and motivated, but take it a step further as they are also highly educated, self directed, and know a great deal more about the work than management. SMT’s can report directly to directors or can have managers who follow the delegative, or participative style, but these teams require more leadership than management to remain productive.\n\nManagement by walking around is not an actual management style, it is more of a practice, but still it is labeled as such. Managers who practice MBWA place importance on rich levels of interpersonal communication. They believe that managers have a tendency to become separated from staff and should focus efforts on understanding employees’ work and being visible and accessible. Managers walk around the premises checking with employees and on the status of ongoing projects. This practice can be helpful in maintaining contact with employees and offering guidance as well as mitigating problems, however MBWA may also lower productivity levels by distracting employees.\n\n"}
{"id": "235890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=235890", "title": "Outsourcing", "text": "Outsourcing\n\nOutsourcing is \"an agreement in which one company hires another company to be responsible for an existing internal activity.\" It often involves the contracting of a business process (e.g., payroll processing, claims processing), operational, and/or non-core functions, such as manufacturing, facility management, call center support). The term \"outsourcing\" came from \"outside resourcing\" and dates back to at least 1981. Outsourcing sometimes involves transferring employees and assets from one firm to another. Outsourcing is also the practice of handing over control of public services to private enterprise.\n\nOutsourcing includes both foreign and domestic contracting, and sometimes includes offshoring (relocating a business function to a distant country) or nearshoring (transferring a business process to a nearby country). Outsourcing is often confused with offshoring, however, they can be distinguished: a company can outsource (work with a service provider) and not offshore to a distant country. For example, in 2003 Procter & Gamble outsourced their facilities' management support, but it did not involve offshoring.\n\nFinancial savings from lower international labor rates can provide a major motivation for outsourcing or offshoring. There can be tremendous savings from lower international labor rates when offshoring.\n\nIn contrast, insourcing entails bringing processes handled by third-party firms in-house, and is sometimes accomplished via vertical integration. However, a business can provide a contract service to another organization without necessarily insourcing that business process.\n\nTwo organizations may enter into a contractual agreement involving an exchange of services, expertise, and payments. Outsourcing is said to help firms to perform well in their core competencies, fuel innovation, and mitigate a shortage of skill or expertise in the areas where they want to outsource.\n\nIn the early 21st century, businesses increasingly outsourced to suppliers outside their own country, sometimes referred to as offshoring or offshore outsourcing. Several related terms have emerged to refer to various aspects of the complex relationship between economic organizations or networks, such as nearshoring, crowdsourcing, multisourcing, strategic alliances/strategic partnerships, strategic outsourcing., and vested outsourcing.\n\nOutsourcing can offer greater budget flexibility and control. Outsourcing allows organizations to pay for the services and business functions they need, when they need them. It also reduces the need to hire and train specialized staff, brings in fresh engineering expertise, and can reduce capital, operating expenses, and risk.\n\n\"Do what you do best and outsource the rest\" has become an internationally recognized business tagline first \"coined and developed\" in the 1990s by the \"legendary management consultant\" Peter Drucker. The slogan was primarily used to advocate outsourcing as a viable business strategy. It has been said that Mr. Drucker began explaining the concept of \"Outsourcing\" as early as 1989 in his \"Wall Street Journal\" article entitled \"Sell the Mailroom.\"\n\nFrom Drucker's perspective, a company should only seek to subcontract in those areas in which it demonstrated no special ability. The business strategy outlined by his slogan recommended that companies should take advantage of a specialist provider's knowledge and economies of scale to improve performance and achieve the service needed.\n\nIn 2009 by way of recognition, Peter Drucker posthumously received a significant honor, when he was inducted into the Outsourcing Hall of Fame for his outstanding work in the field.\n\nA serial report published in the 2010s looking at outsourcing models in clinical development described seven distinct models: Preferred Provider, Fee-for-Service, Functional Service Provider (FSP), Hybrid Full Service/FSP, In-Sourced, Compound/Program-based, and Sole-Source.\n\nCompanies primarily outsource to reduce certain costs, which may include peripheral or \"non-core\" business expenses, high taxes, high energy costs, excessive government regulation or mandates, and production or labor costs. The incentive to outsource may be greater for U.S. companies due to unusually high corporate taxes and mandated benefits like social security, Medicare, and safety protection (OSHA regulations). At the same time, it appears U.S. companies do not outsource to reduce executive or managerial costs. For instance, executive pay in the United States in 2007 was more than 400 times more than average workers—a gap 20 times bigger than it was in 1965. Other reasons include:\n\nOutsourcing of white-collar work has grown rapidly since the early 21st century, despite a focus on manufacturing outsourcing. The digital workforce of countries like India and China are only paid a fraction of what would be minimum wage in the US. On average, software engineers are getting paid between 250,000 and 1,500,000 rupees (US$4,000 to US$23,000) in India as opposed to $40,000–$100,000 in countries such as the US and Canada. Outsourcing has also expanded to include many different countries; Costa Rica has become a big source for outsourcing work as it offers the advantage of a highly educated labor force, a large bilingual population, stable democratic government, shares similar time zones with the United States, and it takes only a few hours to travel between Costa Rica and the US. Companies such as Intel, Procter & Gamble, HP, Gensler, Amazon and Bank of America have big operations in Costa Rica. In the recent years there has been an exponential growth in white collar work with service providers emerging in a wide range of activities, from banking and legal services to companies like Resources US, a pioneer in outsourcing services for architecture firms in United States. Unlike outsourced manufacturing, outsourced white collar work, offers workers the flexibility to choose their working hours, and which companies to work for. With many individuals telecommuting from home, the companies that require this type of work do not need to allocate additional funds for setting up of office space, management salary, and employee benefits as these individuals are contracted workers.\n\nGlobalization and complex supply chains, along with greater physical distance between higher management and the production-floor employees often requires a change in management methodologies, as inspection and feedback may not be as direct and frequent as in internal processes. This often requires the assimilation of new communication methods such as voice over IP, instant messaging, and Issue tracking systems, new time management methods such as time tracking software, and new cost- and schedule-assessment tools such as cost estimation software.\n\nIn the area of call center outsourcing, organizations that are not experienced in working with outsourced call centers may suffer from lower end-user-experience as a result of outsourcing. This is exacerbated when outsourcing is combined with offshoring in regions where the first language and culture are different.\n\nFor example, foreign call center agents may speak with different linguistic features such as accents, word use and phraseology, which may impede comprehension. The visual cues that are missing in a telephone call may lead to misunderstandings and difficulties.\n\nIn 1979, Nobel laureate Oliver E. Williamson wrote that the governance structure is the \"framework within which the integrity of a transaction is decided.\" Adding further that \"because contracts are varied and complex, governance structures vary with the nature of the transaction.\" University of Tennessee researchers have been studying complex outsourcing relationships since 2003. Emerging thinking regarding strategic outsourcing is focusing on creating a contract structure in which the parties have a vested interest in managing what are often highly complex business arrangements in a more collaborative, aligned, ﬂexible, and credible way.\n\nBefore outsourcing, an organization is responsible for the actions of their entire staff, sometimes a substantial liability. When these same people are transferred to an outsource service provider, they may not even change desks. But their legal status changes. They are no longer directly employed by (and responsible to) the organization. This creates legal, security and compliance issues that are often addressed through the contract between the client and the suppliers. This is one of the most complex areas of outsourcing and sometimes involves a specialist third-party adviser.\n\nFraud is a specific security issue as well as criminal activity, whether it is by employees or the supplier staff. However, it can be disputed that fraud is more likely when outsourcing is involved. For example, in April 2005, a high-profile case involved the theft of $350,000 from four Citibank customers when call-center workers acquired the passwords to customer accounts and transferred the money to their own accounts opened under fictitious names. Citibank did not find out about the problem until the American customers noticed discrepancies with their accounts and notified the bank.\n\nOutsourcing has gone through many iterations and reinventions. Some outsourcing contracts have been partially or fully reversed, citing an inability to execute strategy, lost transparency & control, onerous contractual models, a lack of competition, recurring costs, hidden costs, and so on. Companies shifting to insourcing often cite the desire to increase control, compliance and to gain competitive differentiation through vertical integration or the development of shared services, commonly called a center of excellence.\n\nFurther, the label \"outsourcing\" has been found to be used for too many different kinds of exchanges often in confusing ways. For example, global software development, which often involves people working in different countries, cannot simply be called outsourcing. The outsourcing-based market model fails to explain why these development projects are jointly developed, and not simply bought and sold in the marketplace. Recently, a study has identified an additional system of governance, termed algocracy, which appears to govern global software projects alongside bureaucratic and market-based mechanisms. The study distinguishes code-based governance system from bureaucracy and the market, and underscores the prominent features of each organizational form in terms of its ruling mechanism: bureaucracy (legal-rational), the market (price), and algocracy (programming or algorithm). So, global software development projects, though not insourced, are not outsourced either. They are in-between, in a process that is sometimes termed \"remote in-sourcing.\" Projects are developed together where a common software platform allows different teams around the world to work on the same project together.\n\nFrom the standpoint of labor, outsourcing may represent a new threat, contributing to worker insecurity, and is reflective of the general process of globalization and economic polarization.\n\nOn June 26, 2009, Jeff Immelt, the CEO of General Electric, called for the United States to increase its manufacturing base employment to 20% of the workforce, commenting that the U.S. has outsourced too much and can no longer rely on consumer spending to drive demand.\n\nWestern governments may attempt to compensate workers affected by outsourcing through various forms of legislation. In Europe, the Acquired Rights Directive attempts to address the issue. The Directive is implemented differently in different nations. In the United States, the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act is meant to provide compensation for workers directly affected by international trade agreements. Whether or not these policies provide the security and fair compensation they promise is debatable.\n\nA main feature of outsourcing influencing policy-making is the unpredictability it generates regarding the future of any particular sector or skill-group. The uncertainty of future conditions influences governance approaches to different aspects of long-term policies.\n\nEconomic growth requires change, therefore a governance disposed to helping social and economic structures adapt to the changing environment will facilitate growth and a stable transition to new economic structures until the economic structures become detrimental to the social, political and cultural structures.\n\nIn developing countries, policies that embrace the global phenomenon of outsourcing are a logical response to the ongoing movement towards \"open markets\" and \"trade liberalization.\" Outsourcing, when interpreted as a trade phenomenon, complements trade liberalization strategies not only by promoting technological spillovers and capital inflows but also by offsetting the increasing levels of unemployment which result from opening up domestic markets. As prices adjust to those in the global market they no longer reflect domestic productivity, driving lower-productivity firms in the previously protected sectors out of business. Economic theorists argue that the resulting unemployment is only temporary as workers readjust and are eventually incorporated into the country's most productive sectors, namely those which enjoy a competitive edge over other players in the international market. Nonetheless, rapid liberalization of markets in developing countries has not maximized the productivity potential of the region. In the Global South, where technological development is drastically lower than in the North, the redeployment of human and capital resources into new export markets has not come at the cost of necessarily low-productivity sectors but rather underdeveloped ones. In other words, many of the previously protected sectors were not competitive yet on a global scale, not because they naturally lacked the comparative advantage, but because industry efficiency had not yet been reached. In such cases where liberalization stunts the growth of potential industries, unemployment is a reflection of many underemployed resources.\n\nOutsourcing fills in the gap of receding protected national industries, improving employment and living standards. Among other economic externalities, outsourcing promotes capital inflows and infrastructure. In Mexico, wage convergence was faster in cities where outsourcing first took hold through maquiladoras, along the Mexico–United States border. Studies suggest that for every 10% increase in US wages, northern cities in Mexico which are most influenced by outsourcing would experience wage rises of 2.5%, about 0.69% higher than in inner cities.\n\nCorruption and reduced tax revenues after the signing of NAFTA have limited the economic resources available to the Mexican government, thus explaining the difference in investment policies between Mexico and China. Conversely, one of the successes of Asian countries in the twentieth century has been their promotion of higher rates of saving and investment. Studies suggest that the increase in capital input fueled the ‘Asian miracle’ rather than improvements in productivity and industrial efficiency. Though the previous conclusion suggests production conditions in the region remained static, the situation in East Asia experienced rapid transformations. Not only were national educational rates raised drastically, but there was also an increase in patenting and research and development expenditures. Rising levels of education, urbanization and even of patenting illustrate the active role of the government in advancing education as well as encouraging research and development.\n\nJobs become outsourced not based on the skill-level group it represents, but rather based on a variety of other factors including transportation cost of ideas, wage and labour productivity edge. Because of the overall uncertainty regarding the future dynamics of outsourcing it is not possible to predict the nature of labour demand in different regions. To better prepare the domestic workforce to future industry demands, therefore, national education programs ought to focus on flexibility and diversity of skills rather than on any specific task-oriented skills. Emphasis should go on preparing students both to succeed in non-habitual tasks and to adapt to changes in labour demands in the market. A specific goal that ought to be adopted is teaching students how to learn rather than teach them particular skills. This strategy would help students adapt to changing skill requirements in the future thus reducing friction from structural unemployment.\n\nThe uncertainty regarding the domestic productivity edge renders caution a key element of governance to ensure a sustainable regional developmenloyed re-enter the work force and smoothly transition into high-demand labour opportunities, potentially through re-training programs, the government should also address the socioeconomic struggle and other welfare concerns of displaced employees.\n\nNegative welfare effects of outsourcing have gathered substantial public attention. The possibility of outsourcing has internationalized labour markets which used to be local, opening up jobs which were traditionally non-traded to international competition. The resulting combination of lower wages and unemployment for certain jobs has driven the perceived ‘losers’ to engage in heated political debate.\n\nLabour unions in the European Union have succeeded in pushing through protectionist policies in favour or lower-skilled groups throughout the 1970s and 1980s, including the Common Agricultural Policy on farming. Interest groups opposing outsourcing have been more active to voice their disapproval because the negative outcomes of the phenomenon are more concentrated on specific groups of people, namely those losing jobs to external competition, whereas the benefits from it become dissipated among the population at large. Overall lower prices and greater quality and variety of goods in domestic markets are some of the benefits of exploiting a country's comparative advantage through outsourcing.\n\nUnlike the alleged ‘losers’ from outsourcing, those affected positively by it lack the motivation to organize to voice their support. There has been a wave of protectionism concerned with deep changes in the social structure allegedly imposed on the global system through globalization and outsourcing. The activists see a readjustment of class systems and highlight an increased fracture in societies between the ‘haves’ and the ‘have-nots’ as different groups adjust to increasingly or decreasingly advantageous positions in the system of outsourcing. Opponents of outsourcing have also denounced it as a threat to local cultural integrity.\n\nThe argument on cultural disintegration points to the standardization of practices and norms as multinational corporations become involved with industries in regions culturally different from those in the country of origin. The alleged diffusion of culture has raised concern over the endurance of cultural norms and values, sociopolitical institutions and frameworks, or even cultural preferences and traditions in a context of increasing foreign presence.\n\nIncreased uncertainty regarding future socioeconomic security ought to be met with policies promoting equality and a fair redistribution of economic gains for a government to maintain its voters’ favour. Because of overall unpredictability, governments will likely need to reassure civilians that the burden of employment jobs resulting from outsourcing will be shared among taxpayers.\n\nThe fluctuations in employment levels are determined by the types of jobs which can be profitably outsourced or offshored. Domestic jobs become offshored or outsourced when lower productivity in other regions is compensated by lower wages, making outsourcing profitable even despite the added costs of transportation. The overall cost-effectiveness of the spatial unbundling of the industrial process thus depends on the cost of transporting specific services or ideas given the available technology. Because of these technological advancements such as the telecommunications revolution, air shipping or the Internet have deeply accelerated outsourcing and may continue to boost this process.\n\nThe future results of technological ingenuity and innovation are unknown, as are its potential impacts employment levels on any given task or job across regions. In the Global South, policies attracting multinational corporations can help increase employment levels and promote growth. Governments that pursue these policies facilitate welfare protection given the context of increased unemployment in industries which cannot compete with the international market due to trade liberalization policies.\n\nOutsourcing results from an internationalization of labor markets as more tasks become tradable. According to leading economist Greg Mankiw, the labour market functions under the same forces as the market of goods, with the underlying implication that the greater the number of tasks available to being moved, the better for efficiency under the gains from trade. With technological progress, more tasks can be offshored at different stages of the overall corporate process.\n\nThere are widespread claims that outsourcing has pushed environmental standards down in developing regions as countries compete to attract foreign projects and investment. Similar to lower wages, lower health and environmental regulations contribute to giving a country a comparative advantage over another due to lower production costs. The controversy this raises, however, is that unlike wages, lower health or environmental standards does benefit the new employees joining the workforce.\nImport competition has caused a de facto ‘race-to-the-bottom’ where countries lower environmental regulations to secure a competitive edge for their industries relative to other countries. As Mexico competes with China over Canadian and American markets, its national Commission for Environmental Cooperation has not been active in enacting or enforcing regulations to prevent environmental damage from increasingly industrialized Export Processing Zones. Similarly, since the signing of NAFTA heavy industries have increasingly moved to the US which has a comparative advantage due to its abundant presence of capital and well-developed technology. A further example of environmental de-regulation with the objective of protecting trade incentives have been the numerous exemptions to carbon taxes in European countries during the 1990s. The evidence suggests that even if outsourcing has promoted lower environmental protection, there are no intrinsic geographic implications that the Global South has been more negatively affected than the North. o Although outsourcing can influence environmental de-regulatory trends, the added cost of preventing pollution does not majorly determine trade flows or industrialization.\n\nOutsourcing has contributed to further levelling of global inequalities as it has led to general trends of industrialization in the Global South and deindustrialization in the Global North.\n\nEven though outsourcing has promoted a movement of industrial sites from the Global North to Global South regions, it has not been the only reason for the concurrent deindustrialization and industrialization of the North and South respectively. Deindustrialization in more economically and technologically developed regions has also been affected by increased industrial productivity.\n\nThe rise in industrial efficiency which characterized development in developed countries has occurred as a result of labor-saving technological improvements. Although these improvements do not directly reduce employment levels but rather increase output per unit of work, they can indirectly diminish the amount of labor required for fixed levels of output. Likewise, a trending shift in demand towards non-tradable services such as those in the health-care or government sectors has further accelerated deindustrialization in the Global North. Since these tasks cannot be outsourced, the demand for them needs to be met domestically abiding by the local market price. Consequently, a shift in the labor force towards fulfilling these profitable services has mostly taken place at the expense of industry since the agricultural sector in the early industrializing Global North had already been maximizing its labour capacity.\n\nDespite the variety of domestic and international factors affecting deindustrialization in the Global North, those concerning the external influence of the global market have been the most influential ones since 1994.\n\nThe recent industrialization process outsourcing has encouraged in the Global South has taken place at a much faster pace than it did during its beginnings in the North, given that the well-developed technology was already developed, and merely spread to further regions.\n\nThe almost simultaneous industrialization of the developing Global South and deindustrialization of the more developed Global North resulted in an international convergence of incomes.\n\nOutsourcing has been characterized by rapid rates of growth and industrialization in the Global South. Conversely, the Global North has experienced a moderate slowdown in growth. Patterns of global industrialization and deindustrialization are explained by a combination of models in economic geography and economic growth. Models in economic geography illustrate that decreasing communication costs reduce the spatial clustering of industrial development. The lower cost to the spread of ideas improved coordination and communication within corporations across greater geographic distances. This process originated roughly after the international chaos of the World Wars, as a consequence of advancements in information technology during the 1960s. Further adaptations to technological progress, particularly the spread of the internet and liberalization of the telecommunications industry, permitted an acceleration of the movement of ideas and consequently of outsourcing since about the 1980s.\n\nThe pace of urbanization in the Global North decreased considerably relative to its high levels following the Industrial Revolution. Rates of urban growth have been higher in the Global South.\n\nOutsourcing emerged with a new wave of globalization marked by high volumes of trade and capital flows. The increased movement of capital and goods contrasted starkly with the barriers and protectionism prevalent throughout the World Wars and the Great Depression during the Interwar Years.\n\nThe level of migration has remained relatively low, particularly compared to the mass migratory trends which characterized the Industrial Revolution roughly between 1850 and 1914., probably because labor markets are not free now. Countries now have discrimination labor laws, only allow people with citizenship cards live and work free in their territories, even getting a citizenship card is difficult for some one not born in their territory. Free labor markets, discrimination based with a person skills would help reduce outsourcing problems, letting people freely follow their jobs in other countries.\n\nOutsourcing in the Global North led to a rising divergence in domestic employment levels in different tasks within a given industry, making tackling unemployment more difficult for governments as job losses ceased to be primarily sectoral.\n\n\"Outsourcing\" has become a continuing political issue in the United States, having been conflated with offshoring, during the 2004 U.S. presidential election. The political debate centered on outsourcing's consequences for the domestic U.S. workforce. Democratic U.S. presidential candidate John Kerry criticized U.S. firms that outsource jobs abroad or that incorporate overseas in tax havens to avoid paying their \"fair share\" of U.S. taxes during his 2004 campaign, calling such firms \"Benedict Arnold corporations\".\n\nCriticism of outsourcing, from the perspective of U.S. citizens, generally revolves around the costs associated with transferring control of the labor process to an external entity in another country. A Zogby International poll conducted in August 2004 found that 71% of American voters believed that \"outsourcing jobs overseas\" hurt the economy while another 62% believed that the U.S. government should impose some legislative action against companies that transfer domestic jobs overseas, possibly in the form of increased taxes on companies that outsource. One prediction (form 2010) claims that, by 2014, more than 1.3 million positions will disappear because of \"the accelerated movement of work to India ...\" and some other countries willing to accept outsourced jobs. President Obama promoted an act titled 'Bring Jobs Home Act' that would help reshore jobs by giving incentives such as a tax cut or a 20 percent tax credit for moving operations back to the USA. The same bill was reintroduced in the 113th United States Congress as the Bring Jobs Home Act (S. 2569; 113th Congress).\n\nLabor advocates accuse union busting as one possible cause of outsourcing. They argue that as unions are disadvantaged by union busting legislation, workers lose bargaining power and it becomes easier for corporations to fire them and ship their job overseas.\n\nAnother rationale is the high corporate income tax rate in the U.S. relative to other OECD nations, and the practice of taxing revenues earned outside of U.S. jurisdiction, a very uncommon practice. However, outsourcing is not solely a U.S. phenomenon as corporations in various nations with low tax rates outsource as well, which means that high taxation can only partially, if at all, explain US outsourcing. For example, the amount of corporate outsourcing in 1950 would be considerably lower than today, yet the tax rate was actually higher in 1950.\n\nIt is also suggested that lowering the corporate income tax and ending the double-taxation of foreign-derived revenue (taxed once in the nation where the revenue was raised, and once from the U.S.) will alleviate corporate outsourcing and make the U.S. more attractive to foreign companies. However, while the US has a high official tax rate, the actual taxes paid by US corporations may be considerably lower due to the use of tax loopholes, tax havens, and \"gaming the system\". Rather than avoiding taxes, outsourcing may be mostly driven by the desire to lower labor costs (see standpoint of labor above). Sarbanes-Oxley has also been cited as a factor for corporate flight from U.S. jurisdiction.\n\nWhere outsourcing involves the transfer of an undertaking, it is subject to Council Directive 77/187 of 14 February 1977, on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the safeguarding of employees’ rights in the event of transfers of undertakings, businesses or parts of businesses (as amended by Directive 98/50/EC of 29 June 1998; consolidated in Directive 2001/23 of 12 March 2001). Under that directive, rights acquired by employees with the former employer are to be safeguarded when they, together with the undertaking in which they are employed, are transferred to another employer, i.e., the contractor. An example of a case involving such contracting-out was the decision of the European Court of Justice in Christel Schmidt v. Spar- und Leihkasse der früheren Ämter Bordesholm, Kiel und Cronshagen, Case C-392/92 [1994]. Although subsequent decisions have disputed whether a particular contracting-out exercise constituted a transfer of an undertaking (see, for example, Ayse Süzen v. Zehnacker Gebäudereinigung GmbH Krankenhausservice, Case C-13/95 [1997]), in principle, employees of an enterprise outsourcing part of its activities in which they are employed may benefit from the protection offered by the directive.\n\nSeeking to implement the cost-cutting solutions, many Western European firms have been transferring tech projects eastward. For example, Deutsche Bank has some of its software developed in Ukraine, Siemens possess R&D center in Romania. Europe Outsourcing has produced outstanding results and henceforward they are increasing them in numbers.\n\nDespite unfavorable economic conditions from 2007 to 2009, the outsourcing services market continued to flourish in Central and Eastern European. In 2008 when the inflow of investment in Western Europe was down by 48%, it fell by only 9% in Central and Eastern Europe. In Poland alone, during 2009, the year following the global economic downturn, approximately 10,000 jobs were created in business process outsourcing (BPO).\n\nCo-sourcing is a business practice where a service is performed by staff from inside an organization and also by an external service provider. It can be a service performed in concert with a client's existing internal audit department. The scope of work may focus on one or more aspects of the internal audit function. Co-sourcing can serve to minimize sourcing risks, increase transparency, clarity and lend toward better control over the processes outsourced.\n\nExamples of co-sourcing services are supplementing the in-house internal audit staff with specialized skills such as information risk management or integrity services, providing routine assistance to in-house auditing for operations and control evaluations in peak period activity and conducting special projects such as fraud investigation or plant investment appraisals. Another example of co-sourcing is outsourcing part of software development or software maintenance activities to an external organization, while keeping part of the development in-house. Other internal business activities such as HR and administrative tasks can also be co-sourced by employee leasing companies.\n\nIt is an approach to enterprise identity management in which the identity service interacts directly or through some technical footprint with an organization's Information Technology (IT) identity back-end infrastructure: directories, databases, and other identity repositories. The organization and the external service provider typically have a shared responsibility for building, hosting and operating the identity service. The balance of this responsibility can vary depending on the service levels required, and span from an all on-premises deployment, where the identity service is built, hosted and operated within the organization's IT infrastructure and managed on-premises by the external service provider. This contrasts with an \"all in-the-cloud\" service scenario, where the identity service is built, hosted and operated by the service provider in an externally hosted, cloud computing infrastructure.\n\nSome firms have reversed the decision to outsource because the results were not entirely as expected. The circumstances which allow firms to unbundle the different tasks or stages of its manufacturing process into different locations have not been fully determined. Though the nature of the tasks plays a role determining their interconnectedness, other factors such as innovation in the manufacturing process or advances in transport and communication technology also affect the need for direct contact among employees. As the process which ties tasks together within firms remains unclear, there is a degree of uncertainty about which tasks need to remain geographically clustered together. In many cases firms took risks experimenting with outsourcing while lacking a firm understanding of the relationship among internal tasks and its spatial implications.\n\nDespite saving money, companies have often faced unexpected drawbacks from outsourcing, such as miscommunication or lower quality of intermediate products, which end up delaying the overall production process. Another reason for a decrease in outsourcing is that many jobs that were subcontracted abroad have been replaced by technological advances.\n\nAccording to a Deloitte Consulting survey carried out in 2005, a quarter of the companies which had outsourced tasks reversed their strategy. Many big companies like Lenovo considered turning around outsourcing strategies of outsourcing.\n\nPublic opinion in the US and other Western powers opposing outsourcing was particularly strengthened by the drastic increase in unemployment as a result of the 2007-2008 financial crisis. In the first decade from 2000 to 2010, the US experienced a net loss of 687,000 jobs due to outsourcing, primarily in the computers and electronics sector. Public disenchantment with outsourcing has not only stirred political responses, as seen in the 2012 US presidential campaigns, but it has also made companies more reluctant to outsource or offshore jobs.\n\nA 2016 Deloitte survey suggested that companies are no longer reluctant to outsource. Deloitte's survey identified three trends: \n\n"}
{"id": "28192984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28192984", "title": "Partner relationship management", "text": "Partner relationship management\n\nPartner relationship management (PRM) is a system of methodologies, strategies, software, and web-based capabilities that help a vendor to manage partner relationships. The general purpose of PRM is to enable vendors to better manage their partners through the introduction of reliable systems, processes and procedures for interacting with them. Web-based PRM systems typically include a Content Management System, a partner and customer contact database, and the notion of a partner portal which allows partners to log in and interact with a vendor's sales opportunity database and obtain product, pricing, and training information. There are a number of solution providers who offer PRM software companies who rely heavily on a PRM solution to stay relevant in their respective industries.\n\nVendors who implement a PRM solution are typically motivated by a need to reduce the financial overhead and establish new partnerships to drive channel revenue and scale. Partners may also be integrators or managed service providers. Unlike CRM systems, which are tailored toward getting an end customer to purchase from you, a PRM system is focused on getting a partner to sell on your behalf. As a result, they commonly offer web-based self-service tools, information, and resources to partner resellers. Tools often include:\n\nGartner reports that PRM solutions have mainly been adopted by companies in the hardware technology, software technology, telecommunication, and manufacturing industries.\n\nThe PRM application market has expanded significantly in the last 10 years, with vendors offering improved end-to-end and point solutions for the management of channel sales partners.\n\n"}
{"id": "7328483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7328483", "title": "Path analysis (computing)", "text": "Path analysis (computing)\n\nPath analysis, is the analysis of a path, which is a portrayal of a chain of consecutive events that a given user or cohort performs during a set period of time while using a website, online game, or eCommerce platform. As a subset of behavioral analytics, path analysis is a way to understand user behavior in order to gain actionable insights into the data. Path analysis provides a visual portrayal of every event a user or cohort performs as part of a path during a set period of time.\n\nWhile it is possible to track a user’s path through the site, and even show that path as a visual representation, the real question is how to gain these actionable insights. If path analysis simply outputs a \"pretty\" graph, while it may look nice, it does not provide anything concrete to act upon.\n\nIn order to get the most out of path analysis the first step would be to determine what needs to be analyzed and what are the goals of the analysis. A company might be trying to figure out why their site is running slow, are certain types of users interested in certain pages or products, or if their user interface is set up in a logical way.\n\nNow that the goal has been set there are a few ways of performing the analysis. If a large percentage of a certain cohort, people between the ages of 18-25, logs into an online game, creates a profile and then spends the next 10 minutes wandering around the menu page, then it may be that the user interface is not logical. By seeing this group of users following the path that they did a developer will be able to analyze the data and realize that after creating a profile, the “play game” button does not appear. Thus, path analysis was able to provide actionable data for the company to act on and fix an error.\n\nIn eCommerce, path analysis can help customize a shopping experience to each user. By looking at what products other customers in a certain cohort looked at before buying one, a company can suggest “items you may also like” to the next customer and increase the chances of them making a purchase. Also, path analysis can help solve performance issues on a platform. For example, a company looks at a path and realizes that their site freezes up after a certain combinations of events. By analyzing the path and the progression of events that led to the error, the company can pinpoint the error and fix it.\n\nHistorically path analysis fell under the broad category of website analytics, and related only to the analysis of paths through websites. Path analysis in website analytics is a process of determining a sequence of pages visited in a visitor session prior to some desired event, such as the visitor purchasing an item or requesting a newsletter. The precise order of pages visited may or may not be important and may or may not be specified. In practice, this analysis is done in aggregate, ranking the paths (sequences of pages) visited prior to the desired event, by descending frequency of use. The idea is to determine what features of the website encourage the desired result. \"Fallout analysis,\" a subset of path analysis, looks at \"black holes\" on the site, or paths that lead to a dead end most frequently, paths or features that confuse or lose potential customers.\n\nWith the advent of big data along with web-based applications, online games, and eCommerce platforms, path analysis has come to include much more than just web path analysis. Understanding how users move through an app, game, or other web platform are all part of modern-day path analysis.\n\nIn the real world when you visit a shop the shelves and products are not placed in a random order. The shop owner carefully analyzes the visitors and path they walk through the shop, especially when they are selecting or buying products. Next the shop owner will reorder the shelves and products to optimize sales by putting everything in the most logical order for the visitors. In a supermarket this will typically result in the wine shelf next to a variety of cookies, chips, nuts, etc. Simply because people drink wine and eat nuts with it.\n\nIn most web sites there is a same logic that can be applied. Visitors who have questions about a product will go to the product information or support section of a web site. From there they make a logical step to the frequently asked questions page if they have a specific question. A web site owner also wants to analyze visitor behavior. For example, if a web site offers products for sale, the owner wants to convert as many visitors to a completed purchase. If there is a sign-up form with multiple pages, web site owners want to guide visitors to the final sign-up page.\n\nPath analysis answers typical questions like: \n\"Where do most visitors go after they enter my home page?\"\n\"Is there a strong visitor relation between product A and product B on my web site?\". \nQuestions that can't be answered by page hits and unique visitors statistics.\n\nGoogle Analytics provides a path function with funnels and goals. A predetermined path of web site pages is specified and every visitor walking the path is a goal. This approach is very helpful when analyzing how many visitors reach a certain destination page, called an end point analysis.\n\nThe paths visitors walk in a web site can lead to an endless number of unique paths. As a result, there is no point in analyzing each path, but to look for the strongest paths. These strongest paths are typically shown in a graphical map or in text like: Page A --> Page B --> Page D --> Exit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45000327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45000327", "title": "Privatier", "text": "Privatier\n\nPrivatier ([], also spelled Privatus, with the feminine forms Privata or Privatière, meaning \"private person\") is a French word that was used from the 19th century in Germany and some other countries as a title by members of bourgeois families of substantial financial means in lieu of another professional title. Much like rentier, it denoted someone who did not have to work to make a living, and who lived off their assets of some size, e.g. interest, profits from investments, real estate and current assets. Sometimes, the title was used by affluent businessmen after they had wholly or largely retired from their former activity. For example, in Thomas Mann's novel \"Buddenbrooks\", the character Alois Permaneder, a former merchant, uses this title after his marriage to Tony Buddenbrook, after receiving a substantial dowry from her wealthy family, at which point he retires from business.\n"}
{"id": "842198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=842198", "title": "Purchase order", "text": "Purchase order\n\nA purchase order (PO) is a commercial document and first official offer issued by a buyer to a seller, indicating types, quantities, and agreed prices for products or services. It is used to control the purchasing of products and services from external suppliers. Purchase orders can be an essential part of enterprise resource planning system orders.\n\nThe issue of a purchase order does not itself form a contract. If no prior contract exists, then it is the acceptance of the order by the seller that forms a contract between the buyer and seller.\n\nCompanies use purchase orders for several reasons. Purchase orders allow buyers to clearly and explicitly communicate their intentions to sellers. They may also help a purchasing agent to manage incoming orders and pending orders. Sellers are also protected by POs in case of a buyer's refusal to pay for goods or services.\n\nPurchase orders provide benefits in that they streamline the purchasing process to a standard procedure. Commercial lenders or financial institutions may provide financial assistance on the basis of purchase orders. There are various trade finance facilities that almost every financial institution allows business people to use against purchase orders such as:\n\n\nThe purpose of purchase orders is to procure materials for direct consumption or for stock, procure services, cover customer requirements using external resources, or procure a material that is needed in plants from an internal source (Long distance intra-plant stock transfers). They may also place once-only procurement transactions and optimize purchasing by taking full advantage of negotiated conditions or for optimal utilisation of existing transport capacities.\n\nCreating a purchase order is typically the first step of the purchase to pay process in an ERP system. Purchase orders may require a SKU code. Within an ERP system, a purchase order can be created manually, and may require confirmation or changes via editing. Within an ERP system (such as in SAP), manually creating a purchase order within the system may look something like \"Logistics -> Materials Management -> Purchasing -> Purchasing Order -> Create\" and providing a Transaction Code. This document type will be chosen from the screen. A vendor code lookup may need to be selected for a purchase order steps, as well as things like organization group and company code.\n\nAlthough a typical purchase order may not contain contract language (in fact most contain little more than a list of the goods or services the buyer desires to purchase, along with price, payment terms, and shipping instructions), the purchase order is a specially regarded instrument regulated by the Uniform Commercial Code or other similar law which establishes a purchase order as a contract by its nature. Yet despite the nature of the purchase order as a contract, it is common to accompany the acceptance of a purchase order with a legal document such as the terms & conditions of sale, which establish specific or additional legal conditions of the contract.\n\nThe US Federal Acquisition Regulation states that purchase orders should generally be issued on a fixed-price basis, but provision is also made for unpriced purchase orders to be issued where \"it is impractical to obtain pricing in advance of issuance of the purchase order\".\n\nMany purchase orders are no longer paper-based, but rather transmitted electronically over the Internet. It is common for electronic purchase orders to be used to buy goods or services of any type online.\n\nThere are lots of names/terms for Electronic Purchase Orders. It is sometimes known as: E-Procurement, E-Purchasing, E-Purchase Requisition. These terms are normally all referring to Electronic Purchase Orders.\n\n\"The record of purchase order in most business firms are still on paper and thus there is a need for proper purchase order format. Many users wish to have professional formatting for purchase orders for several reasons. A company may wish to have a strong understanding of purchase transactions or to know the basic requirements of purchase order. It may also make it part of business documentation, which makes the process easier while keeping record of all transactions and to have good impression on the client or customer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "155698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=155698", "title": "Sales", "text": "Sales\n\nSales are activities related to selling or the number of goods or services sold in a given time period.\n\nThe \"seller\" or the provider of the goods or services complete a sale in response to an acquisition, appropriation, requisition or a direct interaction with the \"buyer\" at the point of sale. There is a passing of title (property or ownership) of the item, and the settlement of a price, in which agreement is reached on a price for which transfer of ownership of the item will occur. The \"seller\", not the purchaser generally executes the sale and it may be completed prior to the obligation of payment. In the case of indirect interaction, a person who sells goods or service on behalf of the owner is known as a salesman or saleswoman or salesperson, but this often refers to someone selling goods in a store/shop, in which case other terms are also common, including \"salesclerk\", \"shop assistant\", and \"retail clerk\".\n\nIn common law countries, sales are governed generally by the common law and commercial codes. In the United States, the laws governing sales of goods are somewhat uniform to the extent that most jurisdictions have adopted Article 2 of the Uniform Commercial Code, albeit with some non-uniform variations.\n\nA person or organization expressing an interest in acquiring the offered item of value is referred to as a potential buyer, prospective customer or prospect. Buying and selling are understood to be two sides of the same \"coin\" or transaction. Both seller and buyer engage in a process of negotiation to consummate the exchange of values. The exchange, or selling, process has implied rules and identifiable stages. It is implied that the selling process will proceed fairly and ethically so that the parties end up nearly equally rewarded. The stages of selling, and buying, involve getting acquainted, assessing each party's need for the other's item of value, and determining if the values to be exchanged are equivalent or nearly so, or, in buyer's terms, \"worth the price\". Sometimes, sellers have to use their own experiences when selling products with appropriate discounts.\n\nFrom a management viewpoint it is thought of as a part of marketing, although the skills required are different. Sales often form a separate grouping in a corporate structure, employing separate specialist operatives known as \"salespersons\" (singular: \"salesperson\"). Selling is considered by many to be a sort of persuading \"art\". Contrary to popular belief, the methodological approach of selling refers to a \"systematic process of repetitive and measurable milestones, by which a salesman relates his or her offering of a product or service in return enabling the buyer to achieve their goal in an economic way\". According to a 2018 survey of salespeople, selling has become more difficult in recent years due to changes in technology and general access to prospects. While the sales process refers to a systematic process of repetitive and measurable milestones, the definition of the selling is somewhat ambiguous due to the close nature of advertising, promotion, public relations, and direct marketing.\n\nSelling is the profession-wide term, much like marketing defines a profession. Recently, attempts have been made to clearly understand who is in the sales profession, and who is not. There are many articles looking at marketing, advertising, promotions, and even public relations as ways to create a unique transaction.\n\nTwo common terms used to describe a salesperson are \"Farmer\" and \"Hunter\". The reality is that most professional salespeople have a little of both. A hunter is often associated with aggressive personalities who use aggressive sales technique. In terms of sales methodology, a hunter refers to a person whose focus is on bringing in and closing deals. This process is called \"sales capturing\". An example is a commodity sale such as a long distance salesperson, shoe salesperson and to a degree a car salesperson. Their job is to find and convert buyers. A sales farmer is someone who creates sales demand through activities that directly influence and alter the buying process.\n\nMany believe that the focus of selling is on the human agents involved in the exchange between buyer and seller. Effective selling also requires a systems approach, at minimum involving roles that sell, enable selling, and develop sales capabilities. Selling also involves salespeople who possess a specific set of sales skills and the knowledge required to facilitate the exchange of value between buyers and sellers that is unique from marketing, advertising, etc.\n\nWithin these three tenets, the following definition of professional selling is offered by the American Society for Training and Development (ASTD):\nTeam selling is one way to influence sales. Team selling is \"a group of people representing the sales department and other functional areas in the firm, such as finance, production, and research and development\". (Spiro) Team selling came about in the 1990s through total quality management (TQM). TQM occurs when companies work to improve their customer satisfaction by constantly improving all of their operations.\n\nMarketing and sales differ greatly but generally have the same goal. Selling is the final stage in marketing which puts the plan into effect, which also includes pricing, promotion, place, and product (the 4 P's). A marketing department in an organization has the goals of increasing the desirability and value to the customer and increasing the number and engagement of interactions between potential customers and the organization. Achieving this goal may involve the sales team using promotional techniques such as advertising, sales promotion, publicity, and public relations, creating new sales channels, or creating new products (new product development), among other things. It can also include bringing the potential customer to visit the organization's website(s) for more information, or to contact the organization for more information, or to interact with the organization via social media such as Twitter, Facebook and blogs. Social values also play a major role in consumer decision processes. Marketing is the whole of the work on persuasion made for the whole of the target people. Sales are the persuasion and effort that from one person to one person (B2C), one person makes to the corporation (B2B) in the face or in the phone or in the digital environment, to make a living resource enter the company.\n\nThe field of sales process engineering views \"sales\" as the output of a larger system, not just as the output of one department. The larger system includes many functional areas within an organization. From this perspective, \"sales\" and \"marketing\" (among others, such as \"customer service\") label for a number of processes whose inputs and outputs supply one another to varying degrees. In this context, improving an \"output\" (such as sales) involves studying and improving the broader sales process, as in any system, since the component functional areas interact and are interdependent.\n\nMany large corporations structure their marketing departments so they are directly integrated with all lines of business. They create multiple teams with a singular focus and the managers of these teams must coordinate efforts in order to drive profits and business success. For example, an \"inbound\" focused campaign seeks to drive more customers \"through the door\", giving the sales department a better chance of selling their product to the consumer. A good marketing program would address any potential downsides as well.\n\nThe sales department would aim to improve the interaction between the customer and the sales facility or mechanism (example, website) or salesperson. As Sales is the forefront of any organization, this would always need to take place before any other business process may begin. Sales management would break down the selling process and then increase the effectiveness of the discrete processes as well as the interaction between processes. For example, in many out-bound sales environments, the typical process includes outbound calling, the sales pitch, handling objections, opportunity identification, and the close. Each step of the process has sales-related issues, skills, and training needs, as well as marketing solutions to improve each discrete step, as well as the whole process. In many cases becoming a salesperson is a default career as not many people aspire to be a salesman but rather fall into the job due to circumstances. It can be highly rewarding as you receive remuneration in the form of a salary and also commission.\n\nOne further common complication of marketing involves the inability to measure results for a lot of marketing initiatives. In essence, many marketing and advertising executives often lose sight of the objective of sales/revenue/profit, as they focus on establishing a creative/innovative program, without concern for the top or bottom lines – a fundamental pitfall of marketing for marketing's sake.\n\nMany companies find it challenging to get marketing and sales on the same page. The two departments, although different in nature, handle very similar concepts and have to work together for sales to be successful. Building a good relationship between the two that encourages communication can be the key to success – even in a down economy.\n\nThe idea that marketing can potentially eliminate the need for salespeople depends entirely on context. For example, this may be possible in some B2C situations; however, for many B2B transactions (for example, those involving industrial organizations) this is mostly impossible. Another dimension is the value of the goods being sold. Fast-moving consumer-goods (FMCG) require no sales people at the point of sale to get them to jump off the supermarket shelf and into the customer's trolley. However, the purchase of large mining equipment worth millions of dollars will require a salesperson to manage the sales process – particularly in the face of competitors. Small and medium businesses selling such large ticket items to a geographically-disperse client base use manufacturers' representatives to provide this highly personal service while avoiding the large expense of a captive sales force.\n\nAnother area of discussion involves the need for alignment and integration of corporate sales and marketing functions. According to a report from the Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) Council, only 40 percent of companies have formal programs, systems or processes in place to align and integrate the two critical functions.\n\nTraditionally, these two functions, as referenced above, have operated separately, left in siloed areas of tactical responsibility. Glen Petersen's book \"The Profit Maximization Paradox\" sees the changes in the competitive landscape between the 1950s and the time of writing as so dramatic that the complexity of choice, price, and opportunities for the customer forced this seemingly simple and integrated relationship between sales and marketing to change forever. Petersen goes on to highlight that salespeople spend approximately 40 percent of their time preparing customer-facing deliverables while leveraging less than 50 percent of the materials created by marketing, adding to perceptions that marketing is out of touch with the customer and that sales is resistant to messaging and strategy.\n\nThere are two types of sales: direct selling and indirect selling.\n\nA sale can take place through:\n\n\nAgents in the sales process can represent either of two parties in the sales process; for example:\n\n\nIn the United States, the Fair Labor Standards Act defines outside sales representatives as \"employees [who] sell their employer's products, services, or facilities to customers away from their employer's place(s) of business, in general, either at the customer's place of business or by selling door-to-door at the customer's home\" while defining those who work \"from the employer's location\" as inside sales. Inside sales generally involves attempting to close business primarily over the phone via telemarketing, while outside sales (or \"field\" sales) will usually involve initial phone work to book sales calls at the potential buyer's location to attempt to close the deal in person. Some companies have an inside sales department that works with outside representatives and book their appointments for them. Inside sales sometimes refers to upselling to existing customers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875574", "title": "Software industry", "text": "Software industry\n\nThe software industry includes businesses for development, maintenance and publication of software that are using different business models, mainly either \"license/maintenance based\" (on-premises) or \"Cloud based\" (such as SaaS, PaaS, IaaS, MaaS, AaaS, etc.). The industry also includes software services, such as training, documentation, consulting and data recovery.\n\nThe word \"software\" was coined as a prank as early as 1953, but did not appear in print until the 1960s. Before this time, computers were programmed either by customers, or the few commercial computer vendors of the time, such as UNIVAC and IBM. The first company founded to provide software products and services was Computer Usage Company in 1955.\n\nThe software industry expanded in the early 1960s, almost immediately after computers were first sold in mass-produced quantities. Universities, government, and business customers created a demand for software. Many of these programs were written in-house by full-time staff programmers. Some were distributed freely between users of a particular machine for no charge. Others were done on a commercial basis, and other firms such as Computer Sciences Corporation (founded in 1959) started to grow. Other influential or typical software companies begun in the early 1960s included Advanced Computer Techniques, Automatic Data Processing, Applied Data Research, and Informatics General. The computer/hardware makers started bundling operating systems, systems software and programming environments with their machines.\n\nWhen Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) brought a relatively low-priced microcomputer to market, it brought computing within the reach of many more companies and universities worldwide, and it spawned great innovation in terms of new, powerful programming languages and methodologies. New software was built for microcomputers, so other manufacturers including IBM, followed DEC's example quickly, resulting in the IBM AS/400 amongst others.\n\nThe industry expanded greatly with the rise of the personal computer (\"PC\") in the mid-1970s, which brought desktop computing to the office worker for the first time. In the following years, it also created a growing market for games, applications, and utilities. DOS, Microsoft's first operating system product, was the dominant operating system at the time.\n\nIn the early years of the 21st century, another successful business model has arisen for hosted software, called software-as-a-service, or SaaS; this was at least the third time this model had been attempted. From the point of view of producers of some proprietary software, SaaS reduces the concerns about unauthorized copying, since it can only be accessed through the Web, and by definition no client software is loaded onto the end user's PC.\n\nAccording to industry analyst Gartner, the size of the worldwide software industry in 2013 was US$407.3 billion, an increase of 4.8% over 2012. As in past years, the largest four software vendors were Microsoft, Oracle Corporation, IBM, and SAP respectively.\nThe software industry has been subject to a high degree of consolidation over the past couple of decades. Between 1995 and 2018 around 37,039 mergers and acquisitions have been announced with a total known value of US$ 1,166 bil. USD. The highest number and value of deals was set in 2000 during the high times of the dot-com bubble with 2,674 transactions valued at 105. bil. USD. In 2017, 2,547 deals were announced valued at $111 billion. Approaches to successfully acquire and integrate software companies are available. \n\nBusiness models of software companies have been widely discussed. Network effects in software ecosystems, networks of companies, and their customers are an important element in the strategy of software companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19818206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19818206", "title": "Sustainopreneurship", "text": "Sustainopreneurship\n\nSustainopreneurship (entrepreneurship and innovation for sustainability) is a concept that has emerged from the earlier concepts social entrepreneurship and ecopreneurship, via sustainability entrepreneurship. The concept means to use creative business organizing to solve problems related to sustainability to create social and environmental sustainability as a strategic objective and purpose, at the same time respecting the boundaries set in order to maintain the life support systems in the process. In other words, it is a \"business with a cause\" – where the world problems are turned into business opportunities by deployment of sustainability innovations. \n\nThe definition first introduced in a conference article in 2006:\n\n\nThe business world has been nominated as a premier force for creating a sustainable world, especially when acting as a source of innovation and creativity – e. g. as Robinson (2004:378) puts it:\n\nSustainopreneurship is a candidate to be the accentuating factor to give even more leverage to forces emerging from world of business activities to contribute to sustainability. The concept of sustainopreneurship was first introduced as a term in 2000 where it was predominantly related to the proactive change management approaches associated with process adjustment with increased respect to the environment. The phenomenon developed with publications in 2003, and further evolved and was tentatively defined in 2006 by Anders Abrahamsson. This tentative definition was empirically tested in his Master thesis, where the enactive research process confirmed that the definition stood the test contrasting it towards the auto-ethnographical empirical material. A paper to identify future research challenges was made beyond this in 2007, and developed further with a book chapter published in September 2008.\n\nIn general, the entrepreneurial discourse has opened up to move beyond a strictly economic phenomenon, rather than being perceived primarily as a social process at large. Preceding the conceptual formation were two traces of social entrepreneurship and eco-preneurship, dealing primarily with the social and ecological dimensions of sustainability. Primary associations with social entrepreneurship have also been establishing not-for-profit venturing and charities to innovatively address and solve social problems, whereas ecopreneurship has been primarily focused on solving environmental problems. See Principles of ecopreneurship.\n\nBoth these traces of conceptual development are taken beyond, merge and integrate into the suggested conceptual construct at hand, where distinctions are made from both of these concepts – sustainopreneurial processes taking place institutionally through for-profit organizing, but not with profit as its main driving force. Sustainopreneurial venturing is done in a holistic manner that meets both ecological and social challenges simultaneously with regard to both purpose and process. \n\nThe definition of sustainopreneurship needs to be highlighted by three distinguishing dimensions with all three being simultaneously present in the applied (inter)action it reflects. The first is oriented towards \"why\" – its purpose and motive. The second and third are reflecting two \"how\"-related dimensions – its process. \n\n1. Sustainopreneurship consciously sets out to find and/or create innovations to solve sustainability-related problems\n\n2. Sustainopreneurship means to get solutions to the market through creative organizing \n\n3. Sustainopreneurship in process adds sustainability value with respect for life support systems \n\nWith these dimensions clarified and distinctions made a common conceptual vagueness or lack of clarity needs to be addressed, where a strong need to distinguish clearly between sustainable, vs. \"sustainability\" entrepreneurship is identified. From this point of view, a very important distinction with the concept formed is claimed – \"sustainability\" entrepreneurship as in the concept \"sustainopreneurship; \"the use of entrepreneurial activity in a \"determined action orientation towards solving a sustainability-related problem\" with (creative) business organizing as a \"means\" to solve the problem(s) – business with a cause: to turn business activity from a part of the problem to a part of the solution.\" Sustainable\" entrepreneurship is just a generic entrepreneurial process that takes into consideration the boundaries set by sustainability, and does not address where to and why, the destination, the purpose or the aim of the venture. The strategic intent and the business idea in itself are not related to sustainability \"per se,\" sustainability just being an \"attachment\" to the entrepreneurial process. The second and third dimensions are represented, but not the first. \"Sustainability\" entrepreneurship, in contrast, takes as its root of existence and strategic aim to solve a sustainability-related problem. This means that all three dimensions are simultaneously present: to take a sustainability innovation to the market through creative organizing with respect for life-supporting systems in the process.\n\nGiven its recent date, there is a need for future research, as mentioned above. Main findings here are that conceptually, a deeper analysis is needed to be conducted with a nuanced and detailed taxonomy and framework created of sustainability innovations, the core of sustainopreneurship, primarily by cataloging and categorizing case stories. It is also needed to make a more detailed description to relate sustainopreneurship to other concepts in the wider, general idea-sphere of the \"business case of sustainability\", in the contemporary plethora of \"buzz-words\", approaches, methods and acronyms that already exists – and in this context also to motivate why this concept adds value. \n\nIt has been recommended, though, to keep the research applied, to identify obstacles and institutional barriers, and how to overcome them; i. e. facilitating factors for sustainopreneurship, researching prospective tools, enablers and approaches. Appropriate areas and domains for sustainopreneurship applied are recommended to be digested. Research methods recommended are Enactive Research and Open Space Technology, since they add instant value among stakeholders, and in themselves naturally builds arenas where sustainopreneurship evolves and proliferates. For progress, beyond these \"how\"-related pointers, the key is to single out \"the big questions\", getting answers through collaborative, collective dialogue and conversation, with an explicit interaction and results orientation. Issues and topics have been formulated and outlined, where it is of striking importance with an intention to attract authentic forces potentially hearing this call of exploring the phenomenon further, with the purpose to collapse the degrees of separation in between the stakeholders of the sustainopreneurial concept – in idea, reflective practice and applied interaction to generate collective and collaborative wisdom for a deeper understanding of the concept. An association with this purpose is in its interim stages, ÆREAS(i).\n\n"}
{"id": "13179109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13179109", "title": "TREX search engine", "text": "TREX search engine\n\nTREX is a search engine in the SAP NetWeaver integrated technology platform produced by SAP SE using columnar storage. The TREX engine is a standalone component that can be used in a range of system environments but is used primarily as an integral part of SAP products such as Enterprise Portal, Knowledge Warehouse, and Business Intelligence (BI, formerly SAP Business Information Warehouse). In SAP NetWeaver BI, the TREX engine powers the BI Accelerator, which is a plug-in appliance for enhancing the performance of online analytical processing. The name \"TREX\" stands for Text Retrieval and information EXtraction, but it is not a registered trademark of SAP and is not used in marketing collateral.\n\nTREX supports various kinds of text search, including exact search, boolean search, wildcard search, linguistic search (grammatical variants are normalized for the index search) and fuzzy search (input strings that differ by a few letters from an index term are normalized for the index search). Result sets are ranked using term frequency-inverse document frequency (tf-idf) weighting, and results can include snippets with the search terms highlighted.\n\nTREX supports text mining and classification using a vector space model. Groups of documents can be classified using query based classification, example based classification, or a combination of these plus keyword management.\n\nTREX supports structured data search not only for document metadata but also for mass business data and data in SAP Business Objects. Indexes for structured data are implemented compactly using data compression and the data can be aggregated in linear time, to enable large volumes of data to be processed entirely in memory.\n\nRecent developments include:\n\nThe first code for the engine was written in 1998 and TREX became an SAP component in 2000. The SAP NetWeaver BI Accelerator was first rolled out in 2005. As of Q1 2013, the current release of TREX is SAP NW 7.1.\n\nA security vulnerability in TREX was first identified and fixed in 2015 (see SAP Security Note 2234226). The vulnerability occurred due to lack of authentication in TREXnet, an internal communication protocol. The aforementioned patch fixed the problem by removing some critical functionality.\n\nLater on, ERPScan head of threat intelligence Mathieu Geli continued to look into the vulnerability and found that the vulnerability was still exploitable . Moreover, in case of successful attack, the vulnerability would allow a remote attacker to get full control over the server without authorization . The vulnerability has been finally patched via SAP Security Note 2419592.\n\n"}
{"id": "4142888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4142888", "title": "Telligent Systems", "text": "Telligent Systems\n\nTelligent, A Verint Company is an enterprise collaboration and community software business founded in 2004 by Rob Howard. The company changed its name to Zimbra, Inc in September 2013 after completing the acquisition of Zimbra from VMWare. In August 2015 Zimbra's Telligent business was acquired by Verint Systems, Inc. Verint continues to operate Telligent as an independent business unit. Also in August 2015 the remaining assets of Zimbra, Inc were acquired by Synacor.\n\nTelligent was founded by Rob Howard in 2004. Howard was previously a founding member of Microsoft's ASP.NET team and helped build and run the Microsoft ASP.NET community. \n\nTelligent introduced its first product, Community Server, in the fall of 2004. Community Server was an integrated community platform that brought together blogs, wikis, forums, user profiles, etc. Community Server was based on the work done by Rob Howard on the ASP.NET Forums, Jason Alexander on nGallery, and Scott Watermasysk on .Text.\n\nDell and MySpace both became Telligent customers in 2006. Dell started a blog on Telligent's platform in response to Jeff Jarvis' post about his dissatisfaction with a Dell laptop.\n\nAt the end of 2007 Telligent introduced a social analytics tool called Harvest Reporting Server.\n\nIn 2008, Intel Capital became Telligent's first capital partner.\n\nIn 2009, Patrick Brandt took over as CEO and Rob Howard became CTO. Patrick Brandt was previously CEO of Skywire Software, which was acquired by Oracle for an undisclosed amount. Telligent also re-branded its product offering as follows: Community Server became Telligent Community, Harvest Reporting Server became Telligent Analytics, and Community Server Evolution became Telligent Enterprise. Telligent also formally introduced the Telligent Evolution platform upon which Telligent Community and Telligent Enterprise were based.\n\nAs part of the company re-positioning, Telligent discontinued development and support for Graffiti CMS and made it available as an open source project. Telligent also discontinued BlogMailr, a free email-to-blog service.\n\nIn 2010 David Mitchell joined Telligent's board. David is currently CEO of Global 360 and was previously CEO of WebMethods. Telligent additionally added Wendy Gibson as Chief Marketing Officer.\n\nOn December 19, 2011, Telligent acquired Leverage Software.\n\nOn July 15, 2013, Telligent acquired Zimbra from Vmware. \n\nOn August 1, 2015, Telligent was acquired by Verint Systems, Inc.\n\nTelligent's products are built on the Microsoft .NET and Microsoft SQL Server platform. They are primarily used as on-premises, white label software solutions.\n\nTelligent Community (formerly Community Server), built on the Telligent Evolution platform, is Telligent's flagship product. It was first introduced in 2004 and the most recent version is 5.6 as of October 2010.\n\nTelligent Community is designed to support external facing communities and the primary use cases are: digital marketing, support communities, and networking.\n\nTelligent Enterprise, built on the Telligent Evolution platform, was first introduced in 2008 in response to users of Telligent Community asking Telligent to provide an employee-focused solution. Telligent Enterprise version 2.6 was released October 2010.\n\nTelligent Enterprise is designed to support enterprise 2.0 / internal communities, private business-to-business communities, and private networking communities. An emphasis on integration with enterprise email systems, such as Microsoft Exchange Server, and enterprise identity management systems, such as Microsoft Active Directory, are examples of how Telligent Enterprise differs from Telligent Community.\n\nTelligent introduced Telligent Analytics in 2007 as Harvest Reporting Server. Telligent Analytics is designed to analyze people and information created within the Telligent Evolution platform. This includes both Telligent Community and Telligent Enterprise. It additionally includes any data created on applications that run on the Telligent Evolution platform.\n\n"}
{"id": "25601529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25601529", "title": "The Dark Report", "text": "The Dark Report\n\nThe Dark Report is a website that provides business intelligence to executive leaders, pathologists, and managers in the laboratory testing industry. It is produced by the DARK Intelligence Group, Inc., a private company that was founded in 1995 with headquarters in Spicewood, Texas, United States.\n\nThe Dark Report delivers news, analysis, and commentary about the management and operation of medical laboratories, clinical laboratories, pathology laboratories, anatomic pathology groups, and pathology practices It covers developments in clinical diagnostics and molecular diagnostics. It tracks events involving in vitro diagnostics (IVD) companies, genetic testing companies, information technology companies serving the clinical lab profession, and new companies with genetic tests, companion diagnostics, and pharmacogenomics assays. Editor-In-Chief Robert L. Michel is an authority on clinical laboratory management and pathology laboratory operations.\n\nIssued every third Monday, The Dark Report has published since September 1995. It delivers assessments of the lab testing industry, for laboratory CEOs, COOs, CFOs, senior executives, and pathologists. It is a paid membership subscription service. It provides news and analysis of events in the laboratory testing industry. Members and clients of The Dark Report range from executives at laboratory companies around the world to leaders at IVD In vitro diagnostics and information technology companies.\n\nDark Daily is a national and international e-briefing service for people involved in the management of clinical laboratories and pathology laboratories. E-briefings are distributed electronically four or five times each week. It is free to any individual who subscribes at the web site http://www.darkdaily.com. Established in September 2006, the top 10 countries by number of subscribers are United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, India, Ireland, Germany, Spain, and France.\n\nA two-day gathering on clinical laboratory and pathology management, every spring the Executive War College attracts five to six hundred senior-level lab executives, administrators, pathologists, Ph.D.s, and managers from around the world. The Executive War College was founded in 1996.\n\nThis is a conference devoted to the use of Lean Six Sigma, ISO 9001, ISO 15189 and similar quality management systems in clinical laboratories, pathology laboratories, and hospitals. Lab Quality Confab attracts an international audience of laboratory professionals and pathologists. More than 60 speakers and sessions conducted over a three-day period give participant’s insights and laboratory/hospital case studies of successes with Lean and Six Sigma techniques.\n\nAt the web site for Dark Daily is a library of clinical laboratory management information and resources. This includes white papers and reports authored by industry experts about clinical laboratory management and pathology management and operations. There are audio conference transcripts and recordings, as well as streaming video of experts in clinical laboratory management and pathology operations. An archive of Dark Daily e-briefings is available, dating back to the beginning of the service in September 2006.\n\nPrincipals of The Dark Report provided consulting services to clinical laboratories, pathology groups, hospitals, health systems, and vendors to the laboratory testing industry.\n\n-The Dark Report is a co-producer and participant in international conferences in pathology and clinical laboratory management.\n\nAn annual event since 2002, Frontiers in Laboratory Medicine (FiLM) has been conducted in the United Kingdom. It is co-founded and co-produced by the Association for Clinical Biochemistry and Laboratory Medicine (ACB) and The Dark Report . FiLM has been recognized as a forum for innovation in pathology testing by progressive laboratories in the National Health Service (NHS).\n\nFor laboratory executives, senior administrators, and pathologists in Canada, Executive Edge was established in 2005. It is co-produced by QSE Consulting and The Dark Report . Conducted biannually in the fall in Toronto, Executive Edge is a resource to the pathology and clinical laboratory management profession in Canada.\n\nFirst conducted in 2007 The Business of Pathology (TBOP) takes place in Australia. It is co-produced by the Australasian Association of Clinical Biochemists (AACB) and The Dark Report . It brings together leaders in pathology and clinical laboratory testing to address issues in the management and operation of pathology laboratories in Australia and Pacific Rim countries. It takes place biannually in the fall.\n\nThe DARK Report was founded in 1995 by Publisher and Editor-In-Chief Robert L. Michel , with R. Lewis Dark as Publisher Emeritus. It is a management intelligence service for executives and leaders in the laboratory testing industry. The DARK Report gives intelligence assessment of trends and market developments in clinical diagnostics.\n\n\n1) http://www.entrepreneur.com/tradejournals/article/172182789.html \n2) http://www.frontiersinlabmedicine.com/\n3) http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m3230/is_11_39/ai_n27469265/\n4) http://www.dotmed.com/news/story/8151/\n5) http://www.phcconsulting.com/WordPress/2009/04/07/dark-report-staff-your-lab-with-top-performers-how-to-recruit-and-retain-the-best-med-techs/\n6) http://www.paml.com/News/The%20Dark%20Report%5E%5E%20PAML%20and%20MSCL%20Venture.aspx\n7) http://www.bio-medicine.org/biology-technology-1/The-Dark-Report-and-Siemens-Introduce-the-Worlds-First-Integrated-Molecular-Summit-2764-1/\n8) http://www.clpmag.com/clprime/2008-01-30_12.asp\n9) http://blog.aperio.com/2008/12/dark-report-momentum-continues-for-digital-pathology.html\n10) http://www.encyclopedia.com/doc/1G1-173921071.html\n11) http://www.medcompare.com/featuredarticle.asp?articleid=499\n12) http://www.huliq.com/48689/dark-report-and-siemens-introduce-world039s-first-integrated-molecular-summit\n13) http://www.ahti.net/dark%20interview.htm\n14) http://www.aruplab.com/AboutARUP/PressRoom/Articles_LandingPages/dark_report_weber.jsp\n15) http://www.accessmylibrary.com/coms2/summary_0286-33533919_ITM\n16) http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-173921071.html\n17) http://www.biomedexperts.com/Abstract.bme/18072682/The_Dark_Report_s_Robert_Michel_extrapolates_industry_trends\n18) http://www.darkreport.com/PDF/Medical-Laboratory-Observer-Promotes-Executive-War-College-1031.pdf\n19) http://www.darkreport.com/PDF/MLO-Robert-Michel-Laboratory-Trends.pdf\n\n"}
{"id": "12193805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12193805", "title": "Warren Bryant", "text": "Warren Bryant\n\nWarren Bryant was the CEO of Longs Drugs Store Corporation out of California prior to the retail chain's acquisition by CVS/Caremark. Hired in 2002 to Longs, he was Senior Vice President of The Kroger Company., a retail grocery chain, from 1999 to 2002. Prior to that, from 1996 to 1999, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Dillon Companies, Inc., a retail grocery chain and subsidiary of The Kroger Co. He is also a director of OfficeMax Incorporated. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "58971694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58971694", "title": "Wells Print Shop", "text": "Wells Print Shop\n\nThe Wells Print Shop was located at 27 Cuna Street in St. Augustine, Florida. It operated as part of the Historic St. Augustine Preservation Board's 18th century museum village, San Agustín Antiguo, demonstrating the colonial printmaking process.<mapframe latitude=\"29.8949\" longitude=\"-81.3152\" zoom=\"15\" width=\"250\" height=\"200\" align=\"right\">\n</mapframe>\n\nWilliam Charles Wells was born in 1757 in Charleston, South Carolina, the son of a Tory printer, publisher, and bookseller. He was formally trained as a doctor, receiving a degree in medicine from the University of Edinburgh in 1780. When the British left Charleston in 1782, William and his brother John moved to St. Augustine where they established a print shop. In St. Augustine the Wells brothers are most well known for publishing the \"East Florida Gazette\", the first newspaper in Florida. After the 1783 Treaty of Paris returned Florida to the Spanish, William Wells went to England and practiced medicine for the rest of his life. He died in London in 1817.\n\nThe Wells brothers' publication began on February 1, 1783 and lasted a little over one year, with the last issue published on March 22, 1784. London's Public Record Office only contains three issues of the newspaper, those from March 1, May 3, and May 17, 1783. The St. Augustine Historical Society resurrected the name \"East Florida Gazette\" with its newsletter, which is indexed on the Historical Society Research Library's online catalog.\n\nThe Historic St. Augustine Preservation Board reconstructed the Wells Print Shop in 1968 on Cuna Street. The original Wells printing press owned by William and John was located on Treasury Lane. The all-wooden shop was constructed using board-and-batten building method, which the British settlers in St. Augustine preferred for its quick construction and ease of repair. The building is 220 square feet. \n\nInside the print shop was a replica of the type of printing press used towards the end of the 18th century. The press was operated daily to demonstrate the printing process to visitors, but the Preservation Board also used it to make reproductions of historic St. Augustine maps and replicas of the \"East Florida Gazette,\" which were sold as souvenirs. \n\nToday the site once occupied by the Wells Print Shop operates as a jewelry store.\n \n"}
