{"id": "8899984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8899984", "title": "1953 in radio", "text": "1953 in radio\n\nThe year 1953 in radio involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "47455593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47455593", "title": "1992 in Sri Lanka", "text": "1992 in Sri Lanka\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1992 in Sri Lanka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24152482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24152482", "title": "1998 World Monuments Watch", "text": "1998 World Monuments Watch\n\nThe World Monuments Watch is a flagship advocacy program of the New York-based private non-profit organization World Monuments Fund (WMF) and American Express to call to action and challenge government authorities responsible for important cultural resources to identify sites immediately at risk, and to stimulate public awareness of the tremendous need to preserve and create sustainable uses for significant heritage made by man.\n\nEvery two years, the program publishes a select list known as the Watch List of 100 Most Endangered Sites that is in urgent need of preservation funding and protection. The sites are nominated by public authorities, local preservation groups, and qualified individuals. An independent panel of international experts then select 100 candidates from these entries to be part of the Watch List, based on the significance of the site's overall significance, the urgency of its situation, the viability of action plans to save it, and the ability of a local constituency to sustainably maintain the site in the future with the means to do so. WMF and American Express award grants to sites included on the Watch List. In addition, the leverage from the listing spurs government agencies and local donors to allocate funds and take an active role in protecting the cultural landmark.\n\nThe 1998 World Monuments Watch List of 100 Most Endangered Sites was launched on September 8, 1997, by WMF President Bonnie Burnham.\n\nThe following countries/territories have multiple sites entered on the 1998 Watch List, listed by the number of sites:\n\nA. Numbers list only meant as a guide on this article. No official reference numbers have been designated for the sites on the Watch List.<br>\nB. Names and spellings used for the sites were based on the official 1998 Watch List as published.<br>\nC. The references to the sites' locations were based on the official 1998 Watch List as published.\n"}
{"id": "56492411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56492411", "title": "Ahmarian", "text": "Ahmarian\n\nAhmarian culture was a Paleolithic archeological industry in Levant dated at 46,000-42,000 BP and thought to be related to Levantine Emiran and younger European Aurignacian cultures. Ahmarian is considered to be the likely source of first modern humans who migrated to Europe to form Aurignacian culture known as Cro-Magnons. Although European Bohunician culture that may be linked to Emiran and Ahmarian itself and dated at 48,000 BP may predate it. There is also a claim that it is roughly contemporary with the Aurignacian and the Gravettian cultures of Europe, all emerging prior to the Athlitian, which was also contemporary with the Solutrean and Magdalenian cultures of Western Europe.\n\nThe technical knowledge of the Ahmarian culture, along with the other lithic industries, is considered the likely source of the abrupt and rapid takeover of the world in all directions as evidenced by the crossing of the Bering Strait towards America. Ahmarian technology, which included the complex of blade/bladelet-knapping techniques is also linked to the tools used by the hunter-gatherers of south-western Asia. \n"}
{"id": "46566815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46566815", "title": "Annales Ceccanenses", "text": "Annales Ceccanenses\n\nThe Annales Ceccanenses, also called the Chronicon Fossae novae, is a chronicle of world history from the birth of Jesus down to 1218. It was a written in the late twelfth and early thirteenth century by an anonymous monk of Fossanova Abbey, near Ceccano. It is partially dependent on the \"Annales Cavenses\" and \"Annales Casinenses\", and contains no original material prior to the year 1120. After that it is a valuable source for the history of the Papacy.\n"}
{"id": "3759103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3759103", "title": "Anno Lucis", "text": "Anno Lucis\n\nAnno Lucis (“in the Year of Light”) is a dating system used in Masonic ceremonial or commemorative proceedings, which is equivalent to the Gregorian year plus 4000. It is similar to \"Anno Mundi\".\n\nFor example, a date Anno Domini (A.D.) becomes Anno Lucis (A.L.) 4000. This calendar era, which would designate 4001 BCE as 'year zero', was adopted in the 18th century as a simplification of the \"Anno Mundi\" era dating system used in the Hebrew calendar and borrowing from other ideas of that time regarding the year of creation.\n\nAfter the Masoretic text was published, dating creation around 4000 BC became common, and it was received with wide support. Proposed calculations of the date of creation, using the Masoretic from the 10th century to the 18th century, were numerous and fluctuated by many decades. Notably, Isaac Newton's calculation pointed at the year 4000 BC. \n\nAmong the Masoretic creation estimates or calculations for the date of creation, Archbishop Ussher's specific chronology dating the creation to 4004 BC became the most accepted and popular in Christendom, mainly because this specific date was attached to the King James Bible. The Hebrew Calendar has traditionally, since the 4th century AD by Hillel II, dated the creation to 3761 BC, in accordance with the \"Seder Olam Rabbah\" compiled by Jose ben Halafta in AD 160, and in agreement with \"The Remaining Signs of Past Centuries\", in which the Muslim chronologist al-Biruni identifies \"anno mundi\" as 3448 years before the Seleucid era but not with \"Seder Olam Zutta\", which dates it to 4339 BC and was compiled in AD 804.\n\n"}
{"id": "47977958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47977958", "title": "Antiquization", "text": "Antiquization\n\nAntiquization (Macedonian: антиквизација), sometimes also ancient Macedonism (Macedonian: антички македонизам), is a term used mainly to critically describe the identity policies conducted by the nationalist VMRO-DPMNE-led governments of the Republic of Macedonia in the period between 2006 and 2017. In the contemporary Macedonian discourse, antiquization refers to the identitarian policies based on the assumption that there is a direct link between today's ethnic Macedonians and Ancient Macedonians. The recent politics of history therefore not only embrace the recollection of the alleged ancient heritage of the Ancient Macedonians, i.e. the heritage of Philip II and his son Alexander the Great, but also seek to depict a coherent continuity of history from the ancient Kingdom of Macedon until the modern Republic of Macedonia in order to reveal the uniqueness of the modern Macedonians and their country. This continuous and supposedly linear historiography includes the assertion that the modern ethnic Macedonians are direct descendants of the Ancient Macedonians. The expression “antiquization” originates from the history of arts and describes \"the Renaissance practice of giving a city the appearance of ancient Rome or Athens through the introduction of structures organized in the classical mode\". While critics use the term \"antiquization\" in order to reveal \"a state-framed set of actions such as direct interventions in the public space and in the public sphere of society in general\", proponents of the government's politics regard the term \"antiquization\" as an invention and neologism that is used as a part of anti-Macedonian propaganda.\n\nThe narrative promoted by VMRO-DPMNE goes back to the ancient Kingdom of Macedon, continues with personalities from early Christianity, distinguished historical figures who were born in or ruled in or around Skopje and also embraces a group of freedom fighters who struggled for Macedonian independence.\n\nIn ancient times Philip II of Macedon was the first who united the Greek city-states and created the basis for the great empire which, later on, was expanded by his son, Alexander III of Macedon, also known as Alexander the Great. Alexander's empire is regarded as being important for the spread of Hellenistic culture, arts and sciences in considerable parts of Europe, Asia and northern Africa. Modern scholarly discourse has produced several hypotheses about the Macedonians' place within the Greek world, about whether the Ancient Macedonians were Greeks and whether the Ancient Macedonian language was a form of the Greek language or related to it. In parts of the available ancient literature they are described as a Greek tribe, in others the Ancient Macedonians were regarded as barbarians by the Athenians, and who were gradually Hellenized. However, there is no doubt about Philip II being the one who united most of the Greek states and Alexander the Great being a world-famous conqueror, perceived as a hero of this ancient period.\n\nIn the narrative brought forward by the VMRO-DPMNE, Alexander the Great was clearly not a Greek. According to this version of history, most of the cultural achievements which are perceived as being from Greek origin by historians and laypersons around the world are actually ethnic Macedonian achievements. Therefore, in the view of some, Hellenism’s true name would actually be Macedonianism. The Republic of Macedonia would thus be the owner of great cultural heritage, which always had been denied by the world. And as the then Prime Minister of the Republic of Macedonia Nikola Gruevski put it, it can finally present its true history that has been silenced for so long. Macedonia, in this view is seen as the cradle of European civilization.\n\nIn the modern Macedonian narrative, it is no contradiction that modern Macedonians speak the Macedonian language, a southern Slavic language. It is a considerable consensus in historical sciences that Slavic people immigrated into the Balkans and the region of Macedonia around the 6th century. From a modern Macedonian perspective, the Slavic people assimilated to the autochthonous population, who were direct descendants of the Ancient Macedonians, and intermingled with other local groups. For some reason Slavic languages remained dominant, but according to this historical narrative this cannot be understood as a clue for modern Macedonians being of Slavic descent. Rather, they are descendants from several local groups, one of which were the Ancient Macedonians.\n\nSimilar conflicts or diverging perspectives on the true course of history emerged around heroic Slavic-speaking figures from the geographic region Macedonia who fought against the rule of the Ottoman Empire, like Dame Gruev and Gotse Delchev. But did these people fight for freedom and an independent Macedonian state? Or did they fight for independence from the Ottoman Empire in order to include this area into a Greater Bulgaria? Similarly to Greece, Bulgaria and other Balkan states see Macedonia presenting supposedly Macedonian heroes, which they actually claim to be Bulgarian or respectively Greek. In the modern Macedonian narrative, these people evidently fought for an independent Macedonian state with a Macedonian nation and identity that is clearly distinctive to the Slavic Bulgarian identity. In this narrative there is little to no space for the impact of more than five hundred years of Ottoman rule in the region. And also the time under the rule of Yugoslavia is almost left out in VMRO-DPMNE's modern narrative. In the Yugoslav era, the focus was on southern Slavic brotherhood and socialism, which would obscure the supposed non-Slavic background of the Macedonian nation.\n\nStrongly promoted by VMRO-DPMNE politicians, the recollection of Macedonia's heroic past is supported by (pseudo-) scientists, media and civil society efforts. Some historians emphasize the before-mentioned historical continuity; archaeologists and linguists present evidence for the resemblance of the language of the ancient Macedonians and the modern Macedonian – a south Slavic language; genealogists offer the alleged scientific proof of the similarity of the DNS of ancient Macedonians and the DNS of the modern Macedonians, whereas the Greeks have to accept that a blood relationship with the ancient Macedonians cannot be testified.\n\nThe extensive cultural politics described by “antiquization” not only describe an identitarian narrative promoted by VMRO-DPMNE. It also supports this narrative with the renaming of important public places, the staging of public events, architectural projects and interference in public education. The former City Stadium has been renamed into “National Arena Philip II of Macedonia”. The airport of Skopje is now called “Alexander the Great”, just as one of the main motorways, which is part of the pan-European Corridor Nr. 10. A central square in Skopje bears the name “Pella Square” named after Pella, the capital of the ancient kingdom of Macedon. Moreover, traces of so-called “antiquization” can even be found in history schoolbooks. The most explicit, Macedonia's new politics of history become visible in Europe's currently most ambitious urban development project “Skopje 2014”. The numerous statues which represent supposed Macedonian heroes, the newly erected triumphal arch Porta Makedonija, the lately constructed buildings for cultural and governmental purposes in neo-Baroque and Neoclassical architecture, the renewed facades of old socialist blocks, the new and the recently redesigned bridges: It all gives the impression of a manifestation of the Macedonian identity politics being carved in stone.\n\nThe figures displayed in the project range from Alexander the Great, Justinian I (Emperor of the Roman Byzantine Empire), and Christian missionaries of the 1st millennium to revolutionary characters of the late 19th and early 20th century. According to Valentina Bozinovska, chair woman of the state commission for relations with religious communities, \"[...] the Skopje 2014 project is a statement of all that we have had from the ancient period until today. For the first time we have a chance to create a tangible manifestation of Macedonian identity. [...] Civilization practically started here\". The sum paid by the project's main investor VMRO-DPMNE, range, depending on the source, from 80 to 200 million Euros. Some critics even predict a total sum up to 500 million Euros. \n\nIn addition, new traditions are being (re-)invented in the way that Ancient Macedonian holidays are added or existing holidays expanded with Ancient Macedonian features and/or new ceremonies. Another example fitting into the antiquization narrative is based on an ethnological study in the Hunza Valley of Pakistan, situated in the Pakistani part of the Himalayas. The study revealed that people of the Burusho tribe maintain the legend of being descendants of soldiers of the army of Alexander the Great, and therefore regard Macedonia as their homeland. As a consequence, in 2008 a delegation of the Hunza royal family visited Macedonia and was “welcomed home” by the Prime Minister, the Archbishop of the Macedonian Orthodox Church, the Mayor of Skopje and a flag-waving crowd.\n\nFurther, as part of a governmental campaign, videos were broadcast that featured Alexander the Great as the liberator of African and Asian people, saying, it is not Macedonian to retreat. On another occasion the movie “Macedonian prayer” was broadcast by the state-governed national television at prime time. Being directed by a member of the Diaspora organization World Macedonian Congress, this movie claims that the Macedonians were created by God before anyone else and that they constitute the origin of the white race.\n\nAnalyses of Macedonian textbooks revealed that the recent politics of history have also influenced the knowledge taught in schools. For instance, this is demonstrated in the way the particularity of the ethnic Macedonians throughout the Middle Ages and the Roman era is delineated.\n\nMacedonian antiquization as it can be observed recently, is regarded as a rather young phenomenon that developed its full potential for political mobilization in the last years, as a substantial element of the political agenda of the ruling party VMRO-DPMNE. Yet, traces of antiquization, albeit not called like this, can be found in the past. Some see the background of antiquization in the 19th and early 20th century and the “myth of ancient descent among Orthodox Slavic speakers in Macedonia, adopted partially due to Greek cultural inputs”.\n\nImportant for endorsing such beliefs were anti-Bulgarian attempts by secular and religious Greek institutions. One of these Greek approaches was the spread of the myth of the origin from Alexander the Great and Ancient Macedonians. Greek priests and academics tried to convince the local Orthodox Slavic-speaking population that they were Macedonians, directly related to Alexander the Great, and, as a result, Greeks. The aim was to persuade these people to turn away from Slavic exertion of influence and to accept the authority of the government in Athens. In the last quarter of the 19th century in the geographic region called Macedonia, which constituted the last part of the Ottoman Empire on the Balkan Peninsula that still had not gained independence, a serious struggle emerged about the national affiliation of the Christian Slavs. However, the claims of the already independent states Bulgaria, Greece and Serbia overlapped considerably, since they all could refer to Macedonia having been part of their correspondent empire during the Middle Ages.\n\nWherever one might locate the origin of Ancient Macedonian nationhood among parts of the Orthodox Slavic speaking population: national myths inspired by antiquity did not play an important role in any of the events that Macedonian historiography regards as a milestone of present-day Macedonian state- and nationhood - above all the Ilinden Uprising and the Kruševo Republic in 1903. Michael Kubiena states that at the times of the Macedonian Struggle and the Balkan Wars, considerable parts of the local populations worried more about social and economic stability, than about “dying for nationalisms”. \"Ethnicity was as much the consequence as the cause of this unrest; revolutionary violence produced national affiliations as well as being produced by them\". Furthermore, \"there have neither been any references towards Alexander the Great or Ancient Macedonia in the iconography and the popular mythology of the interwar platforms for the Macedonian national liberation. As well, they have been absent in the partisan movement during the Second World War and were not referred to in the proclamation of the Macedonian statehood in 1944\". \n\nA narrative that comes close to the notion of Ancient Macedonian nationhood during the coming into being of a modern Macedonian state, was the idea of a United or Greater Macedonia, which was based on the estimated territory of the Ancient Kingdom of Macedon under the rule of Philip II. Early national poets used those borders in order to define a corresponding nation in their writings. The ASNOM manifesto (English: Anti-fascist Assembly for the National Liberation of Macedonia; Macedonian: Antifašističko Sobranie za Narodno Osloboduvanje na Makedonija) took reference to the “shameful partition” of Macedonia in the course of the Balkan Wars and it contained the appeal to the “Macedonians under Bulgaria and Greece” to take part in the anti-fascist fight and the struggle for Macedonian unification.\n\nUnder the rule of Josip Broz Tito in Yugoslavia, Macedonia was recognized for the first time as an individual ethnic and political entity. Yet, some regard the reason for the recognition of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia by Tito and his government as a pragmatic decision, inasmuch as the Macedonian national consciousness seemed a rather strong force, whose suppression might have been a demanding task. The notion of a Greater Macedonia was also regarded as a crucial resource for Tito's expansionist ideas. The ideal was a greater Balkan Federation through the inclusion of Bulgaria and Greece. These plans stopped when Greek and Yugoslav communists split due to the discord between Tito and Joseph Stalin.\n\nImportant for the Macedonian nation building process was the standardization of the Macedonian language, as well as the publication of a national history. For this reason the Institute for National History was founded in 1948 through a government decree. What followed was the formation and reformation of national creation myths in academic circles and institutions, spearheaded by the Institute for National History and influenced by the interplay of politics, national interests and historiography and the subsequent creation of “historical ‘Masterpieces’” in order to support the uniqueness of Macedonia. According to Stefan Troebst, concerning this matter, Macedonia has been regarded as an exception among the Yugoslavian states, since “the ideology of Yugoslavianism proclaimed in 1952 was here once again subordinated to the one of Macedonism”. \n\nIn Yugoslav times, several narratives of origin existed and the myth of Ancient Macedonian origin was incorporated in the nation building process. Nevertheless, according to Vangeli (and contrasting Troebst's view), this narrative was subordinated to the narrative of Yugoslav (i.e. South Slav) origin, which played a central role in Tito's Yugoslavian nation-building process. However, references to antiquity, for instance by means of official history books, were institutionalized already in Yugoslavian times. As Vangeli analyzes, the notion of Macedonian ancient history “[still] was taken with a reserve, and was mostly instrumentalized in the disputes with Bulgarian historiography and also as a protection from the nationalist discourse among certain Macedonians that was based on the idea of ‘returning the Bulgarian consciousness’ of Macedonians”.\n\nAlthough official institutions used the recollection of antiquity in moderate ways, Ancient Macedonian narratives were crucial for the nationalism of parts of the Macedonian Diaspora. Agnew states, that “the 1980s had seen the emergence in Yugoslav Macedonia and in the Macedonian Diaspora (particularly in Australia and Canada) of a ‘‘Macedonism’’ or Macedonian nationalism that drew exactly opposite conclusions about the ‘‘ethnicity’’ of ancient Macedonia and Alexander the Great than did Greek nationalism”. There has been evidence, that organization established by members of the Macedonian Diaspora in Australia, Canada and the United States used ancient Macedonian symbols for representation purposes already before 1980. Further it has been argued, that ethnic Macedonian refugees who fled from Greek Macedonia in the times of the Greek Civil War, were crucial for this initial development of antiquization, as the narrative of ancient descent has been regarded as credible among Greeks and ethnic Macedonians or Slavs in Greece.\n\nWhen the Republic of Macedonia declared its independence in 1991 and hence re-opened the national question, it faced criticism and denial from various sides and in various ways, which might have served as a source of inspiration for nationalistic discourses and later antiquization. While most states accepted the young state, some countries denied the independency of a Macedonian nation, the existence of a Macedonian language and the singularity of a Macedonian identity. Even nowadays, for instance, many Bulgarians, although officially recognizing the Republic of Macedonia, still regard Macedonians as ‘actually’ being Bulgarians. Another controversial subject is the autocephaly of the Macedonian Orthodox Church. In the Eastern Orthodox Church, most churches are organized on a national level. The independence of an Orthodox church is thus directly linked to a nation's recognition. However, to this day, the Serbian, Bulgarian and Greek churches do not acknowledge the Macedonian Orthodox church, which can be interpreted as calling the existence of a Macedonian nation into question. The most known conflicts with neighboring countries, which influence Macedonia's politics till the present, are the flag and name dispute with Greece. From a Macedonian perspective, the negation of a distinctive Macedonian language, history and customs seemed and seems like a fundamental challenge for their national identity. \n\nAlready shortly after the independence in 1992, official institutions gradually highlighted the ancient past more and more. The post-independence version of the official “History of the Macedonian People” dealt with the topic of the Ancient Macedonian Kingdom on 200 pages. In comparison, the edition from the year 1969 needed only 20 pages to treat the same topic.\n\nAt the same time, the flag of the Republic of Macedonia, the first public display of what later has been called antiquization, caused serious tensions with its neighboring country Greece. The new flag of the Republic of Macedonia depicted the Star of Vergina. This symbol, discovered in the 1970s, is regarded as the symbol of the Argead dynasty, the ancient royal family of the kingdom of Macedon. It is claimed by Greece to be an integral part of its cultural and historical heritage. This flag dispute went along with the infamous name dispute, since Greece also would not accept the name “Republic of Macedonia” for its neighboring country, as it feared usurpation of history as well as territorial claims from the Slavic-Macedonian side. Further, Greece rejects the term “Macedonian” for the description of the south Slavic language spoken in the Republic of Macedonia, as well as for the local population. Due to political pressure by the Greek government, which eventually led to the signing of an Interim Accord in 1995, Macedonia temporally adopted the name “The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia” for international use, removed the Star of Vergina from its flag and erased all allegedly irredentist clauses from its constitution. Macedonia also had to refrain from using symbols that constitute a part of Greece’ historic or cultural patrimony.\n\nIn the aftermath of this agreement most narratives of Ancient Macedonian descent were suspended by official institutions. Yet, the myths of Ancient Macedonian origin never totally disappeared in all political and academic circles. Similarly, the ancient past remained a substantial part of Macedonian national history in history textbooks. \n\nThe name dispute with Greece, which is still not solved, is not only a matter of political conflict, but through the construction of history and claims for heritage, this matter is advanced by scientific advocates for national causes on both sides. Étienne Balibar describes the importance of a nation's name for the national identity. The consequent contestation of the name chosen by Macedonia obviously is a cause of frustration for the Macedonian government and parts of the population. If no solution will be found, the name dispute threatens to further block Macedonia's membership in the NATO as well as its accession to the European Union. Nikola Gruevski, Macedonia's current prime minister and leader of the VMRO-DPMNE, stated that “his government and the population are not willing to tolerate ‘blackmailing’ by their Greek neighbors and perceive their request for a name-change as a threat to Macedonian identity”. Negating Macedonia's name and identity is thus perceived as negating the existence of Macedonians in general. In this manner, the name dispute plays a crucial role in the strengthening of national discourses, artistic production and serious tensions between the two major ethnic groups in Macedonia. For some ethnic Macedonians the name of the country has an existential meaning, since it is inseparably linked to their nation. For other population groups in Macedonia the country's name does not have this importance. They are rather unsatisfied that the government is not willing to concede in this matter, which would improve the foreign policy situation of the country and, hence, the country's economical opportunities.\n\nIn April 2008, Greece blocked the Accession of Macedonia to NATO with a veto at the Bucharest summit. Subsequently, in 2009, the Greek government prevented Macedonia from getting a date on part of the European Union for starting accession talks. The Accession of Macedonia to the European Union is still pending. It has been argued, that since then, antiquization has “snowballed into a wider phenomenon”. As Macedonia's president Gjorge Ivanov announced, “the Classical drive” has its roots in “the frustration and depression felt after the NATO Summit in Bucharest”.\n\nAccording to Graewert, the political elite of Macedonia enabled a peaceful secession from war-torn Yugoslavia in 1991. Ten years later they managed the relatively mild, compared to the Kosovo War, settlement of the armed conflict with the UÇK. In a regional comparison these achievements have been regarded as a best-practice model. Thus, in 2005 Macedonia was rewarded with the status of an EU candidate country. But since Greece stopped Macedonia's NATO accession in violation of the law of nations, on the one hand, the Macedonian government has surrendered to the authoritarian temptation and increasingly shown semi-autocratic tendencies, and on the other hand, the self-consciousness of the majority of ethnic Macedonians has been additionally perpetuated. The potentially upcoming EU membership had been perceived as an important step for Macedonia's economic progress. And the NATO affiliation had been regarded as a promise that violent incidents such as the 2001 conflict would not be repeated.\n\nThe fact of being excluded from these organizations despite the investments and reforms that had been undertaken, ultimately revitalized the uncertainty concerning the country's economic and security perspectives. This has strengthened the “defeatist attitude”, that, irrespective of the efforts of the Macedonian government, Greece and other opponents would always find a possibility to block Macedonia's progress. “The main engine driving nation-state building has not been Albanian-Macedonian relations, but rather the tensions with Greece over Macedonia’s name, particularly acute since the Greek veto to Macedonia’s NATO membership in 2008. The widely pursued antiquization campaign, including the megalomanic project Skopje 2014, have emphasized promoting one ethnic defined identity”.\n\nOn the other hand, it has been argued, that Greece showed vigorous reactions to the initial antiquization policies, such as the renaming of Skopje's airport in 2007, which subsequently altered Greece's attitude towards the Republic of Macedonia. In the end, the name issue and next to it the symbolic dispute about the ancient Macedonian heritage became the last obstacle on Macedonia's unsuccessful way to negotiations for full EU membership.\n\nIn the Macedonian parliamentary election, 2006, VMRO-DPMNE became the largest power in the Assembly of the Republic of Macedonia. Since the Macedonian parliamentary election, 2008, the ruling party, led by Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski, formed a coalition with the largest Albanian party, DUI (Democratic Union for Integration). It is this period after the arrival to power of the VMRO-DPMNE that is inseparably linked to antiquization, since it is the time when the myths of ancient nationhood gained new importance due to VMRO-DPMNE's devotion to nationalist and identitarian politics. It is the time when antiquization gained its full potential for political mobilization, when the “name of Alexander the Great was used to simply depict the nation’s grandeur and to nourish the people’s spirit” and when the VMRO-DPMNE “aimed to gain the loyalty of Macedonian nationalists once again” through the celebration of national mythology. It is this period, which experienced all the example of antiquization described above.\n\nThe perceptions of the identitarian and historical politics of VMRO-DPMNE in Macedonia and across the globe differ strongly. VMRO-DPMNE presents its policies and their visual manifestation as the representation of the true Macedonian history. According to this viewpoint it is not inventing but representing history as it was and rewriting a hidden history. The antiquization politics and Skopje 2014 are often represented as being conducted and facilitated by the government. This is applicable to the VMRO-DPMNE, the leading party of the government, which seeks to represent issues of the ethnic Macedonian majority of the country, but as Ulf Brunnbauer points out, the coalition partner DUI, rejects these policies.\nProponents of the government's politics of the recollection of ancient Macedonian origin and its display in Skopje 2014 argue that “it neatly offers a linear chronological overview of all things Macedonian”. In this view, Skopje 2014 is seen as an opportunity for history to neutrally speak for itself, as if the understanding and presentation of history would not be ideologically and politically disputed but rather obvious and objective. Accordingly, this (re)presentation of history is thus not influenced by VMRO-DPMNE's ideological beliefs.\n\nThe term “antiquization”, which reveals a willing recollection and re-interpretation of an alleged ancient past, is thus dismissed by government proponents as an “invented neologism in a broad anti-Macedonian conspiracy” that tries to undermine Macedonia's true historical grandeur.\n\nThe recollection of antiquity of the VMRO-DPMNE, so-called antiquization, experiences strong criticism from various directions and for various reasons. Macedonian and international civil society, scholars, oppositional politicians and neighboring countries, in particular Greece and Bulgaria, express their dislike. A lot of criticism refers to political, legal, esthetical and financial aspects concerning Skopje 2014. This article focuses mainly on criticism about the historical and political content and implications of the whole narrative referred to by “antiquization”, from which Skopje 2014 constitutes only one, but a very noticeable aspect. \n\nAmong critics, antiquization is seen as an ethno-nationalistic discourse that is built around the outstanding figure of Alexander the Great. This power-ridden hegemonic discourse is mainly imposed by the political elite and the VMRO-DPMNE and is based upon a process of rereading history. Such a process of the highly selective nationalist reading of history, the selective remembering and un-remembering of specific matters is regarded as essential for nationalist political mobilization. As mentioned above, some sections of the scientific and pseudo-scientific public increasingly fostered this process.\n\nLinked to this nationalistic discourse is the construction of a national Macedonian identity. According to Brunnbauer, the Macedonian state just starts to get engaged with a project which its neighboring countries performed already in the course of the 19th century: to design a historical myth, which is based upon the ideas of historical continuity and autochthonous origin. The aim is to “proof” or to convince Macedonians to believe in the continuity of ‘the’ Macedonian history and the direct descent of the modern ethnic Macedonians from the Ancient Macedonians. The endeavor is nothing less than drawing an uninterrupted line from the ancient Kingdom of Macedon to the present, in order to emphasize the great achievements of the Macedonian nation, its heritage and its peculiarity.\n\nFrom a nationalist Macedonian perspective, the self-portrayal as descendants of the Ancient Macedonians has the advantage of presenting the Macedonians as an autochthonous people. In this way, a claim on Macedonian territory can be substantiated. In the words of Margaret MacMillan \"History provides much of the fuel for nationalism. It creates the collective memories that help to bring the nation into being. The shared celebration of the nation’s great achievements – and the shared sorrow at its defeat – sustain and foster it. The further back the history appears to go, the more solid and enduring the nation seems – and the worthier its claims\". These claims not only contain territory. The principle of autochthonism also comprises the historical right of a nation to control certain symbols – “the older the nation is imagined, the more powerful it is, thus the more right it has to manifest its dominion”.\n\nIn the Macedonian case the government attempts to legitimize its right to the name and the remaining symbolical capital of Macedonia by means of the supposed straight link with the Ancient Kingdom. The myth of autochthony also supplies the need to distinguish ethnic Macedonians from their neighbors and ethnically differing compatriots, as it suggests that the ancestors of the Macedonians lived in this area before it was populated by the ancestors of the neighboring peoples. Balibar refers to the myth of origins and national continuity as \"an effective ideological form, in which the imaginary singularity of national formation is constructed daily, by moving back from present into history\". However, unpleasing for the Macedonians is the fact that substantial components of their myth already constitute fundamental elements of the interpretation of national history from their neighboring countries. As a consequence they experience aggressive repudiation for their claims\n\nAnother point of critique against the antiquization narrative and Skopje 2014 aims at the alleged neatly “linear chronological overview of all things Macedonian”. Maja Muhić and Aleksandar Takovski regard this claim as ironic, since they almost cannot find any correlation between the represented figures that are used to demonstrate the continuity of Macedonian national identity.\n\nA challenge for the continuity narrative and a reason for the conflicting national historical claims of the different states in the Balkans is the dynamic and changeful past of this region. A part of what is nowadays called the geographical region Macedonia, belonged to the Ancient Kingdom of Macedon. Thereafter, at various times, the term ‘Macedonia’ covered different administrative districts of the Roman Empire, the Byzantine Empire, and the Ottoman Empire. None of these districts was permanent or stable. Already in Byzantine times, Byzantine writers used the terms “Macedonia” and “Macedonians” in different, sometimes unclear and misleading ways. “The generally accepted knowledge in today’s historiography holds that for Late Antiquity, as well as for later in Byzantium, the term Macedonia/ Macedonians has a regional/provincial/geographical meaning, and certainly not an ethnic one”.\n\nIf one neglects the debate about the exact numbers, there is a rather broad consensus that during the Ottoman Empire the geographic region Macedonia was populated by Turks, Albanians, Jews, Vlachs, Greeks, Roma and other smaller groups. However, throughout the Middle Ages and up until the early 20th century the Slavic speaking majority in the Region of Macedonia were more commonly referred to (both, by themselves and outsiders) as Bulgarians. However, in pre-nationalist times, terms such as \"Bulgarian\" did not possess a strict ethno-nationalistic meaning in modern aspect. Accordingly, in the last phase of the Ottoman Empire, fierce fighting arose about the national affiliation of these people. Subsequently, at the time of the disintegration of the Ottoman Empire, Greeks, Bulgarians, and Serbs tried to include Macedonia into their states.\n\nIn the end, all occurrences, events and ruptures that took place in the geographical region of Macedonia are neither a sequence of linear developments nor the inherent property of a single nation state. Nonetheless, in the attempt to consolidate their national identity, the newly emerging states in the Balkans tried to confirm singularity by claiming historical events and figures as being exclusively their own. Even if the notion of Ancient Macedonian descent might seem explicable if one considers the name dispute with Greece and the challenges to a Macedonian identity, and also if one takes into consideration the need to gain points in the ethnic-Macedonian part of the electorate: the narrative of continuity and autochthony is not the only choice available.\n\nSeveral scholars see VMRO-DPMNE's promotion of so-called antiquization as a reaction to the stagnation of Macedonia's foreign affairs due to Greek opposition to Macedonia's efforts for EU and NATO-membership. According to this view, Gruevski's government thus prioritized its consolidation of power on the national level as well as it aims at fostering Macedonia's nation building process. Christopher Flood describes these kinds of processes in a more general manner. Therefore, political myths and grand narratives, as for example ancient Macedonian nationhood, come up as a consequence of a situation in which a society experienced some kind of trauma. Others point out that the glory of a national hero like Alexander the Great helps to overcome what has been called the ‘moral crisis of post-communism’: the situation of a country that still has to handle the burden of a complex and tiresome post-communist transition, smoldering ethnicized tensions, a weak economy and low living standards. Vangeli, therefore, summarizes that “antiquity-inspired Macedonian nationalist rhetoric has emerged as a ‘compensation for backwardness’ (Hanák) brought by the unsuccessful regime change and the incomplete consolidation of the new regime\". However, as outlined above, Greece's opposition is also motivated by Macedonia's recollection of its alleged ancient history and descent. Both countries thus enter a vicious circle if one follows the argumentation that Greece's opposition was due to Macedonia's antiquization and Macedonia's antiquization was due to Greece's opposition. \n\nStill, antiquization seems to effectively address the negative sentiments of some Macedonians and their feeling of being rejected. The notion of being descendants of a glorious and famous empire comforts some Macedonians and is used to strengthen national pride. The government's rhetoric of the glorious Macedonian past offers distinction from their neighbors, a legitimation for the national struggle and thus serves as an inspiration for political movements. At the same time the image of the celebrated past is contrasted to the image of a problematic and questionable present and in the end it is used for the mobilization of the masses.\n\nMacedonian antiquization can be described as an act of communication that aims at two directions; inward as well as outward. One aims at the inner nation building process, the other at the representation of Macedonia in the international sphere. By using names like Alexander the Great for its airports and highways, Macedonia tries to mobilize the potential of antiquity and to gain the impact of globally known and recognized names. Further, the image of antiquity is used for tourism advertisements on international television. Government-funded campaigns promote Macedonia as the ‘Cradle of Culture’ or bear the title ‘Macedonia timeless’ while presenting Macedonian archaeology and ancient heritage. In the same way, the monuments and buildings that constitute a part of Skopje 2014 are believed to help to improve Macedonia's image for international visitors and to attract tourists on a long-term basis.\n\nThe urban planning project Skopje 2014 plays an outstanding and exceptionally visible role in Macedonia's identitarian politics and virtually can be seen as an illustration of the whole process of antiquization. Hence, this ‘mass-production of tradition’ and its ‘statuomania’ also is a central object of critique. \n\nCritics regard Skopje 2014 as a nationalistic construction site, where nation building gets a new meaning. Here the government literally builds a national identity. In addition to the critique in terms of the content, the opposition's discourse harshly criticizes Skopje 2014 on several other grounds, including financial embezzlement and corruption; circumvention of local government laws, urban planning, and building permits; the non-transparent manner of planning and decision making; an unprofessional and devastating architectural concept; aesthetic kitsch; ‘cultural rape’ that demonstrates a lack of understanding of national and cultural values; and an expression of political totalitarianism. Nebosja Vilic, a professor at the Faculty of Arts in Skopje, sees the main problem of the project in the missing democratic public discussion. The sponsors of Skopje 2014, in contrast, try to avoid public debate and ideas of international as well as local experts and neglect them.\n\nA major critique is obviously the high costs of the project. While government sources talk about total costs of about 80 million Euros, critics estimate a total sum of approximately 500 million Euros. And this in times in which 30 to 40 % of Macedonia's population are unemployed. Many voices complain about such high and unfeasible costs and that the funds could have been invested differently, especially in times of a poor economic situation in Macedonia. The VMRO-DPMNE-led government has been accused of constantly prioritizing cultural policies over objective problems: in the course of a global financial crisis, the Macedonian government spends vast amounts of its state budget on the erection of statues, the construction of monumental buildings and archaeological excavations encouraged by the myths of ancient Macedonian descent instead of focusing on real problems. In this manner identity questions could also serve as a distraction. The government, on the contrary, brings forward the argument of economic benefit. It promotes Skopje 2014 as an investment encouraging the growth of the local economy, creating new jobs and acquiring extra income from newly attracted tourists.\nSome scholars consider Skopje 2014 in its role as the most visible aspect of antiquization as a spectacular turning point in regard to official narratives of Macedonian national identity, turning away from previous narratives of national identity. As described in the narrative referred to as antiquization, according to them, Skopje 2014 intends to construct an explicit narrative of Macedonian identity by manufacturing a continuity from antiquity over the Middle Ages to the time of Macedonia's struggle for nationhood, and incorporating this into Skopje's built environment. Visitors in the city centre of Skopje can observe the emergence of the sculptured picture of a nation who praises its uninterrupted history of 2500 years and its heroes, not considering whether they are being 'borrowed' from other nations, derive from shared histories or earlier, rival forms of state formation A nation who achieved fame in the past, who spread European civilization, a nation who defended its originality and independence against seemingly superior adversaries, who obtained its nationhood, a nation who is therefore meant for greater things. Skopje 2014 \"[t]hus […] fabricates an idealized, aesteticized version of Macedonian history, by selectively transforming the world of experience into a representation of an ideological tendency and by erasing others”.\n\nNoticeable is the gender specific iconography of the monuments of Skopje 2014. Besides Mother Teresa there is only one other woman represented in a central position. A nameless pregnant woman who gives birth to a child, breast-feeds it, and subsequently nurtures it. This fountain constellation is called “Mothers of Macedonia”. The represented men, however, bear names and fight for the nation. In Brunnbauer's view, this perfectly illustrates the understanding of gender roles in traditional 19th century nationalism.\n\nAt first sight it seems ironic that social scientists assert that the identitarian policies of VMRO-DPMNE and its manifestation in Skopje 2014 present disrupted narratives, since the way the past is remembered simply ignores and in its consequence deletes important parts of the history of the region. Critics point out that the remembrance of the Ottoman times is neglected, although over five hundred years of Ottoman rule and culture left its traces in the whole region. They even speak about a “de-Ottomanization” process obliterating Ottoman heritage and moving away from Islam. Also the Yugoslavian times, which had significant impact on the young Macedonian state as well, are cut out of the alleged historical continuity. For VMRO-DPMNE both periods constitute an anathema: the Ottoman rule - the so-called Turkish yoke – is regarded as the dark 500 years. The affiliation to the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is seen as the time of suppressing Macedonia's striving for autonomy. The intended cutting off of the socialist legacy again seems ironic, since it was under the guidance and as part of the SFRY that the Republic of Macedonia was constituted for the first time in the year 1944.\n\nIn Muhić and Takovskis’ view, Skopje 2014 “aims at creating a Macedonian, Orthodox Christian national identity amidst competing neighbouring agendas and the multicultural setting of the country. It does so by tearing apart, fragmenting and creating discontinuous segments of the organic tissue of the history of this region and country for the benefit of a few and the loss of the vast majority of Macedonian citizens”. Also other authors describe Skopje 2014 as a project aimed at redefining Skopje's urban character within a short time. New buildings disguise and hide the modernist constructions of the Yugoslav period as well as the Ottoman architecture of the Carcija (the old Turkish Bazaar), which have been the two most distinctive characteristics of the city. “Instead, the project promises Skopje a new image, one that will deliver Macedonia a properly “European” capital, at once attractive to outsiders and worthy of national pride”.\n\nFurther, critics claim, that the identitarian politics, by writing a mono-ethnic and mono-cultural history, not only leave out certain parts of the country's history, but that the multicultural reality of the Macedonian Republic is being ignored. Disregarding the Ottoman and Muslim heritage, emphasizing the Christian cultural imprint, focusing only on matters regarding the origin of ethnic Macedonians and ignoring the multicultural Macedonian reality, pushes the Albanian population and other minority groups such as Turks, Vlachs, Serbs and Roma to the side and signals that they are not an integral part of Macedonian history and, hence, Macedonia. Some critics describe that the multicultural approach that was elaborated in the Ohrid Framework Agreement (OFA) in 2001 and improved the conditions of the Albanian population, is now rejected due to antiquization and Skopje 2014. It has also been stated that this mono-ethnic display and interpretation of history symbolically degrades ethnic Albanians to the status they had before the 2001 agreement. This is to say that antiquization and Skopje 2014 erode the basis of the post-OFA Macedonian society, i.e. the inclusive model of representation and the recognition of cultural diversity. Leading to a re-ethnicization of multiple levels of society.\nEven Sam Vaknin, a former advisor to Prime Minister Gruevski, delineated antiquization as an anti-Albanian nation-building project, rather than being anti-Greek or anti-Bulgarian. Also other authors regard Skopje 2014 as a message in the permanent tensions between the Macedonian majority and the Albanian minority. They coincide in their view upon Skopje 2014 having an ethnic-Macedonian connotation, ignoring the ethnic plurality of the city. In Brunnbauer's view, this also serves to demonstrate the Macedonian claim to ownership of “their” capital, which they see threatened by the Albanians.\nSkopje 2014 does not offer any space for symbols of reconciliation. For instance the 2001 conflict between mainly ethnic Macedonian armed forces and the Albanian guerilla is remembered and represented only from an ethnic-Macedonian perspective. The \"strategic positioning of some of the religion-inspired statues rather appear as a provocation of the predominantly Muslim Albanian community\". The construction of a new Orthodox church on the main city square, as it had been planned and presented in the Skopje 2014 promotion video, could so far be prevented due to engaged protest.\nAntiquization and Skopje 2014 are widely perceived as causing deterioration in inter-ethnic relations. Minority groups in Macedonia oppose the one-sided ethnocentric approach of antiquization and leading Albanians have warned about the growing frustration among non-Macedonians. Furthermore, Skopje 2014 is largely regarded as blocking Macedonia's European integration process, which some observers consider as one main strategic goal of Albanian politics in Macedonia. Thus, an enduring blockade of the integration could foster ethnic conflicts. And according to Gromes, without the perspective of the accession to the European Union, the incentive disappears to further work on ethnic balancing and the implementation of the OFA. In this manner, the name dispute and the struggle about historical heritage with neighboring Greece could heavily burden Macedonian-Albanian relations. A Survey reveals that 17 percent of the ethnic Macedonians and 78 percent of the ethnic Albanians favor a change of the constitutional name “Republic of Macedonia”. Another survey indicates that 82 percent of the ethnic Macedonians prioritize the name “Republic of Macedonia” over NATO and European Union accessions.\n\nIt has been argued, that the antiquization process illustrates a situation of power imbalance and power abuse within Macedonian internal politics. It has been described that the government-led discourse attempted to silence opposing voices and by doing so risking the elimination of public space and the emergence of insuperable ideological, political and social gaps in an already unstable social and political realities. These societal fissures do not only run along ethnic lines but even disunite ethnic Macedonians for various reasons, as for instance believing in Slavic or Ancient descent or supporting VMRO-DPMNE or SDSM.\n\nThe processes in Macedonia that have been called antiquization, show, which significance the ones in power give to history as a resource for political legitimacy and mobilization. Externally, the enterprise of revising Macedonia's official history and to work on the national self-image of ethnic Macedonians has negatively influenced the dynamics of the name dispute with Greece and, hence, deteriorated the international position of the country. Simultaneously, it has fostered inter-ethnic tensions and posed serious challenges for the weak multicultural society. However, with regard to home affairs, antiquization seems to have fulfilled its purpose. VMRO-DPMNE wins elections on a regular basis, which, according to Brunnbauer do not entirely meet European standards of fairness, but still represent a realistic picture of the political preferences in the country. To the strong criticism of antiquization, the Macedonian government and its proponents replied by defending their indentitarian policies and by further fortifying antiquization.\nYet, critics warn about increasing ethnic and other social fissures and a growing fragmentation of the relatively unstable society. Again others consider a continuing blockade of Macedonia's European integration as the country's main threat, as they regard the European integration as the only option for keeping the Macedonian state together and avoiding its disintegration.\n\nSurveys from the Institute of Social Sciences and Humanities Skopje (ISSHS) on the effects of Skopje 2014 on the perceptions of the population of Skopje revealed a high degree of uncertainty regarding their national identity. In a poll asking people to choose the historical period that defines the Macedonian national identity, the breakdown of responses was as follows: Independence (from 1991) 13%; enlightenment period (19th century) 26%; the revolutionary period (beginning of the 20th century) 31%; SFRY 30%. Following the results of a supplementary national poll, carried out by ISSHS in September 2013, only 5.8% of the general population viewed antiquity as a historically and culturally defining period for Macedonia, whereas among ethnic Macedonians the result was 7.6%. “These results show that there is a great discrepancy between the population’s sentiment and the narrative the Government seeks to promote”.\n\n"}
{"id": "27573135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27573135", "title": "Association of Historians of Moldova", "text": "Association of Historians of Moldova\n\nThe Association of Historians of Moldova () is a professional association of historians in Moldova. \n\nThe Association of Historians of Moldova was formed on June 18, 1989; Pavel Parasca was the first president. \n\nSergiu Musteaţă is the president of the association. The leadership is formed by Ion Negrei, Gheorghe Postică, Anatol Petrencu, Gheorghe Palade, Gheorghe Negru, Demir Dragnev, Daniela Buga, Maria Danilov, Igor Cașu, Mihai Taşcă, Viorica Negrei, Gheorghe E. Cojocaru.\n\n"}
{"id": "50544789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50544789", "title": "Bhoja II (Paramara dynasty)", "text": "Bhoja II (Paramara dynasty)\n\nBhoja II was a 13th-century king of the Paramara dynasty in central India. He succeeded Arjuna II as the king of Dhara in Malwa region.\n\nAccording to \"Hammira Mahakavya\", written by the Jain poet Nayachandra Suri, the Chahmana ruler Hammira defeated Arjuna of Sarasapura and Bhoja of Dhara. Based on this, R. C. Majumdar concluded that Hammira must have invaded Malwa twice: once during the reign of Arjuna II, and again, during the reign of Bhoja II. Because Hammira ascended the Chauhan throne during 1282-83, Bhoja must have ascended the Paramara throne sometime after 1283 CE.\n\nPratipal Bhatia, on the other hand, speculates that Arjuna II's minister Goga-deva rebelled against him, and put Bhoja II on the throne of Dhara as a titular king. The 16th-century historian Firishta describes Goga as the \"Raja of Malwa\". According to Bhatia's theory, Goga-deva became the \"de facto\" independent ruler of one part of the Paramara kingdom, while Arjuna II continued to control another part.\n\nBhoja II was succeeded by Mahlakadeva.\n\n"}
{"id": "2769581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2769581", "title": "Comparative history", "text": "Comparative history\n\nComparative history is the comparison of different societies which existed during the same time period or shared similar cultural conditions.\n\nThe comparative history of societies emerged as an important specialty among intellectuals in the Enlightenment in the 18th century, as typified by Montesquieu, Voltaire, Adam Smith, and others. Sociologists and economists in the 19th century often explored comparative history, as exemplified by Alexis de Tocqueville, Karl Marx, and Max Weber.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century, a large reading public followed the comparative histories of (German) Oswald Spengler, (Russian-American) Pitirim Sorokin, and (British) Arnold J. Toynbee. Since the 1950s, however, comparative history has faded from the public view, and is now the domain of specialized scholars working independently.\n\nBesides the people mentioned above, recent exemplars of comparative history include American historians Herbert E. Bolton and Carroll Quigley, and British historian Geoffrey Barraclough. Several sociologists are also prominent in this field, including Barrington Moore, S. N. Eisenstadt, Seymour Martin Lipset, Charles Tilly, and Michael Mann.\n\nHistorians generally accept the comparison of particular institutions (banking, women's rights, ethnic identities) in different societies, but since the hostile reaction to Toynbee in the 1950s, generally do not pay much attention to sweeping comparative studies that cover wide swaths of the world over many centuries.\n\nMain article: Comparative studies of the Roman and Han empires\n\nThe ancient Chinese and Roman Empires are often compared due to their synchronous and analogous developments from warring states into universal empires.\n\nAtlantic history studies the Atlantic World in the early modern period. It is premised on the idea that, following the rise of sustained European contact with the New World in the 16th century, the continents that bordered the Atlantic Ocean—the Americas, Europe, and Africa—constituted a regional system or common sphere of economic and cultural exchange that can be studied as a totality.\n\nIts theme is the complex interaction between Europe (especially Britain and France) and the New World colonies. It encompasses a wide range of demographic, social, economic, political, legal, military, intellectual and religious topics treated in comparative fashion by looking at both sides of the Atlantic. Religious revivals characterized Britain and Germany, as well as the First Great Awakening in the American colonies. Migration and race/slavery have been important topics.\n\nAlthough a relatively new field, it has stimulated numerous studies of comparative history especially regarding ideas, colonialism, slavery, economic history, and political revolutions in the 18th century in North and South America, Europe and Africa.\n\nBeginning with German and French sociologists of the late 19th century, modernization models have been developed to show the sequence of transitions from traditional to modern societies, and indeed to postmodern societies. This research flourished especially in the 1960s, with Princeton University setting up seminars that compared the modernization process in China, Japan, Russia and other nations.\n\nModernization theory and history have been explicitly used as guides for countries eager to develop rapidly, such as China. Indeed, modernization has been proposed as the most useful framework for world history in China, because as one of the developing countries that started late, \"China's modernization has to be based on the experiences and lessons of other countries.\"\n\nThe field of comparative history often overlaps with the subdivision of political science known as comparative politics. This includes \"transnational\" history and sometimes also international history.\n\nMordechai Zaken compared two non-Muslim minorities in Kurdistan, the Jews and the Assyrian Christians in their relationships with their Muslim rulers and tribal chieftains during the 19th and 20th centuries. His comparative study gave a much clearer picture on the status of the minorities and their relationships with the ruling elites in and around Kurdistan. His PhD dissertation and the book upon which it was based have been widely spread and translated into the local languages in Kurdistan and the surrounding.\n\nMilitary historians have often compared the organization, tactical and strategic ideas, leadership, and national support of the militaries of different nations.\n\nHistorians have emphasized the need to stretch beyond battles and generals to do more comparative analysis.\n\nThe study of slavery in comparative perspective, ranging from the ancient world to the 19th century, has attracted numerous historians since the 1960s.\n\nMuch of economic history in recent years has been done by model-building economists who show occasional interest in comparative data analysis. Considerable work has been done by historians on the \"Great Divergence\" debate launched by Kenneth Pomeranz in 2009. At issue is why Europe moved forward rapidly after 1700 well Asia did not. More traditional research methodologies have been combined with econometrics, for example in the comparison of merchant guilds in Europe.\n\nSince the work of Sorokin, scholars in comparative history, especially if sociologists and political scientists, have often used quantitative and statistical data to compare multiple societies on multiple dimensions. There have been some efforts made to build mathematical dynamic models, but these have not come into the mainstream comparative history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53114151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53114151", "title": "Computational history", "text": "Computational history\n\nComputational history (not to be confused with computation history) is a multidisciplinary field that studies history through machine learning and other data-driven, computational approaches.\n"}
{"id": "38674164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38674164", "title": "Conjectural history", "text": "Conjectural history\n\nConjectural history is a type of historiography isolated in the 1790s by Dugald Stewart, who termed it \"theoretical or conjectural history\", as prevalent in the historians and early social scientists of the Scottish Enlightenment. As Stewart saw it, such history makes space for speculation about causes of events, by postulating natural causes that could have had such an effect. His concept was to be identified closely with the French terminology \"histoire raisonnée\", and the usage of \"natural history\" by David Hume in his work \"The Natural History of Religion\". It was related to \"philosophical history\", a broader-based kind of historical theorising, but concentrated on the early history of man in a type of rational reconstruction that had little contact with evidence.\n\nSuch conjectural history was the antithesis of the narrative history being written at the time by Edward Gibbon and William Robertson. Stewart defended it as more universal in its application to humankind, even at the cost of detailed documentation. It was not concerned with the political narrative and public life, but saw itself as an investigative \"moral science\". General philosophical history was somewhat closer to narrative history than conjectural history could be, with its reliance in part on tenuous arguments on the nature of feudalism and early ethnographical reports from European travellers. For Stewart the \"Dissertation on the Origin of Languages\" by Adam Smith was an important example. To justify the procedures of conjectural history, there needed to be an assumption of the uniformity of human nature, or as Stewart put it, the \"capacities of the human mind\".\n\nConjectural history has been identified as \"the core of a theory\" of progress within Scottish philosophical history of the period. Pocock writes that Scottish conjectural history was \"of considerable importance to Gibbon and the creation of philosophical historiography\". By the 1780s there were European historians of culture who worked in a different way, preferring an inductive method to the pure deductions of conjectural history. In the later development of anthropology and archaeology, opposition to the whole \"conjectural history\" tradition led to the development of culture history.\n\nThere was nothing new in the idea of stages of society on its own, but social thinking itself was changing in Early Modern Europe, particularly on civil society in its components, civility and \"society\".\n\nHodgen comments, in a chapter \"From Hierarchy to History\", on the widespread use of \"conjectural series\" for historical explanation in the Early Modern period. The great chain of being was a static idea. \"Stage series\" had roots in classical thought, but might be associated with cyclic models, or incorporate ideas of decline with those of progress. She writes that in time\n\n... it seems certain that hierarchical ideas, temporalized to suit the needs of the conjectural historian of culture, were mixed with historical assumptions concerning the savage as a conjectural first member of these conjectural series. \n\nWhile the \"Natural History\" of Pliny the Elder was a classical Roman encyclopedic work, \"natural history\" had several different meanings in the Early Modern period. The one relevant in this article is the Baconian natural history, i.e. a systematic collection of observable information on natural phenomena. A natural history did not belong to natural philosophy, which was theoretical.\n\nThe \"histoire raisonnée\" was a genre of historical writing developed in France in the 17th century, with concerns for the individual in social context, and the description of culture and customs as integral to history. It grew out of humanist historiography with its close relationship to classical Roman and Greek models, but brought to the surface social matters, in particular as they could explain the motivations of individuals. With Géraud de Cordemoy there came an interest in causality as playing a part in historical movement, as distinct from the humanist acceptance of personal fates being subject to Fortune.\n\nContemporary terminology is stadial history, or in other words the discussion of stages of society by theoretical means (see sociocultural evolution#Stadial theory). Stadial theory as an innovation is attributed to the jurist Samuel Pufendorf. Grotius had already used conjectural history to discuss Aquinas on private property.\n\nSome basic conjectural history on human civilization was therefore discussed in the 17th century. Later Jean-Jacques Rousseau rejected the concept of the state of nature, and with Count Buffon debated the rise of civilization. The Scottish contribution then took the theory to a new level, with its anthropocentrism and detailed explanations of human manipulation of nature. It laid emphasis on a typical society at its beginnings, regarding evidence from contemporary reports (particularly of Native Americans) as valid.\n\nAdam Smith in lectures on rhetoric, given from 1748, advanced a speculative history of language; he wrote that he had been prompted by a 1747 work of Gabriel Girard. He was then interested in our awareness of literary style. This is the example that Dugald Stewart took up in coining the phrase \"conjectural history\". Elements would have been recognised at the time as drawing on the Bible, and in classical literature Lucretius; it is now considered Smith was influenced by Montesquieu on law and government. The theory on language and its typology over time has been seen as typical of Smith's historical approach; and even the foundation of his later well-known work on political economy. Caveats have also been entered, by David Raphael: it cannot be stretched to Smith's history of astronomy; and the term can be seen as a misnomer.\n\nMonboddo, on the other hand, wrote at length a conjectural history of language because he emphasised the history of manners. William Warburton had proposed a stadial conjectural history of writing in his \"Divine Legation of Moses\", a work supporting biblical authority, around 1740. It was taken up in France after the translation in \"Essai sur les hiéroglyphes des Égyptiens\". Where writing moved from pictograms to alphabets, he saw language use as having moved analogously from gestures to forms and figures of speech.\n\nThe term \"conjectural history\" was not generally accepted in Stewart's time. There was an orthodox four stages theory of society, the stages being:\n\n\nThis ladder-like ordering was taken to be a strict, linear progression, or unilineal evolution. Some economic determinism applied, in the sense that the baseline of subsistence was assumed to have a serious effect on social matters. The stages were supposed to represent progress on a moral level, as well as that of economic complexity. French as well as Scottish Enlightenment writers subscribed to such a pattern.\n\nThe invention of this type of theory (three or four stages) is attributed to a number of European writers from the 1750s onwards, such as Adam Smith, Turgot and Vico. In the Scottish context it appears in works from 1758 by David Dalrymple and Lord Kames; it has been argued that their source was the Edinburgh lectures of Smith on jurisprudence. In France it was published at much the same time, also, by Claude Pierre Goujet, Claude Adrien Helvétius, and François Quesnay. Smith's \"natural progress of opulence\" is a closely related theory.\n\nBesides Adam Smith, prominent Scottish authors in the field of conjectural history included Adam Ferguson, David Hume, Lord Kames, John Millar, and Lord Monboddo, writing from the later 1750s to later 1770s. Smith, Kames and Millar were content to adhere to the four stage theory. Monboddo's stadial history was more complex, and very much more controversial. He included primates and feral children as material. Robertson in his \"History of America\" moves between narrative and conjectural history.\n\nFerguson in this work attempted a rigorous identification of the hunter stage with the so-called barbarian or savage, and was very alive to the whole scheme as full of tensions within human possibility. He argued against the foundation story in the style of classical history, proposing instead that unintended consequences could have more to do with the \"establishment\" of a society than a self-conscious law-giver.\n\nMillar argued in terms of a \"system of manners\" associated with each of the four stages. He also discussed the advance of freedom, and denounced slavery. As property became more complex, it followed that government did so also. Poovey states that this work makes apparent the relationship of conjectural history with the experimental moral philosophy of Thomas Reid and George Turnbull.\n\nKames has been called the leader of Scottish conjectural history, and had objections he expressed in correspondence to both Rousseau and the approach of Montesquieu, as reducing the role of human nature, which he thought was not a constant but the goal of the investigation. The connection was that conjectural history was to be used as a framework of a discussion of natural law. In writing to Basel in search of a suitable opponent to Rousseau, Kames prompted a work from Isaak Iselin, \"Ueber die Geschichte der Menschheit\" (1764), which is also a conjectural history.\n\nThe \"Sketches\" was a collection of essays on social, cultural and political topics. In it the author collected some ethnographic and miscellaneous information, assembling in particular a long chapter intended as a \"history of women\". There was a second edition (Edinburgh, 1778) and a third (Dublin, 1779). Kames was an early polygenist, or was an environmental monogenist only with scepticism about the adequacy of the theory. In any case he argued that his approach could be reconciled with the scriptural ethnography, via the story of the Tower of Babel. While he stated that he had collected materials for a history for 30 years, Kames's work as written up was unsystematic, even rambling. His scheme of conjectural history includes the idea that the providential order allows the historian to write in the absence of a full factual basis. A German translation by Anton Ernst Klausing appeared as \"Versuche über die Geschichte des Menschen\" from 1774.\n\nMainstream conjectural and philosophical history, in the Scottish style, hardly survived as a living tradition into the 1790s. Works went out of print; younger authors such as John Adams, William Alexander and John Logan failed to renew the ideas, with Alexander's \"History of Women\" (1779) being criticised as shallow. Dugald Stewart's formulation of conjectural history was published in 1794, in his \"Account\" of Adam Smith for the \"Transactions\" of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. The question has been raised as to Stewart's intention then in describing the tradition in that way, and John Burrow has argued that he wished to dissociate Smith from political radicalism.\n\nWhere stadial theory appeared in later authors, the original thrust was distorted. Hopfl has said that the heirs were James Mill, John Stuart Mill, and Auguste Comte. Hawthorne writes instead of the historical/sociological insights of the Scots being lost in the British context, despite the \"tension between a 'natural' account of civil society and a developing sense of the factual importance and moral difficulties of individualism\" having become apparent, to utilitarianism and vaguer evolutionism.\n\nThe \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", in its second edition but particularly in its third edition (1797), attacked the premises of conjectural history from a biblical angle. In the second edition James Tytler opposed the polygenist approach of Kames. The third edition, under the editorship of George Gleig, featured \"Savage\" as a new topic, and expanded articles \"Society\" and \"Moral philosophy\". Cross-referenced to theological and biblical topics, and to articles by David Doig who had answered Kames with \"Two Letters on the Savage State\" from 1775/6, these articles in particular argued the orthodox Christian case. Robert Heron contributed to the article \"Society\", and took aim at the four stages theory, claiming polygenism followed from it (in contradiction to the Bible). Further, the assumption of a baseline state of savagery also seemed to Heron to be implicated with polygenism; and he with Doig attacked the assumption as echoing Lucretius and Democritus, and godless materialist spontaneous generation of humankind, implicit in the whole idea of conjectural history. The articles on \"Beauty\" and \"Love\" were also changed to remove the influence of Kames, as part of the consistent assertion of scriptural monogenism.\n\nConjectural argument had a bad name in 18th century British antiquarian circles. An austere and sceptical approach centred on facts, as adopted by Richard Gough and James Douglas, was favoured in the second half of the century. On the other hand, the interpretations of the stadial theory were quite welcome, and while popularised by the Scottish school, did not seem innovative in the sense of a break with Early Modern historiography, and concerns with natural law and civic humanism. The urban history of John Trussel was a precursor. The discussion of the breakdown of the feudal system was a topic of considerable antiquarian interest. The stadial history was embraced by Thomas Pownall.\n\nCharles Athanase Walckenaer in 1798 took up the four stage theory, augmented to five stages, by dividing \"hunting\" into \"gathering\" followed by a pure hunting stage. This was an effort to classify peoples of the world by development. Early anthropology carried into the 19th century assumptions about the search for origins of civilisation, and unilineal evolution, as appropriate tools for investigating societies. It was widely assumed, further, that current \"peoples\" were a window into the past. These approaches were seen in Lewis Henry Morgan. Eventually, in the 20th century, field work and structural functionalism led to a rejection of the whole paradigm.\n\n"}
{"id": "22954182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22954182", "title": "Crippen Point site", "text": "Crippen Point site\n\nThe Crippen Point site is a Coles Creek culture archaeological site located in Sharkey County, Mississippi. It is the archaeological type site of the Crippen Point phase(1050 to 1200 CE) for Late Coles Creek culture in the Lower Mississippi valley. The phase marks a significant change in the cultural history of the area. Population increased dramatically and there is strong evidence of a growing cultural and political complexity by this portion of the Coles Creek sequence. Although many of the classic traits of chiefdom societies are not yet manifested, by 1000 CE the formation of simple elite polities had begun. Sites for this phase are found in Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Mississippi, and Texas. After the Crippen Point phase the Plaquemine culture period begins.\n\n"}
{"id": "12021113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12021113", "title": "Critical Path (book)", "text": "Critical Path (book)\n\nCritical Path is a book written by US author and inventor R. Buckminster Fuller with the assistance of Kiyoshi Kuromiya. First published in 1981, it is alongside \"Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth\" one of Fuller's best-known works. Vast in its scope, it describes Fuller's own vision of the development of human civilization, economic history, and his highly original economic ideology based, amongst other things, on his detailed description of why scarcity of resources need no longer be a decisive factor in global politics.\n\nThe following is a list of the main claims and opinions presented in the book, reported without discussion or criticism.\n\nThe first part of the book explains the history and present state of the global economy.\n\nHuman life began in the atolls of the South Pacific, where the average sea temperature is closest to that of the human body (p. 6). Rather than evolving from simpler organisms, humanity was of extraterrestrial origin and other organisms evolved from us (p. 7). From this base, humanity developed boat-building in Southeast Asia and colonised the rest of the planet (p. 15). There is evidence that the Bronze Age began in Southeast Asia (p. 17). Fuller's Dymaxion World Map is used to show the distribution of humanity over the Earth's surface. Over half the population lives in the regions watered by the Himalayan glaciers (p. 20).\n\nOur knowledge of the spherical shape of the Earth is central to our understanding of ecology (p. 34). This knowledge probably originated in prehistoric times, was certainly known to the Ancient Greeks, but was then suppressed for centuries by organised religion because it was incompatible with the official story of a Heaven above and a Hell below (p. 43). There has been an evolution of religious ideas from those of the Egyptian pyramid-builders, whose ambition was to deliver a single individual, the pharaoh, into the afterlife, to the modern belief that everybody has a right to enjoy life on Earth (p. 51).\n\nHuman history has been shaped by the continual growth and success of greed. City-states were the first institutions to make organised use of extortion (p. 68). This was then followed by the growth of international trade, which appropriates the wealth of the planet for its own ends. Corruption in the form of \"lawyer-capitalism\" has led the U.S.A. to become effectively bankrupt (p. 114). Government subsidies given to corporations amount to socialism (p. 101).\nFuller's diary, the \"Chronofile\", is intended to show how much a single human being with little money can do to influence world affairs (p. 128). The mechanical principle of precession is used as a metaphor for the ability of a person to influence the world by applying pressure in an unconventional direction (p. 144). Fuller's religious beliefs are explained (p. 151).\n\nFuller observed that when he did things for the benefit of others, it had a positive effect on his life, but when he did things merely for his personal benefit, the outcome was negative. This eventually led him to the proposition that if he dedicated his life to the betterment of humanity, he would achieve the greatest positive outcome. So he decided to live his entire life as an experiment to prove or disprove this proposition. He writes (p. 145):\n\nThe Geoscope is a large-scale, animated globe of the Earth intended to help people visualise the spatial and temporal patterns of human activity, either in real time or replayed at different speeds. If the human mind is presented with all of this information at once, it should be able to use its visual pattern-detecting abilities to solve complex problems such as weather-forecasting, resource conflicts, and wars (p. 183). Data for the Geoscope can come from the world maps produced by the USA, using radio triangulation, during and after World War II (p. 184). Geodesic domes will be built to enclose entire cities (p. 179). Afghanistan was the heartland of the Cold War world, as it gave the USSR the potential of a route through Iran to the Indian Ocean (p. 194).\n\nThe World Game is a simulation of global economic activity. Computers can be used to calculate the optimal answer to any economic, technological or social question. The computers will tell us that the true cost to the environment of using fossil fuels is prohibitive, and renewable energy should be used instead. The true energy cost of a gallon of gasoline is more than one million (1980) US dollars. The amount of scrap metals in circulation means that no more mining is necessary (p. 205). A global electrical supply grid will enable more efficient use of energy, and make intermittent renewable energy more practical (p. 202).\n\nThis part of the book explains Fuller's plan to set humanity on the path to a sustainable existence with no need to fight over resources.\n\nEducation is key to improving humanity's living conditions (p. 232). The USSR tried to destabilise the US education system by inciting its students to riot (p. 236). The Apollo Project had a critical path of two million tasks, one million of which required new technological solutions (p. 248). Fuller has applied a similar project-planning approach to the saving of humanity, and has created a list of critical-path items (p. 248).\n\nUnlike the Apollo Project, the critical-path items in the project to save humanity can all be accomplished with existing technologies (p. 253). A global video education system must be developed (p. 265).\nCorn is wasted in generating unnecessarily fatty but more profitable beef (p. 272). \nIn Los Angeles, private-incinerator and later car-pollution laws were passed to shift the blame for smog from industry to citizens (p. 279). \n\nIn 1929 the USSR used its gold wealth relative to the USA's poverty to pay United States industry to set up industries in USSR, in USSR's first three 5-year plans (p. 289).\n\nThe first task in humanity's critical path is to build a global electricity grid (p. 309). The second task is to provide movable dwellings for all - city-sized and family-sized domes (p. 310). Fuller has the following designs ready for production: the Fly's Eye Dome (p. 311); Old Man River's City project, East St. Louis (p. 315); Raleigh cotton mill (p. 325); Growth House - sustainable greenhouse (p. 329); O-Volving shelves (p. 331); tetrahedral floating city (p. 333); Cloud Nines - spherical floating cities (p. 336); 8,000-foot Tokyo Tower (p. 338); containerised passenger air travel (p. 340).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5437852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5437852", "title": "Dalitstan.org", "text": "Dalitstan.org\n\nDalitstan.org was a Dalit advocacy website active until mid-2006, one of 18 websites that were blocked by the Indian government following the 11 July 2006 Mumbai train bombings.\n\nThe website claimed to be run by Dalitstan, a \"Human Rights Organization working for the Upliftment of Dalits, the Untouchables of India\". Note that -stan is a suffix for \"place of\" or \"country\", appearing in many place names throughout Central and South Asia. Dalitstan would mean \"place or country of the Dalits\".\n\nThe website claimed that the Dalits were the original people of India who created the Harappan civilization, and described the Brahmins as the descendants of the Aryan invaders who enslaved them.\n\nDibyesh Anand of the University of Westminster described Dalitstan.org as a Dalit nationalist group that also acted as a forum for anti-India Christian and Muslim advocacy.\n\nDalitistan.org was among the 18 websites that were blocked in India by the Ministry of Telecommunications of the Government in July 2006, in a bid to check terror and hate messages on the Internet following the 11 July 2006 Mumbai train bombings.\n\nThe website was launched in 1999, with the domain registered by Helen Heklund, with an address in Granbury, Texas. The website was taken down sometime after May 2006. The domain registration lapsed, and was subsequently purchased by an unrelated party.\n\n"}
{"id": "48290414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48290414", "title": "Diyarbakır Fortress", "text": "Diyarbakır Fortress\n\nDiyarbakır Fortress, is a historical fortress in Sur, Diyarbakır, Turkey. It consists of an inner fortress and an outer fortress. \n\nThe main gates of the fortress are: Dağ (Mountain) Gate, Urfa Gate, Mardin Gate and Yeni (New) Gate. The walls come from the old Roman city of Amida and were constructed in their present form in the mid-fourth century AD by the emperor Constantius II. They are the widest and longest complete defensive walls in the world after only the Great Wall of China (the Theodosian Walls for example are longer in length, but are not continuous)\n\nUNESCO added the building to their tentative list on 2000, and listed it as a World Heritage Site in 2015 along with Hevsel Gardens.\n\nThough the walls and fortress itself were once compared to the Great Wall of China, this started to change as wars broke out during 2015(&Al-monitor); walls from the fortress collapsed, along with a mosque, two churches, and the homes of many civilians, forcing some sections to be abandoned.\n\nAs the war continued, the government of Turkey and UNESCO jointly began a reconstruction and preservation effort, intending to complete it within two years, starting with the demolition of part of the city. Historic sites were spared, and in June 2015, UNESCO added the fortress and Hensel Gardens Cultural Landscape to UNESCO's World Heritage List. UNESCO's main focus was to protect the environment of the land itself, more than the heritage of the land. And the Prime Minister himself also spoke of plans to reconstruct the city walls as a great tourist attraction intended to resemble Paris; this provoked considerable controversy in Diyarbakir, with some locals arguing that they would lose their ancient culture heritage.\n\nDiyarbakir fortress is constructed with stone, black basalt, and adobe, and has gone through countless renovations; the basalt fortifications are exceptionally durable, one reason why the structure has remained relatively intact for over 2000 years. Diyarbakir fortress is among the best surviving examples of a castle or fort built with a natural feature like a cliffside or body of water on one side as a boundary. The walls have a symbolic function as well as a defensive purpose, with inscriptions on the inner city's walls (the fort) that testify to the city of Diyarbakir's history.\n\nToday, Diyarbakir Fortress can be divided into two categories, the bailey and the citadel. In the northeast, the citadel contains the first settlement inside Diyarbakir, and those walls stretch 598 meters long. The bailey houses a tower and the city walls, surrounding the much more urban walled city region of Diyarbakir. Most of these walls are constructed with traditional masonry and construction styles; the towers consist of 2-4 floors and are 4.4 meters thick on the ground floor and get thinner on higher floors.\n\nThe castle plans reveal the dominance of two different building forms, circular and tetragonal. The walls were divided into five groups, four of which contained the towers around the four main gates, while the fifth contained the citadel towers. It has been found that 65 of the original 82 towers still remain on the outside of the city's walls and 18 of the citadel's towers remain today. Due to cultural differences, the fort has undergone some modifications. The fort was reconstructed, repaired and or heightened over time. However, the overall typology has remained constant in the fort's renovations.\n\nDiyarbakir fortress was first built in 297 AD by Romans under the order of Constantius II. Over the next 1500+ years, these walls were expanded and fortified using volcanic rock from the surrounding region. There are four main gates and 82 watch towers on the walls. The Diyarbakir city walls have an ancient history dating back to the Romans. The towers at Diyarbakir were mainly built by the Romans and later reconstructed by the Ottomans when they took over the city in the 15th and 16th centuries. During the defeat of the Safavids at Diyarbakir, the Ottomans destroyed the walls with the use of cannons and therefore had to be rebuilt. Today, the walls are largely intact, and form a ring around the old city that is over 3 miles in circumference. The walls are over 33 feet high and are about 10-16 feet thick. They are the widest and longest complete defensive walls in the world after only the Great Wall of China.\n\nDiyarbakir Fortress was built, used, and rebuilt during the Roman and Ottoman periods, including the Diyarbakir city walls that measure up to 53 meters long. There are both inner and outer walls; the site also has several gates and towers. Included on the walls are about 63 inscriptions from various historical periods including remains from the Hurrians, Medes, Romans, Sassanians, Byzantines, Marwanids (Kurds), Ayyubids (Kurds), and Ottomans. The city is considered to be a “multi-cultural, multi-lingual, and multi-culture character\" Recently, the war between the Turkish army and Kurdish guerillas has resulted in damage to the fortress and surrounding monuments, disrupting government plans to conserve the historical fortress in hopes of attracting tourists to the Diyarbakir cultural area. About one-third of the historic Old Town was deliberaitely destroyed by the Turkish state after the clashes ended, damaging the ancient city irreversibly.\n\n"}
{"id": "24392977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24392977", "title": "Fatima massacre", "text": "Fatima massacre\n\nThe Fatima massacre refers to an incident in Fátima, Buenos Aires, Argentina, where 30 prisoners were illegally detained, drugged and shot. Afterwards, their bodies were then dynamited, on August 20, 1976.\n\nShortly after four o'clock on the morning of August 20, a loud explosion woke inhabitants of Fatima. Workers at a nearby brick foundry arrived on scene and claimed they had found human remains scattered over an area of one hundred yards, presumably a result of the explosion. Almost immediately the area was fenced by soldiers. Photojournalists who had taken photos were kidnapped. The soldiers and civilian staff collected the body parts and loaded them onto a truck of the Municipality of Pilar.\n\nAccording to the police, the victims were thirty people, ten women and twenty men, including some teenagers. Only five could be identified at the time. The bodies of the unidentified victims were buried in Derqui Pte Cemetery, where they were exhumed years later for identification.\n\nThe Argentine Forensic Anthropology Team was able to identify eleven more victims. One of the first was Susana Pedrini of Bronzel, after whom they named a street in the center of Pilar, specifically in the square near the water tank..\n\nHalf of the victims could be identified by family and friends through the work of the Argentine Forensic Anthropology Team.\n\nOn July 11, 2008, two former Argentine police officers were sentenced to life in prison for their role in the killings.\n"}
{"id": "58523612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58523612", "title": "Ghazni Minarets", "text": "Ghazni Minarets\n\nGhazni Minarets are two elaborately decorated minaret towers located in Ghazni city, central Afghanistan. They were built in middle of the twelfth century and are the only surviving elements of the mosque of Bahram Shah. The two minarets are 600 meters (1968 feet) apart and lie in an open plain, east of Ghazni city. \n\nBoth minarets of Ghazni are 20 metres (66 feet) tall and built of fired mud brick. The surface of the towers are decorated beautifully with intricate geometric patterns and Qurunic verses on elaborate terracotta tiles. In 1960's, both towers were fitted with sheet metal roofs in a limited preservation effort.\n\nThe 12th century minarets are the most famous monuments of Ghazni city and are among the last surviving remnants of the great Ghaznavid Empire. The two minarets are called, Mas'ud III Minaret and Bahram Shah Minaret after the ruler who built them, Masud III (A.D. 1099-1115) and Bahram Shah (A.D. 1118-1157). The excavated palace of Mas'ud III lies nearby to the towers.\n\nThe minarets were taller before the upper sections were damaged and destroyed over time. Part of the Masud III minaret top was destroyed in an earthquake in 1902. \n\nGhazni Minarets are not well preserved or protected. Both towers are in danger from natural elements and the political instability in Afghanistan. There is no basic security measures in place to prevent vandalism and the towers are in need of new roofing to prevent water infiltration into the towers. \n\nThe towers surface intricate geometric patterns and Quranic inscriptions are deteriorating rapidly with exposure to rain and snow. They are further affected by the nearby road and the area is subject to periodic flooding. \n\n"}
{"id": "26092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26092", "title": "Historical negationism", "text": "Historical negationism\n\nHistorical negationism or denialism is an illegitimate distortion of the historical record. It is often imprecisely or intentionally incorrectly referred to as \"historical revisionism\", but that term also denotes a legitimate academic pursuit of re-interpretation of the historical record and questioning the accepted views.\n\nIn attempting to revise the past, illegitimate historical revisionism may use techniques inadmissible in proper historical discourse, such as presenting known forged documents as genuine; inventing ingenious but implausible reasons for distrusting genuine documents; attributing conclusions to books and sources that report the opposite; manipulating statistical series to support the given point of view; and deliberately mis-translating texts (in languages other than the revisionist's).\n\nSome countries, such as Germany, have criminalised the negationist revision of certain historical events, while others take a more cautious position for various reasons, such as protection of free speech; still others mandate negationist views.\n\nNotable examples of negationism include Holocaust denial, Armenian Genocide denial, Japanese war crime denial and the denial of Soviet crimes such as the Holodomor, invasion of Poland, the Katyn massacre, and the forced deporations of Poles, Romanians/Moldovans, Lithuanians, Ukrainians, Tatars etc. \n\nIn literature, the consequences of historical negationism have been imaginatively depicted in some works of fiction, such as \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\", by George Orwell. In modern times, negationism may spread via new media, such as the Internet.\nThe term \"negationism\" (\"négationnisme\") was first coined by the French historian Henry Rousso in his 1987 book \"The Vichy Syndrome\" which looked at the French popular memory of Vichy France and the French Resistance. Rousso argued that it was necessary to distinguish between legitimate historical revisionism in Holocaust studies and politically-motivated denial of the Holocaust, which he termed negationism.\n\nUsually, the purpose of historical negation is to achieve a national, political aim, by transferring war-guilt, demonizing an enemy, providing an illusion of victory, or preserving a friendship. Sometimes the purpose of a revised history is to sell more books or to attract attention with a newspaper headline. The historian James M. McPherson said that negationists would want revisionist history understood as, \"a consciously-falsified or distorted interpretation of the past to serve partisan or ideological purposes in the present\".\n\nThe principal functions of negationist history are the abilities to control ideological influence and to control political influence.\nIn \"History Men Battle over Britain's Future\", Michael d’Ancona said that historical negationists \"seem to have been given a collective task in [a] nation's cultural development, the full significance of which is emerging only now: To redefine [national] status in a changing world\". History is a social resource that contributes to shaping national identity, culture, and the public memory. Through the study of history, people are imbued with a particular cultural identity; therefore, by negatively revising history, the negationist can craft a specific, ideological identity. Because historians are credited as people who single-mindedly pursue truth, by way of fact, negationist historians capitalize on the historian's professional credibility, and present their pseudohistory as true scholarship. By adding a measure of credibility to the work of revised history, the ideas of the negationist historian are more readily accepted in the public mind. As such, professional historians recognize the revisionist practice of historical negationism as the work of \"truth-seekers\" finding different truths in the historical record to fit their political, social, and ideological contexts.\n\nHistory provides insight into past political policies and consequences, and thus assists people in extrapolating political implications for contemporary society. Historical negationism is applied to cultivate a specific political myth – sometimes with official consent from the government – whereby self-taught, amateur, and dissident academic historians either manipulate or misrepresent historical accounts to achieve political ends. In the USSR (1917–91), the ideology of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and Soviet historiography treated reality and the party line as the same intellectual entity; Soviet historical negationism advanced a specific, political and ideological agenda about Russia and its place in world history.\n\nHistorical negationism applies the techniques of research, quotation, and presentation for deception of the reader and denial of the historical record. In support of the \"revised history\" perspective, the negationist historian uses false documents as genuine sources, presents specious reasons to distrust genuine documents, exploits published opinions, by quoting out of historical context, manipulates statistics, and mistranslates texts in other languages. The revision techniques of historical negationism operate in the intellectual space of public debate for the advancement of a given interpretation of history and the cultural-perspective of the \"revised history\". As a document, the revised history is used to negate the validity of the factual, documentary record, and so reframe explanations and perceptions of the discussed historical event, in order to deceive the reader, the listener, and the viewer; therefore, historical negationism functions as a technique of propaganda. Rather than submit their works for peer review, negationist historians rewrite history and use logical fallacies to construct arguments that will obtain the desired results, a \"revised history\" that supports an agenda – political, ideological, religious, etc. In the practice of historiography, the British historian Richard J. Evans describes the technical differences, between professional historians and negationist historians:\n\nDeception includes falsifying information, obscuring the truth, and lying in order to manipulate public opinion about the historical event discussed in the revised history. The negationist historian applies the techniques of deception to achieve either a political or an ideological goal, or both. The field of history distinguishes among history books based upon credible, verifiable sources, and were peer-reviewed before publication; and deceptive history books, based upon incredible sources, and which were not submitted for peer review. The distinction among types of history-book rests upon the research techniques used in writing a history. Verifiability, accuracy, and openness to criticism are central tenets of historical scholarship. When these techniques are sidestepped, the presented historical information might be deliberately deceptive, a \"revised history\".\n\nDenial is defensively protecting information from being shared with other historians, and claiming that facts are untrue – especially denial of the war crimes and crimes against humanity perpetrated in the course of the World War II (1939–45) and the Holocaust (1933–45). The negationist historian protects the historical-revisionism project by shifting the blame, censorship, distraction, and media manipulation; occasionally, denial by protection includes risk management for the physical security of revisionist sources.\n\nComparing certain historical atrocities to other crimes is the practice of relativization, interpretation by moral judgements, in order to alter public perception of the first historical atrocity. Although such comparisons can often occur in negationist history, their pronouncement is not usually part of revisionist intentions upon the historical facts, but an opinion of moral judgement.\n\nRepositories of literature have been targeted throughout history (e.g., the Library of Alexandria), burning of the liturgical and historical books of the St. Thomas Christians by the archbishop of Goa Aleixo de Menezes, including recently, such as the Burning of Jaffna library and the destruction of Iraqi libraries by ISIS during the fall of Mosul.\n\nThe \"Burning of books and burying of scholars\" (), or \"Fires of Qin\", refers to the burning of writings and slaughter of scholars during the Qin Dynasty of Ancient China, between the period of 213 and 210 BC. \"Books\" at this point refers to writings on bamboo strips, which were then bound together. This contributed to the loss to history of many philosophical theories of proper government (known as \"the Hundred Schools of Thought\"). The official philosophy of government (\"legalism\") survived.\n\nIn the mid–1930s, the Nazi book burnings were part of a campaign of anti-intellectualism conducted throughout Germany and Austria by the \"Deutsche Studentenschaft\" (German Student Association) of the Third Reich (1933–45). The burning of books was a public ceremony in which the works of authors whose politics were classical liberal, anarchist, Socialist, pacifist, and Communist were fuel for bonfires. Given the official antisemitism of the Reich, the works of Jewish writers were specifically identified for burning; thus did Nazi Germany rid themselves of writers deemed subversive of the National Socialist ideology.\n\nIn Poland, the \"Sonderfahndungsbuch Polen\" (\"Special Prosecution Book-Poland\") was the book of political proscription for the killing of socially important Poles who might lead resistance against the Nazi Occupation of Poland (1939–45). Compiled before the war began in 1939, the book contained lists that identified more than 61,000 members of the Polish elites – political and social activists, the intelligentsia, scholars, actors, former military officers – as enemies of the state dangerous to the Third Reich.\n\nIn Germany-occupied France, anti-fascist exiles made a \"Library of Burned Books\" of every book that Adolf Hitler had ordered destroyed in France. It listed copies of titles that had been burned. The book burnings in France were an idea that the French fascists, of the collaborating Vichy government (1940–44), borrowed from the Nazis, to cleanse French culture of Jewish intellectualism and the foreign politics of pacifism, decadent literature, and degenerate art, as the Nazis had cleansed German culture. In the event, after the Final Solution had concluded, for the post-war world, the Nazis had planned to establish a museum of Judaism that would have featured selected books of Jewish culture, preserved \"in memoriam\" of the extinct Jews of Europe.\n\nThe historical negationism of American Civil War revisionists and Neo-Confederates claims that the Confederate States (1861–65) were the defenders rather than the instigators of the war, and that the Confederacy's motivation for secession from the United States was the maintenance of the southern states' rights and limited government, rather than the preservation and expansion of the chattel slavery of African Americans.\n\nRegarding Neo-Confederate revisionism of the U.S. Civil War, the historian Brooks D. Simpson said that:\n\nIn the early 20th century, Mildred Rutherford, the historian general of the United Daughters of the Confederacy (UDC), led the attack against American history textbooks that did not present the \"Lost Cause of the Confederacy\" (ca. 1900) version of the history of the U.S. Civil War. To that pedagogical end, Rutherford assembled a \"massive collection\" of documents that included \"essay contests on the glory of the Ku Klux Klan and personal tributes to faithful slaves\". About the historical negationism of the United Daughters of the Confederacy, the historian David Blight said:\n\nThe post-war minimisation of the war crimes of Japanese imperialism is an example of \"illegitimate\" historical revisionism; some contemporary Japanese revisionists, such as Yūko Iwanami (granddaughter of General Hideki Tojo), propose that Japan's invasion of China, and World War II, itself, were justified reactions to racist Western imperialism of the time. On 2 March 2007, Japanese prime minister Shinzō Abe denied that the military had forced women into sexual slavery during the war, saying, \"The fact is, there is no evidence to prove there was coercion\". Before he spoke, some Liberal Democratic Party legislators also sought to revise Yōhei Kōno's apology to former comfort women in 1993; likewise, there was the controversial negation of the six-week Nanking Massacre in 1937–1938.\n\nShinzo Abe led the Japanese Society for History Textbook Reform and headed the Diet antenna of Nippon Kaigi, two openly revisionist groups denying Japanese war crimes.\n\nEditor-in-chief of the conservative \"Yomiuri Shimbun\" Tsuneo Watanabe criticized the Yasukuni Shrine as a bastion of revisionism: \"The Yasukuni Shrine runs a museum where they show items in order to encourage and worship militarism. It's wrong for the prime minister to visit such a place\". Other critics note that men, who would contemporarily be perceived as \"Korean\" and \"Chinese\", are enshrined for the military actions they effected as Japanese Imperial subjects.\n\nThe \"Hibakusha\" (\"explosion-affected people\") of Hiroshima and Nagasaki seek compensation from their government and criticize it for failing to \"accept responsibility for having instigated and then prolonged an aggressive war long after Japan's defeat was apparent, resulting in a heavy toll in Japanese, Asian and American lives\". Historians Hill and Koshiro have stated that attempts to minimize the importance of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki is revisionist history. EB Sledge expressed concern that such revisionism, in his words \"mellowing\", would allow us to forget the harsh facts of the history that led to the bombings.\n\nThere have been a number of scholars and political activists who have publicly disagreed with mainstream views of Serbian war crimes in the Yugoslav wars of 1991–1999. Among the points of contention are whether the victims of massacres such as the Račak massacre and Srebrenica massacre were unarmed civilians or armed resistance fighters, whether death and rape tolls were inflated, and whether prison camps such as Sremska Mitrovica camp were sites of mass war crimes.\n\nThese scholars are labeled \"revisionists\" by their opponents. For example, Diana Johnstone's controversial book, \"Fools' Crusade: Yugoslavia, Nato, and Western Delusions\", questions whether genocidal killings occurred in Srebrenica. The book was rejected by publishers in Sweden prompting an open letter in 2003 defending Johnstone's book (and her right to publish) which was signed by, among others, Noam Chomsky, Arundhati Roy, Tariq Ali and John Pilger: \"We regard Diana Johnstone's \"Fools' Crusade\" as an outstanding work, dissenting from the mainstream view but doing so by an appeal to fact and reason, in a great tradition.\" On the other hand, Richard Caplan of Reading and Oxford University reviewed the work in \" International Affairs\", where he described the work as \"a revisionist and highly contentious account of western policy and the dissolution of Yugoslavia\". The historian Marko Attila Hoare called it \"an extremely poor book, one that is little more than a polemic in defence of the Serb-nationalist record during the wars of the 1990s – and an ill-informed one at that\".\n\nThe \"Report about Case Srebrenica\" by Darko Trifunovic, commissioned by the government of the Republika Srpska, was described by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia as \"one of the worst examples of revisionism in relation to the mass executions of Bosnian Muslims committed in Srebrenica in July 1995\". Outrage and condemnation by a wide variety of Balkan and international figures eventually forced the Republika Srpska to disown the report.\n\nTurkish laws such as Article 301, that state \"a person who publicly insults Turkishness, or the Republic or [the] Turkish Grand National Assembly of Turkey, shall be punishable by imprisonment\", were used to criminally charge the writer Orhan Pamuk with disrespecting Turkey, for saying that \"Thirty thousand Kurds, and a million Armenians, were killed in these lands, and nobody, but me, dares to talk about it\". The controversy occurred as Turkey was first vying for membership in the European Union (EU) where the suppression of dissenters is looked down upon. Article 301 originally was part of penal-law reforms meant to modernise Turkey to EU standards, as part of negotiating Turkey's membership to the EU. In 2006, the charges were dropped due to pressure from the European Union and United States on the Turkish government.\n\nOn 7 February 2006, five journalists were tried for insulting the judicial institutions of the State, and for aiming to prejudice a court case (per Article 288 of the Turkish penal code). The reporters were on trial for criticising the court-ordered closing of a conference in Istanbul regarding the Armenian genocide during the time of the Ottoman Empire. The conference continued elsewhere, transferring locations from a state to a private university. The trial continued until 11 April 2006, when four of the reporters were acquitted. The case against the fifth journalist, Murat Belge, proceeded until 8 June 2006, when he was also acquitted. The purpose of the conference was to critically analyze the official Turkish view of the Armenian Genocide in 1915; a taboo subject in Turkey. The trial proved to be a test case between Turkey and the European Union; the EU insisted that Turkey allow increased freedom of expression rights, as a condition to membership.\n\nDuring the existence of the Russian SFSR (1917–1991) and the Soviet Union (1922–1991), the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) attempted to ideologically and politically control the writing of both academic and popular history. These attempts were most successful in 1934–52 period. According to Mehnert, the Soviets attempt to control academic historiography (the writing of history by academic historians) to promote ideological and ethno-racial imperialism by Russians. During the 1928–56 period, modern and contemporary history was generally composed according to the wishes of the CPSU, not the requirements of accepted historiographic method.\n\nDuring and after the rule of Nikita Khrushchev (1956–64), Soviet historiographic practice is more complicated. Although not entirely corrupted, Soviet historiography was characterized by complex competition between Stalinist and anti-Stalinist Marxist historians. To avoid the professional hazard of politicized history, some historians chose pre-modern, medieval history or classical history, where ideological demands were relatively relaxed and conversation with other historians in the field could be fostered; nevertheless, despite the potential danger of proscribed ideology corrupting historians' work, not all of Soviet historiography was corrupt.\n\nControl over party history and the legal status of individual ex-party members played a large role in dictating the ideological diversity and thus the faction in power within the CPSU. The history of the Communist Party was revised to delete references to leaders purged from the party, especially during the rule of Joseph Stalin (1922–53).\n\nIn the Historiography of the Cold War, a controversy over negationist historical revisionism exists, where numerous revisionist scholars in the West have been accused of whitewashing the crimes of Stalinism, overlooking the Katyn massacre in Poland and disregarding the validity of the Venona messages with regards to Soviet espionage in the United States.\n\nMany scholars, among them Victor Schnirelmann, Willem Floor, Robert Hewsen, George Bournoutian and others state that in Soviet and post-Soviet Azerbaijan since the 1960s there is a practice of revising primary sources on the South Caucasus in which any mention about Armenians is deleted. For instance in the revised texts the word \"Armenian\" is either simply removed or is replaced by the word \"Albanian\"; there are many other examples of such falsifications, all of which have the purpose of creating an impression that historically Armenians were not present in this territory.\n\nWillem M. Floor and Hasan Javadi in the English edition of \"The Heavenly Rose-Garden: A History of Shirvan & Daghestan\" by Bakikhanov specifically point out to the instances of distortions and falsifications made by Buniatov in his Russian translation of this book. According to Bournoutian and Hewsen these distortions are widespread in these works; they thus advise the readers in general to avoid the books produced in Azerbaijan in Soviet and post-Soviet times if these books do not contain the facsimile copy of original sources. Shnirelman thinks that this practice is being realized in Azerbaijan according to state order.\n\nPhilip L. Kohl brings an example of a theory advanced by Azerbaijani archeologist Akhundov about Albanian origin of Khachkars as an example of patently false cultural origin myths.\n\nIn their turn Azerbaijani historians claim that the historians of other countries falsify the true history of Azerbaijan. As an example of falsifications Azerbaijani historians consider historical references about the presence of Armenians on the territory of Karabakh\n\n(Azerbaijanis claim that Armenians appeared there only in 1828) or the fact that in these books there is no mention of \"the powerful states of Azerbaijan with 5000 years of statehood history\".\n\nIn Azerbaijan the Armenian genocide is officially denied and is considered a hoax. According to state ideology of Azerbaijan a genocide of Azerbaijanis, carried out by Armenians and Russians, took place starting from 1813.\n\nSince the start of the Korean War (1950–53), the government of North Korea has consistently denied that the Democratic Peoples' Republic of Korea (DPRK) launched the attack with which began the war for the Communist unification of Korea. The historiography of the DPRK maintains that the war was provoked by South Korea, at the instigation of the United States:\n\nFurther North Korean pronouncements included the claim that the U.S. needed the peninsula of Korea as \"a bridgehead, for invading the Asian continent, and as a strategic base, from which to fight against national-liberation movements and socialism, and, ultimately, to attain world supremacy.\" Likewise, the DPRK denied the war crimes committed by the North Korean army in the course of the war; nonetheless, in the 1951-52 period, the Workers' Party of Korea (WPK) privately admitted to the \"excesses\" of their earlier campaign against North Korean citizens who had collaborated with the enemy – either actually or allegedly – during the US–South Korean occupation of North Korea. Later, the WPK blamed every war-time atrocity upon the U.S. military, e.g. the Sinchon Massacre (17 October – 7 December 1950) occurred during the retreat of the DPRK government from Hwanghae Province, in the south-west of North Korea.\n\nThe campaign against \"collaborators\" was attributed to political and ideological manipulations by the U.S. About which the high-rank leader Pak Chang-ok said that the American enemy had \"started to use a new method, namely, it donned a leftist garb, which considerably influenced the inexperienced cadres of the Party and government organs.\" In \"Soviet Aims in Korea and the Origins of the Korean War, 1945–1950: New Evidence from Russian Archives\" (1993), by Kathryn Weathersby, confirmed that the Korean War was launched by order of Kim Il-sung (1912–1994); and also refuted the DPRK's allegations of biological warfare in the Korean War. The Korean Central News Agency dismissed the historical record of Soviet documents as \"sheer forgery\".\n\nHolocaust deniers usually reject the term \"Holocaust denier\" as an inaccurate description of their historical point of view, instead, preferring, the term \"Holocaust revisionist\"; nonetheless, scholars prefer \"Holocaust denier\" to differentiate deniers from legitimate historical revisionists, whose goal is to accurately analyze historical evidence with established methods. Historian Alan Berger reports that Holocaust deniers argue in support of a preconceived theory – that the Holocaust either did not occur or was mostly a hoax – by ignoring extensive historical evidence to the contrary.\n\nWhen the author David Irving lost his English libel case against Deborah Lipstadt, and her publisher, Penguin Books, and thus was publicly discredited and identified as a Holocaust denier, the trial judge, Justice Charles Gray, concluded that:\n\nOn 20 February 2006, Irving was found guilty, and sentenced to three years imprisonment for Holocaust denial, under Austria's 1947 law banning Nazi revivalism and criminalising the \"public denial, belittling or justification of National Socialist crimes\". Besides Austria, eleven other countries – including Belgium, France, Germany, Lithuania, Poland, and Switzerland – have criminalised Holocaust denial as punishable with imprisonment.\n\nThe Tiananmen Square Protests of 1989 were a series of pro-democracy demonstrations that were put down violently on June 4, 1989, by the Chinese government via the People's Liberation Army, resulting in estimated casualty of over 10,000 deaths and 40,000 injured, obtained via later declassified documents., whereas the government claimed official estimates of 0 - 200 civilian deaths. Western media referred to this crackdown as the \"Tiananmen Square Massacre\", and in Chinese media it was called the \"June Fourth Incident\".\n\nHowever, the Chinese Communist Party decided to downplay and later deny the occurrence of the protests and massacre, therefore, soon afterwards, news media and internet coverage of the events were suppressed and the search terms in Chinese for \"June Fourth protests\", \"June Fourth incident\", \"Tiananmen Square protests\", \"Tiananmen Square Massacre\", and similar terms were manipulated through censorship such that no results come up or if any, only results that have been cleaned up and relate to Tiananmen Square or June Fourth in general would be shown. On Baidu, China's largest internet search engine for the Chinese language and on Baidu Baike, Baidu's version of Wikipedia, for the entry \"June 4\", which lists all significant events on this date in history throughout the world, for the year 1989, there's completely no mention of this incident.\n\nThroughout the post war era, though Tito denounced nationalist sentiments in historiography, those trends continued with Croat and Serbian academics at times accusing each other of misrepresenting each other's histories, especially in relation to the Croat-Nazi alliance. Communist historiography was challenged in the 1980s and a rehabilitation of Serbian nationalism by Serbian historians began. Historians and other members of the intelligentsia belonging to the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts (SANU) and the Writers Association played a significant role in the explanation of the new historical narrative. The process of writing a \"new Serbian history\" paralleled alongside the emerging ethno-nationalist mobilisation of Serbs with the objective of reorganising the Yugoslav federation. Using ideas and concepts from Holocaust historiography, Serbian historians alongside church leaders applied it to World War Two Yugoslavia and equated the Serbs with Jews and Croats with Nazi Germans.\n\nČetniks along with the Ustaša were vilified by Tito era historiography within Yugoslavia. In the 1980s, Serbian historians initiated the process of reexamining the narrative of how World War Two was told in Yugoslavia which was accompanied by the rehabilitation of Četnik leader Draža Mihailović. Monographs relating to Mihailović and the Četnik movement were produced by some younger historians who were ideologically close to it toward the end of the 1990s. Being preoccupied with the era, Serbian historians have looked to vindicate Četnik history by portraying Četniks as righteous freedom fighters battling the Nazis while removing from history books the ambiguous alliances with the Italians and Germans. Whereas the crimes committed by Četniks against Croats and Muslims in Serbian historiography are overall \"cloaked in silence\". During the Milošević era, Serbian history was falsified to obscure the role Serbian collaborators Milan Nedić and Dimitrije Ljotić played in cleansing Serbia's Jewish community, killing them in the country or deporting them to Eastern European concentration camps.\n\nIn the 1990s following a massive western media coverage of the Yugoslav civil war, there was a rise of the publications considering the matter on historical revisionism of former Yugoslavia. One of the most prominent authors on the field of historical revisionism in the 1990s considering the newly emerged republics is Noel Malcolm and his works \"Bosnia: A Short History (1994)\" and \"Kosovo: A Short History (1998)\", that have seen a robust debate among historians following their release; following the release of the latter, the merits of the book were the subject of an extended debate in \"Foreign Affairs\". Critics said that the book was \"marred by his sympathies for its ethnic Albanian separatists, anti-Serbian bias, and illusions about the Balkans\". In late 1999, Thomas Emmert of the history faculty of Gustavus Adolphus College in Minnesota reviewed the book in \"Journal of Southern Europe and the Balkans Online\" and while praising aspects of the book also asserted that it was \"shaped by the author's overriding determination to challenge Serbian myths\", that Malcolm was \"partisan\", and also complained that the book made a \"transparent attempt to prove that the main Serbian myths are false\". In 2006, a study by Frederick Anscombe looked at issues surrounding scholarship on Kosovo such as Noel Malcolm's work \"Kosovo: A Short History\". Anscombe noted that Malcolm offered a \"a detailed critique of the competing versions of Kosovo's history\" and that his work marked a \"remarkable reversal\" of previous acceptance by Western historians of the \"Serbian account\" regarding the migration of the Serbs (1690) from Kosovo. Malcolm has been criticized for being \"anti-Serbian\" and selective like the Serbs with the sources, while other more restrained critics note that \"his arguments are unconvincing\". Anscombe noted that Malcolm, like Serbian and Yugoslav historians who have ignored his conclusions sideline and are unwilling to consider indigenous evidence such as that from the Ottoman archive when composing national history.\n\nThe history textbook controversy centers upon the secondary school history textbook \"Atarashii Rekishi Kyōkasho\" (\"New History Textbook\") said to minimise the nature of Japanese militarism in the First Sino-Japanese War (1894–95), in annexing Korea in 1910, in the Second Sino-Japanese War (1937–45), and in the Pacific Theater of World War II (1941–45). The conservative Japanese Society for History Textbook Reform commissioned the \"Atarashii Rekishi Kyōkasho\" textbook with the purpose of traditional national and international view of that Japanese historical period. The Ministry of Education vets all history textbooks, and those that do not mention Japanese war crimes and atrocities are not vetted; however, the \"Atarashii Rekishi Kyōkasho\" de-emphasises aggressive Japanese Imperial wartime behaviour and the matter of Chinese and Korean comfort women. It has even been denied that the Nanking massacre (a series of violences and rapes carried on by the Japanese army against Chinese civilians during the Second Sino-Japanese War) ever took place (see Nanking massacre denial). In 2007, the Ministry of Education attempted to revise textbooks regarding the Battle of Okinawa, lessening the involvement of the Japanese military in Okinawan civilian mass suicides.\n\nAllegations of historical revisionism have been made regarding Pakistani textbooks in that they are laced with Indophobic and Islamist bias. Pakistan's use of officially published textbooks has been criticized for using schools to more subtly foster religious extremism, whitewashing Muslim conquests on the Indian subcontinent and promoting \"expansive pan-Islamic imaginings\" that \"detect the beginnings of Pakistan in the birth of Islam on the Arabian peninsula\". Since 2001, the Pakistani government has stated that curriculum reforms have been underway by the Ministry of Education.\n\n12 October 2015, South Korea's government has announced controversial plans to control the history textbooks used in secondary schools despite oppositional concerns of people and academics that the decision is made to glorify the history of those who served the Imperial Japanese government (Chinilpa). Section and the authoritarian dictatorships in South Korea during 1960s–1980s.The Ministry of Education announced that it would put the secondary-school history textbook under state control; \"This was an inevitable choice in order to straighten out historical errors and end the social dispute caused by ideological bias in the textbooks,\" Hwang Woo-yea, education minister said on 12 October 2015. According to the government's plan, the current history textbooks of South Korea will be replaced by a single textbook written by a panel of government-appointed historians and the new series of publications would be issued under the title \"The Correct Textbook of History\" and are to be issued to the public and private primary and secondary schools in 2017 onwards.\n\nThe move has sparked fierce criticism from academics who argue the system can be used to distort the history and glorify the history of those who served the Imperial Japanese government (Chinilpa) and of the authoritarian dictatorships. Moreover, 466 organisations including Korean Teachers and Education Workers Union formed History Act Network in solidarity and have staged protests: \"The government's decision allows the state too much control and power and, therefore, it is against political neutrality that is certainly the fundamental principle of education.\" Many South Korean historians condemned Kyohaksa for their text glorifying those who served the Imperial Japanese government (Chinilpa) and the authoritarian dictatorship with a far-right political perspective. On the other hand, New Right supporters welcomed the textbook saying that ‘the new textbook finally describes historical truths contrary to the history textbooks published by left-wing publishers,’ and the textbook issue became intensified as a case of ideological conflict.\n\nIn fact, there once was a time in Korean history that the history textbook was put under state control. It was during the authoritarian regime under Park Chung-hee (1963-1979), who is a father of Park Geun-hye, former President of South Korea, and was used as a means to keep the Yushin Regime (also known as Yushin Dictatorship). However, there had been continuous criticisms about the system especially from the 1980s when Korea experienced a dramatic democratic development. In 2003, liberalisation of textbook began when the textbooks on Korean modern and contemporary history were published though the Textbook Screening System, which allows textbooks to be published not by a single government body but by many different companies, for the first time.\n\nEducation in Turkey is centralised: its policy, administration and content are each determined by the Turkish government. Textbooks taught in schools are either prepared directly by the Ministry of National Education (MEB) or must be approved by its Instruction and Education Board. In practice, this means that the Turkish government is directly responsible for what textbooks are taught in schools across Turkey.\n\nIn 2014, Taner Akçam, writing for the Armenian Weekly, discussed 2014-15 Turkish elementary and middle school textbooks that the MEB had made available on the internet. He found that Turkish history textbooks are filled with the message that Armenians are people \"who are incited by foreigners, who aim to break apart the state and the country, and who murdered Turks and Muslims.\" The Armenian Genocide is referred to as the \"Armenian matter\", and is described as a lie perpetrated in order to further the perceived hidden agenda of Armenians. Recognition of the Armenian Genocide is defined as the \"biggest threat to Turkish national security\".\n\nAkçam summarized one textbook that claims the Armenians had sided with the Russians during the war. The 1909 Adana massacre, in which as many as 20,000–30,000 Armenians were massacred, is identified as \"The Rebellion of Armenians of Adana\". According to the book, the Armenian Hnchak and Dashnak organizations instituted rebellions in many parts of Anatolia, and \"didn’t hesitate to kill Armenians who would not join them,\" issuing instructions that \"if you want to survive you have to kill your neighbor first.\" Claims highlighted by Akçam: [The Armenians murdered] many people living in villages, even children, by attacking Turkish villages, which had become defenseless because all the Turkish men were fighting on the war fronts. ... They stabbed the Ottoman forces in the back. They created obstacles for the operations of the Ottoman units by cutting off their supply routes and destroying bridges and roads. ... They spied for Russia and by rebelling in the cities where they were located, they eased the way for the Russian invasion. ... Since the Armenians who engaged in massacres in collaboration with the Russians created a dangerous situation, this law required the migration of [Armenian people] from the towns they were living in to Syria, a safe Ottoman territory. ... Despite being in the midst of war, the Ottoman state took precautions and measures when it came to the Armenians who were migrating. Their tax payments were postponed, they were permitted to take any personal property they wished, government officials were assigned to ensure that they were protected from attacks during the journey and that their needs were met, police stations were established to ensure that their lives and properties were secure.\n\nSimilar revisionist claims found in other textbooks by Akçam included that Armenian \"back-stabbing\" was the reason the Ottomans lost the Russo-Turkish War of 1877–78 (similar to the post-War German stab-in-the-back myth), that the Hamidian massacres never happened, that the Armenians were armed by the Russians during late World War I to fight the Ottomans (in reality they had already been nearly annihilated from the area by this point), that Armenians killed 600,000 Turks during said war, that the deportation were to save Armenians from other violent Armenian gangs, and that Armenians who were deported were later able to return to Turkey unscathed and reclaim their properties.\n\nAs of 2015, Turkish textbooks still describe the Armenians as \"traitors\", call the Armenian Genocide a lie and say that the Ottoman Turks \"took necessary measures to counter Armenian separatism.\" Armenians are also characterised as \"dishonorable and treacherous,\" and students are taught that Armenians were forcibly relocated to protect Turkish citizens from attacks.\n\nOn 23 February 2005, the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) conservative majority at the French National Assembly voted a law compelling history textbooks and teachers to \"acknowledge and recognize in particular the positive role of the French presence abroad, especially in North Africa\". Criticized by historians and teachers, among them Pierre Vidal-Naquet, who refused to recognise the French Parliament's right to influence the way history is written (despite the French Holocaust denial laws, see \"Loi Gayssot\"). That law was also challenged by left-wing parties and the former French colonies; critics argued that the law was tantamount to refusing to acknowledge the racism inherent to French colonialism, and that the law proper is a form of historical revisionism.\n\nIn the Philippines, the biggest examples of Historical negationism are linked to the Marcos family dynasty, usually Imelda Marcos, Bongbong Marcos, and Imee Marcos specifically. They have been accused of denying or trivializing the human rights violations during martial law and the plunder of the Philippines' coffers while Ferdinand Marcos was president.\n\nand economic plunder that took place during the Marcos administration, and of the role he played in the administration.\n\nSome countries have criminalised historical revisionism of historic events such as the Holocaust. The Council of Europe defines it as the \"denial, gross minimisation, approval or justification of genocide or crimes against humanity\" (article 6, \"Additional Protocol to the Convention on cybercrime\").\n\nSome council-member states proposed an additional protocol to the Council of Europe Cybercrime Convention, addressing materials and \"acts of racist or xenophobic nature committed through computer networks\"; it was negotiated from late 2001 to early 2002, and, on 7 November 2002, the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers adopted the protocol's final text titled \"Additional Protocol to the Convention on Cyber-crime, Concerning the Criminalisation of Acts of a Racist and Xenophobic Nature Committed through Computer Systems\", (\"Protocol\"). It opened on 28 January 2003, and became current on 1 March 2006; as of 30 November 2011, 20 States have signed and ratified the Protocol, and 15 others have signed, but not yet ratified it (including Canada and South Africa).\n\nThe Protocol requires participant States to criminalise the dissemination of racist and xenophobic material, and of racist and xenophobic threats and insults through computer networks, such as the Internet. Article 6, Section 1 of the Protocol specifically covers Holocaust Denial, and other genocides recognised as such by international courts, established since 1945, by relevant international legal instruments. Section 2 of Article 6 allows a Party to the Protocol, at their discretion, only to prosecute the violator if the crime is committed with the intent to incite hatred or discrimination or violence; or to use a reservation, by allowing a Party not to apply Article 6 – either partly or entirely. The Council of Europe's \"Explanatory Report\" of the Protocol says that the \"European Court of Human Rights has made it clear that the denial or revision of 'clearly established historical facts – such as the Holocaust  –  ... would be removed from the protection of Article 10 by Article 17' of the European Convention on Human Rights\" (see the \"Lehideux and Isorni\" judgement of 23 September 1998);\n\nTwo of the English-speaking states in Europe, Ireland and the United Kingdom, have not signed the additional protocol, (the third, Malta, signed on 28 January 2003, but has not yet ratified it). On 8 July 2005 Canada became the only non-European state to sign the convention. They were joined by South Africa in April 2008. The United States government does not believe that the final version of the Protocol is consistent with the United States' First Amendment Constitutional rights and has informed the Council of Europe that the United States will not become a Party to the protocol.\n\nThere are various domestic laws against negationism and hate speech (which may encompass negationism), in sixteen different countries including\nAdditionally, the Netherlands considers denying the Holocaust as a hate crime – which is a punishable offense. Wider use of domestic laws include the 1990 French \"Gayssot Act\" that prohibits any \"racist, anti-Semitic or xenophobic\" speech., and the Czech Republic and Ukraine have criminalised the denial and the minimisation of Communist-era crimes.\n\nIn the novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" (1949), by George Orwell, the government of Oceania continually revises historical records to concord with the contemporary political explanations of The Party. When Oceania is at war with Eurasia, the public records (newspapers, cinema, television) indicate that Oceania has been always at war with Eurasia; yet, when Eurasia and Oceania are no longer fighting each other, the historical records are subjected to negationism; thus, the populace are brainwashed to believe that Oceania and Eurasia always have been allies against Eastasia.\n\nThe protagonist of the story, Winston Smith, is an editor in the Ministry of Truth, responsible for effecting the continual historical revisionism that will negate the contradictions of the past upon the contemporary world of Oceania.\nTo cope with the psychological stresses of life during wartime, Smith begins a diary, in which he observes that \"He who controls the present, controls the past. He who controls the past, controls the future\", and so illustrates the principal, ideological purpose of historical negationism.\n\nFranz Kurowski was an extremely prolific right-wing German writer who dedicated his entire career to the production of Nazi military propaganda, followed by post-war military pulp fiction and revisionist histories of World War II, claiming the humane behaviour and innocence of war crimes of the Wehrmacht, glorifying war as a desirable state, while fabricating eye-witness reports of atrocities allegedly committed by the Allies, especially Bomber Command and the air raids on Cologne and Dresden as planned genocide of the civilian population.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14318", "title": "Horned God", "text": "Horned God\n\nThe Horned God is one of the two primary deities found in Wicca and some related forms of Neopaganism. \nThe term \"Horned God\" itself predates Wicca, and is an early 20th-century syncretic term for a horned or antlered anthropomorphic god with partly pseudohistorical origins, partly based on historical horned deities.\n\nThe Horned God represents the male part of the religion's duotheistic theological system, the consort of the female Triple Goddess of the Moon or other Mother Goddess. \nIn common Wiccan belief, he is associated with nature, wilderness, sexuality, hunting, and the life cycle. Whilst depictions of the deity vary, he is always shown with either horns or antlers upon his head, often depicted as being theriocephalic (having a beast's head), in this way emphasizing \"the union of the divine and the animal\", the latter of which includes humanity.\n\nIn traditional Wicca (British Traditional Wicca), he is generally regarded as a dualistic god of twofold aspects: bright and dark, night and day, summer and winter, the Oak King and the Holly King. In this dualistic view, his two horns symbolize, in part, his dual nature. (The use of horns to symbolize duality is also reflected in the phrase \"on the horns of a dilemma.\") The three aspects of the Goddess and the two aspects of the Horned God are sometimes mapped on to the five points of the Pentagram, although which points correspond to which deity aspects varies. In some other systems, he is represented as a triune god, split into three aspects that reflect those of the Triple Goddess: the Youth (Warrior), the Father, and the Sage.\n\nThe Horned God has been explored within several psychological theories and has become a recurrent theme in fantasy literature.\n\nIn traditional and mainstream Wicca, the Horned God is viewed as the divine male principality, being both equal and opposite to the Goddess. The Wiccan god himself can be represented in many forms, including as the Sun God, the Sacrificed God and the Vegetation God, although the Horned God is the most popular representation. The pioneers of the various Wiccan or Witchcraft traditions, such as Gerald Gardner, Doreen Valiente and Robert Cochrane, all claimed that their religion was a continuation of the pagan religion of the Witch-Cult following historians who had purported the Witch-Cult's existence, such as Jules Michelet and Margaret Murray.\n\nFor Wiccans, the Horned God is \"the personification of the life force energy in animals and the wild\" and is associated with the wilderness, virility and the hunt. Doreen Valiente writes that the Horned God also carries the souls of the dead to the underworld.\n\nWiccans generally, as well as some other neopagans, tend to conceive of the universe as polarized into gender opposites of male and female energies. In traditional Wicca, the Horned God and the Goddess are seen as equal and opposite in gender polarity. However, in some of the newer traditions of Wicca, and especially those influenced by feminist ideology, there is more emphasis on the Goddess, and consequently the symbolism of the Horned God is less developed than that of the Goddess.\nIn Wicca the cycle of the seasons is celebrated during eight sabbats called The Wheel of the Year. The seasonal cycle is imagined to follow the relationship between the Horned God and the Goddess. The Horned God is born in winter, impregnates the Goddess and then dies during the autumn and winter months and is then reborn by the Goddess at Yule. The different relationships throughout the year are sometimes distinguished by splitting the god into aspects, the Oak King and the Holly King. The relationships between the Goddess and the Horned God are mirrored by Wiccans in seasonal rituals. There is some variation between Wiccan groups as to which sabbat corresponds to which part of the cycle. Some Wiccans regard the Horned God as dying at Lammas, August 1; also known as Lughnasadh, which is the first harvest sabbat. Others may see him dying at Mabon, the autumn equinox, or the second harvest festival. Still other Wiccans conceive of the Horned God dying on October 31, which Wiccans call Samhain, the ritual of which is focused on death. He is then reborn on Winter Solstice, December 21.\n\nOther important dates for the Horned God include Imbolc when, according to Valiente, he leads a wild hunt. In Gardnerian Wicca, the Dryghten prayer is recited at the end of every ritual meeting contains the lines referring to the Horned God:\n\nAccording to Sabina Magliocco, Gerald Gardner says (in 1959's \"The Meaning of Witchcraft\") that The Horned God is an Under-god, a mediator between an unknowable supreme deity and the people. (In Wiccan liturgy in the Book of Shadows, this conception of an unknowable supreme deity is referred to as \"Dryghtyn.\" It is not a personal god, but rather an impersonal divinity similar to the Tao of Taoism.)\n\nWhilst the Horned God is the most common depiction of masculine divinity in Wicca, he is not the only representation. Other examples include the Green Man and the Sun God. In traditional Wicca, however, these other representations of the Wiccan god are subsumed or amalgamated into the Horned God, as aspects or expressions of him. Sometimes this is shown by adding horns or antlers to the iconography. The Green Man, for example, may be shown with branches resembling antlers; and the Sun God may be depicted with a crown or halo of solar rays, that may resemble horns. These other conceptions of the Wiccan god should not be regarded as displacing the Horned God, but rather as elaborating on various facets of his nature. Doreen Valiente has called the Horned God \"the eldest of gods\" in both The Witches Creed and also in her Invocation To The Horned God.\n\nWiccans believe that The Horned God, as Lord of Death, is their \"comforter and consoler\" after death and before reincarnation; and that he rules the Underworld or Summerland where the souls of the dead reside as they await rebirth. Some, such as Joanne Pearson, believe that this is based on the Mesopotamian myth of Inanna's descent into the underworld, though this has not been confirmed.\n\nDoreen Valiente, a former High Priestess of the Gardnerian tradition, claimed that Gerald Gardner's Bricket Wood coven referred to the god as Cernunnos, or Kernunno, which is a Latin word, discovered on a stone carving found in France, meaning \"the Horned One\". Valiente claimed that the coven also referred to the god as Janicot, which she theorised was of Basque origin, and Gardner also used this name in his novel \"High Magic's Aid\".\n\nStewart Farrar, a High Priest of the Alexandrian tradition referred to the Horned God as Karnayna, which he believed was a corruption of the word Cernunnos. The historian Ronald Hutton has suggested that it instead came from the Arabic term Dhul-Qarnayn which meant \"Horned One\". This term had been used in the Qur'an to refer to Cyrus the Great or alternatively Alexander the Great, who considered himself the son of the horned deity Ammon-Zeus, and wore horns as a part of his regalia. Margaret Murray had mentioned this information in her 1933 book \"The God of the Witches\", and Hutton theorised that Alex Sanders had taken it from there, enjoying the fact that he shared his name with the ancient Macedonian emperor.\n\nIn the writings of Charles Cardell and Raymond Howard, the god was referred to as Atho. Howard had a wooden statue of Atho's head which he claimed was 2200 years old, but the statue was stolen in April 1967. Howard's son later admitted that his father had carved the statue himself.\n\nIn Cochrane's Craft, which was founded by Robert Cochrane, the Horned God was often referred to by a Biblical name; Tubal-cain, who, according to the Bible was the first blacksmith. In this neopagan concept, the god is also referred to as Brân, a Welsh mythological figure, Wayland, the smith in Germanic mythology, and Herne, a horned figure from English folklore.\n\nIn the neopagan tradition of Stregheria, founded by Raven Grimassi and loosely inspired by the works of Charles Godfrey Leland, the Horned God goes by several names, including Dianus, Faunus, Cern, and Actaeon.\n\nIn the Hinduism, the Horned God is referred to Pashupati, See Pashupati Seal.\n\nSherry Salman considers the image of the Horned God in Jungian terms, as an archetypal protector and mediator of the outside world to the objective psyche. In her theory the male psyche's 'Horned God' frequently compensates for inadequate fathering.\n\nWhen first encountered, the figure is a dangerous, 'hairy chthonic wildman' possessed of kindness and intelligence. If repressed, later in life The Horned God appears as the lord of the Otherworld, or Hades. If split off entirely, he leads to violence, substance abuse and sexual perversion. When integrated he gives the male an ego 'in possession of its own destructiveness' and for the female psyche gives an effective animus relating to both the physical body and the psyche.\n\nIn considering the Horned God as a symbol recurring in women's literature, Richard Sugg suggests the Horned God represents the 'natural Eros', a masculine lover subjugating the social-conformist nature of the female shadow, thus encompassing a combination of the shadow and animus. One such example is Heathcliff from Emily Brontë's \"Wuthering Heights\". Sugg goes on to note that female characters who are paired with this character usually end up socially ostracised, or worse – in an inverted ending to the male hero-story.\n\nFollowing the work of Robert Bly in the Mythopoetic men's movement, John Rowan proposes the Horned God as a \"Wild Man\" be used as a fantasy image or \"sub-personality\" helpful to men in humanistic psychology, and escaping from \"narrow societal images of masculinity\" encompassing excessive deference to women and paraphillia.\n\nMany horned deities are known to have been worshipped in various cultures throughout history. Evidence for horned gods appear very early in the human record. The so-called Sorcerer dates from perhaps 13,000 BCE. Twenty-one red deer headdresses, made from the skulls of the red deer and likely fitted with leather laces, have been uncovered at the Mesolithic site of Star Carr. They are thought to date from roughly 9,000 BCE. Several theories have been created to establish historical roots for modern Neopagan worship of a Horned God.\n\nFollowing the writings of suffragist Matilda Joslyn Gage and others, Margaret Murray, in her 1921 book \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\", proposed the theory that the witches of the early-modern period were remnants of a pagan cult and that the Christian Church had declared the god of the witches was in fact the Devil. Without recourse to any specific representation of this deity, Murray speculates that the head coverings common in inquisition-derived descriptions of the devil \"may throw light on one of the possible origins of the cult.\"\nIn 1931 Murray published a sequel, \"The God of the Witches\", which tries to gather evidence in support of her witch-cult theory. In Chapter 1 \"The Horned God\". Murray claims that various depictions of humans with horns from European and Indian sources, ranging from the paleolithic French cave painting of \"The Sorcerer\" to the Indic Pashupati to the modern English Dorset Ooser, are evidence for an unbroken, Europe-wide tradition of worship of a singular Horned God. Murray derived this model of a horned god cult from James Frazer and Jules Michelet.\n\nIn dealing with \"The Sorcerer\", the earliest evidence claimed, Murray based her observations on a drawing by Henri Breuil, which some modern scholars such as Ronald Hutton claim is inaccurate. Hutton states that modern photographs show the original cave art lacks horns, a human torso or any other significant detail on its upper half. However, others, such as celebrated prehistorian Jean Clottes, assert that Breuil's sketch is indeed accurate. Clottes stated that \"I have seen it myself perhaps 20 times over the years\".\n\nBreuil considered his drawing to represent a shaman or magician - an interpretation which gives the image its name. Murray having seen the drawing called Breuil's image \"the first depiction of a deity\", an idea which Breuil and others later adopted.\n\nMurray also used an inaccurate drawing of a mesolithic rock-painting at Cogul in northeast Spain as evidence of group religious ceremony of the cult, although the central male figure is not horned. The illustration she used of the Cogul painting leaves out a number of figures, human and animal, and the original is more likely a sequence of superimposed but unrelated illustrations, rather than a depiction of a single scene.\n\nDespite widespread criticism of Murray's scholarship some minor aspects of her work continued to have supporters.\n\nThe popular image of the Greek god Pan was removed from its classical context in the writings of the Romantics of the 18th century and connected with their ideals of a pastoral England. This, along with the general public's increasing lack of familiarity of Greek mythology at the time led to the figure of Pan becoming generalised as a 'horned god', and applying connotations to the character, such as benevolence that were not evident in the original Greek myths which in turn gave rise to the popular acceptance of Murray's hypothetical horned god of the witches.\nThe reception of \"Aradia\" amongst Neopagans has not been entirely positive. Clifton suggests that modern claims of revealing an Italian pagan witchcraft tradition, for example those of Leo Martello and Raven Grimassi, must be \"match[ed] against\", and compared with the claims in \"Aradia\". He further suggests that a lack of comfort with \"Aradia\" may be due to an \"insecurity\" within Neopaganism about the movement's claim to authenticity as a religious revival.\nValiente offers another explanation for the negative reaction of some neopagans; that the identification of Lucifer as the god of the witches in \"Aradia\" was \"too strong meat\" for Wiccans who were used to the gentler, romantic paganism of Gerald Gardner and were especially quick to reject any relationship between witchcraft and Satanism.\nIn 1985 Classical historian Georg Luck, in his \"Arcana Mundi: Magic and the Occult in the Greek and Roman Worlds\", theorised that the origins of the Witch-cult may have appeared in late antiquity as a faith primarily designed to worship the Horned God, stemming from the merging of Cernunnos, a horned god of the Celts, with the Greco-Roman Pan/Faunus, a combination of gods which he posits created a new deity, around which the remaining pagans, those refusing to convert to Christianity, rallied and that this deity provided the prototype for later Christian conceptions of the Devil, and his worshippers were cast by the Church as witches.\n\nEliphas Levi's image of \"Baphomet\" serves as an example of the transformation of the Devil into a benevolent fertility deity and provided the prototype for Murray's horned god. Murray's central thesis that images of the Devil were actually of deities and that Christianity had demonised these worshippers as following Satan, is first recorded in the work of Levi in the fashionable 19th-century Occultist circles of England and France. Levi created his image of Baphomet, published in his \"Dogme et Rituel de la Haute Magie\" (1855), by combining symbolism from diverse traditions, including the \"Diable\" card of the 16th and 17th century Tarot of Marseille. Lévi called his image \"The Goat of Mendes\", possibly following Herodotus' account that the god of Mendes—the Greek name for Djedet, Egypt—was depicted with a goat's face and legs. Herodotus relates how all male goats were held in great reverence by the Mendesians, and how in his time a woman publicly copulated with a goat. E. A. Wallis Budge writes,\n\nMargaret Murray's theory of the historical origins of the Horned God has been used by Wiccans to create a myth of historical origins for their religion. There is no verifiable evidence to support claims that the religion originates earlier than the mid-20th century.\nModern scholarship has disproved Margaret Murray's theory, however various horned gods and mother goddesses were indeed worshipped in the British Isles during the ancient and early Medieval periods.\n\nThe \"father of Wicca\", Gerald Gardner, who adopted Margaret Murray's thesis, claimed Wicca was a modern survival of an ancient pan-European pagan religion. Gardner states that he had reconstructed elements of the religion from fragments, incorporating elements from Freemasonry, the Occult, and Theosophy, which came together in the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, where Gardner met Aleister Crowley, whose influence became the basis for Wiccan magical practices. \nGerald Gardner was initiated into the O.T.O. by Aleister Crowley and subsequently went on to found the Neopagan religion of Wicca. Various scholars on early Wiccan history, such as Ronald Hutton, Philip Heselton, and Leo Ruickbie concur that witchcraft's early rituals, as devised by Gardner, contained much from Crowley's writings such as the Gnostic Mass. The third degree initiation ceremony in Gardnerian Wicca (including the Great Rite) is derived almost completely from the Gnostic Mass.\n\nGeorg Luck, repeats part of Murray's theory, stating that the Horned God may have appeared in late antiquity, stemming from the merging of Cernunnos, an antlered god of the Continental Celts, with the Greco-Roman Pan/Faunus, a combination of gods which he posits created a new deity, around which the remaining pagans, those refusing to convert to Christianity, rallied and that this deity provided the prototype for later Christian conceptions of the devil, and his worshippers were cast by the Church as witches.\n\nIn 1908's \"The Wind in the Willows\" by Kenneth Grahame, in Chapter 7, \"The Piper at the Gates of Dawn\", Ratty and Mole meet a mystical horned being, powerful, fearsome and kind. Grahame's work was a significant part of the cultural milieu which stripped the Greek god Pan of his cultural identity in favor of an unnamed, generic horned deity which led to Murray's thesis of historical origins.\n\nOutside of works that predate the publication of Murray's thesis, horned god motifs and characters appear in fantasy literature that draws upon her work and that of her followers.\n\nIn the novel \"Childhood's End\" (1953) by Arthur C. Clarke, all humans have a collective premonition, also described as a memory of the future, of horned aliens which arrive to usher in a new phase of human evolution. The collective subconscious image of the horned aliens is what accounts for mankind's image of the devil or Satan. This theme is also explored in the \"Doctor Who\" story \"The Dæmons\" in 1971, where the local superstitions around a landmark known as The Devil's Hump prove to be based on reality, as aliens from the planet Dæmos have been affecting man's progress over the millennia and the Hump actually contains a spacecraft. The only Dæmon to appear is a classic interpretation of a horned satyr-like being with hooves.\n\nIn the critically acclaimed and influential 1950s TV series created by Nigel Kneale, \"Quatermass and the Pit\", depictions of supernatural horned entities, with specific reference to prehistoric cave-art and shamanistic horned head-dress are revealed to be a \"race-memory\" of psychic Martian grasshoppers, manifested at the climax of the film by a fiery horned god.\n\nMurray's theories has been seen to have had influence on \"The Blood on Satan's Claw\" (1971), where a murderous female-led cult worships a horned deity named Behemoth.\n\nMarion Zimmer Bradley, who acknowledges the influence of Murray, uses the figure of the \"horned god\" in her feminist fantasy transformation of Arthurian myth, \"Mists of Avalon\" (1984), and portrays ritualistic incest between King Arthur as the representative of the horned god and his sister Morgaine as the \"spring maiden\".\n\nIn the popular video game \"\", its expansion \"\" has a plot enemy known as Hircine, the Daedric god of the Hunt, who appears as a horned man with the face of a deer skull. He condemned his \"hounds\" (werewolves) to walk the mortal ground during the Bloodmoon until a champion defeats him or Bloodmoon falls. When in combat, Hircine appears as a horned wolf or bear.\n\nThe 1992 \"Discworld\" novel \"Lords and Ladies\", by Terry Pratchett, features a King of the Elves who is strongly reminiscent of the Horned God. Although not worshipped by the witches who are the heroines of the book (indeed, quite the reverse), they temporarily ally themselves with him out of necessity.\n"}
{"id": "27315806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27315806", "title": "Illuminating Hadrian's Wall", "text": "Illuminating Hadrian's Wall\n\nIlluminating Hadrian's Wall was a public event on Hadrian's Wall which took place 13 March 2010 and saw the route of the wall lit with beacons. The event was organised by Hadrian's Wall Heritage Ltd. and coincided with the 1600th anniversary of the end of Roman rule in Britain. \n\nThe 84 mile route was lit by 500 gas beacons, flares and torches at 250m intervals, with the assistance of more than 1000 volunteers. Approximately 120 landowners allowed access onto their lands for the event to take place.\n\nThe project was led by Hadrian’s Wall Heritage Ltd and supported by several other groups, which form part of North East England’s programme of festivals and events. The event marked the beginning of British Tourism week as supported by the Carlisle Tourism Partnership and the 500 points of light were filmed by a helicopter at dusk.\n"}
{"id": "9547941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9547941", "title": "List of Muslim states and dynasties", "text": "List of Muslim states and dynasties\n\n(This article lists some of the states, empires, or dynasties that were ruled by a Muslim elite, or which were in some way central to or a part of a Muslim empire.) \n\nAll the disparate Islamic Empires can all be traced back to Muhammad, as the founder not only of the Islamic faith but also the first leader of the Muslim people. \n\nScholars debate what exactly constitutes an empire. One definition defines an empire as a state that extends dominion over areas and populations culturally and ethnically distinct from the culture/ethnicity at the center of power. \n\nThe early Muslim conquests began in the lifetime of Muhammad. His successors conquered large swaths of the Middle East and North Africa, in addition to parts of southern Europe and the Indian subcontinent, in the decades after his death. The caliphate founded by his earliest successors, called the Rashidun caliphate, was succeeded by the Umayyad caliphate and later the Abbasid caliphate.\n\nWhile the caliphates gradually fractured and fell, other Muslim dynasties rose; some of these dynasties grew into \"Islamic empires\", with some of the most notable being the Safavid, Ottoman, and Mughal Empires.\n\n\n\"Grouped by capital or core region\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSouthern Europe\nEastern Europe\n\n\n\n\nMalay Archipelago (East Indies) (Indonesia,Malaysia and Brunei) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "21288006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21288006", "title": "List of antiquarian societies", "text": "List of antiquarian societies\n\nA list of Antiquarian Societies.\n\nAn antiquarian society is a learned society or professional association for antiquarians, people who study history with particular attention to ancient artifacts, archaeological and historic sites, and/or historic archives and manuscripts.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "104985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104985", "title": "List of events named massacres", "text": "List of events named massacres\n\nThe following is a list of events for which one of the commonly accepted names includes the word \"massacre.\"\n\n\"Massacre\" is defined in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" as \"the indiscriminate and brutal slaughter of people or (less commonly) animals; carnage, butchery, slaughter in numbers\". It also states that the term is used \"in the names of certain massacres of history\".\nThe first recorded use in English of the word \"massacre\" in the name of an event is due to Christopher Marlow who in c. 1600 referred to what is now known as the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre as \"The massacre at Paris\"\n\nThe purpose of the list is to trace such of the term \"massacre\" specifically.\nThere are many alternative terms with similar connotations, such as butchery, carnage, bloodbath, mass killing, atrocity, etc. as well as euphemisms such as \"Vespers\", \"Blutgericht\" or \"attack\", \"incident\", \"tragedy\" (etc.), use of which are outside the scope of this list.\n\"Massacre\" is also used figuratively to describe dramatic events that did not involve any deaths, such as the \"Hilo massacre\" and the \"Saturday Night Massacre\"; this usage is also outside of the scope of this list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13390482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13390482", "title": "List of historical maps", "text": "List of historical maps\n\nThe following is a list of notable extant historical maps.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50954632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50954632", "title": "List of international presidential trips made by Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa", "text": "List of international presidential trips made by Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa\n\nThis is a list of international presidential trips made by Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, the current President of Portugal.\n\n"}
{"id": "890647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=890647", "title": "List of orders of battle", "text": "List of orders of battle\n\nThis is a list of orders of battle, which list the known military units that were located within the field of operations for a battle or campaign. The battles are listed in chronological order by starting date (or planned start date).\n\n"}
{"id": "24241117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24241117", "title": "Main street manager", "text": "Main street manager\n\nA main street manager is a United States professional who helps small cities and towns maintain and improve their main street typically through a government program or public-private partnership. Objectives may include economic, preservation, restoration, marketing, and relations between business, consumers and the government.\n\nThe primary objective is to develop and administer the main street program. The National Trust for Historic Preservation describes ten standards of performance for administering a main street program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27475071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27475071", "title": "Maria Rogers Oral History Program", "text": "Maria Rogers Oral History Program\n\nThe Maria Rogers Oral History Program, or MROHP, collects and archives oral histories about Boulder County. Started in 1976, the program began with a handful of donated interviews, but now includes more than 1600 interviews, available both on the internet and at the Boulder Public Library's Carnegie Branch Library for Local History.\n\nThe Oral History Program is named for Maria M. Rogers, the woman who directed and developed the program for more than twelve years from 1985 to 1997. Maria gleaned information from hundreds of the program's oral history interviews for her book, \"In Other Words: Oral Histories of the Colorado Frontier\", which captures the personal and public history of the pioneers and early residents of Colorado.\n\nThe Maria Rogers Oral History Program Collection contained more than 1,650 interviews as of 2010, with 40 to 100 new interviews being added each year. Many of the interviews have been recorded, transcribed and archived by volunteers for the program. Some interviews have been donated to the collection by other educational, governmental, and cultural organizations or individuals in the community.\n\nThe interviews are about all aspects of life in Boulder County, providing a detailed account of both daily life and major events. The lives of a wide range of people are recorded, including pioneers and other settlers, cattlemen, farmers, housewives, university professors, local government officials and political activists, attorneys, physicians, coal miners, teachers, artists, scientists, and more. Although interviews are drawn from residents of Boulder County, they often cover topics that are of general interest, such as city planning and open space, political activism, mountaineering and issues involving the disposal of nuclear waste, among many others.\n\nDonations from the Rogers family and from the Boulder Library Foundation have allowed the program to digitize all of its interviews and create a digital archive that is linked to the Boulder Public Library's catalog, making it easy to research the contents of the interviews by doing a search for names, places or keywords. \n\nThe collection is housed in the Carnegie Library for Local History, a branch of the Boulder Public Library, located at 1125 Pine Street in Boulder, Colorado. Patrons may listen to audio of all of the interviews or watch DVDs of the newer interviews at the library. Access to files that often include supplementary information about the narrators is also available at the library. \n\nFull audio with summaries or transcripts of the oral histories are also available online at \n\nThere are several special projects that have been conducted consisting of groups of interviews on specific topics related to the history of the city of Boulder and Boulder County. These special collections currently include the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9976532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9976532", "title": "Metahistorical romance", "text": "Metahistorical romance\n\nMetahistorical Romance is a term describing postmodern historical fiction, defined by Amy J. Elias in \"Sublime Desire: History and Post-1960s Fiction.\" Elias defines metahistorical romance as a form of historical fiction continuing the legacy of historical romance inaugurated by Sir Walter Scott but also having ties to contemporary postmodern historiography. In particular, in metahistorical romance, poststructuralist play invokes the \"historical sublime\" as defined in the work of Hayden White. Metahistorical romance--such as Thomas Pynchon's novel \"Mason & Dixon\"--attempts to recuperate the sublime untouchability of the past, to reach History and know it, but paradoxically in the context of the political. As with the Kantian sublime, the postmodern historical sublime is not the grasp of the sublime object itself but a kind of ironic awareness of the inaccessibility of the sublime object. There is a yearning that resembles the yearning for mystical knowledge at the core of the search for the historical sublime, and thus the concept ties contemporary historical fiction to a literary history (that of the historical novel), a type of historiography (postmodern, post-\"Annales\" historiography), and a spiritual questing. Elias argues that the postmodern imagination confronts the historical sublime rather than represses it; confronts it as repetition and deferral; seeks sublime History but simultaneously has lost faith in the storytelling needed to do so; and consequently has ties to, but reverses the dominant of, the traditional Anglo-American historical novel. The term \"metahistorical romance\" also builds upon work by Linda Hutcheon, whose term \"historiographic metafiction\" described the ironic stance of contemporary historical fiction.\n\n"}
{"id": "4555319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4555319", "title": "Mursili's eclipse", "text": "Mursili's eclipse\n\nThe solar eclipse mentioned in a text dating to the reign of Mursili II could be of great importance for the absolute chronology of the Hittite Empire within the chronology of the Ancient Near East. The text records that in the tenth year of Mursili's reign, \"the Sun gave a sign\" (\"\"), just as the king was about to launch a campaign against the Kingdom of Azzi-Hayasa in north-eastern Anatolia.\n\nThe reference in the annals was first interpreted as describing an eclipse by Emil Forrer (1926), Schorr (1928) identified it as the eclipse the of 13 March 1335 BC, visible as annular in Anatolia in the afternoon.\nIt is now more commonly identified as the one of 24 June 1312, which was visible in totality in northern Anatolia in the afternoon. Paul Åström (1993) proposes the alternative date of 13 April 1308, which would have been visible as partial eclipse at sunrise. Peter J. Huber has suggested a date of 8 January 1339 BC.\n\nThe 1312 eclipse occurred over northern Anatolia in the early afternoon, and its effects would have been quite spectacular for Mursili and his men on campaign:\n\nAreas that were inside the maximum eclipse included the islands that are now Barlavento in Cape Verde, the Moorish lands (comprising modern day Mauritania, Western Sahara, Morocco and Algeria), Tunisia (then inner Africa), Greece, the Caucasus region, Persia (now Iran), in the area of the present-day Iranian-Turkmeni border, present-day Afghanistan and Pakistan and a part of the north of India.\n\nThe eclipse started off in modern-day Brazil in South America and finished in what is now Myanmar (also known as Burma).\n\nThe 1312 date would imply that Mursili began his reign in either 1322 or 1321 BC. This date would be roughly that usually proposed for the death of Tutankhamun. It is known that Suppiluliuma I was besieging Carchemish when he received a letter from the widow of a Pharaoh (who is called Dakhamunzu in the annals). Suppiluliuma died shortly thereafter and his successor was Mursili II (whose brother would have been Prince Zannanza sent to Egypt where he died). Thus this appears to be a chronological anchor. However, there are other views, asserting for example that the dead Pharaoh was Akhenaten or that Tutankhamun died later.\n\nIn contrast, the 1308 eclipse was annular, and began very early in the morning over Arabia (and only penumbral over Anatolia and Syria), reaching its height over Central Asia:\n\nOther areas that had inside the band of the annular eclipse included the Indus Delta and parts of Siberia including the New Siberian Islands. The maximum eclipse ended at sunset over the Beaufort Sea along with the Bering Sea and the westernmost portion of Alaska with the west of the Aleutian Islands. The eclipse covered much of Asia except for the southwesternmost portions and the southeastern islands, one of the islands that was near the edge of the eclipse was Honshū, Japan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "409192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409192", "title": "New Chronology (Fomenko)", "text": "New Chronology (Fomenko)\n\nThe New Chronology is a pseudohistorical theory which argues that the conventional chronology of Middle Eastern and European history is fundamentally flawed, and that events attributed to the civilizations of the Roman Empire, Ancient Greece and Ancient Egypt actually occurred during the Middle Ages, more than a thousand years later. The central concepts of the New Chronology are derived from the ideas of Russian scholar Nikolai Morozov (1854–1946), although work by French scholar Jean Hardouin (1646–1729) can be viewed as an earlier predecessor. However, the New Chronology is most commonly associated with Russian mathematician Anatoly Fomenko (born 1945), although published works on the subject are actually a collaboration between Fomenko and several other mathematicians. The concept is most fully explained in \"History: Fiction or Science?\", originally published in Russian.\n\nThe New Chronology also contains \"a reconstruction\", an alternative chronology, radically shorter than the standard historical timeline, because all ancient history is \"folded\" onto the Middle Ages. According to Fomenko's claims, the written history of humankind goes only as far back as AD 800, there is almost no information about events between AD 800–1000, and most known historical events took place in AD 1000–1500.\n\nThe New Chronology is rejected by mainstream historians and is inconsistent with absolute and relative dating techniques used in the wider scholarly community. The majority of scientific commentators consider The New Chronology to be pseudoscientific. Interest in the academia in the theory stems mainly from its popularity which has compelled historians and other scientists to argue against its methods and proposed world history. A second point of interest from the mainstream academic community is to understand why it has become so popular as to perhaps have the sympathy of 30 percent of Russians. It is not really known to which extent readers of New Chronology texts regard it as history or fiction. Nor are there reliable statistics on who the readers are.\n\nThe theory emerged alongside other alternate histories and conspiracy literature in the period of increased freedom of speech that followed the break-up of the Soviet Union. While other authors have written on New Chronology theory, such as Fomenko's junior partner G.V. Nosovskiy and Bulgarian mathematician Iordan Tabov who expanded the theory in regards to the Balkans, the theory is mostly discussed in reference to Fomenko's writings.\n\nThe idea of chronologies that differ from the conventional chronology can be traced back to at least the early 17th century. Jean Hardouin then suggested that many ancient historical documents were much younger than commonly believed to be. In 1685 he published a version of Pliny the Elder's \"Natural History\" in which he claimed that most Greek and Roman texts had been forged by Benedictine monks. When later questioned on these results, Hardouin stated that he would reveal the monks' reasons in a letter to be revealed only after his death. The executors of his estate were unable to find such a document among his posthumous papers. In the 17th century, Sir Isaac Newton, examining the current chronology of Ancient Greece, Ancient Egypt and the Ancient Near East, expressed discontent with prevailing theories and in \"The Chronology of Ancient Kingdoms Amended\" proposed one of his own, which, basing its study on Apollonius of Rhodes's \"Argonautica\", changed the traditional dating of the Argonautic Expedition, the Trojan War, and the Founding of Rome.\n\nIn 1887, Edwin Johnson expressed the opinion that early Christian history was largely invented or corrupted in the 2nd and 3rd centuries.\n\nIn 1909 Otto Rank made note of duplications in literary history of a variety of cultures:\n\nalmost all important civilized peoples have early woven myths around and glorified in poetry their heroes, mythical kings and princes, founders of religions, of dynasties, empires and cities—in short, their national heroes. Especially the history of their birth and of their early years is furnished with phantastic traits; the amazing similarity, nay literal identity, of those tales, even if they refer to different, completely independent peoples, sometimes geographically far removed from one another, is well known and has struck many an investigator.\n\nFomenko became interested in Morozov's theories in 1973. In 1980, together with a few colleagues from the mathematics department of Moscow State University, he published several articles on \"new mathematical methods in history\" in peer-reviewed journals. The articles stirred a lot of controversy, but ultimately Fomenko failed to win any respected historians to his side. By the early 1990s, Fomenko shifted his focus from trying to convince the scientific community via peer-reviewed publications to publishing books. Beam writes that Fomenko and his colleagues were discovered by the Soviet scientific press in the early 1980s, leading to \"a brief period of renown\"; a contemporary review from the Soviet journal \"Questions of History\" complained, \"Their constructions have nothing in common with Marxist historical science.\"\n\nBy 1996 his theory had grown to cover Russia, Turkey, China, Europe, and Egypt.\n\nCentral to Fomenko's New Chronology is his claim of the existence of a vast Slav-Turk empire, which he called the \"Russian Horde\", which he says played the dominant role in Eurasian history before the 17th century. The various peoples identified in ancient and medieval history, from the Scythians, Huns, Goths and Bulgars, through the Polyane, Duleby, Drevliane, Pechenegs, to in more recent times, the Cossacks, Ukrainians, and Belarusians, are nothing but elements of the single Russian Horde. For the New Chronologists, peoples such as the Ukrainians, Belarusians, Mongols, and others who assert their national independence from Russia, are suffering from a historical delusion.\n\nFomenko claims that the most probable prototype of the historical Jesus was Andronikos I Komnenos (allegedly AD 1152 to 1185), the emperor of Byzantium, known for his failed reforms; his traits and deeds reflected in 'biographies' of many real and imaginary persons. The historical Jesus is a composite figure and reflection of the Old-Testament prophet Elisha (850–800 BC?), Pope Gregory VII (1020?–1085), Saint Basil of Caesarea (330–379), and even Li Yuanhao (also known as Emperor Jingzong or \"Son of Heaven\" - emperor of Western Xia, who reigned in 1032–48), Euclides, Bacchus and Dionysius. Fomenko explains the seemingly vast differences in the biographies of these figures as resulting from difference in languages, points of view and time-frame of the authors of said accounts and biographies. He claims that the historical Jesus may have been born in 1152 and was crucified around AD 1185 on the Joshua's Hill, overlooking the Bosphorus.\n\nFomenko also merges the cities and histories of Jerusalem, Rome and Troy into \"New Rome\" = Gospel Jerusalem (in the 12th and 13th centuries) = Troy = Yoros Castle. To the south of Yoros Castle is Joshua's Hill which Fomenko alleges is the hill Calvary depicted in the Bible.\n\nFomenko claims the Hagia Sophia is actually the biblical Temple of Solomon. He identifies Solomon as sultan Suleiman the Magnificent (1494–1566).\n\nOn the other hand, according to Fomenko the word \"Rome\" is a placeholder and can signify any one of several different cities and kingdoms. He claims the \"First Rome\" or \"Ancient Rome\" or \"Mizraim\" is an ancient Egyptian kingdom in the delta of the Nile with its capital in Alexandria. The second and most famous \"New Rome\" is Constantinople. The third \"Rome\" is constituted by three different cities: Constantinople (again), Rome in Italy, and Moscow. According to his claims, Rome in Italy was founded around AD 1380 by Aeneas and Moscow as the third Rome was the capital of the great \"Russian Horde\". \n\nIn volumes 1, 2, 3 and 4 of \"History: Fiction or Science?\", Fomenko and his colleagues make numerous claims:\n\nOne might wonder why we should want to revise the chronology of ancient history today and base our revision on new empirical-statistical methods. It would be worthwhile to remind the reader that in the XVI-XVII century chronology was considered to be a subdivision of mathematics.\n\nThe vocabulary of Egyptian astronomical symbols once applied to horoscopes from temples allows for extraction of unique dates of eclipses. Astronomical data therein contained is sufficient for unique dating. There are symbols allowing for astronomical interpretation and the symbols do not change from one temple horoscope to another. The horoscopes from temples contain data about eclipses visible in Egypt allowing their exact pinpointing on the time axis.\n\nAs we have already noted, the inability of the latter day commentators to comprehend the astronomical symbolism of the Apocalypse is directly resulting from the loss of knowledge about the correct chronology and the distortions introduced by historians of the XVI-XVIII century. Another possibility is that there was an unspoken general taboo on what concerned a subject quite as dangerous, which resulted in the misdating of the Apocalypse. One way or another, the understanding of the astronomical descriptions that the Apocalypse contains got lost at some point. The Apocalypse had lost its distinctive astronomical hue in the eyes of the readers. However, its “astronomical component” is not simply exceptionally important – it alone suffices for the dating of the book itself.\n\nThe vocabulary of Babylonian astronomical symbols once applied to clay tablets don't allow for extraction of unique dates of eclipses. Astronomical data therein contained is not sufficient for unique dating. Either there not enough symbols allowing for astronomical interpretation or the symbols change from one clay tablet to another. The clay tablets contain data about eclipses visible in Babylon that could have taken place every 30-40 years, therefore don’t allow there exact pinpointing on the time axis.\n\nChinese eclipse observations can neither confirm nor refute any chronology of China at all, be it veracious or erroneous.\nOne of Fomenko's simplest methods is statistical correlation of texts. His basic assumption is that a text which describes a sequence of events will devote more space to more important events (for example, a period of war or an unrest will have much more space devoted to than a period of peaceful, non-eventful years), and that this irregularity will remain visible in other descriptions of the period. For each analysed text, a function is devised which maps each year mentioned in the text with the number of pages (lines, letters) devoted in the text to its description (which could be zero). The function of the two texts are then compared.\n\nFor example, Fomenko compares the contemporary history of Rome written by Titus Livius with a modern history of Rome written by Russian historian V. S. Sergeev, calculating that the two have high correlation, and thus that they describe the same period of history, which is undisputed. He also compares modern texts which describe different periods, and calculates low correlation, as expected. However, when he compares, for example, the ancient history of Rome and the medieval history of Rome, he calculates a high correlation, and concludes that ancient history of Rome is a copy of medieval history of Rome, thus clashing with mainstream accounts.\n\nIn a somewhat similar manner, Fomenko compares two dynasties of rulers using statistical methods. First, he creates a database of rulers, containing relevant information on each of them. Then, he creates \"survey codes\" for each pair of the rulers, which contain a number which describes degree of the match of each considered property of two rulers. For example, one of the properties is the way of death: if two rulers were both poisoned, they get value of +1 in their property of the way of death; if one ruler was poisoned and another killed in combat, they get -1; and if one was poisoned, and another died of illness, they get 0 (Fomenko claims there is possibility that chroniclers were not impartial and that different descriptions nonetheless describe the same person). An important property is the length of the rule.\n\nFomenko lists a number of pairs of unrelated dynasties – for example, dynasties of kings of Israel and emperors of late Western Roman Empire (AD 300-476) – and claims that this method demonstrates correlations between their reigns. (Graphs which show just the length of the rule in the two dynasties are the most widely known; however, Fomenko's conclusions are also based on other parameters, as described above.) He also claims that the regnal history from the 17th to 20th centuries never shows correlation of \"dynastic flows\" with each other, therefore Fomenko insists history was multiplied and outstretched into imaginary antiquity to justify this or other \"royal\" pretensions.\n\nFomenko uses for the demonstration of correlation between the reigns exclusively the data from the \"Chronological Tables\" of J. Blair (Moscow 1808–09). Fomenko says that Blair’s tables are all the more valuable to us since they were compiled in an epoch adjacent to the time of Scaligerian chronology. According to Fomenko these tables contain clearer signs of “Scaligerite activity” which were subsequently buried under layers of paint and plaster by historians of the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nFomenko examines astronomical events described in ancient texts and claims that the chronology is actually medieval. For example:\n\n\nOn archaeological dating methods, Fomenko claims:\n\nDendrochronology is rejected with a claim that, for dating of objects much older than the oldest still living trees, it isn't an absolute, but a relative dating method, and thus dependent on traditional chronology. Fomenko specifically points to a break of dendrochronological scales around AD 1000.\n\nFomenko also cites a number of cases where carbon dating of a series of objects of known age gave significantly different dates. He also alleges undue cooperation between physicists and archaeologists in obtaining the dates, since most radiocarbon dating labs only accept samples with an age estimate suggested by historians or archaeologists. Fomenko also claims that carbon dating over the range of AD 1 to 2000 is inaccurate because it has too many sources of error that are either guessed at or completely ignored, and that calibration is done with a statistically meaningless number of samples.\nConsequently, Fomenko concludes that carbon dating is not accurate enough to be used on historical scale.\n\nFomenko rejects numismatic dating as circular, being based on the traditional chronology, and points to cases of similar coins being minted in distant periods, unexplained long periods with no coins minted and cases of mismatch of numismatic dating with historical accounts.\n\nFomenko's historical ideas have been universally rejected by mainstream scholars, who brand them as pseudoscience, but were popularized by former world chess champion Garry Kasparov. Billington writes that the theory \"might have quietly blown away in the wind tunnels of academia\" if not for Kasparov's writing in support of it in the magazine \"Ogoniok\". Kasparov met Fomenko during the 1990s, and found that Fomenko's conclusions concerning certain subjects were identical to his own regarding the popular view (which is not the view of academics) that art and culture died during the Dark Ages and were not revived until the Renaissance. Kasparov also felt it illogical that the Romans and the Greeks living under the banner of Byzantium could fail to use the mounds of scientific knowledge left them by Ancient Greece and Rome, especially when it was of urgent military use. However, Kasparov does not support the reconstruction part of the New Chronology. Russian critics tended to see Fomenko's New Chronology as \"an embarrassment and a potent symbol of the depths to which the Russian academy and society have generally sunk ... since the fall of Communism\". Western critics see his views as part of a renewed Russian imperial ideology, \"keeping alive an imperial consciousness and secular messianism in Russia\".\n\nIn 2004 at the Moscow International Book Fair, Anatoly Fomenko with his coauthor Gleb Nosovsky were awarded for their books on \"New Chronology\" the anti-prize called (literally 'paragraph', a Russian slang word meaning 'disaster' or 'fiasco') in the category \"Pochotnaya bezgramota\" (the term is a pun upon \"Pochotnaya gramota\" (Certificate of Honor) and may be translated either \"Certificate of Dishonor\" or literally, \"Respectable Illiteracy\" ) for the worst book published in Russia.\n\nCritics have accused Fomenko of altering the data to improve the fit with his ideas and have noted that he violates a key rule of statistics by selecting matches from the historical record which support his chronology, while ignoring those which do not, creating artificial, better-than-chance correlations, and that these practices undermine Fomenko's statistical arguments. The new chronology was given a comprehensive critical analysis in a round table on \"The 'Myths' of New Chronology\" chaired by the dean of the department of history of Moscow State University in December 1999. One of the participants in that round table, the distinguished Russian archaeologist, Valentin Yanin, compared Fomenko's work to \"the sleight of hand trickery of a David Copperfield\". Linguist Andrey Zaliznyak argued that by using the Fomenko's approaches one can \"prove\" any historical correspondence, for example, between Ancient Egyptian pharaohs and French kings.\n\nJames Billington, formerly professor of Russian history at Harvard and Princeton and the Librarian of Congress from 1987-2015 placed Fomenko's work within the context of the political movement of Eurasianism, which sought to tie Russian history closely to that of its Asian neighbors. Billington describes Fomenko as ascribing the belief in past hostility between Russia and the Mongols to the influence of Western historians. Thus, by Fomenko's chronology, \"Russia and Turkey are parts of a previously single empire.\" A French reviewer of Billington's book noted approvingly his concern with the phantasmagorical conceptions of Fomenko about the global \"new chronology\".\n\nH.G. van Bueren, professor emeritus of astronomy at the University of Utrecht, concluded his scathing review of Fomenko's work on the application of mathematics and astronomy to historical data as follows:\n\nWhile Fomenko rejects commonly accepted dating methods, archaeologists, conservators and other scientists make extensive use of such techniques which have been rigorously examined and refined during decades of use.\n\nIn the specific case of dendrochronology, Fomenko claims that this fails as an absolute dating method because of gaps in the record. However, independent dendrochronological sequences beginning with living trees from various parts of North America and Europe extend back 12,400 years into the past. Furthermore, the mutual consistency of these independent dendrochronological sequences has been confirmed by comparing their radiocarbon and dendrochronological ages. These and other data have provided a calibration curve for radiocarbon dating whose internal error does not exceed ±163 years over the entire 26,000 years of the curve.\n\nIn fact, archaeologists have developed a \"fully anchored\" dendrochronology series going back past 10,000 BCE. \"The absolutely dated tree-ring chronology now extends back to 12,410 cal BP (10,461 BC).\"\n\nCritics of Fomenko's theory claim that his use of historical sources is highly selective and ignores the basic principles of sound historical scholarship.\nFomenko ... provides no fair-minded review of the historical literature about a topic with which he deals, quotes only those sources that serve his purposes, uses evidence in ways that seem strange to professionally-trained historians and asserts the wildest speculation as if it has the same status as the information common to the conventional historical literature.\nThey also note that his method of statistically correlating of texts is very rough, because it does not take into account the many possible sources of variation in length outside of \"importance\". They maintain that differences in language, style, and scope, as well as the frequently differing views and focuses of historians, which are manifested in a different notion of \"important events\", make quantifying historical writings a dubious proposition at best. What's more, Fomenko's critics allege that the parallelisms he reports are often derived by alleged forcing by Fomenko of the data – rearranging, merging, and removing monarchs as needed to fit the pattern.\n\nFor example, on the one hand Fomenko asserts that the vast majority of ancient sources are either irreparably distorted duplicate accounts of the same events or later forgeries. In his identification of Jesus with Pope Gregory VII he ignores the otherwise vast dissimilarities between their reported lives and focuses on the similarity of their appointment to religious office by baptism. (The evangelical Jesus is traditionally believed to have lived for 33 years, and he was an adult at the time of his encounter with John the Baptist. In contrast, according to the available primary sources, Pope Gregory VII lived for at least 60 years and was born 8 years after the death of Fomenko's John-the-Baptist equivalent John Crescentius.)\n\nCritics allege that many of the supposed correlations of regnal durations are the product of the selective parsing and blending of the dates, events, and individuals mentioned in the original text. Another point raised by critics is that Fomenko does not explain his altering the data (changing the order of rulers, dropping rulers, combining rulers, treating interregna as rulers, switching between theologians and emperors, etc.) preventing a duplication of the effort and effectively making this whole theory an ad hoc hypothesis.\n\nCritics point out that Fomenko's discussion of astronomical phenomena tends to be selective, choosing isolated examples that support the New Chronology and ignoring the large bodies of data that provide statistically supported evidence for the conventional dating. For his dating of the Almagest star catalog, Fomenko arbitrarily selected eight stars from the more than 1000 stars in the catalog, one of which (Arcturus) has a large systematic error. This star has a dominant effect on Fomenko's dating. Statistical analysis using the same method for all \"fast\" stars points to the antiquity of the Almagest star catalog. Rawlins points out further that Fomenko's statistical analysis got the wrong date for the \"Almagest\" because he took as constant Earth's obliquity when it is a variable that changes at a very slow, but known, rate.\n\nFomenko's studies ignore the abundance of dated astronomical records in cuneiform texts from Mesopotamia. Among these texts is a series of Babylonian astronomical diaries, which records precise astronomical observations of the Moon and planets, often dated in terms of the reigns of known historical figures extending back to the 6th century BCE. Astronomical retrocalculations for all these moving objects allow us to date these observations, and consequently the rulers' reigns, to within a single day. The observations are sufficiently redundant that only a small portion of them are sufficient to date a text to a unique year in the period 750 BCE to 100 CE. The dates obtained agree with the accepted chronology. In addition, F. R. Stephenson has demonstrated through a systematic study of a large number of Babylonian, Ancient and Medieval European, and Chinese records of eclipse observations that they can be dated consistently with conventional chronology at least as far back as 600 BCE. In contrast to Fomenko's missing centuries, Stephenson's studies of eclipse observations find an accumulated uncertainty in the timing of the rotation of the earth of 420 seconds at 400 BCE, and only 80 seconds at 1000 CE.\n\nFomenko states that world history prior to 1600 was deliberately falsified for political reasons. The consequences of this conspiracy theory are twofold. Documents that conflict with New Chronology are said to have been edited or fabricated by conspirators; the Vatican, the Holy Roman Empire and pro-German Romanov dynasty. New Chronology taps traditionally Russian anti-Western thoughts and ideas of Germany as a chief enemy. Further, the theory is Russocentric diminishing achievements of other cultures and claiming major civilization accomplishments as Russian and by proposing a giant \"Russian Horde\" empire and eliminating historical time before its existence. The theory also claimed to undermine nationalism in countries neighboring Russia by positioning divisions and conflicts as fabricated. Unlike other popular conspiracy theories New Chronology is not anti-semitic \"per se\", but it contains claims that may be unwelcome by Jewish communities like that the Old Testament is newer than the New Testament, placing Jerusalem in Constantinople and projecting stereotypes of Jews by proposing that Jews originate from bankers in the Russian Horde that adopted the religion of Judaism, itself a derivative of Christianity and not the other way round. \n\nThe theory provides an alternate history account of the \"true\" history centered around a world empire called the \"Russian Horde\". The scope of the New Chronology has been compared to J. R. R. Tolkien's fantasy world. Thousands of pages has been written about it and authors address a wide range of objections.\n\nFomenko has published and sold over one million copies of his books in his native Russia. Many Internet forums have appeared which aim to supplement his work with additional amateur research. His critics have suggested that Fomenko's version of history appealed to the Russian reading public by keeping alive an imperial consciousness to replace their disillusionment with the failures of Communism and post-Communist corporate oligarchies.\n\n\nVol.1: The Development of the Statistical Tools. Vol.2: The Analysis of Ancient and Medieval\nRecords. – Kluwer Academic Publishers. The Netherlands, 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "3402732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3402732", "title": "Outline of history", "text": "Outline of history\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to history:\n\nHistory – discovery, collection, organization, and presentation of information about past events. History can also mean the period of time after writing was invented (the beginning of recorded history).\nHistory can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\nAuxiliary sciences of history – scholarly disciplines which help evaluate and use historical sources and are seen as auxiliary for historical research. Auxiliary sciences of history include, but are not limited to:\n\n\nHistory by period\n\n\n\n\n\nRegional history\n\n\nEra\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHistorian \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12778232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12778232", "title": "Paul Chiasson", "text": "Paul Chiasson\n\nPaul Chiasson is a Canadian architect (M.Arch. Yale '81) author, who has written pseudohistories about the settlement of North America.\n\nIn his first book, \"The Island of Seven Cities: Where the Chinese Settled When They Discovered America\", Chiasson explains his belief that Chinese voyagers settled in the Cape Dauphin area of Nova Scotia almost a century before the voyages of Christopher Columbus. He suggests that the indigenous Mi'kmaq culture was influenced by these people in the form of possible archaeological remains, customs, costumes, art and even written language.\n\nHis theory has been rejected by mainstream historians. Provincial archaeologists and a geologist have said that some of Chiasson's physical evidence of a Chinese settlement—a road up the side of Cape Dauphin and the stone remains of a wall surrounding the site —were actually built in 1952 by a volunteer fire company fighting a forest fire and again in the 1990s by a gravel company attempting to dig gravel on the cape. Chiasson challenges these statements in his second book, \"Written in the Ruins: Cape Breton Island's Second Pre-Columbian Chinese Settlement.\"\n\nIn December 2010, several years after the reports of the Nova Scotian archeologists, History Television aired a one-hour documentary entitled \"Mysterious Ruins: Cape Breton\". The documentary explored Chiasson's theory and included interviews with an archeologist and a geologist from the area who viewed the site that Chiasson posits was the location of a pre-Columbian Chinese community. Geologist Sandra Barr of Acadia University and archaeologist Steve Davis of St. Mary's University stated that they found no evidence of any human settlement on the site. Acadia University reported that \"their explanations are mostly ignored in the film.\" The documentary also included interviews with several Chinese architectural historians. Dr. Zhu Guangya, Professor of Architectural History at Southeast University, Nanjing stated (translation), \"I believe the site is a ruin from a human settlement. Further study is required to confirm what kind of settlement it is.\" Professor Fang Yong said that \"“I feel that what he has found is not yet enough to prove that it is ruins of a Chinese settlement, but it is possible.”\n\n"}
{"id": "3091094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3091094", "title": "Phantom time hypothesis", "text": "Phantom time hypothesis\n\nThe phantom time hypothesis is a historical conspiracy theory asserted by Heribert Illig. First published in 1991, it hypothesizes a conspiracy by the Holy Roman Emperor Otto III, Pope Sylvester II, and possibly the Byzantine Emperor Constantine VII, to fabricate the Anno Domini dating system retrospectively, in order to place them at the special year of AD 1000, and to rewrite history to legitimize Otto's claim to the Holy Roman Empire. Illig believed that this was achieved through the alteration, misrepresentation and forgery of documentary and physical evidence. According to this scenario, the entire Carolingian period, including the figure of Charlemagne, is a fabrication, with a \"phantom time\" of 297 years (AD 614–911) added to the Early Middle Ages. The proposal has been universally rejected by mainstream historians.\n\nIllig was born in 1947 in Vohenstrauß, Bavaria.\nHe was active in an association dedicated to Immanuel Velikovsky, catastrophism and historical revisionism,\n\"Gesellschaft zur Rekonstruktion der Menschheits- und Naturgeschichte\".\nFrom 1989 to 1994 he acted as editor of the journal \"Vorzeit-Frühzeit-Gegenwart\".\nSince 1995, he has worked as a publisher and author under his own publishing company, \"Mantis-Verlag\", and publishing his own journal, \"Zeitensprünge\".\nOutside of his publications related to revised chronology, he has edited the works of Egon Friedell.\n\nBefore focusing on the early medieval period, Illig published various proposals for revised chronologies of prehistory and of Ancient Egypt.\nHis proposals received prominent coverage in German popular media in the 1990s. His 1996 \"Das erfundene Mittelalter\" also received scholarly recensions, but was universally rejected as fundamentally flawed by historians.\nIn 1997, the journal \"Ethik und Sozialwissenschaften\" offered a platform for critical discussion to Illig's proposal, with a number of historians commenting on its various aspects.\nAfter 1997, there has been little scholarly reception of Illig's ideas, although they continued to be discussed as pseudohistory in German popular media.\nIllig continued to publish on the \"phantom time hypothesis\" until at least 2013.\nAlso in 2013, he published on an unrelated topic of art history, on German Renaissance master Anton Pilgram, but again proposing revisions to conventional chronology, and arguing for the abolition of the art historical category of Mannerism.\n\nThe bases of Illig's hypothesis include:\n\n\nPublications by Illig:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "158687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158687", "title": "Pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact theories", "text": "Pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact theories\n\nPre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact theories relate to visits or interactions with the Americas and/or indigenous peoples of the Americas by people from Africa, Asia, Europe, or Oceania before Columbus's first voyage to the Caribbean in 1492. Such contact is generally accepted in prehistory, but has been hotly debated in the historic period.\n\nTwo historical cases of pre-Columbian contact are accepted amongst the scientific and scholarly mainstream. Successful explorations led to Norse settlement of Greenland and the L'Anse aux Meadows settlement in Newfoundland some 500 years before Columbus.\n\nThe scientific and scholarly responses to other post-prehistory, pre-Columbian contact claims have varied. Some such contact claims are examined in reputable peer-reviewed sources. Other contact claims, typically based on circumstantial and ambiguous interpretations of archaeological finds, cultural comparisons, comments in historical documents, and narrative accounts, have been dismissed as fringe science or pseudoarcheology.\n\nNorse journeys to Greenland and Canada are supported by historical and archaeological evidence. A Norse colony in Greenland was established in the late 10th century, and lasted until the mid 15th century, with court and parliament assemblies (\"þing\") taking place at Brattahlíð and a bishop at Garðar. The remains of a Norse settlement at L'Anse aux Meadows in Newfoundland, Canada, were discovered in 1960 and are dated to around the year 1000 (carbon dating estimate 990–1050 CE), L'Anse aux Meadows is the only site widely accepted as evidence of pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact. It was named a World Heritage site by UNESCO in 1978. It is also notable for its possible connection with the attempted colony of Vinland established by Leif Erikson around the same period or, more broadly, with Norse exploration of the Americas.\n\nFew sources describing contact between indigenous peoples and Norse people exist. Contact between the Thule people (ancestors of the modern Inuit) and Norse between the 12th or 13th centuries is known. The Norse Greenlanders called these incoming settlers \"skrælingar\". Conflict between the Greenlanders and the \"skrælings\" is recorded in the \"Icelandic Annals\". The term skrælings is also used in the Vínland sagas, which relate to events during the 10th century, when describing trade and conflict with native peoples.\n\nThe sweet potato, which is native to the Americas, was widespread in Polynesia when Europeans first reached the Pacific. Sweet potato has been radiocarbon-dated in the Cook Islands to 1000 CE, and current thinking is that it was brought to central Polynesia c. 700 CE and spread across Polynesia from there. It has been suggested that it was brought by Polynesians who had traveled to South America and back, or that South Americans brought it to the Pacific. It is possible that the plant could successfully float across the ocean if discarded from the cargo of a boat. Phylogenetic analysis supports the hypothesis of at least two separate introductions of sweet potatoes from South America into Polynesia, including one before and one after European contact. (see also #Linguistics.)\n\nA team of academics headed by the University of York's Mummy Research Group and BioArch, while examining a Peruvian mummy at the Bolton Museum, found that it had been embalmed using a tree resin. Before this it was thought that Peruvian mummies were naturally preserved. The resin, found to be that of an \"Araucaria\" conifer related to the 'monkey puzzle tree', was from a variety found only in Oceania and probably New Guinea. \"Radiocarbon dating of both the resin and body by the University of Oxford's radiocarbon laboratory confirmed they were essentially contemporary, and date to around CE 1200.\"\n\nResearchers including Kathryn Klar and Terry Jones have proposed a theory of contact between Hawaiians and the Chumash people of Southern California between 400 and 800 CE. The sewn-plank canoes crafted by the Chumash and neighboring Tongva are unique among the indigenous peoples of North America, but similar in design to larger canoes used by Polynesians for deep-sea voyages. \"Tomolo'o\", the Chumash word for such a craft, may derive from \"kumula'au\", the Hawaiian term for the logs from which shipwrights carve planks to be sewn into canoes. The analogous Tongva term, \"tii'at\", is unrelated. If it occurred, this contact left no genetic legacy in California or Hawaii. This theory has attracted limited media attention within California, but most archaeologists of the Tongva and Chumash cultures reject it on the grounds that the independent development of the sewn-plank canoe over several centuries is well-represented in the material record.\n\nThe existence of chicken bones dating from 1321 to 1407 in Chile and thought to be genetically linked to South Pacific Island chicken landraces suggested further evidence of South Pacific contact with South America. The genetic link between the South American Mapuche (to whom the chickens were thought to originally belong) chicken bones and South Pacific Island species has been rejected by a more recent genetic study which concluded that \"The analysis of ancient and modern specimens reveals a unique Polynesian genetic signature\" and that \"a previously reported connection between pre-European South America and Polynesian chickens most likely resulted from contamination with modern DNA, and that this issue is likely to confound ancient DNA studies involving haplogroup E chicken sequences.\"\n\nIn recent years, evidence has emerged suggesting a possibility of pre-Columbian contact between the Mapuche people (Araucanians) of south-central Chile and Polynesians. Chicken bones found at the site El Arenal in the Arauco Peninsula, an area inhabited by Mapuche, support a pre-Columbian introduction of chicken to South America. The bones found in Chile were radiocarbon-dated to between 1304 and 1424, before the arrival of the Spanish. Chicken DNA sequences taken were matched to those of chickens in American Samoa and Tonga, and dissimilar to European chicken. However, a later report in the same journal looking at the same mtDNA concluded that the Chilean chicken specimen clusters with the same European/Indian subcontinental/Southeast Asian sequences, providing no support for a Polynesian introduction of chickens to South America.\n\nDutch linguists and specialists in Amerindian languages Willem Adelaar and Pieter Muysken have suggested that two lexical items may be shared by Polynesian languages and languages of South America. One is the name of the sweet potato, which was domesticated in the New World. Proto-Polynesian *\"kumala\" (compare Easter Island \"kumara\", Hawaiian \"ʻuala\", Māori \"kumāra\"; apparent cognates outside Eastern Polynesian may be borrowed from Eastern Polynesian languages, calling Proto-Polynesian status and age into question) may be connected with Quechua and Aymara \"k’umar ~ k’umara\". A possible second is the word for 'stone axe', Easter Island \"toki\", New Zealand Maori \"toki\" 'adze', Mapuche \"toki\", and further afield, Yurumanguí \"totoki\" 'axe'. According to Adelaar and Muysken, the similarity in the word for sweet potato \"constitutes near proof of incidental contact between inhabitants of the Andean region and the South Pacific\", though according to Adelaar and Muysken the word for axe is not as convincing. The authors argue that the presence of the word for sweet potato suggests sporadic contact between Polynesia and South America, but no migrations.\n\nIn December 2007, several human skulls were found in a museum in Concepción, Chile. These skulls originated from Mocha Island, an island just off the coast of Chile in the Pacific Ocean, formerly inhabited by the Mapuche. Craniometric analysis of the skulls, according to Lisa Matisoo-Smith of the University of Otago and José Miguel Ramírez Aliaga of the Universidad de Valparaíso, suggests that the skulls have \"Polynesian features\" – such as a pentagonal shape when viewed from behind, and rocker jaws.\n\nFrom 2007 to 2009, geneticist Erik Thorsby and colleagues have published two studies in \"Tissue Antigens\" that evidence an Amerindian genetic contribution to the Easter Island population, determining that it was probably introduced before European discovery of the island.\n\nIn 2014, geneticist Anna-Sapfo Malaspinas of The Center for GeoGenetics at the University of Copenhagen published a study in \"Current Biology\" that found human genetic evidence of contact between the populations of Easter Island and South America, approximately 600 years ago (i.e. 1400 CE ± 100 years).\n\nSome members of the now extinct Botocudo people, who lived in the interior of Brazil, were found in research published in 2013 to have been members of mtDNA haplogroup B4a1a1, which is normally found only among Polynesians and other subgroups of Austronesians. This was based on an analysis of fourteen skulls. Two belonged to B4a1a1 (while twelve belonged to subclades of mtDNA Haplogroup C1 common among Native Americans). The research team examined various scenarios, none of which they could say for certain were correct. They dismissed a scenario of direct contact in prehistory between Polynesia and Brazil as \"too unlikely to be seriously entertained.\" While B4a1a1 is also found among the Malagasy people of Madagascar (which experienced significant Austronesian settlement in prehistory), the authors described as \"fanciful\" suggestions that B4a1a1 among the Botocudo resulted from the African slave trade (which included Madagascar).\n\nA genetic study published in \"Nature\" in July 2015 stated that \"some Amazonian Native Americans descend partly from a ... founding population that carried ancestry more closely related to indigenous Australians, New Guineans and Andaman Islanders than to any present-day Eurasians or Native Americans\". The authors, who included David Reich, added: \"This signature is not present to the same extent, or at all, in present-day Northern and Central Americans or in a ~12,600-year-old Clovis-associated genome, suggesting a more diverse set of founding populations of the Americas than previously accepted.\" This appears to conflict with an article published roughly simultaneously in \"Science\" which adopts the previous consensus perspective. The ancestors of all Native Americans entered the Americas as a single migration wave from Siberia no earlier than ~23 ka, separate from the Inuit and diversified into \"northern\" and \"southern\" Native American branches ~13 ka. There is evidence of post-divergence gene flow between some Native Americans and groups related to East Asians/Inuit and Australo-Melanesians .\n\nSimilar cultures of peoples across the Bering Strait in both Siberia and Alaska suggest human travel between the two places ever since the strait was formed. After Paleo-Indians arrived during the Ice Age and began the settlement of the Americas, a second wave of people from Asia came to Alaska around 8000 BC. These \"Na-Dene\" peoples, who share many linguistic and genetic similarities not found in other parts of the Americas, populated the far north of the Americas and only made it as south as Oasisamerica. By 4000 BC, it is theorized, \"Eskimo\" peoples began coming to the Americas from Siberia. \"Eskimo\" tribes live today in both Asia and North America and there is much evidence they lived in Asia even in prehistoric times.\n\nBronze artifacts discovered in a 1,000-year-old house in Alaska suggest pre-Columbian trade. Bronze working had not been developed in Alaska at the time and suggest the bronze came from nearby Asia—possibly China, Korea, or Russia. Also inside the house were found the remains of obsidian artifacts, which have a chemical signature that indicates the obsidian is from the Anadyr River valley in Russia.\n\nA 2013 genetic study suggests the possibility of contact between Ecuador and East Asia. The study suggests that the contact could have been trans-oceanic or a late-stage coastal migration that did not leave genetic imprints in North America. This contact could explain the alleged similarity between the pottery of the Valdivia culture of Ecuador and the Jōmon culture of Northeast Asia.\n\nOther researchers have argued that the Olmec civilization came into existence with the help of Chinese refugees, particularly at the end of the Shang dynasty. In 1975, Betty Meggers of the Smithsonian Institution argued that the Olmec civilization originated due to Shang Chinese influences around 1200 BCE. In a 1996 book, Mike Xu, with the aid of Chen Hanping, claimed that celts from La Venta bear Chinese characters. These claims are unsupported by mainstream Mesoamerican researchers.\n\nOther claims have been made for early Chinese contact with North America.\n\nIn 1882 artifacts identified at the time as Chinese coins were discovered in British Columbia. A contemporary account states that:In the summer of 1882 a miner found on De Foe (Deorse?) creek, Cassiar district, Br. Columbia, thirty Chinese coins in the auriferous sand, twenty-five feet below the surface. They appeared to have been strung, but on taking them up the miner let them drop apart. The earth above and around them was as compact as any in the neighborhood. One of these coins I examined at the store of Chu Chong in Victoria. Neither in metal nor markings did it resemble the modern coins, but in its figures looked more like an Aztec calendar. So far as I can make out the markings, this is a Chinese chronological cycle of sixty years, invented by Emperor Huungti, 2637 BCE, and circulated in this form to make his people remember it. In 1885, a vase containing similar discs was also discovered, wrapped in the roots of a tree around 300 years old. Grant Keddie, Curator of Archeology at the Royal BC Museum, examined a photograph of a coin from Cassiar taken in the 1940s (whereabouts now unknown) and he believes that the character style and the evidence that it was machine-ground show it to be a 19th-century copy of a Ming Dynasty temple token.\n\nA group of Chinese Buddhist missionaries led by Hui Shen before 500 CE claimed to have visited a location called Fusang. Although Chinese mapmakers placed this territory on the Asian coast, others have suggested as early as the 1800s that Fusang might have been in North America, due to perceived similarities between portions of the California coast and Fusang as depicted by Asian sources.\n\nIn his book \"1421: The Year China Discovered the World\", the British author Gavin Menzies made the controversial claim that the fleet of Zheng He arrived in America in 1421. Professional historians contend that Zheng He reached the eastern coast of Africa, and dismiss Menzies's hypothesis as entirely without proof.\n\nIn 1973 and 1975 doughnut-shaped stones were discovered off the coast of California that resembled stone anchors used by Chinese fishermen. These (sometimes called the \"Palos Verdes stones\") were initially thought to be up to 1500 years old and proof of pre-Columbian contact by Chinese sailors. Later geological investigations showed them to be a local rock known as Monterey shale, and they are thought to have been used by Chinese settlers fishing off the coast in the nineteenth century.\n\nIn June 2016, Purdue University published the results of research on six metal and composite metal artifacts excavated from a late prehistoric archaeological context at Cape Espenberg on the northern coast of the Seward Peninsula in Alaska. Also part of the research team was Robert J. Speakman, of the Center for Applied Isotope Studies at the University of Georgia, and Victor Mair, of East Asian Languages and Civilizations at the University of Pennsylvania. The report is the first evidence that metal from Asia reached prehistoric North America before the contact with Europeans, stating that X-ray fluorescence identified two of these artifacts as smelted industrial alloys with large proportions of tin and lead. The presence of smelted alloys in a prehistoric Inuit context in northwest Alaska was demonstrated for the first time and indicates the movement of Eurasian metal across the Bering Strait into North America before sustained contact with Europeans.\n\nSmithsonian archaeologist Betty Meggers wrote that pottery associated with the Valdivia culture of coastal Ecuador dated to 3000–1500 BCE exhibited similarities to pottery produced during the Jōmon period in Japan, arguing that contact between the two cultures might explain the similarities. Chronological and other problems have led most archaeologists to dismiss this idea as implausible. The suggestion has been made that the resemblances (which are not complete) are simply due to the limited number of designs possible when incising clay.\n\nAlaskan anthropologist Nancy Yaw Davis claims that the Zuni people of New Mexico exhibit linguistic and cultural similarities to the Japanese. The Zuni language is a linguistic isolate, and Davis contends that the culture appears to differ from that of the surrounding natives in terms of blood type, endemic disease, and religion. Davis speculates that Buddhist priests or restless peasants from Japan may have crossed the Pacific in the 13th century, traveled to the American Southwest, and influenced Zuni society.\n\nIn the 1890s, lawyer and politician James Wickersham argued that pre-Columbian contact between Japanese sailors and Native Americans was highly probable, given that from the early 17th century to the mid-19th century several dozen Japanese ships were carried from Asia to North America along the powerful Kuroshio Currents. Such Japanese ships landed from the Aleutian Islands in the north to Mexico in the south, carrying a total of 293 persons in the 23 cases where head-counts were given in historical records. In most cases, the Japanese sailors gradually made their way home on merchant vessels. In 1834 a dismasted, rudderless Japanese ship crashed near Cape Flattery. Three survivors of the ship were enslaved by Makahs for a period before being rescued by members of the Hudson's Bay Company. They were never able to return to their homeland due to Japan's isolationist policy. Another Japanese ship crashed in about 1850 near the mouth of the Columbia River, Wickersham writes, and the sailors were assimilated into the local Native American population. While admitting there was no definitive proof of pre-Columbian contact between Japanese and North Americans, Wickersham thought it implausible that such contacts as outlined above would have started only after Europeans arrived in North America.\n\nIn 1879, Alexander Cunningham described the carvings on the Stupa of Bharhut from c. 200 BCE and described some fruit like detail as a custard-apple (\"Annona squamosa\"). He wasn't aware that botanists believed this plant to be indigenous only in the Americas, but others quickly pointed out the difficulty, as it was generally believed that the custard-apple had not been brought to India before Vasco da Gama's discovery of the sea route in 1498. This suggestion was generally disregarded but a 2009 study claimed to have found carbonized remains that date to 2000 BCE and appear like seeds of custard apple.\n\nGrafton Elliot Smith claimed that certain details in the Mayan stelae at Copán represented an Asian elephant. He wrote \"Elephants and Ethnologists\", a book on the topic in 1924. Contemporary archaeologists suggested that it was based on a tapir and his suggestions have generally been dismissed by subsequent research.\n\nSome carving details from around the 12th century in Karnataka that appeared like ears of maize (\"Zea mays\"), a crop from the New World, were interpreted by Carl Johannessen in 1989 as evidence of pre-Columbian contact. These suggestions were dismissed by multiple Indian researchers based on several lines of evidence. The object has been claimed by some to represent a Muktaphala, an imaginary fruit bedecked with pearls.\n\n Proposed claims for an African presence in Mesoamerica stem from attributes of the Olmec culture, the claimed transfer of African plants to the Americas, interpretations of European and Arabic historical accounts and certain genetic studies of Mexican populations. \nThe Olmec culture existed from roughly 1200 BCE to 400 BCE. The idea that the Olmecs are related to Africans was suggested by José Melgar, who discovered the first colossal head at Hueyapan (now Tres Zapotes) in 1862. More recently, Ivan Van Sertima has argued that these statues depict settlers or explorers from Africa, but his views have been the target of severe scholarly criticism.\n\nLeo Wiener's \"Africa and the Discovery of America\" suggests similarities between Mandinka and native Mesoamerican religious symbols such as the winged serpent and the sun disk, or Quetzalcoatl, and words that have Mande roots and share similar meanings across both cultures such as \"kore\", \"gadwal\", and \"qubila\" (in Arabic) or \"kofila\" (in Mandinka). \n\nNorth African sources describe what some consider to be visits to the New World by a Mali fleet in 1311.\nAccording to the abstract of Columbus's log made by Bartolomé de las Casas, the purpose of Columbus’s third voyage was to test both the claims of King John II of Portugal that \"canoes had been found which set out from the coast of Guinea [West Africa] and sailed to the west with merchandise\" as well as the claims of the native inhabitants of the Caribbean island of Hispaniola that \"from the south and the southeast had come black people whose spears were made of a metal called guanín...from which it was found that of 32 parts: 18 were gold, 6 were silver, and 8 copper.\" Another supporting claim was made by Washington Irving, in his “Life of Columbus”, who wrote that in 1503 when Columbus was on the Mosquito Coast “There was no pure gold to be met with here, all their ornaments were of guanin; but the natives assured the Adelantado that in proceeding along the coast, the ships would soon arrive at a country where gold was in great abundance.”\n\nBrazilian researcher Niede Guidon, who led the Pedra Furada sites excavations \"... said she believed that humans … might have come not overland from Asia but by boat from Africa\", with the journey taking place 100,000 years ago. Michael R. Waters, a geoarchaeologist at Texas A&M University noted the absence of genetic evidence in modern populations to support Guidon's claim.\n\nEarly Chinese accounts of Muslim expeditions state that Muslim sailors reached a region called Mulan Pi (\"magnolia skin\") (). Mulan Pi is mentioned in \"Lingwai Daida\" (1178) by Zhou Qufei and \"Zhufan Zhi\" (1225) by Chao Jukua, together referred to as the \"Sung Document\". Mulan Pi is normally identified as Spain of the Almoravid dynasty (Al-Murabitun), though some fringe theories hold that it is instead some part of the Americas.\n\nOne supporter of the interpretation of Mulan Pi as part of the Americas was historian Hui-lin Li in 1961, and while Joseph Needham was also open to the possibility, he doubted that Arab ships at the time would have been able to withstand a return journey over such a long distance across the Atlantic Ocean and points out that a return journey would have been impossible without knowledge of prevailing winds and currents.\n\nAccording to Muslim historian Abu al-Hasan 'Alī al-Mas'ūdī (871-957), Khashkhash Ibn Saeed Ibn Aswad () sailed over the Atlantic Ocean and discovered a previously unknown land ( \"\") in 889 and returned with a shipload of valuable treasures.\n\nUsing gold obtained by expansion of the African coastal trade down the west African coast, the Phoenician state of Carthage minted gold staters in 350 BCE bearing a pattern, in the reverse exergue of the coins, interpreted as a map of the Mediterranean with the Americas shown to the west across the Atlantic. Reports of the discovery of putative Carthaginian coins in North America are based on modern replicas, that may have been buried at sites from Massachusetts to Nebraska in order to confuse and mislead archaeological investigation.\n\nThe Bat Creek inscription and Los Lunas Decalogue Stone have led some to suggest the possibility that Jewish seafarers may have come to America after fleeing the Roman Empire at the time of the Jewish Revolt.\n\nScholar Cyrus H. Gordon believed that Phoenicians and other Semitic groups had crossed the Atlantic in antiquity, ultimately arriving in both North and South America. This opinion was based on his own work on the Bat Creek inscription. Similar ideas were also held by John Philip Cohane; Cohane even claimed that many geographical names in America have a Semitic origin.\n\nThe Solutrean hypothesis argues that Europeans migrated to the New World during the Paleolithic era, circa 16,000 to 13,000 BCE. This hypothesis proposes contact partly on the basis of perceived similarities between the flint tools of the Solutrean culture in modern-day France, Spain and Portugal (which thrived circa 20,000 to 15,000 BCE), and the Clovis culture of North America, which developed circa 9000 BCE.\nThe Solutrean hypothesis was proposed in the mid-1990s. It has little support amongst the scientific community, and genetic markers are inconsistent with the idea.\n\nEvidence of contacts with the civilizations of Classical Antiquity—primarily with the Roman Empire, but sometimes also with other cultures of the age—have been based on isolated archaeological finds in American sites that originated in the Old World. The Bay of Jars in Brazil has been yielding ancient clay storage jars that resemble Roman amphorae for over 150 years. It has been proposed that the origin of these jars is a Roman wreck, although it has been suggested that they could be 15th or 16th century Spanish olive oil jars.\n\nRomeo Hristov argues that a Roman ship, or the drifting of such a shipwreck to the American shores, is a possible explanation of archaeological finds (like the Tecaxic-Calixtlahuaca bearded head) from ancient Rome in America. Hristov claims that the possibility of such an event has been made more likely by the discovery of evidences of travels from Romans to Tenerife and Lanzarote in the Canaries, and of a Roman settlement (from the 1st century BCE to the 4th century CE) on Lanzarote island.\n\nIn 1950, an Italian botanist, Domenico Casella, suggested that a depiction of a pineapple was represented among wall paintings of Mediterranean fruits at Pompeii. According to Wilhelmina Feemster Jashemski, this interpretation has been challenged by other botanists, who identify it as a pine cone from the Umbrella pine tree, which is native to the Mediterranean area.\n\nA small terracotta head sculpture, with a beard and European-like features, was found in 1933 (in the Toluca Valley, 72 kilometres southwest of Mexico City) in a burial offering under three intact floors of a pre-colonial building dated to between 1476 and 1510. The artifact has been studied by Roman art authority Bernard Andreae, director emeritus of the German Institute of Archaeology in Rome, Italy, and Austrian anthropologist Robert von Heine-Geldern, both of whom stated that the style of the artifact was compatible with small Roman sculptures of the 2nd century. If genuine and if not placed there after 1492 (the pottery found with it dates to between 1476 and 1510) the find provides evidence for at least a one-time contact between the Old and New Worlds.\n\nAccording to ASU's Michael E. Smith, John Paddock, a leading Mesoamerican scholar, used to tell his classes in the years before he died that the artifact was planted as a joke by Hugo Moedano, a student who originally worked on the site. Despite speaking with individuals who knew the original discoverer (García Payón), and Moedano, Smith says he has been unable to confirm or reject this claim. Though he remains skeptical, Smith concedes he cannot rule out the possibility that the head was a genuinely buried Post-classic offering at Calixtlahuaca.\n\nHenry I Sinclair, Earl of Orkney and feudal baron of Roslin (c. 1345 – c. 1400) was a Scottish nobleman. He is best known today because of a modern legend that he took part in explorations of Greenland and North America almost 100 years before Christopher Columbus. In 1784, he was identified by Johann Reinhold Forster as possibly being the Prince Zichmni described in letters allegedly written around the year 1400 by the Zeno brothers of Venice, in which they describe a voyage throughout the North Atlantic under the command of Zichmni.\n\nHenry was the grandfather of William Sinclair, 1st Earl of Caithness, the builder of Rosslyn Chapel (near Edinburgh, Scotland). The authors Robert Lomas and Christopher Knight believe some carvings in the chapel to be ears of New World corn or maize. This crop was unknown in Europe at the time of the chapel's construction, and was not cultivated there until several hundred years later. Knight and Lomas view these carvings as evidence supporting the idea that Henry Sinclair travelled to the Americas well before Columbus. In their book they discuss meeting with the wife of the botanist Adrian Dyer, and that Dyer's wife told him that Dyer agreed that the image thought to be maize was accurate. In fact Dyer found only one identifiable plant among the botanical carvings and suggested that the \"maize\" and \"aloe\" were stylized wooden patterns, only coincidentally looking like real plants. Specialists in medieval architecture interpret these carvings as stylised depictions of wheat, strawberries or lilies.\nSome have conjectured that Columbus was able to persuade the Catholic Monarchs of Castile and Aragon to support his planned voyage only because they were aware of some recent earlier voyage across the Atlantic. Some suggest that Columbus himself visited Canada or Greenland before 1492, because according to Bartolomé de las Casas he wrote he had sailed 100 leagues past an island he called Thule in 1477. Whether he actually did this and what island he visited, if any, is uncertain. Columbus is thought to have visited Bristol in 1476. Bristol was also the port from which John Cabot sailed in 1497, crewed mostly by Bristol sailors. In a letter of late 1497 or early 1498 the English merchant John Day wrote to Columbus about Cabot's discoveries, saying that land found by Cabot was \"discovered in the past by the men from Bristol who found 'Brasil' as your lordship knows\". There may be records of expeditions from Bristol to find the \"isle of Brazil\" in 1480 and 1481. Trade between Bristol and Iceland is well documented from the mid 15th century.\n\nGonzalo Fernández de Oviedo y Valdés records several such legends in his \"General y natural historia de las Indias\" of 1526, which includes biographical information on Columbus. He discusses the then-current story of a Spanish caravel that was swept off its course while on its way to England, and wound up in a foreign land populated by naked tribesmen. The crew gathered supplies and made its way back to Europe, but the trip took several months and the captain and most of the men died before reaching land. The ship's pilot, a man called Alonso Sánchez, and very few others finally made it to Portugal, but all were very ill. Columbus was a good friend of the pilot, and took him to be treated in his own house, and the pilot described the land they had seen and marked it on a map before dying. People in Oviedo's time knew this story in several versions, but Oviedo regarded it as myth.\n\nIn 1925, Soren Larsen wrote a book claiming that a joint Danish-Portuguese expedition landed in Newfoundland or Labrador in 1473 and again in 1476. Larsen claimed that Didrik Pining and Hans Pothorst served as captains, while João Vaz Corte-Real and the possibly mythical John Scolvus served as navigators, accompanied by Álvaro Martins. Nothing beyond circumstantial evidence has been found to support Larsen's claims.\n\nThe legend of Saint Brendan, an Irish monk, involves a fantastical journey into the Atlantic Ocean in search of Paradise in the 6th century. Since the discovery of the New World, various authors have tried to link the Brendan legend with an early discovery of America. In 1977 The voyage was successfully recreated by Tim Severin using an ancient Irish Currach.\n\nAccording to a British myth, Madoc was a prince from Wales who explored the Americas as early as 1170. While most scholars consider this legend to be untrue, it was used as justification for British claims to the Americas, based on the notion of a Briton arriving before other European nationalities.\n\nBiologist and controversial amateur epigrapher Barry Fell claims that Irish Ogham writing has been found carved into stones in the Virginias. Linguist David H. Kelley has criticized some of Fell's work but nonetheless argued that genuine Celtic Ogham inscriptions have in fact been discovered in America. However, others have raised serious doubts about these claims.\n\nTraces of coca and nicotine found in some Egyptian mummies have led to speculation that Ancient Egyptians may have had contact with the New World. The initial discovery was made by a German toxicologist, Svetlana Balabanova, after examining the mummy of a priestess called Henut Taui. Follow-up tests of the hair shaft, performed to rule out contamination, gave the same results.\n\nA television show reported that examination of numerous Sudanese mummies undertaken by Balabanova mirrored what was found in the mummy of Henut Taui. Balabanova suggested that the tobacco may be accounted for since it may have also been known in China and Europe, as indicated by analysis run on human remains from those respective regions. Balabanova proposed that such plants native to the general area may have developed independently, but have since gone extinct. Other explanations include fraud, though curator Alfred Grimm of the Egyptian Museum in Munich disputes this. Skeptical of Balabanova's findings, Rosalie David, Keeper of Egyptology at the Manchester Museum, had similar tests performed on samples taken from the Manchester mummy collection and reported that two of the tissue samples and one hair sample did test positive for nicotine. Sources of nicotine other than tobacco and sources of cocaine in the Old World are discussed by the British biologist Duncan Edlin.\n\nMainstream scholars remain skeptical, and they do not see this as proof of ancient contact between Africa and the Americas, especially because there may be possible Old World sources. Two attempts to replicate Balabanova's finds of cocaine failed, suggesting \"that either Balabanova and her associates are misinterpreting their results or that the samples of mummies tested by them have been mysteriously exposed to cocaine.\"\n\nA re-examination in the 1970s of the mummy of Ramesses II revealed the presence of fragments of tobacco leaves in its abdomen. This became a popular topic in fringe literature and the media and was seen as proof of contact between Ancient Egypt and the New World. The investigator, Maurice Bucaille, noted that when the mummy was unwrapped in 1886 the abdomen was left open and that \"it was no longer possible to attach any importance to the presence inside the abdominal cavity of whatever material was found there, since the material could have come from the surrounding environment.\" Following the renewed discussion of tobacco sparked by Balabanova's research and its mention in a 2000 publication by Rosalie David, a study in the journal \"Antiquity\" suggested that reports of both tobacco and cocaine in mummies \"ignored their post-excavation histories\" and pointed out that the mummy of Ramesses II had been moved five times between 1883 and 1975.\n\nIn 2010 Sigríður Sunna Ebenesersdóttir published a genetic study showing that over 350 living Icelanders carried mitochondrial DNA of a new type that is similar to the type found only in Native American and East Asian populations. Using the deCODE genetics database, Sigríður Sunna determined that the DNA entered the Icelandic population not later than 1700, and likely several centuries earlier. However Sigríður Sunna also states that \"...while a Native American origin seems most likely for [this new haplogroup], an Asian or European origin cannot be ruled out\".\n\nIn 1009, legends report that Norse explorer Thorfinn Karlsefni abducted two children from Markland, an area on the North American mainland where Norse explorers visited but did not settle. The two children were then taken to Greenland, where they were baptized and taught to speak Norse.\n\nIn 1420, Danish geographer Claudius Clavus Swart wrote that he personally had seen \"pygmies\" from Greenland who were caught by Norsemen in a small skin boat. Their boat was hung in Nidaros Cathedral in Trondheim along with another, longer boat also taken from \"pygmies\". Clavus Swart's description fits the Inuit and two of their types of boats, the kayak and the umiak. Similarly, the Swedish clergyman Olaus Magnus wrote in 1505 that he saw in Oslo Cathedral two leather boats taken decades earlier. According to Olaus, the boats were captured from Greenland pirates by one of the Haakons, which would place the event in the 14th century.\n\nIn Ferdinand Columbus's biography of his father Christopher, he says that in 1477 his father saw in Galway, Ireland two dead bodies which had washed ashore in their boat. The bodies and boat were of exotic appearance, and have been suggested to have been Inuit who had drifted off course.\n\nIt has been suggested that the Norse took other indigenous peoples to Europe as slaves over the following centuries, because they are known to have taken Scottish and Irish slaves.\n\nThere is also evidence of Inuit coming to Europe under their own power or as captives after 1492. A substantial body of Greenland Inuit folklore first collected in the 19th century told of journeys by boat to Akilineq, here depicted as a rich country across the ocean.\n\nPre-Columbian contact between Alaska and Kamchatka via the subarctic Aleutian Islands would have been conceivable, but the two settlement waves on this archipelago started on the American side and its western continuation, the Commander Islands, remained uninhabited until after Russian explorers encountered the Aleut people in 1741. There is no genetic or linguistic evidence for earlier contact along this route.\n\nIn 1650, a British preacher in Norfolk, Thomas Thorowgood, published \"Jewes in America or Probabilities that the Americans are of that Race\", for the New England missionary society. Tudor Parfitt writes:The society was active in trying to convert the Indians but suspected that they might be Jews and realized they better be prepared for an arduous task. Thorowgood's tract argued that the native population of North America were descendants of the Ten Lost Tribes.\n\nIn 1652 Sir Hamon L'Estrange, an English author writing on history and theology, published \"Americans no Jews, or improbabilities that the Americans are of that Race\" in response to the tract by Thorowgood. In response to L'Estrange, Thorowgood published a second edition of his book in 1660 with a revised title and included a foreword written by John Eliot, a Puritan missionary who had translated the Bible into an Indian language.\n\nThe Book of Mormon, a sacred text of the Latter Day Saint movement published by founder and leader Joseph Smith Jr in 1830 at the age of twenty-four, states that some ancient inhabitants of the New World are descendants of Semitic peoples who sailed from the Old World. Mormon groups such as the Foundation for Ancient Research and Mormon Studies attempt to study and expand on these ideas. Scientific consensus rejects these claims.\n\nThe National Geographic Society, in a 1998 letter to the Institute for Religious Research, stated \"Archaeologists and other scholars have long probed the hemisphere's past and the society does not know of anything found so far that has substantiated the Book of Mormon.\"\n\nSome LDS scholars hold the view that archaeological study of Book of Mormon claims are not meant to vindicate the literary narrative. For example, Terryl Givens, professor of English at the University of Richmond, points out that there is a lack of historical accuracy in the Book of Mormon in relation to modern archaeological knowledge.\n\nIn the 1950s, Professor M. Wells Jakeman popularized a belief that the Izapa Stela 5 represents the Book of Mormon prophets Lehi and Nephi's tree of life vision, and was a validation of the historicity of the claims of pre-Columbian settlement in the Americas. His interpretations of the carving and its connection to pre-Columbian contact have been disputed. Since that time, scholarship on the Book of Mormon has concentrated on cultural parallels rather than \"smoking gun\" sources.\n\n"}
{"id": "2005882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005882", "title": "Preservationist", "text": "Preservationist\n\nPreservationist is generally understood to mean \"historic preservationist\": one who advocates to preserve architecturally or historically significant buildings, structures, objects, or sites from demolition or degradation. Historic preservation usually refers to the preservation of the built environment, not to the preservation of, for instance, primeval forests or wilderness.\n\n\"Preservationist\" is, however, sometimes used descriptively in other contexts, notably with regards to language and the environment.\n\nPersons who work to preserve ancient or endangered languages are called language preservationists. \n\n\nPreservationist is also sometimes used in the natural environmentalist field, but while the natural environment conservationist movements preserve ecosystems and the natural environment, this movement is widely known as \"conservation\" or \"environmentalism\". \n\n\nPreservationism has been defined by Richard Heinberg in his book \"Powerdown: Options and Actions for a Post-Carbon World\" as distinguishing survivalist groups who wish merely to survive a collapse of civilization from preservationist communities who wish to preserve as much of human culture as is possible in the event of collapse. \n\n\nSome of the notable historic preservationists who are or have been advocates for the protection of the built environment include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38563314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38563314", "title": "Primitive communism", "text": "Primitive communism\n\nPrimitive communism is a concept originating from Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels who argued that hunter-gatherer societies were traditionally based on egalitarian social relations and common ownership. A primary inspiration for both Marx and Engels were Lewis Henry Morgan's descriptions of \"communism in living\" as practised by the Iroquois Nation of North America. In Marx's model of socioeconomic structures, societies with primitive communism had no hierarchical social class structures or capital accumulation.\n\nEngels offered the first detailed theorization of primitive communism in 1884, with publication of \"The Origin of the Family, Private Property, and the State\". Marx and Engels used the term more broadly than Marxists did later, and applied it not only to hunter-gatherers but also to some subsistence agriculture communities. There is also no agreement among later scholars, including Marxists, on the historical extent, or longevity, of primitive communism.\n\nMarx and Engels also noted how capitalist accumulation latched itself onto social organizations of \"primitive communism\". For instance, in private correspondence the same year that \"The Origin of the Family\" was published, Engels attacked European colonialism, describing the Dutch regime in Java directly organizing agricultural production and profiting from it, \"on the basis of the old communistic village communities\". He added that cases like the Dutch East Indies, British India and the Russian Empire showed \"how today primitive communism furnishes ... the finest and broadest basis of exploitation\".\n\nIn a primitive communist society, all able bodied persons would have engaged in obtaining food, and everyone would share in what was produced by hunting and gathering. There would be no private property, which is distinguished from personal property such as articles of clothing and similar personal items, because primitive society produced no surplus; what was produced was quickly consumed. The few things that existed for any length of time (tools, housing) were held communally, in Engels' view in association with matrilocal residence and matrilineal descent. There would have been no state.\n\nDomestication of animals and plants following the Neolithic Revolution through herding and agriculture was seen as the turning point from primitive communism to class society as it was followed by private ownership and slavery, with the inequality that they entailed. In addition, parts of the population specialized in different activities, such as manufacturing, culture, philosophy, and science which is said to lead to the development of social classes.\nEgalitarian and communist-like hunter gatherer societies have been studied and described by many well-known social anthropologists including James Woodburn, Richard Lee, Alan Barnard and, more recently, Jerome Lewis. Anthropologists such as Christopher Boehm, Chris Knight and Jerome Lewis offer theoretical accounts to explain how communistic, assertively egalitarian social arrangements might have emerged in the prehistoric past. Despite differences in emphasis, these and other anthropologists follow Engels in arguing that evolutionary change—resistance to primate-style sexual and political dominance—culminated eventually in a revolutionary transition. Richard Borshay Lee criticizes the mainstream and dominant culture's long-time bias against the possible existence of primitive communism, deriding \"Bourgeois ideology [that] would have us believe that primitive communism doesn't exist. In popular consciousness it is lumped with romanticism, exoticism: the noble savage.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3615589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3615589", "title": "Scepter of Judah", "text": "Scepter of Judah\n\nThe Scepter of Judah ( ) was a text produced by the Sephardi historian Solomon Ibn Verga. It first appeared in Turkey in 1553.\n\nThe work was essentially a comprehensive analysis of sixty-four different persecutions that the Jewish people had suffered since antiquity. Hardly an insular text, it made use of Latin sources as well. It also had a certain anthropological value, as Ibn Verga discussed the customs and practices of Jews in various lands. Ibn Verga also sought to highlight what he felt were the faults of his people, and as such, much of his criticisms of the Jews are exaggerated for effect.\n\nIn many ways the \"Scepter of Judah\" was the first and most significant work of Jewish historiography; it was essentially the first time that such a comprehensive interest had been expressed by the Jews in their past. Ibn Verga sought to clarify the problem of anti-Jewish sentiment, which had manifested itself in the expulsion of the Jews from Spain in 1492. According to the author, the expulsion from Spain and Jewish exile in general were natural phenomena that were subject to historical forces of causation and explanation. They were not simply \"punishment\" for the sins of the Jewish people, as had been the time-honored way of explaining such misfortunes.\n\nThe text posited the view that the hatred of the Jews is a popular inheritance which is passed from generation to generation. It is occasioned by religious fanaticism (as had been the case in Spain) and is compounded by envy and jealousy; it also stems from a lack of education. Ibn Verga also suggested that there was perhaps too much flaunting of opulence amongst the Sephardim; certain festivities had been too extravagant, which had raised antagonism and jealousy amongst Catholics. Whether this was actually the case is debatable.\n\nThe \"Scepter of Judah\" was one of the most popular Jewish history books of all time, perhaps the most popular until the 19th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "985583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=985583", "title": "Sothic cycle", "text": "Sothic cycle\n\nThe Sothic cycle or Canicular period is a period of 1,461 Egyptian civil years of 365 days each or 1,460 Julian years averaging 365¼ days each. During a Sothic cycle, the 365-day year loses enough time that the start of its year once again coincides with the heliacal rising of the star Sirius ( or \"Sopdet\", \"Triangle\"; , \"Sō̂this\") on 19 July in the Julian calendar. It is an important aspect of Egyptology, particularly with regard to reconstructions of the Egyptian calendar and its history. Astronomical records of this displacement may have been responsible for the later establishment of the more accurate Julian and Alexandrian calendars.\n\nThe ancient Egyptian civil year, its holidays, and religious records reflect its apparent establishment at a point when the return of the bright star Sirius to the night sky was considered to herald the annual flooding of the Nile. However, because the civil calendar was exactly 365 days long and did not incorporate leap years until 22, its months \"wandered\" backwards through the solar year at the rate of about one day in every four years. This almost exactly corresponded to its displacement against the as well. (The Sothic year is about a minute longer than a solar year.) The sidereal year of 365.25636 days is only valid for stars on the ecliptic (the apparent path of the Sun across the sky), whereas Sirius's displacement ~40˚ below the ecliptic, its proper motion, and the wobbling of the celestial equator cause the period between its heliacal risings to be almost exactly 365.25 days long instead. This steady loss of one relative day every four years over the course of the 365-day calendar meant that the \"wandering\" day would return to its original place relative to the solar and Sothic year after precisely 1461 civil or 1460 Julian years.\n\nThis cycle was first noticed by Eduard Meyer in 1904, who then carefully combed known Egyptian inscriptions and written materials to find any mention of the calendar dates when Sirius rose at dawn. He found six of them, on which the dates of much of the conventional Egyptian chronology are based. A heliacal rise of Sirius was recorded by Censorinus as having happened on the Egyptian New Year's Day between 139 and 142. The record actually refers to 21July 140 but is astronomically calculated as a definite 20July 139. This correlates the Egyptian calendar to the Julian calendar. Leap day occurs in 140, and so the new year on 1Thoth is 20July in 139 but it is 19July for 140-142. Thus he was able to compare the day on which Sirius rose in the Egyptian calendar to the day on which Sirius ought to have risen in the Julian calendar, count the number of intercalary days needed, and determine how many years were between the beginning of a cycle and the observation. One also needs to know the place of observation, since the latitude of the observation changes the day when the heliacal rising of Sirius occurs, and mislocating an observation can potentially change the resulting chronology by several decades. (Official observations were made at Heliopolis or Memphis near Cairo, Thebes, and Elephantine near Aswan, with the rising of Sirius observed at Cairo about 8 days after it is seen at Aswan.) Meyer concluded from an ivory tablet from the reign of Djer that the Egyptian civil calendar was created in 4241, a date that appears in a number of old books. But research and discoveries have since shown that the first dynasty of Egypt did not begin before , and the claim that 19July 4241 is the \"earliest fixed date\" has since been discredited. Most scholars either move the observation upon which he based this forward by one cycle of Sirius to 19July 2781 or reject the assumption that the document in question indicates a rise of Sirius at all.\n\nThree specific observations of the heliacal rise of Sirius are extremely important for Egyptian chronology. The first is the aforementioned ivory tablet from the reign of Djer which supposedly indicates the beginning of a Sothic cycle, the rising of Sirius on the same day as the new year. If this does indicate the beginning of a Sothic cycle, it must date to about 17 July 2773. However, this date is too late for Djer's reign, so many scholars believe that it indicates a correlation between the rising of Sirius and the Egyptian \"lunar\" calendar, instead of the solar civil calendar, which would render the tablet essentially devoid of chronological value.\nA newly discovered Sothis-date from the Old Kingdom and a subsequent astronomic study confirms the Sothic cycle model Gautschy et al. 2017 A New Astronomically Based Chronological Model for the Egyptian Old Kingdom\n\nThe second observation is clearly a reference to a heliacal rising, and is believed to date to the seventh year of Senusret III. This observation was almost certainly made at Itj-Tawy, the Twelfth Dynasty capital, which would date the Twelfth Dynasty from 1963 to 1786. The Ramses or Turin Papyrus Canon says 213 years (1991-1778), Parker reduces it to 206 years (1991-1785), based on 17July 1872 as the Sothic date (120th year of 12th dynasty, a drift of 30 leap days). Prior to Parker's investigation of lunar dates the 12th dynasty was placed as 213 years of 2007-1794 perceiving the date as 21 July 1888 as the 120th year, and then as 2003-1790 perceiving the date as 20 July 1884 as the 120th year.\n\nThe third observation was in the reign of Amenhotep I, and, assuming it was made in Thebes, dates his reign between 1525 and 1504. If made in Memphis, Heliopolis, or some other Delta site instead, as a minority of scholars still argue, the entire chronology of the 18th Dynasty needs to be expanded by some 20 years.\n\nThe Sothic cycle is a specific example of two cycles of differing length interacting to cycle together, here called a tertiary cycle. This is mathematically defined by the formula 1/a + 1/b = 1/t or half the harmonic mean. In the case of the Sothic cycle the two cycles are the Egyptian civil year and the Sothic year. \n\nThe Sothic year is the length of time for the star Sirius to visually return to the same position in relation to the sun. Star years measured in this way vary due to axial precession, the movement of the Earth's axis in relation to the sun. The length of time for a star to make a yearly path can be marked when it rises to a defined altitude above a local horizon at the time of sunrise. This altitude does not have to be the altitude of first possible visibility. Throughout the year the star will rise approximately four minutes earlier each successive sunrise. Eventually the star will return to its same relative location at sunrise. This length of time can be called an observational year. Stars that reside close to the ecliptic or the ecliptic meridian will on average exhibit observational years close to the sidereal year of 365.2564 days. The ecliptic and the meridian cut the sky into four quadrants. The axis of the earth wobbles around slowly moving the observer and changing the observation of the event. If the axis swings the observer closer to the event its observational year will be shortened. Likewise, the observational year can be lengthened when the axis swings away from the observer. This depends upon which quadrant of the sky the phenomenon is observed.\n\nThe Sothic year is remarkable because its average duration was exactly 365.25 days in the early before the unification of Egypt. The slow rate of change from this value is also of note. If observations and records could have been maintained during predynastic times the Sothic rise would optimally return to the same calendar day after 1461 calendar years. This value would drop to about 1456 calendar years by the Middle Kingdom. The 1461 value could also be maintained if the date of the Sothic rise were artificially maintained by moving the feast in celebration of this event one day every fourth year instead of rarely adjusting it according to observation.\n\nIt has been noticed, and the Sothic cycle confirms, that Sirius does not move retrograde across the sky like other stars, a phenomenon widely known as the precession of the equinox. Professor Jed Buchwald wrote \"Sirius remains about the same distance from the equinoxes—and so from the solstices—throughout these many centuries, despite precession.\" For the same reason, the helical rising or zenith of Sirius does not slip through the calendar at the precession rate of about one day per 71.6 years as other stars do but much slower. This remarkable stability within the solar year may be one reason that the Egyptians used it as a basis for their calendar. The coincidence of a heliacal rising of Sirius and the New Year reported by Censorinus occurred about the 20th of July, that is a month later after the summer solstice.\n\nDetermining the date of a heliacal rise of Sirius has been shown to be difficult, especially considering the need to know the exact latitude of the observation. Another problem is that because the Egyptian calendar loses one day every four years, a heliacal rise will take place on the same day for four years in a row, and any observation of that rise can date to any of those four years, making the observation imprecise.\n\nA number of criticisms have been leveled against the reliability of dating by the Sothic cycle. Some are serious enough to be considered problematic. Firstly, none of the astronomical observations have dates that mention the specific pharaoh in whose reign they were observed, forcing Egyptologists to supply that information on the basis of a certain amount of informed speculation. Secondly, there is no information regarding the nature of the civil calendar throughout the course of Egyptian history, forcing Egyptologists to assume that it existed unchanged for thousands of years; the Egyptians would only have needed to carry out one calendar reform in a few thousand years for these calculations to be worthless. Other criticisms are not considered as problematic, e.g. there is no extant mention of the Sothic cycle in ancient Egyptian writing, which may simply be a result of it either being so obvious to Egyptians that it didn't merit mention or to relevant texts being destroyed over time or still awaiting discovery.\n\nOne recent popular history of the Ancient Near East by Marc Van De Mierop, in his discussion of chronology and dating, does not mention the Sothic cycle at all, and believes that the bulk of historians nowadays would consider that it is not possible to put forward exact dates earlier than the 8th century BCE. \nSome have recently claimed that the Theran eruption marks the beginning of the Eighteenth dynasty due to Theran ash and pumice discoveries in the ruins of Avaris in layers that mark the end of the Hyksos era. Because the evidence of dendrochronologists indicates the eruption took place in 1626 BC, this has been taken to indicate that dating by the Sothic cycle is off by 50–80 years at the outset of the 18th dynasty. Claims that the Thera eruption is the subject of the Tempest Stele of Ahmose I have been disputed by writers such as Peter James.\n"}
{"id": "40626873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40626873", "title": "Technological determinism", "text": "Technological determinism\n\nTechnological determinism is a reductionist theory that assumes that a society's technology determines the development of its social structure and cultural values. Technological determinism tries to understand how technology has had an impact on human action and thought. Changes in technology are the primary source for changes in society. The term is believed to have originated from Thorstein Veblen (1857–1929), an American sociologist and economist. The most radical technological determinist in the United States in the 20th century was most likely Clarence Ayres who was a follower of Thorstein Veblen and John Dewey. William Ogburn was also known for his radical technological determinism.\n\nThe first major elaboration of a technological determinist view of socioeconomic development came from the German philosopher and economist Karl Marx, whose theoretical framework was grounded in the perspective that changes in technology, and specifically productive technology, are the primary influence on human social relations and organizational structure, and that social relations and cultural practices ultimately revolve around the technological and economic base of a given society. Marx's position has become embedded in contemporary society, where the idea that fast-changing technologies alter human lives is all-pervasive. \nAlthough many authors attribute a technologically determined view of human history to Marx's insights, not all Marxists are technological determinists, and some authors question the extent to which Marx himself was a determinist. Furthermore, there are multiple forms of technological determinism.\n\nThe term is believed to have been coined by Thorstein Veblen (1857–1929), an American social scientist. Veblen's contemporary, popular historian Charles A. Beard, provided this apt determinist image, \"Technology marches in seven-league boots from one ruthless, revolutionary conquest to another, tearing down old factories and industries, flinging up new processes with terrifying rapidity.\" As to the meaning, it is described as the ascription to machines of \"powers\" that they do not have. Veblen, for instance, asserted that \"the machine throws out anthropomorphic habits of thought.\" There is also the case of Karl Marx who expected that the construction of the railway in India would dissolve the caste system. The general idea, according to Robert Heilbroner, is that technology, by way of its machines, can cause historical change by changing the material conditions of human existence.\n\nOne of the most radical technological determinists was a man named Clarence Ayres, who was a follower of Veblen's theory in the 20th century. Ayers is best known for developing economic philosophies, but he also worked closely with Veblen who coined the technological determinism theory. He often times talked about the struggle between technology and ceremonial structure. One of his most notable theories involved the concept of \"technological drag\" where he explains technology as a self-generating process and institutions as ceremonial and this notion creates a technological over-determinism in the process. \n\nTechnological determinism seeks to show technical developments, media, or technology as a whole, as the key mover in history and social change. It is a theory subscribed by \"hyperglobalist\" who claims that as a consequence of the wide availability of technology, accelerated globalization is inevitable. Therefore, technological development and innovation become the principal motor of social, economic or political change.\n\nStrict adherents to technological determinism do not believe the influence of technology differs based on how much a technology is or can be used. Instead of considering technology as part of a larger spectrum of human activity, technological determinism sees technology as the basis for all human activity.\n\nTechnological determinism has been summarized as 'The belief in technology as a key governing force in society ...' (Merritt Roe Smith). 'The idea that technological development determines social change ...' (Bruce Bimber). It changes the way people think and how they interact with others and can be described as '...a three-word logical proposition: \"Technology determines history\"' (Rosalind Williams) . It is, '... the belief that social progress is driven by technological innovation, which in turn follows an \"inevitable\" course.' (Michael L. Smith). This 'idea of progress' or 'doctrine of progress' is centralised around the idea that social problems can be solved by technological advancement, and this is the way that society moves forward. Technological determinists believe that \"'You can't stop progress', implying that we are unable to control technology\" (Lelia Green). This suggests that we are somewhat powerless and society allows technology to drive social changes because, \"societies fail to be aware of the alternatives to the values embedded in it [technology]\" (Merritt Roe Smith).\n\nTechnological determinism has been defined as an approach that identifies technology, or technological advances, as the central causal element in processes of social change (Croteau and Hoynes). As a technology is stabilized, its design tends to dictate users' behaviors, consequently diminishing human agency. This stance however ignores the social and cultural circumstances in which the technology was developed. Sociologist Claude Fischer (1992) characterized the most prominent forms of technological determinism as \"billiard ball\" approaches, in which technology is seen as an external force introduced into a social situation, producing a series of ricochet effects.\n\nRather than acknowledging that a society or culture interacts with and even shapes the technologies that are used, a technological determinist view holds that \"the uses made of technology are largely determined by the structure of the technology itself, that is, that its functions follow from its form\" (Neil Postman). However, this is not to be confused with Daniel Chandler's \"inevitability thesis\", which states that once a technology is introduced into a culture that what follows is the inevitable development of that technology.\n\nFor example, we could examine why Romance Novels have become so dominant in our society compared to other forms of novels like the Detective or Western novel. We might say that it was because of the invention of the perfect binding system developed by publishers. This was where glue was used instead of the time-consuming and very costly process of binding books by sewing in separate signatures. This meant that these books could be mass-produced for the wider public. We would not be able to have mass literacy without mass production. This example is closely related to Marshall McLuhan's belief that print helped produce the nation state. This moved society on from an oral culture to a literate culture but also introduced a capitalist society where there was clear class distinction and individualism. As Postman maintains \n\nThe printing press, the computer, and television are not therefore simply machines which convey information. They are metaphors through which we conceptualize reality in one way or another. They will classify the world for us, sequence it, frame it, enlarge it, reduce it, argue a case for what it is like. Through these media metaphors, we do not see the world as it is. We see it as our coding systems are. Such is the power of the form of information.\n\nIn examining determinism, hard determinism can be contrasted with soft determinism. A compatibilist says that it is possible for free will and determinism to exist in the world together, while an incompatibilist would say that they can not and there must be one or the other. Those who support determinism can be further divided.\n\nHard determinists would view technology as developing independent from social concerns. They would say that technology creates a set of powerful forces acting to regulate our social activity and its meaning. According to this view of determinism we organize ourselves to meet the needs of technology and the outcome of this organization is beyond our control or we do not have the freedom to make a choice regarding the outcome (autonomous technology). The 20th century French philosopher and social theorist Jacques Ellul could be said to be a hard determinist and proponent of autonomous technique (technology). In his 1954 work \"\", Ellul essentially posits that technology, by virtue of its power through efficiency, determines which social aspects are best suited for its own development through a process of natural selection. A social system's values, morals, philosophy etc. that are most conducive to the advancement of technology allow that social system to enhance its power and spread at the expense of those social systems whose values, morals, philosophy etc. are less promoting of technology. Theodore J. Kaczynski (the Unabomber) can be essentially thought of as a hard determinist. According to Kaczynski, \"objective\" material factors in the human environment are the principal determining factors in the evolution of social systems. While geography, climate, and other \"natural\" factors largely determined the parameters of social conditions for most of human history, technology has recently become the dominant objective factor (largely due to forces unleashed by the industrial revolution) and it has been the principal objective and determining factor.\n\nSoft determinism, as the name suggests, is a more passive view of the way technology interacts with socio-political situations. Soft determinists still subscribe to the fact that technology is the guiding force in our evolution, but would maintain that we have a \"chance\" to make decisions regarding the outcomes of a situation. This is not to say that free will exists, but that the possibility for us to \"roll the dice\" and see what the outcome is exists. A slightly different variant of soft determinism is the 1922 technology-driven theory of social change proposed by William Fielding Ogburn, in which society must adjust to the consequences of major inventions, but often does so only after a period of cultural lag.\n\nIndividuals who consider technology as neutral see technology as neither good nor bad and what matters are the ways in which we use technology. An example of a neutral viewpoint is, \"guns are neutral and its up to how we use them whether it would be 'good or bad'\" (Green, 2001). Mackenzie and Wajcman believe that technology is neutral only if it's never been used before, or if no one knows what it is going to be used for (Green, 2001). In effect, guns would be classified as neutral if and only if society were none the wiser of their existence and functionality (Green, 2001). Obviously, such a society is non-existent and once becoming knowledgeable about technology, the society is drawn into a social progression where nothing is 'neutral about society' (Green). According to Lelia Green, if one believes technology is neutral, one would disregard the cultural and social conditions that technology has produced (Green, 2001). This view is also referred to as technological instrumentalism.\n\nIn what is often considered a definitive reflection on the topic, the historian Melvin Kranzberg famously wrote in the first of his six laws of technology: \"Technology is neither good nor bad; nor is it neutral.\"\n\nScepticism about technological determinism emerged alongside increased pessimism about techno-science in the mid-20th century, in particular around the use of nuclear energy in the production of nuclear weapons, Nazi human experimentation during World War II, and the problems of economic development in the Third World. As a direct consequence, desire for greater control of the course of development of technology gave rise to disenchantment with the model of technological determinism in academia.\n\nModern theorists of technology and society no longer consider technological determinism to be a very accurate view of the way in which we interact with technology, even though determinist assumptions and language fairly saturate the writings of many boosters of technology, the business pages of many popular magazines, and much reporting on technology . Instead, research in science and technology studies, social construction of technology and related fields have emphasised more nuanced views that resist easy causal formulations. They emphasise that \"The relationship between technology and society cannot be reduced to a simplistic cause-and-effect formula. It is, rather, an 'intertwining'\", whereby technology does not determine but \"operates, and are operated upon in a complex social field\" (Murphie and Potts).\n\nIn his article \"Subversive Rationalization: Technology, Power and Democracy with Technology,\" Andrew Feenberg argues that technological determinism is not a very well founded concept by illustrating that two of the founding theses of determinism are easily questionable and in doing so calls for what he calls democratic rationalization (Feenberg 210–212).\n\nProminent opposition to technologically determinist thinking has emerged within work on the social construction of technology (SCOT). SCOT research, such as that of Mackenzie and Wajcman (1997) argues that the path of innovation and its social consequences are strongly, if not entirely shaped by society itself through the influence of culture, politics, economic arrangements, regulatory mechanisms and the like. In its strongest form, verging on social determinism, \"What matters is not the technology itself, but the social or economic system in which it is embedded\" (Langdon Winner).\n\nIn his influential but contested (see Woolgar and Cooper, 1999) article \"Do Artifacts Have Politics?\", Langdon Winner illustrates not a form of determinism but the various sources of the politics of technologies. Those politics can stem from the intentions of the designer and the culture of the society in which a technology emerges or can stem from the technology itself, a \"practical necessity\" for it to function. For instance, New York City urban planner Robert Moses is purported to have built Long Island's parkway tunnels too low for buses to pass in order to keep minorities away from the island's beaches, an example of externally inscribed politics. On the other hand, an authoritarian command-and-control structure is a practical necessity of a nuclear power plant if radioactive waste is not to fall into the wrong hands. As such, Winner neither succumbs to technological determinism nor social determinism. The source of a technology's politics is determined only by carefully examining its features and history.\n\nAlthough \"The deterministic model of technology is widely propagated in society\" (Sarah Miller), it has also been widely questioned by scholars. Lelia Green explains that, \"When technology was perceived as being outside society, it made sense to talk about technology as neutral\". Yet, this idea fails to take into account that culture is not fixed and society is dynamic. When \"Technology is implicated in social processes, there is nothing neutral about society\" (Lelia Green). This confirms one of the major problems with \"technological determinism and the resulting denial of human responsibility for change. There is a loss of human involvement that shape technology and society\" (Sarah Miller).\n\nAnother conflicting idea is that of technological somnambulism, a term coined by Winner in his essay \"Technology as Forms of Life\". Winner wonders whether or not we are simply \"sleepwalking\" through our existence with little concern or knowledge as to how we truly interact with technology. In this view, it is still possible for us to wake up and once again take control of the direction in which we are traveling (Winner 104). However, it requires society to adopt Ralph Schroeder's claim that, \"users don't just passively consume technology, but actively transform it\".\n\nIn opposition to technological determinism are those who subscribe to the belief of social determinism and postmodernism. Social determinists believe that social circumstances alone select which technologies are adopted, with the result that no technology can be considered \"inevitable\" solely on its own merits. Technology and culture are not neutral and when knowledge comes into the equation, technology becomes implicated in social processes. The knowledge of how to create and enhance technology, and of how to use technology is socially bound knowledge. Postmodernists take another view, suggesting that what is right or wrong is dependent on circumstance. They believe technological change can have implications on the past, present and future. While they believe technological change is influenced by changes in government policy, society and culture, they consider the notion of change to be a paradox, since change is constant.\n\nMedia and cultural studies theorist Brian Winston, in response to technological determinism, developed a model for the emergence of new technologies which is centered on the Law of the suppression of radical potential. In two of his books – \"Technologies of Seeing: Photography, Cinematography and Television\" (1997) and \"Media Technology and Society\" (1998) – Winston applied this model to show how technologies evolve over time, and how their 'invention' is mediated and controlled by society and societal factors which suppress the radical potential of a given technology.\n\nOne continued argument for technological determinism is centered on the stirrup and its impact on the creation of feudalism in Europe in the late 8th century/early 9th century. Lynn White is credited with first drawing this parallel between feudalism and the stirrup in his book \"Medieval Technology and Social Change\", stating that as \"it made possible mounted shock combat\", the new form of war made the soldier that much more efficient in supporting feudal townships (White, 2). According to White, the superiority of the stirrup in combat was found in the mechanics of the lance charge: \"The stirrup made possible- though it did not demand- a vastly more effective mode of attack: now the rider could law his lance at rest, held between the upper arm and the body, and make at his foe, delivering the blow not with his muscles but with the combined weight of himself and his charging stallion (White, 2).\" White draws from a large research base, particularly Heinrich Brunner's \"Der Reiterdienst und die Anfänge des Lehnwesens\" in substantiating his claim of the emergence of feudalism. In focusing on the evolution of warfare, particularly that of cavalry in connection with Charles Martel's \"diversion of a considerable part of the Church's vast military riches...from infantry to cavalry\", White draws from Brunner's research and identifies the stirrup as the underlying cause for such a shift in military division and the subsequent emergence of feudalism (White, 4). Under the new brand of warfare garnered from the stirrup, White implicitly argues in favor of technological determinism as the vehicle by which feudalism was created.\n\nThough an accomplished work, White's \"Medieval Technology and Social Change\" has since come under heavy scrutiny and condemnation. The most volatile critics of White's argument at the time of its publication, P.H. Sawyer and R.H. Hilton, call the work as a whole \"a misleading adventurist cast to old-fashioned platitudes with a chain of obscure and dubious deductions from scanty evidence about the progress of technology (Sawyer and Hilton, 90).\" They further condemn his methods and, by association, the validity of technological determinism: \"Had Mr. White been prepared to accept the view that the English and Norman methods of fighting were not so very different in the eleventh century, he would have made the weakness of his argument less obvious, but the fundamental failure would remain: the stirrup cannot alone explain the changes it made possible (Sawyer and Hilton, 91).\" For Sawyer and Hilton, though the stirrup may be useful in the implementation of feudalism, it cannot be credited for the creation of feudalism alone.\n\nDespite the scathing review of White's claims, the technological determinist aspect of the stirrup is still in debate. Alex Roland, author of \"Once More into the Stirrups; Lynne White Jr, Medieval Technology and Social Change\", provides an intermediary stance: not necessarily lauding White's claims, but providing a little defense against Sawyer and Hilton's allegations of gross intellectual negligence. Roland views White's focus on technology to be the most relevant and important aspect of \"Medieval Technology and Social Change\" rather than the particulars of its execution: \"But can these many virtues, can this utility for historians of technology, outweigh the most fundamental standards of the profession? Can historians of technology continue to read and assign a book that is, in the words of a recent critic, \"shot through with over-simplification, with a progression of false connexions between cause and effect, and with evidence presented selectively to fit with [White's] own pre-conceived ideas\"? The answer, I think, is yes, at least a qualified yes (Roland, 574-575).\" Objectively, Roland claims \"Medieval Technology and Social Change\" a variable success, at least as \"Most of White's argument stands... the rest has sparked useful lines of research (Roland, 584).\" This acceptance of technological determinism is ambiguous at best, neither fully supporting the theory at large nor denouncing it, rather placing the construct firmly in the realm of the theoretical. Roland neither views technological determinism as completely dominant over history nor completely absent as well; in accordance with the above criterion of technological determinist structure, would Roland be classified as a \"soft determinist\".\n\nThomas L. Friedman, American journalist, columnist and author, admits to being a technological determinist in his book \"The World is Flat\".\n\nFuturist Raymond Kurzweil's theories about a technological singularity follow a technologically deterministic view of history.\n\nSome interpret Karl Marx as advocating technological determinism, with such statements as \"The Handmill gives you society with the feudal lord: the steam-mill, society with the industrial capitalist\" (\"The Poverty of Philosophy,\" 1847), but others argue that Marx was not a determinist.\n\nTechnological determinist Walter Ong reviews the societal transition from an oral culture to a written culture in his work \"Orality and Literacy.\" He asserts that this particular development is attributable to the use of new technologies of literacy (particularly print and writing,) to communicate thoughts which could previously only be verbalized. He furthers this argument by claiming that writing is purely context dependent as it is a \"secondary modelling system\" (8). Reliant upon the earlier primary system of spoken language, writing manipulates the potential of language as it depends purely upon the visual sense to communicate the intended information. Furthermore, the rather stagnant technology of literacy distinctly limits the usage and influence of knowledge, it unquestionably effects the evolution of society. In fact, Ong asserts that \"more than any other single invention, writing has transformed human consciousness\" (Ong 1982: 78).\n\nMedia determinism is a form of technological determinism, a philosophical and sociological position which posits the power of the media to impact society. Two foundational media determinists are the Canadian scholars Harold Innis and Marshall McLuhan. One of the best examples of technological determinism in media theory is Marshall McLuhan's theory \"the medium is the message\" and the ideas of his mentor Harold Adams Innis. Both these Canadian theorists saw media as the essence of civilization. The association of different media with particular mental consequences by McLuhan and others can be seen as related to technological determinism. It is this variety of determinism that is referred to as media determinism. According to McLuhan, there is an association between communications media/technology and language; similarly, Benjamin Lee Whorf argues that language shapes our perception of thinking (linguistic determinism). For McLuhan, media is a more powerful and explicit determinant than is the more general concept of language. McLuhan was not necessarily a hard determinist. As a more moderate version of media determinism, he proposed that our use of particular media may have subtle influences on us, but more importantly, it is the social context of use that is crucial. See also Media ecology.\nMedia determinism is a form of the popular dominant theory of the relationship between technology and society. In a determinist view, technology takes on an active life of its own and is seen be as a driver of social phenomena. Innis believed that the social, cultural, political, and economic developments of each historical period can be related directly to the technology of the means of mass communication of that period. In this sense, like Dr. Frankenstein's monster, technology itself appears to be alive, or at least capable of shaping human behavior. However, it has been increasingly subject to critical review by scholars. For example, scholar Raymond Williams, criticizes media determinism and rather believes social movements define technological and media processes. With regard to communications media, audience determinism is a viewpoint opposed to media determinism. This is described as instead of media being presented as doing things to people; the stress is on the way people do things with media. Individuals need to be aware that the term \"deterministic\" is a negative one for many social scientists and modern sociologists; in particular they often use the word as a term of abuse.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30862857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30862857", "title": "Technology and society", "text": "Technology and society\n\nTechnology society and life or technology and culture refers to cyclical co-dependence, co-influence, and co-production of technology and society upon the other (technology upon culture, and vice versa). This synergistic relationship occurred from the dawn of humankind, with the invention of simple tools and continues into modern technologies such as the printing press and computers. The academic discipline studying the impacts of science, technology, and society, and vice versa is called science and technology studies.\n\nThe importance of stone tools, circa 2.5 million years ago, is considered fundamental in the human development in the hunting hypothesis.\n\nPrimatologist, Richard Wrangham, theorizes that the control of fire by early humans and the associated development of cooking was the spark that radically changed human evolution. Texts such as \"Guns, Germs, and Steel\" suggest that early advances in plant agriculture and husbandry fundamentally shifted the way that collective groups of individuals, and eventually societies, developed.\n\nTechnology has become a huge part in society and day-to-day life. When societies know more about the development in a technology, they become able to take advantage of it. When an innovation achieves a certain point after it has been presented and promoted, this technology becomes part of the society.The use of technology in education provides students with technology literacy, information literacy, capacity for life-long learning and other skills necessary for the 21st century workplace. Digital technology has entered each process and activity made by the social system. In fact, it constructed another worldwide communication system in addition to its origin.\n\nA 1982 study by \"The New York Times\" described a technology assessment study by the Institute for the Future, \"peering into the future of an electronic world.\" The study focused on the emerging videotex industry, formed by the marriage of two older technologies, communications and computing. It estimated that 40 percent of American households will have two-way videotex service by the end of the century. By comparison, it took television 16 years to penetrate 90 percent of households from the time commercial service was begun.\n\nSince the creation of computers achieved an entire better approach to transmit and store data. Digital technology became commonly used for downloading music and watching movies at home either by DVDs or purchasing it online.\nDigital music records are not quite the same as traditional recording media. Obviously, because digital ones are reproducible, portable and free.\n\nSeveral states started to implement education technology in schools, universities and colleges. According to the statistics, in the early beginnings of 1990s the use of Internet in schools was ,on average, 2-3%. Continuously, by the end of 1990s the evolution of technology increases rapidly and reaches to 60%, and by the year of 2008 nearly 100% of schools use Internet on educational form. According to ISTE researchers, technological improvements can lead to numerous achievements in classrooms. E-learning system, collaboration of students on project based learning, and technological skills for future results in motivation of students. \n\nAlthough these previous examples only show a few of the positive aspects of technology in society, there are negative side effects as well. Within this virtual realm, social media platforms such as Instagram, Facebook, and Snapchat have altered the way Generation Y culture is understanding the world and thus how they view themselves. In recent years, there has been more research on the development of social media depression in users of sites like these. \"Facebook Depression\" is when users are so affected by their friends' posts and lives that their own jealousy depletes their sense of self-worth. They compare themselves to the posts made by their peers and feel unworthy or monotonous because they feel like their lives are not nearly as exciting as the lives of others.\n\nAnother instance of the negative effects of technology in society, is how quickly it is pushing younger generations into maturity. With the world at their fingertips, children can learn anything they wish to. But with the uncensored sources from the internet, without proper supervision, children can be exposed to explicit material at inappropriate ages. This comes in the forms of premature interests in experimenting with makeup or opening an email account or social media page—all of which can become a window for predators and other dangerous entities that threaten a child's innocence. Technology has a serious effect on youth's health. The overuse of technology is said to be associated with sleep deprivation which is linked to obesity and poor academic performance in the lives of adolescents.\n\nIn ancient history, economics began when spontaneous exchange of goods and services was replaced over time by deliberate trade structures. Makers of arrowheads, for example, might have realized they could do better by concentrating on making arrowheads and barter for other needs. Regardless of goods and services bartered, some amount of technology was involved—if no more than in the making of shell and bead jewelry. Even the shaman's potions and sacred objects can be said to have involved some technology. So, from the very beginnings, technology can be said to have spurred the development of more elaborate economies.Technology is seen as primary source in economic development.\n\nTechnology advancement and economic growth are related to each other.The level of technology is important to determine the economic growth.It is the technological process which keeps the economy moving.\n\nIn the modern world, superior technologies, resources, geography, and history give rise to robust economies; and in a well-functioning, robust economy, economic excess naturally flows into greater use of technology. Moreover, because technology is such an inseparable part of human society, especially in its economic aspects, funding sources for (new) technological endeavors are virtually illimitable. However, while in the beginning, technological investment involved little more than the time, efforts, and skills of one or a few men, today, such investment may involve the collective labor and skills of many millions.\n\nConsequently, the sources of funding for large technological efforts have dramatically narrowed, since few have ready access to the collective labor of a whole society, or even a large part. It is conventional to divide up funding sources into governmental (involving whole, or nearly whole, social enterprises) and private (involving more limited, but generally more sharply focused) business or individual enterprises.\n\nThe government is a major contributor to the development of new technology in many ways. In the United States alone, many government agencies specifically invest billions of dollars in new technology.\n\n[In 1980, the UK government invested just over six million pounds in a four-year program, later extended to six years, called the Microelectronics Education Programme (MEP), which was intended to give every school in Britain at least one computer, software, training materials, and extensive teacher training. Similar programs have been instituted by governments around the world.]\n\nTechnology has frequently been driven by the military, with many modern applications developed for the military before they were adapted for civilian use. However, this has always been a two-way flow, with industry often developing and adopting a technology only later adopted by the military.\n\nEntire government agencies are specifically dedicated to research, such as America's National Science Foundation, the United Kingdom's scientific research institutes, America's Small Business Innovative Research effort. Many other government agencies dedicate a major portion of their budget to research and development.\n\nResearch and development is one of the smallest areas of investments made by corporations toward new and innovative technology.\nMany foundations and other nonprofit organizations contribute to the development of technology. In the OECD, about two-thirds of research and development in scientific and technical fields is carried out by industry, and 98 percent and 10 percent, respectively, by universities and government. But in poorer countries such as Portugal and Mexico the industry contribution is significantly less. The U.S. government spends more than other countries on military research and development, although the proportion has fallen from about 30 percent in the 1980s to less than 10 percent.\n\nThe 2009 founding of Kickstarter allows individuals to receive funding via crowdsourcing for many technology related products including both new physical creations as well as documentaries, films, and webseries that focus on technology management. This circumvents the corporate or government oversight most inventors and artists struggle against but leaves the accountability of the project completely with the individual receiving the funds.\n\n\nThe implementation of technology influences the values of a society by changing expectations and realities. The implementation of technology is also influenced by values. There are (at least) three major, interrelated values that inform, and are informed by, technological innovations:\n\nTechnology often enables organizational and bureaucratic group structures that otherwise and heretofore were simply not possible. Examples of this might include:\n\nTechnology enables greater knowledge of international issues, values, and cultures. Due mostly to mass transportation and mass media, the world seems to be a much smaller place, due to the following:\n\nTechnology provides an understanding, and an appreciation for the world around us.\n\nMost modern technological processes produce unwanted by products in addition to the desired products, which is known as industrial waste and pollution. While most material waste is re-used in the industrial process, many forms are released into the environment, with negative environmental side effects, such as pollution and lack of sustainability. Different social and political systems establish different balances between the value they place on additional goods versus the disvalues of waste products and pollution. Some technologies are designed specifically with the environment in mind, but most are designed first for economic or ergonomic effects. Historically, the value of a clean environment and more efficient productive processes has been the result of an increase in the wealth of society, because once people are able to provide for their basic needs, they are able to focus on less tangible goods such as clean air and water.\n\nThe effects of technology on the environment are both obvious and subtle. The more obvious effects include the depletion of nonrenewable natural resources (such as petroleum, coal, ores), and the added pollution of air, water, and land. The more subtle effects include debates over long-term effects (e.g., global warming, deforestation, natural habitat destruction, coastal wetland loss.)\n\nEach wave of technology creates a set of waste previously unknown by humans: toxic waste, radioactive waste, electronic waste.\n\nOne of the main problems is the lack of an effective way to remove these pollutants on a large scale expediently. In nature, organisms \"recycle\" the wastes of other organisms, for example, plants produce oxygen as a by-product of photosynthesis, oxygen-breathing organisms use oxygen to metabolize food, producing carbon dioxide as a by-product, which plants use in a process to make sugar, with oxygen as a waste in the first place. No such mechanism exists for the removal of technological wastes.\n\nSociety also controls technology through the choices it makes. These choices not only include consumer demands; they also include:\n\nAccording to Williams and Edge, the construction and shaping of technology includes the concept of choice (and not necessarily conscious choice). Choice is inherent in both the design of individual artifacts and systems, and in the making of those artifacts and systems.\n\nThe idea here is that a single technology may not emerge from the unfolding of a predetermined logic or a single determinant, technology could be a garden of forking paths, with different paths potentially leading to different technological outcomes. This is a position that has been developed in detail by Judy Wajcman. Therefore, choices could have differing implications for society and for particular social groups.\n\nIn one line of thought, technology develops autonomously, in other words, technology seems to feed on itself, moving forward with a force irresistible by humans. To these individuals, technology is \"inherently dynamic and self-augmenting.\"\n\nJacques Ellul is one proponent of the irresistibleness of technology to humans. He espouses the idea that humanity cannot resist the temptation of expanding our knowledge and our technological abilities. However, he does not believe that this seeming autonomy of technology is inherent. But the perceived autonomy is because humans do not adequately consider the responsibility that is inherent in technological processes.\n\nLangdon Winner critiques the idea that technological evolution is essentially beyond the control of individuals or society in his book Autonomous Technology. He argues instead that the apparent autonomy of technology is a result of \"technological somnambulism,\" the tendency of people to uncritically and unreflectively embrace and utilize new technologies without regard for their broader social and political effects.\n\nIndividuals rely on governmental assistance to control the side effects and negative consequences of technology.\n\nRecently, the social shaping of technology has had new influence in the fields of e-science and e-social science in the United Kingdom, which has made centers focusing on the social shaping of science and technology a central part of their funding programs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24397942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24397942", "title": "The Arctic Home in the Vedas", "text": "The Arctic Home in the Vedas\n\nThe Arctic Home in the Vedas is a book on the origin of Aryanic People by Bal Gangadhar Tilak, a mathematician turned astronomer, historian, journalist, philosopher and political leader of India. It propounded the idea that the North Pole was the original home of Aryans during the pre-glacial period which they had to leave due to the ice deluge around 8000 B.C. and had to migrate to the Northern parts of Europe and Asia in search of lands for new settlements. In support to his theory, Tilak presented certain Vedic hymns, Avestic passages, Vedic chronology and Vedic calendars with interpretations of the contents in detail.\n\nThe book was written at the end of 1898, but was first published in March 1903 in Pune.\n\nMan was believed to be post-glacial, and the theory of an Asiatic origin of the Aryan peoples prevailed. The age of the oldest Vedic period, however, was carried back to 4500 BC by scholars including the author himself after scientific astronomical research in correlation with the evidence found in the Vedic hymns.\n\nTilak cites a book by William F. Warren, the first President of Boston University, \"Paradise Found or the Cradle of the Human Race at the North Pole\", as having anticipated his ideas to some extent. Warren dedicated his book to Max Müller, with whom Tilak had shared ideas before the book was completed.\n\nTilak held the view that further study of Vedic hymns and Avestan passages might reveal the long vista of primitive Aryan antiquity.\n\n\n\nThe book has about 500 pages, containing a Preface by the Author and thirteen chapters.\n\n1) Vedic References\n\n2) Avestic References\n\n\"The Arctic Home in the Vedas\" has been cited in the works of Julius Evola, Savitri Devi, Rene Guenon, Jean Haudry and John G. Bennett. M.S. Golwalkar, in his 1939 publication \"We or Our Nationhood Defined\", famously stated that \"Undoubtedly [...] we — Hindus — have been in undisputed and undisturbed possession of this land for over eight or even ten thousand years before the land was invaded by any foreign race.\" Golwalkar was inspired by Tilak's \"The Arctic Home in the Vedas. Gowalkar took over the idea of 10,000 years, arguing that the North Pole at that time was located in India.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "105888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105888", "title": "The End of History and the Last Man", "text": "The End of History and the Last Man\n\nThe End of History and the Last Man is a 1992 book by Francis Fukuyama, expanding on his 1989 essay \"The End of History?\", published in the international affairs journal \"The National Interest\". In the book, Fukuyama argues that the advent of Western liberal democracy may signal the endpoint of humanity's sociocultural evolution and the final form of human government.\n\nWhat we may be witnessing is not just the end of the Cold War, or the passing of a particular period of post-war history, but the end of history as such: that is, the end point of mankind's ideological evolution and the universalization of Western liberal democracy as the final form of human government.\n\nFukuyama's position contradicts that of Karl Marx, who predicted that communism would displace capitalism. Fukuyama himself identifies on some level with Marx, but more strongly with the German philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, by way of Alexandre Kojève. Kojève argued that the progress of history must lead toward the establishment of a \"universal and homogenous\" state, most likely incorporating elements of liberal or social democracy; but Kojève's emphasis on the necessarily \"post-political\" character of such a state (and its citizens) makes such comparisons inadequate, and is irreducible to any mere \"triumph\" of capitalism.\n\n\nAccording to Fukuyama, since the French Revolution, democracy has repeatedly proven to be a fundamentally better system (ethically, politically, economically) than any of the alternatives.\n\nThe most basic (and prevalent) error in discussing Fukuyama's work is to confuse \"history\" with \"events\". Fukuyama claims not that events will stop occurring in the future, but rather that all that will happen in the future (even if totalitarianism returns) is that democracy will become more and more prevalent in the \"long\" term, although it may suffer \"temporary\" setbacks (which may, of course, last for centuries).\n\nSome argue that Fukuyama presents \"American-style\" democracy as the only \"correct\" political system and argues that all countries must inevitably follow this particular system of government. However, many Fukuyama scholars claim this is a misreading of his work. Fukuyama's argument is only that in the future there will be more and more governments that use the framework of parliamentary democracy and that contain markets of some sort. Indeed, Fukuyama has stated:\n\n\"The End of History\" was never linked to a specifically American model of social or political organization. Following Alexandre Kojève, the Russian-French philosopher who inspired my original argument, I believe that the European Union more accurately reflects what the world will look like at the end of history than the contemporary United States. The EU's attempt to transcend sovereignty and traditional power politics by establishing a transnational rule of law is much more in line with a \"post-historical\" world than the Americans' continuing belief in God, national sovereignty, and their military.\n\nAn argument in favour of Fukuyama's thesis is the democratic peace theory, which argues that mature democracies rarely or never go to war with one another. This theory has faced criticism, with arguments largely resting on conflicting definitions of \"war\" and \"mature democracy\". Part of the difficulty in assessing the theory is that democracy as a widespread global phenomenon emerged only very recently in human history, which makes generalizing about it difficult. (See also list of wars between democracies.)\n\nOther major empirical evidence includes the elimination of interstate warfare in South America, Southeast Asia, and Eastern Europe among countries that moved from military dictatorships to liberal democracies.\n\nAccording to several studies, the end of the Cold War and the subsequent increase in the number of liberal democratic states were accompanied by a sudden and dramatic decline in total warfare, interstate wars, ethnic wars, revolutionary wars, and the number of refugees and displaced persons.\n\nSome have argued against the book due to an ideological disagreement with the concept of liberal democracy.\n\nJacques Derrida criticized Fukuyama in \"Specters of Marx\" (1993) as a \"come-lately reader\" of Alexandre Kojève \"in the tradition of Leo Strauss\", who already described US society in the 1950s as the \"realization of communism\". According to Derrida, Fukuyama—and the quick celebrity of his book—is but one symptom of the anxiety to ensure the \"death of Marx\". Fukuyama's celebration of liberal hegemony is criticized by Derrida:\n\nDerrida goes on to analyze Fukuyama's book as taking part in the intellectual branch of current Western hegemony and the spreading of its \"New Gospel\": \"This end of History is essentially a Christian eschatology. It is consonant with the current discourse of the Pope on the European community: destined to become a Christian State or Super-State, this community would still belong therefore to some Holy Alliance.\" He claims that the book uses a \"sleight-of-hand trick\" of making use of empirical data whenever it seems to suit its message, while appealing to an ideal whenever the empirical data contradicts it. Derrida points out that Fukuyama himself sees the real United States and European Union as imperfect compared to the \"ideals\" of liberal democracy and the free market. Even the author understands that such ideals are not demonstrated by empirical evidence or ever could be demonstrated empirically. They belong entirely to the realm of philosophy or religion, owing their birth to the Gospels of Philosophy of Hegel. And yet Fukuyama still uses a movement toward empirical observations, which he himself grants are imperfect and incomplete, to validate an idea that is purely idealistic and transcendent of any empirical reality or possibility.\n\nCertain versions of Marxism can be conceived as \"end of history\" philosophies. Therefore, Marxists like Perry Anderson have been among Fukuyama's fiercest critics. Apart from pointing out that capitalist democracies are still riven with poverty, racial tension, and the like, Marxists also reject Fukuyama's reliance on Hegel. According to them, Hegel's philosophy was fatally flawed until Marx \"turned it on its head\" to create historical materialism. Fukuyama argues that even though there is poverty, racism, and sexism in present-day democracies, there is no sign of a major revolutionary movement developing that would actually overthrow capitalism. While Marxists disagree with Fukuyama's claim that \"capitalist\" democracy represents the end of history, they support the idea that the \"end of history\" will consist of the victory of democracy: communism, in the Marxist view, must necessarily involve a form of direct democracy.\n\nFormer Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez argued against \"the end of history\": he argued his case in his September 2006 address to the United Nations General Assembly. Shortly before that, in August 2006, Fukuyama wrote in response to Chávez's argument, his main point being that \"Chavismo\" was only possible due to the unique oil reserves of Venezuela, and thus would not spread.\n\nMarxist interpretations aside, the economic and social philosophy of Fukuyama can be summarized as Free-Market Libertarian. Although this tends to be an ambiguous word, he uses it in the proper meaning for the time when the book was published. It has been argued that he might even be a Neoconservative on some points but this has been firmly shot down by him and his use of \"ideal\" systems which is firmly denounced by many Anarcho-Capitalists of the same rote who believe that no government can be good. His moral bent is strikingly similar but he does not identify with the founding fathers while espousing the same form of government to avoid petty debates.\n\nVarious Western commentators have described the thesis of \"The End of History\" as flawed because it does not sufficiently take into account the power of ethnic loyalties and religious fundamentalism as a counter-force to the spread of liberal democracy, with the specific example of Islamic fundamentalism, or radical Islam, as the most powerful of these.\n\nBenjamin Barber wrote a 1992 article and a 1995 book, \"Jihad vs. McWorld\", that addressed this theme. Barber described \"McWorld\" as a secular, liberal, corporate-friendly transformation of the world and used the word \"jihad\" to refer to the competing forces of tribalism and religious fundamentalism, with a special emphasis on Islamic fundamentalism.\n\nSamuel P. Huntington wrote a 1993 essay, \"The Clash of Civilizations\", in direct response to \"The End of History\"; he then expanded the essay into a 1996 book, \"The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order\". In the essay and book, Huntington argued that the temporary conflict between ideologies is being replaced by the ancient conflict between civilizations. The dominant civilization decides the form of human government, and these will not be constant. He especially singled out Islam, which he described as having \"bloody borders\".\n\nAfter the September 11, 2001, attacks, \"The End of History\" was cited by some commentators as a symbol of the supposed naiveté and undue optimism of the Western world during the 1990s, in thinking that the end of the Cold War also represented the end of major global conflict. In the weeks after the attacks, Fareed Zakaria called the events \"the end of the end of history\", while George Will wrote that history had \"returned from vacation\".\n\nFukuyama did discuss radical Islam briefly in \"The End of History\". He argued that Islam is not an imperialist force like Stalinism and fascism; that is, it has little intellectual or emotional appeal outside the Islamic \"heartlands\". Fukuyama pointed to the economic and political difficulties that Iran and Saudi Arabia face and argued that such states are fundamentally unstable: either they will become democracies with a Muslim society (like Turkey) or they will simply disintegrate. Moreover, when Islamic states have actually been created, they were easily dominated by the powerful Western states.\n\nIn October 2001, Fukuyama, in a \"Wall Street Journal\" opinion piece, responded to the declarations that the September 11 attacks had disproved his views by stating that \"time and resources are on the side of modernity, and I see no lack of a will to prevail in the United States today.\" He also noted that his original thesis \"does not imply a world free from conflict, nor the disappearance of culture as a distinguishing characteristic of societies.\"\n\nIn a 2008 \"Washington Post\" opinion piece, Fukuyama wrote:\n\nDemocracy's only real competitor in the realm of ideas today is radical Islamism. Indeed, one of the world's most dangerous nation-states today is Iran, run by extremist Shiite mullahs. But as Peter Bergen pointed out in these pages last week, Sunni radicalism has been remarkably ineffective in actually taking control of a nation-state, due to its propensity to devour its own potential supporters. Some disenfranchised Muslims thrill to the rantings of Osama bin Laden or Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, but the appeal of this kind of medieval Islamism is strictly limited.\n\nAnother challenge to the \"end of history\" thesis is the growth in the economic and political power of two countries, Russia and China; China has a one-party state government, while Russia, though formally a democracy, has been described by some as \"de facto\" authoritarian.\n\nAzar Gat, Professor of National Security at Tel Aviv University, argued this point in his 2007 \"Foreign Affairs\" article, \"The Return of Authoritarian Great Powers\", stating that the success of these two countries could \"end the end of history\". Gat also discussed radical Islam, but stated that the movements associated with it \"represent no viable alternative to modernity and pose no significant military threat to the developed world\". He considered the challenge of China and Russia to be the major threat, since they could pose a viable rival model which could inspire other states.\n\nThis view was echoed by Robert Kagan in his 2008 book, \"The Return of History and the End of Dreams\", whose title was a deliberate rejoinder to \"The End of History\".\n\nIn his 2008 \"Washington Post\" opinion piece, Fukuyama also addressed this point. He wrote, \"Despite recent authoritarian advances, liberal democracy remains the strongest, most broadly appealing idea out there. Most autocrats, including Putin and Chávez, still feel that they have to conform to the outward rituals of democracy even as they gut its substance. Even China's Hu Jintao felt compelled to talk about democracy in the run-up to Beijing's Olympic Games.\"\n\nIn 2014, on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the publication of the original essay, \"The End of History?\", Fukuyama wrote a column in \"The Wall Street Journal\" again updating his hypothesis. He wrote that, while liberal democracy still had no real competition from more authoritarian systems of government \"in the realm of ideas\", nevertheless he was less idealistic than he had been \"during the heady days of 1989.\" Fukuyama noted the Orange Revolution in Ukraine and the Arab Spring, both of which seemed to have failed in their pro-democracy goals, as well as the \"backsliding\" of democracy in countries including Thailand, Turkey and Nicaragua. He stated that the biggest problem for the democratically elected governments in some countries was not ideological but \"their failure to provide the substance of what people want from government: personal security, shared economic growth and the basic public services... that are needed to achieve individual opportunity.\" Though he believed that economic growth, improved government and civic institutions all reinforced one another, he wrote that it was not inevitable that \"all countries will... get on that escalator.\"\n\nFukuyama also warned of \"political decay,\" which he wrote could also affect established democracies like the United States, in which corruption and crony capitalism erode liberty and economic opportunity. Nevertheless, he expressed his continued belief that \"the power of the democratic ideal remains immense.\"\n\nFollowing Britain's decision to leave the European Union and the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States in 2016, Fukuyama feared for the future of liberal democracy in the face of resurgent populism, and the rise of a \"post-fact world\", saying that \"twenty five years ago, I didn't have a sense or a theory about how democracies can go backward. And I think they clearly can.\" He also warned that America's political rot was infecting the world order to the point where it \"could be as big as the Soviet collapse\".\n\nFukuyama has also stated that his thesis was incomplete, but for a different reason: \"there can be no end of history without an end of modern natural science and technology\" (quoted from \"Our Posthuman Future\"). Fukuyama predicts that humanity's control of its own evolution will have a great and possibly terrible effect on liberal democracy.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "826464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=826464", "title": "Transhistoricity", "text": "Transhistoricity\n\nTranshistoricity is the quality of holding throughout human history, not merely within the frame of reference of a particular form of society at a particular stage of historical development. An entity or concept that has transhistoricity is said to be transhistorical.\n\nCertain theories of history (e.g. that of Hegel), treat human history as divided into distinct epochs with their own internal logics—historical materialism is the most famous case of such a theory. States of affairs which hold within one epoch may be completely absent, or carry opposite implications in another, according to these theories.\n\nTranshistoricity may be seen as the necessary antithesis to the idea that meanings are bounded by their historical context. It is the temporal equivalent of the spatial concept of universality.\n\nQuestions of what might and might not be transhistorical phenomena are typically the concern of historians and sociologists identifying with the historicist traditions of Hegelian or Marxian thought, but matter additionally in the debates around Thomas Kuhn's notion of paradigm shift and similar discussions. \n\nFredric Jameson, a Marxist or perhaps post-modern theorist, is a case in point. He famously asserted that theory must \"Always historicize!\", going on to wryly observe that this order was itself a \"transhistorical imperative\".\n\nOthers look for transhistorical continuities to inform what's basic to the human condition. For example, D. K. Simonton, finds some regularities in the types of ideas that gain ascendancy following certain types of historical events, in a data series spanning 2,500 years.\n\nIn more recent years, research in the vicinity of Evolutionary psychology has proceeded on the basis that some observed transcultural regularities in human behaviour are also transhistoric, accounted for by their being fixed in the genetic legacy common to all \"Homo sapiens\".\n\nPart of the debate over the distinction between high art and folk art (or lesser disciplines) hinges on the question of whether art can (and if so, if it should) aspire to transcend the particular frame of reference within which it was produced. This frame may be taken to be historically delimited.\n"}
{"id": "1307053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1307053", "title": "Tudor period", "text": "Tudor period\n\nThe Tudor period is the period between 1485 and 1603 in England and Wales and includes the Elizabethan period during the reign of Elizabeth I until 1603. The Tudor period coincides with the dynasty of the House of Tudor in England whose first monarch was Henry VII (14571509). In terms of the entire span, the historian John Guy (1988) argues that \"England was economically healthier, more expansive, and more optimistic under the Tudors\" than at any time in a thousand years.\n\nFollowing the Black Death and the agricultural depression of the late 15th century, the population began to increase. It was less than 2 million in 1450, and about 4 million in 1600. The growing population stimulated economic growth, accelerated the commercialisation of agriculture, increased the production and export of wool, encouraged trade, and promoted the growth of London. \n\nThe high wages and abundance of available land seen in the late 15th century and early 16th century were replaced with low wages and a land shortage. Various inflationary pressures, perhaps due to an influx of New World gold and a rising population, set the stage for social upheaval with the gap between the rich and poor widening. This was a period of significant change for the majority of the rural population, with manorial lords beginning the process of enclosure of village lands that previously had been open to everyone.\n\nThe Reformation transformed English religion during the Tudor period. The four sovereigns, Henry VIII, Edward VI, Mary I, and Elizabeth I had entirely different approaches, with Henry replacing the pope as the head of the Church of England but maintaining Catholic doctrines, Edward imposing a very strict Protestantism, Mary attempting to reinstate Catholicism, and Elizabeth arriving at a compromising position that defined the not-quite-Protestant Church of England. It began with the insistent demands of Henry VIII for an annulment of his marriage that Pope Clement VII refused to grant.\n\nHistorians agreed that the great theme of Tudor history was the Reformation, the transformation of England from Catholicism to Protestantism. The main events, constitutional changes, and players at the national level have long been known, and the major controversies about them largely resolved. Historians until the late 20th century assumed that they knew what the causes were: on the one hand, a widespread dissatisfaction or even disgust with the evils, corruptions, failures, and contradictions of the established religion, setting up an undertone of anti-clericalism that indicated a rightness for reform. A second, less powerful influence was the intellectual impact of certain English reformers, such as the long-term impact of John Wycliffe (1328–1384) and his “Lollardy” reform movement, together with a stream of Reformation treatises and pamphlets from Martin Luther, John Calvin, and other reformers on the continent. The interpretation by Geoffrey Elton in 1960 is representative of the orthodox interpretation. He argues that:\n\nSocial historians after 1960 began in-depth investigations of English religion at the local level, and discovered the orthodox interpretation was quite mistaken. The Lollardy movement had largely expired, and the pamphleteering of continental reformers hardly reached beyond a few scholars at the University of Cambridge—King Henry VIII had vigorously and publicly denounced Luther's heresies. More important, the Catholic Church was in a strong condition in 1500. England was devoutly Catholic, it was loyal to the pope, local parishes attracted strong local financial support, religious services were quite popular both at Sunday Mass and at family devotions. Complaints about the monasteries and the bishops were uncommon. The kings got along well with the popes and by the time Luther appeared on the scene, England was among the strongest supporters of orthodox Catholicism, and seemed a most unlikely place for a religious revolution.\n\nHenry VII, founder of the House of Tudor, became King of England by defeating King Richard III at the Battle of Bosworth Field, the culmination of the Wars of the Roses. Henry engaged in a number of administrative, economic and diplomatic initiatives. He paid very close attention to detail and, instead of spending lavishly, concentrated on raising new revenues. His new taxes were unpopular, and when Henry VIII succeeded him, he executed Henry VII's two most hated tax collectors.\n\nHenry VIII, flamboyant, energetic, militaristic and headstrong, remains one of the most visible kings of England, primarily because of his six marriages, all designed to produce a male heir, and his heavy retribution in executing many top officials and aristocrats. In foreign-policy, he focused on fighting France—with minimal success—and had to deal with Scotland, Spain, and the Holy Roman Empire, often with military mobilisation or actual highly expensive warfare that led to high taxes. The chief military success came over Scotland. The main policy development was Henry's taking full control of the Church of England. This followed from his break from Rome, which was caused by the refusal of the Pope to annul his original marriage. Henry thereby introduced a very mild variation of the Protestant Reformation. There were two main aspects. First Henry rejected the Pope as the head of the Church in England, insisting that national sovereignty required the Absolute supremacy of the king. Henry worked closely with Parliament in passing a series of laws that implemented the break. Englishmen could no longer appeal to Rome. All the decisions were to be made in England, ultimately by the King himself, and in practice by top aides such as Cardinal Wolsey and Thomas Cromwell. Parliament proved highly supportive, with little dissent. The decisive moves came with the Act of Supremacy in 1534 that made the king the protector and only supreme head of the church and clergy of England. After Henry imposed a heavy fine on the bishops, they nearly all complied. The laws of treason were greatly strengthened so that verbal dissent alone was treasonous. There were some short-lived popular rebellions that were quickly suppressed. The league level in terms of the aristocracy and the Church was supportive. The highly visible main refusals came from Bishop Fisher and Chancellor Thomas More; they were both executed. Among the senior aristocrats, trouble came from the Pole family, which supported Reginald Pole who was in exile in Europe. Henry destroyed the rest of the family, executing its leaders, and seizing all its property. The second stage involved the seizure of the monasteries. The monasteries operating religious and charitable institutions were closed, the monks and nuns were pensioned off, and the valuable lands were sold to friends of the King, thereby producing a large, wealthy, gentry class that supported Henry. In terms of theology and ritual there was little change, as Henry wanted to keep most elements of Catholicism and detested the \"heresies\" of Martin Luther and the other reformers.\n\nBiographer J.J. Scarisbrick says that Henry deserved his traditional title of 'Father of the English navy.' It became his personal weapon, his plaything, his passion. He inherited seven small warships from his father, and added two dozen more by 1514. In addition to those built in England, he bought up Italian and Hanseatic warships. By March 1513, he proudly watched his fleet sail down the Thames under command of Sir Edmund Howard. It was the most powerful naval force to date in English history: 24 ships led by the 1600 ton \"Henry Imperial\"; the fleet carried 5000 combat marines and 3000 sailors. It forced the outnumbered French fleet back to its ports, took control of the English Channel, and blockaded Brest. Henry was the first king to organise the navy as a permanent force, with a permanent administrative and logistical structure, funded by tax revenue. His personal attention was concentrated on land, where he founded the royal dockyards, planted trees for shipbuilding, enacted laws for in land navigation, guarded the coastline with fortifications, set up a school for navigation and designated the roles of officers and sailors. He closely supervised the construction of all his warships and their guns, knowing their designs, speed, tonnage, armaments and battle tactics. He encouraged his naval architects, who perfected the Italian technique of mounting guns in the waist of the ship, thus lowering the centre of gravity and making it a better platform. He supervised the smallest details and enjoyed nothing more than presiding over the launching of a new ship. He drained his treasury on military and naval affairs, diverting the revenues from new taxes and the sales of monastery lands.\n\nElton argues that Henry indeed build up the organisation and infrastructure of the Navy, but it was not a useful weapon for his style of warfare. It lacked a useful strategy. It did serve for defence against invasion, and for enhancing England's international prestige.\n\nProfessor Sara Nair James says that in 1515–1529 Cardinal Thomas Wolsey, \"would be the most powerful man in England except, possibly, for the king.\" Historian John Guy explains Wolsey's methods:\nOperating with the firm support of the king, and with special powers over the church given by the Pope, Wolsey dominated civic affairs, administration, the law, the church, and foreign-policy. He was amazingly energetic and far-reaching. In terms of achievements, he built a great fortune for himself, and was a major benefactor of arts, humanities and education. He projected numerous reforms, but in the end English government had not changed much. For all the promise, there was very little achievement of note. From the king's perspective, his greatest failure was an inability to get a divorce when Henry VIII needed a new wife to give him a son who would be the undisputed heir to the throne. Historians agree that Wolsey was a disappointment. In the end, he conspired with Henry's enemies, and died of natural causes before he could be beheaded.\n\nHistorian Geoffrey Elton argued that Thomas Cromwell, who was Henry VIII's chief minister from 1532 to 1540, not only removed control of the Church of England from the hands of the Pope, but transformed England with an unprecedented modern, bureaucratic government. Cromwell (1485–1540) replaced medieval government-as-household-management. Cromwell introduced reforms into the administration that delineated the King's household from the state and created a modern administration. He injected Tudor power into the darker corners of the realm and radically altered the role of the Parliament of England. This transition happened in the 1530s, Elton argued, and must be regarded as part of a planned revolution. Elton's point was that before Cromwell the realm could be viewed as the King's private estate writ large, where most administration was done by the King's household servants rather than separate state offices. By masterminding these reforms, Cromwell laid the foundations of England's future stability and success. Cromwell's luck ran out when he picked the wrong bride for the King; he was beheaded for treason, More recently historians have emphasised that the king and others played powerful roles as well .\n\nThe king had an annual income of about £100,000, but he needed much more in order to suppress rebellions and finance his foreign adventures. In 1533, for example, military expenditures on the northern border cost £25,000, while the 1534 rebellion in Ireland cost £38,000. Suppressing the Pilgrimage of Grace cost £50,000, and the king's new palaces were expensive. Meanwhile, customs revenue was slipping. The Church had an annual revenue of about £300,000; a new tax of 10% was imposed which brought in about £30,000. To get even larger sums it was proposed to seize the lands owned by monasteries, some of which the monks farmed and most of which was leased to local gentry. Taking ownership meant the rents went to the king. Selling the land to the gentry at a bargain price brought in £1 million in one-time revenue and gave the gentry a stake in the administration. The clerical payments from First Fruits and Tenths, which previously went to the pope, now went to the king. Altogether, between 1536 and Henry's death, his government collected £1.3 million; this huge influx of money caused Cromwell to change the Crown's financial system to manage the money. He created a new department of state and a new official to collect the proceeds of the dissolution and the First Fruits and Tenths. The Court of Augmentations and number of departments meant a growing number of officials, which made the management of revenue a major activity.\nCromwell's new system was highly efficient with far less corruption or secret payoffs or bribery than before. Its drawback was the multiplication of departments whose sole unifying agent was Cromwell; his fall caused confusion and uncertainty; the solution was even greater reliance on bureaucratic institutions and the new Privy Council.\n\nIn dramatic contrast to his father, Henry VIII spent heavily, in terms of military operations in Britain and in France, and in building a great network of palaces. How to pay for it remained a serious issue. The growing number of departments meant many new salaried bureaucrats. There were further financial and administrative difficulties in 1540–58, aggravated by war, debasement, corruption and inefficiency, which were mainly caused by Somerset. After Cromwell's fall, William Paulet, 1st Marquess of Winchester, the Lord Treasurer, produced further reforms to simplify the arrangements, reforms which united most of the crown's finance under the exchequer. The courts of general surveyors and augmentations were fused into a new Court of Augmentations, and this was later absorbed into the exchequer along with the First Fruits and Tenths.\n\nAt the end of his reign, Henry VII's peace time income was about £113,000, Of which customs on imports amounted to about £40,000. There was little debt, and he left his son a large treasury. Henry VIII spent heavily on luxuries, such as tapestries and palaces, but his peacetime budget was generally satisfactory. The heavy strain came from warfare, including building defences, building a Navy, Suppressing insurrections, warring with Scotland, and engaging in very expensive continental warfare. Henry's Continental wars won him little glory or diplomatic influence, and no territory. Nevertheless, warfare 1511 to 1514 with three large expeditions and two smaller ones cost £912,000. The Boulogne campaign of 1544 cost £1,342,000 and the wars against Scotland £954,000; the naval wars cost £149,000 and large sums were spent to build and maintain inland and coastal fortifications. The total cost of war and defence between 1539–1547 was well over £2,000,000, although the accounting procedures were too primitive to give an accurate total. Adding it all up, approximately 35% came from taxes, 32% from selling land and monastery holdings, and 30% from debasing the coinage. The cost of war in the short reign of Edward VI was another £1,387,000.\n\nAfter 1540, the Privy Coffers were responsible for 'secret affairs', in particular for the financing of war. The Royal Mint was used to generate revenue by debasing the coinage; the government's profit in 1547–51 was £1.2 million. However, under the direction of regent Northumberland, Edward's wars were brought to an end. The mint no longer generated extra revenue after debasement was stopped in 1551.\n\nAlthough Henry was only in his mid-50s, his health deteriorated rapidly in 1546. At the time the conservative faction, led by Bishop Stephen Gardiner and Thomas Howard, 3rd Duke of Norfolk that was opposed to religious reformation seemed to be in power, and was poised to take control of the regency of the nine-year-old boy who was heir to the throne. However, when the king died, the pro-reformation factions suddenly seized control of the new king, and of the Regency Council, under the leadership of Edward Seymour. Bishop Gardiner was discredited, and the Duke of Norfolk was imprisoned for all of the new king's reign.\n\nThe short reign of Edward VI marked the triumph of Protestantism in England. Somerset, the elder brother of the late Queen Jane Seymour (married to Henry VIII) and uncle to King Edward VI had a successful military career. When the boy king was crowned, Somerset became Lord Protector of the realm and in effect ruled England from 1547 to 1549. Seymour led expensive, inconclusive wars with Scotland. His religious policies angered Catholics. Purgatory was rejected so there was no more need for prayers to saints, relics, and statues, nor for masses for the dead. Some 2400 permanent endowments called chantries had been established that supported thousands of priests who celebrated masses for the dead, or operated schools or hospitals in order to earn grace for the soul in purgatory. The endowments were seized by Cromwell in 1547. Historians have contrasted the efficiency of Somerset's takeover of power in 1547 with the subsequent ineptitude of his rule. By autumn 1549, his costly wars had lost momentum, the crown faced financial ruin, and riots and rebellions had broken out around the country. He was overthrown by his former ally John Dudley, 1st Duke of Northumberland.\n\nUntil recent decades, Somerset's reputation with historians was high, in view of his many proclamations that appeared to back the common people against a rapacious landowning class. In the early 20th century this line was taken by the influential A. F. Pollard, to be echoed by Edward VI's leading biographer W. K. Jordan. A more critical approach was initiated by M. L. Bush and Dale Hoak in the mid-1970s. Since then, Somerset has often been portrayed as an arrogant ruler, devoid of the political and administrative skills necessary for governing the Tudor state.\n\nDudley by contrast moved quickly after taking over an almost bankrupt administration in 1549. Working with his top aide William Cecil, Dudley ended the costly wars with France and Scotland and tackled finances in ways that led to some economic recovery. To prevent further uprisings he introduced countrywide policing, appointed Lords Lieutenants who were in close contact with London, and set up what amounted to a standing national army. Working closely with Thomas Cramner, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Dudley pursued an aggressively Protestant religious policy. They promoted radical reformers to high Church positions, with the Catholic bishops under attack. The use of the \"Book of Common Prayer\" became law in 1549; prayers were to be in English not Latin. The Mass was no longer to be celebrated, and preaching became the centerpiece of church services.\n\nPurgatory, Protestantism declared, was a Catholic superstition that falsified the Scriptures. Prayers for the dead were useless because no one was actually in Purgatory. It followed that prayers to saints, veneration of relics, and adoration of statues were all useless superstitions that had to end. For centuries devout Englishman had created endowments called chantries designed as good works that generated grace to help them get out of purgatory after they died. Many chantries were altars or chapels inside churches, or endowments that supported thousands of priests who said Masses for the dead. In addition there were many schools and hospitals established as good works. In 1547 a new law closed down 2,374 chantries and seized their assets. Although the Act required the money to go to \"charitable\" ends and the \"public good,\" most of it appears to have gone to friends of the Court. Historian A.G. Dickens has concluded:\n\nThe new Protestant orthodoxy for the Church of England was expressed in the Forty-Two Articles of Faith in 1553. But when the king suddenly died, Dudley's last-minute efforts to make his daughter-in-law Lady Jane Grey the new sovereign failed. Queen Mary took over and had him beheaded.\n\nMary was the daughter of Henry VIII by Catherine of Aragon; she closely identified with her Catholic, Spanish heritage. She was next in line for the throne. However, in 1553 as Edward VI lay dying, he and the Duke of Northumberland plotted to make his niece Lady Jane Grey as the new Queen. Northumberland wanted to keep control of the government, and promote Protestantism. Edward signed a devise to alter the succession, but that was not legal, for only Parliament could amend its own acts. Edward's Privy Council kept his death secret for three days to install Lady Jane, but Northumberland had neglected to take control of Princess Mary. She fled and organised a band of supporters, who proclaimed her Queen across the country. The Privy Council abandoned Northumberland, and proclaimed Mary to be the sovereign after nine days of the pretended Jane Grey. Queen Mary imprisoned Lady Jane and executed Northumberland.\n\nMary is remembered for her vigorous efforts to restore Roman Catholicism after Edward's short-lived crusade to minimise Catholicism in England. Protestant historians have long denigrated her reign, emphasising that in just five years she burned several hundred Protestants at the stake in the Marian persecutions. However, a historiographical revisionism since the 1980s has to some degree improved her reputation among scholars. Christopher Haigh's bold reappraisal of the religious history of Mary's reign painted the revival of religious festivities and a general satisfaction, if not enthusiasm, at the return of the old Catholic practices. Her re-establishment of Roman Catholicism was reversed by her younger half-sister and successor Elizabeth I.\n\nProtestant writers at the time took a highly negative view, blasting her as \"Bloody Mary\". John Knox attacked her in his \"First Blast of the Trumpet against the Monstrous Regiment of Women\" (1558), and she was prominently vilified in \"Actes and Monuments\" (1563), by John Foxe. Foxe's book taught Protestants for centuries that Mary was a bloodthirsty tyrant. In the mid-20th century, H. F. M. Prescott attempted to redress the tradition that Mary was intolerant and authoritarian by writing more objectively, and scholarship since then has tended to view the older, simpler, partisan assessments of Mary with greater scepticism.\n\nHaigh concluded that the \"last years of Mary's reign were not a gruesome preparation for Protestant victory, but a continuing consolidation of Catholic strength.\" Catholic historians, such as John Lingard, argued Mary's policies failed not because they were wrong but because she had too short a reign to establish them. In other countries, the Catholic Counter-Reformation was spearheaded by Jesuit missionaries; Mary's chief religious advisor, Cardinal Pole, refused to allow the Jesuits in England. Spain was widely seen as the enemy, and her marriage to King Phillip II of Spain was deeply unpopular, even though he had practically no role in English government and they had no children. The military loss of Calais to France was a bitter humiliation to English pride. Failed harvests increased public discontent. Although Mary's rule was ultimately ineffectual and unpopular, her innovations regarding fiscal reform, naval expansion, and colonial exploration were later lauded as Elizabethan accomplishments.\n\nHistorians often depict Elizabeth's reign as the golden age in English history in terms of political, social and cultural development, and in comparison with Continental Europe. Calling her \"Gloriana\" and using the symbol of Britannia starting in 1572, marked the Elizabethan age as a renaissance that inspired national pride through classical ideals, international expansion, and naval triumph over the hated and feared Spanish.\nElizabeth's reign marks the decisive turning point in English religious history, as a predominantly Catholic nation at the beginning of her reign was predominantly Protestant by the end. Although Elizabeth executed 250 Catholic priests, she also executed some extreme Puritans, and on the whole she sought a moderately conservative position that mixed Royal control of the church (with no people role), combined with predominantly Catholic ritual, and a predominantly Calvinists theology.\n\nMary, Queen of Scots (lived 1542–87) was a devout Catholic and next in line for the throne of England after Elizabeth. Her status became a major domestic and international issue for England. After the death of King James IV at the Battle of Flodden in 1513. The upshot was years of struggle for control of the throne, nominally held by the infant king James V (lived 1512–42, reigned 1513–42), until he came of age in 1528.\n\nMary of Guise (lived 1515–60) was a French woman close to the French throne. She ruled as the regent for her teenaged daughter Queen Mary, 1554–60. The regent and her daughter were both strong proponents of Catholicism and attempted to suppress the rapidly Growth of Protestantism in Scotland. Mary of Guise was a strong opponent of Protestantism, and worked to maintain a close alliance between Scotland and France, called the Auld Alliance. In 1559 the Regent became alarmed that widespread Scottish hostility against French rule was strengthening the partisan cause, so she banned unauthorised preaching. But the fiery preacher John Knox sent Scotland aflame with his preaching, leading the coalition of powerful Scottish nobles, calling themselves the Lords of the Congregation raised the rebellion to overthrow the Catholic Church and seize its lands. The Lords appealed to Elizabeth for English help, but she played a very cautious hand. The 1559 treaty with France called for peace and she was unwilling to violate it, especially since England had no allies at the time. Supporting rebels against the lawful ruler violated Elizabeth's deeply held claims to the legitimacy of all royalty. On the other hand, a French victory in Scotland would establish a Catholic state on the northern border supported by a powerful French enemy. Elizabeth first sent money, then sent artillery, then sent a fleet that destroyed the French fleet in Scotland. Finally she sent 8,000 troops north. The death of Mary of Guise allowed England, France and Scotland to come to terms in the Treaty of Edinburgh in 1560, which had a far-reaching impact. France permanently withdrew all its forces from Scotland. It ensured the success of the Reformation in Scotland; it began a century of peace with France; it ended any threat of a Scottish invasion; and it paved the way for a union of the two kingdoms in 1603 when the Scottish king James VI inherited the English throne as James I and launched the Stuart era.\n\nWhen the treaty was signed, Mary was in Paris as the wife of the French King Francis II. When he died in 1561, she returned to Scotland as Queen of Scotland. However, when Elizabeth refused to recognise her as the heir to the English throne, Mary rejected the Treaty of Edinburgh. She made an unfortunate marriage to Lord Darnley who mistreated her and murdered her Italian favourite David Rizzio. Darnley in turn was murdered by the Earl of Bothwell. He was acquitted of murder; she quickly married Bothwell. Most people at the time thought she was deeply involved in adultery or murder; historians have argued at length and are undecided. However rebellion broke out and the Protestant nobles defeated the Queen's forces in 1567. She was forced to abdicate in favour of her infant son James VI; she fled to England, where Elizabeth confined her and house arrest for 19 years. Mary engaged in numerous complex plots to assassinate Elizabeth and become queen herself. Finally Elizabeth caught her plotting the Babington Plot and had her executed in 1587.\n\nElizabeth's final two decades saw mounting problems that were left for the Stuarts to solve after 1603. John Cramsie, in reviewing the recent scholarship in 2003, argues:\nElizabeth remained a strong leader, but almost all of her earlier advisers had died or retired. Robert Cecil (1563–1612) took over the role of leading advisor long held by his father Lord Burghley. Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex (1567–1601) was her most prominent general, a role previously held by his stepfather Robert Dudley, who was the love of Elizabeth's life; and the adventurer/historian Sir Walter Raleigh (1552–1618) was a new face on the scene. The three new men formed a triangle of interlocking and opposing forces that was hard to break into. The first vacancy came in 1601, when Devereux was executed for attempting to take the Queen prisoner and seize power. After Elizabeth died the new king kept on Cecil as his chief advisor, and beheaded Raleigh.\n\nNumerous popular uprisings occurred; all suppressed by royal authorities. The largest were:\n\nThe main officials of the local government operated at the county level (also called \"shire\") were the sheriff and the Lord Lieutenant. the power of the sheriff had declined since medieval days, but he was still very prestigious. He was appointed for a one-year term, with no renewals, by the King's Privy Council. He was paid many small fees, but they probably did not meet the sheriff's expenses in terms of hospitality and hiring his under-sheriffs and bailiffs. The sheriff held court every month to deal with civil and criminal cases. He supervised elections, ran the jail and meted out punishments. His subordinates provided staffing for the county's justices of the peace.\n\nThe Lord Lieutenant was a new office created by Henry VIII to represent the royal power in each county. He was a person with good enough connections at court to be selected by the king and served at the king's pleasure, often for decades. He had limited powers of direct control, so successful Lord Lieutenants worked with his deputy lieutenants and dealt with the gentry through compromise, consensus, and the inclusion of opposing factions. He was in charge of mobilising the militia if necessary for defence, or to assist the king in military operations. In Yorkshire in 1588, the Lord Lieutenant was the Earl of Huntington, who urgently needed to prepare defences in the face of the threatened invasion from the Spanish Armada. The Queen's Privy Council urgently called upon him to mobilise the militia, and report on the availability of men and horses . Huntington's challenge was to overcome the reluctance of many militia men, the shortages of arms, training mishaps, and jealousy among the gentry as to who would command which unit. Despite Huntingdon's last-minute efforts, the mobilisation of 1588 revealed a reluctant society that only grudgingly answered the call to arms. The Armada never landed, and the militia were not actually used. During the civil wars of the mid-17th century, the Lord Lieutenant played an even more important role in mobilising his county either for king or for Parliament.\n\nThe day-to-day business of government was in the hands of several dozen justices of the peace (JP). They handled all the real routine police administrative functions, and were paid through a modest level of fees. Other local officials included constables, church-wardens, mayors, and city aldermen. The JP duties involved a great deal of paperwork – primarily in Latin – and attracted a surprisingly strong cast of candidates. For example, The 55 JPs in Devonshire holding office in 1592 included:\n\nThe cultural achievements of the Elizabethan era have long attracted scholars, and since the 1960s they have conducted intensive research on the social history of England.\n\nThe House of Tudor produced five monarchs who ruled during this period (excluding Lady Jane Grey).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12308024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12308024", "title": "Victorian Community History Awards", "text": "Victorian Community History Awards\n\nThe Victorian Community History Awards are held annually to recognise the contributions made by Victorians in the preservation of the State’s history, and to recognise excellence in historical research. The effect of the VCHA over the period from 1998 to the present has been the stimulation of community history, the lifting of standards and the fostering of diversity and originality. \n\nThe Victorian Community History Awards were established and sponsored in 1997 by Information Victoria. The judges have always been appointed by the Royal Historical Society of Victoria, and among the first were Professor Weston Bate, Professor A. G. L. Shaw, and senior journalist at \"The Age\", John Lahey. \n\nFunding was suspended in 2006 to provide additional funds for the Commonwealth Games in Melbourne. After 2010 Information Victoria Bookshop withdrew support for the program, but after a vigorous campaign by the RHSV for the continuance of the Awards, the Baillieu government accepted a submission from the Public Record Office Victoria (PROV) to continue the program for a further four-year period. \n\nFrom 2011 the Awards were administered by the RHSV in partnership with PROV. \n\nIn 2012, following consultation between the Public Record Office Victoria and the Royal Historical Society of Victoria, award categories were slightly altered and renamed, as below:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2011 the Best Print / Publication category was divided into Best Commercial Publication and Best Self or Community Publication. See above.\n\n\n\n\nIn 2011 Best Exhibit and Best Audio-Visual / Multimedia were combined as a category. See above.\n\n\nIn 2011 Best Exhibit and Best Audio-Visual / Multimedia were combined as a category. See above.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53855699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53855699", "title": "War in History (book series)", "text": "War in History (book series)\n\nWar in History (\"Krieg in der Geschichte\", KRiG) is a German non-fiction book series established in 1999. Published by Verlag Ferdinand Schöningh, it focuses on the latest research in military history. The editors include historians of the University of Bern, of the University of Potsdam, Bernd Wegner of the Helmut Schmidt University and of the École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales.\n\nThe War in History series includes collections of essays or individual monographs, mostly in German (occasionally in English). Many of the works have been written as dissertations at German universities or research facilities, such as the Center for Military History and Social Sciences of the Bundeswehr. The publication in the series often explore the relationship between war and peace, as well as military and political means. For the editors of this series, investigations into the history of war cannot be carried out solely by \"military considerations\". Rather, historiographical diversity between foreign and domestic politics as well as society, economy and technology should be taken into account.\n\n\n"}
