{"id": "45456184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45456184", "title": "Alsager Hay Hill", "text": "Alsager Hay Hill\n\nAlsager Hay Hill (1 October 1839 – 2 August 1906) was an English social reformer active during the late 19th century, influential on poor law reform and employment issues. He founded one of the first labour exchanges and a newspaper, \"Labour News\" that is still published today, albeit under a new title: \"Construction News\".\n\nHill was born at Gressenhall Hall in Norfolk, the second son in a family of five sons and six daughters of John David Hay Hill, lord of the manor of Gressenhall, and Margaret (second daughter of the hop merchant and former MP for Cashel, Ebenezer John Collett).\n\nHill was educated at Brighton College (1850–54) and at Cheltenham College (1854–57). In 1857 he obtained an exhibition at Caius College, Cambridge, migrating as scholar to Trinity Hall, where he graduated LLB in 1862. Becoming a student of the Inner Temple in October 1860, he was called to the bar in January 1864.\n\nHe joined the south-eastern circuit, but soon devoted his energies to journalism and to literature, interesting himself especially in poor law and labour questions, and working as almoner to the Society for the Relief of Distress in the East of London. In letters to the press during 1868 Hill called attention to weaknesses in the poor laws, and urged a more scientific classification of paupers (\"The Times\", 9 January 1868). His pamphlet on \"Our Unemployed,\" prepared for the National Association for the Promotion of Social Science, and published in 1867, was one of the first to call public attention to the problem of unemployment, and to suggest a national system of labour registration.\n\nOther pamphlets followed: \"Lancashire Labour and the London Poor\" (1871), \"Impediments to the Circulation of Labour, with a Few Suggestions for their Removal\" (1873), \"The Unemployed in Great Cities, with Suggestions for the Better Organisation of Labourers\" (1877), and \"Vagrancy\" in 1881.\n\nHill was also a supporter of the role of women in public life, supporting campaigns to elect prominent women such as Maria Grey and Elizabeth Garrett Anderson to the London School Board in 1870, recognising the potential benefits of education on relieving poverty.\n\nHill was a pioneer of the system of labour exchanges in England, and in 1871 established in Greek Street, Soho, 'The Employment Inquiry Office and Labour Registry,' which was subsequently transferred to 15 Russell Street, Covent Garden, as the 'Central Labour Exchange, Employment, Emigration, and Industrial Intelligence Office.' There as director Hill advised applicants for assistance, and founded and edited \"Labour News\" to improve communication between masters and men seeking work. Hill had agents and correspondents in the chief industrial centres, who sent notes on the condition of the local labour markets (Hill's venture, which was not profitable, impaired his health; on his retirement a committee of working men managed the paper, and contributed from the profits to Hill's maintenance). The publication, founded in 1871, survived to become \"Construction and Labour News\" (1963) and then, in April 1964, \"Construction News\".\n\nFrom 1877 onwards Hill also edited \"The Industrial Handbook\" and superintended the publication in 1881 of \"The Industrial Index to London,\" by H. Llewelyn Williams, as well as \"Business Aspects of Ladies' Work\". He also edited (1870–71) a series of penny \"Statutes for the People\", intended to give the labouring class cheap legal advice (legal aid). He was prominent, from its foundation in 1869, in the work of the Charity Organisation Society, as a 1914 history of the Society made clear:\n\nMr. Alsager Hay Hill joined the Society in its first year. He was one of its first Hon. Secretaries, and the life and soul of Council meetings in the early days of struggle. A man of rare natural wit, something of a poet, and the brightest of companions, he threw himself eagerly into the Society's work, and more particularly devoted his time and energy to an attempt to deal with the problems of unemployment. His 'Labour News' of thirty years ago anticipated the Labour Exchanges of today.\n\nHill was honorary secretary of the council until July 1870, and remained an active member of the council until 1880. Hill also supported the Working Men's Club and Institute Union.\n\nA published writer of poetry and verse throughout his life, Hill was praised in \"The Spectator\":\n\nFor besides writing poetry, Mr. Alsager Hill is a well-known philanthropist, and [when] his experience and his sympathies meet, he produces some telling verses. Of these, \"Lilies in the City,\" \"Mrs. Grundy's Sunday,\" and \"The Great God Gin,\" are good examples. ...\n\nAmong flowers and books also Mr. Hill can take his ease, and forgets, as his preface tells us, that there are newspapers to edit and philanthropy to organise.\n\nHill suffered from ill health and poverty in his later years, living in retirement at Boston, Lincolnshire. He died there unmarried on 2 August 1906, and was buried at Gressenhall.\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "56119400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56119400", "title": "Angelica Fraser", "text": "Angelica Fraser\n\nAngelica Fraser (25 January, 1823 – 27 November, 1910) was a British social reformer. She was active in arranging bible based education for tailors and \"Tailor's Hall\" was opened in London. In Edinburgh she founded a temperance society for tailors and another for working women.\n\nFraser was born in Aberdeen in 1823. Her mother, Agnes, died when she was eleven and she took a strong interest in religion. Her father, Alexander, was the Lord Provost of Aberdeen. Fraser became interested in the education and well-being of tailors. In 1856 she first entered a tailor's workshop to educate them. She arranged for volunteers to read from the Bible as the tailors worked. The idea caught on and similar groups of lady readers were established in Belfast, London and Liverpool to read to tailors as they worked. Fraser thought that the tailors would improve their own working conditions if they were better informed and educated and in 1875 they formed the \"Edinburgh Tailors' Abstinence Union\".\n\nIn 1876 she formed the \"Scottish Ladies' Temperance Society\". The society intended to open public houses where alcohol would not be served. They identified laundresses, cooks and similar jobs which made women prone to the temptation of drink. The society planned to make them total abstainers.\n\nFraser moved to London in 1879 and the following year organised a conference on matters important to tailors. By 1885 monies had been raised to open an institute with a lecture hall and reading room. It was known as \"Tailors' Hall\". She became known as the tailors' \"Florence Nightingale\" or the \"Tailor's Friend\". In 1906, on the 50th anniversary of her first work with tailors she established an endowment fund to raise £5000 to ensure the continued work at Tailors' Hall.\n\nFraser remained a regular visitor to Tailor's Hall until she died at her home in London in November 1910.\n"}
{"id": "14554018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14554018", "title": "Anti-nuclear movement in Germany", "text": "Anti-nuclear movement in Germany\n\nThe anti-nuclear movement in Germany has a long history dating back to the early 1970s when large demonstrations prevented the construction of a nuclear plant at Wyhl. The Wyhl protests were an example of a local community challenging the nuclear industry through a strategy of direct action and civil disobedience. Police were accused of using unnecessarily violent means. Anti-nuclear success at Wyhl inspired nuclear opposition throughout Germany, in other parts of Europe, and in North America. A few years later protests raised against the NATO Double-Track Decision in Germany and were followed by the foundation of the Green party.\n\nIn 1986, large parts of Germany were covered with radioactive contamination from the Chernobyl disaster and Germans went to great lengths to deal with the contamination. Germany's anti-nuclear stance was strengthened. From the mid-1990s onwards, anti-nuclear protests were primarily directed against transports of radioactive waste in \"CASTOR\" containers.\n\nIn September 2010, German government policy shifted back toward nuclear energy, and this generated some new anti-nuclear sentiment in Berlin and beyond. On 18 September 2010, tens of thousands of Germans surrounded Chancellor Angela Merkel's office. In October 2010, tens of thousands of people protested in Munich. In November 2010, there were violent protests against a train carrying reprocessed nuclear waste.\n\nWithin days of the March 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, large anti-nuclear protests occurred in Germany. Chancellor Angela Merkel promptly \"imposed a three-month moratorium on previously announced extensions for Germany's existing nuclear power plants, while shutting seven of the 17 reactors that had been operating since 1981\". Protests continued and, on 29 May 2011, Merkel's government announced that it would close all of its nuclear power plants by 2022. Galvanised by the Fukushima nuclear disaster, first anniversary anti-nuclear demonstrations were held in Germany in March 2012. Organisers say more than 50,000 people in six regions took part.\n\nGerman publications of the 1950s and 1960s contained criticism of some features of nuclear power including its safety. Nuclear waste disposal was widely recognized as a major problem, with concern publicly expressed as early as 1954. In 1964, one author went so far as to state \"that the dangers and costs of the necessary final disposal of nuclear waste could possibly make it necessary to forego the development of nuclear energy\".\n\nIn the early 1960s there was a proposal to build a nuclear power station in West Berlin, but the project was dropped in 1962. Another attempt to site a reactor in a major city was made in 1967, when BASF planned to build a nuclear power station on its ground at Ludwigshafen, to supply process steam. Eventually the project was withdrawn by BASF.\n\nThe tiny hamlet of Wyhl, located just outside the Kaiserstuhl wine-growing area in the southwestern corner of Germany, was first mentioned in 1971 as a possible site for a nuclear power station. In the years that followed, local opposition steadily mounted, but this had little impact on politicians and planners. Official permission for the plant was granted and earthworks began on 17 February 1975. On 18 February, local people spontaneously occupied the site and police removed them forcibly two days later. Television coverage of police dragging away farmers and their wives through the mud helped to turn nuclear power into a major national issue. The rough treatment was widely condemned and made the wine-growers, clergy, and others all the more determined. Some local police refused to take part in the action.\n\nSubsequent support came from the nearby university town of Freiburg. On 23 February about 30,000 people re-occupied the Wyhl site and plans to remove them were abandoned by the state government in view of the large number involved and potential for more adverse publicity. On 21 March 1975, an administrative court withdrew the construction licence for the plant. The plant was never built and the land eventually became a nature reserve.\n\nThe Wyhl occupation generated extensive national debate. This initially centred on the state government's handling of the affair and associated police behaviour, but interest in nuclear issues was also stimulated. The Wyhl experience encouraged the formation of citizen action groups near other planned nuclear sites. Many other anti-nuclear groups formed elsewhere, in support of these local struggles, and some existing citizens' action groups widened their aims to include the nuclear issue. This is how the German anti-nuclear movement evolved. Anti-nuclear success at Wyhl also inspired nuclear opposition in the rest of Europe and North America.\n\nIn 1976 and 1977, mass demonstrations took place at Kalkar, the site of Germany's first fast breeder reactor, and at Brokdorf, north of Hamburg. Some of these demonstrations, which always started peacefully, were organized by the World Union for Protection of Life. The circumstances at Brokdorf were similar to those at Wyhl, in that the behaviour of the police was again crucial:\n\nThe authorities had rushed through the licensing process, and police occupied the site hours before the first construction license was granted, in order to prevent a repetition of Wyhl. Demonstrators trying to enter the site a few days later got harsh treatment, and all this helped consolidate the population in opposition.\nIn February 1977 the Minister-President of Lower Saxony, Ernst Albrecht of the Christian Democratic Union, announced that the salt mines in Gorleben would be utilised to store radioactive waste. New protests by the local population and opponents of nuclear power broke out and approximately 20,000 people attended the first large demonstration in Gorleben on 12 March 1977. Protests about Gorleben continued for several years and, in 1979, the prime minister declared that plans for a nuclear waste plant in Gorleben were “impossible to enforce for political reasons\".\n\nIn 1980 an Enquete Commission of the Bundestag proposed \"a paradigmatic\nchange in energy policy away from nuclear power\". This contributed to a broad shift in German public opinion, the formation of the Green Party, and its election to the German Bundestag in 1983.\n\nIn the early 1980s plans to build a nuclear fuel reprocessing plant in the Bavarian town of Wackersdorf lead to major protests. In 1986, West German police were confronted by demonstrators armed with slingshots, crowbars and Molotov cocktails at the site of a nuclear reprocessing plant in Wackersdorf. The plans for the plant were abandoned in 1988. It still isn't clear whether protests or plant economics led to the decision.\n\nIn 1981, Germany's largest anti-nuclear demonstration took place to protest against the construction of the Brokdorf Nuclear Power Plant on the North Sea coast west of Hamburg. Some 100,000 people came face to face with 10,000 police officers. Twenty-one policemen were injured by demonstrators armed with gasoline bombs, sticks, stones and high-powered slingshots. The plant began operations in October 1986 and is scheduled to close in 2018.\n\nThe Chernobyl disaster in 1986 was a pivotal event for Germany's anti-nuclear movement. After the radioactive fallout cloud covered large parts of the country, Germans went to great lengths to deal with the contamination. Contaminated crops were destroyed, firemen dressed in protective gear cleaned cars as they crossed the border from other countries, and sand in playground sandboxes was replaced.\n\nFollowing Chernobyl, the Green Party strived \"for the immediate shut-down of all nuclear facilities\". The SPD pushed for a nuclear phase-out within ten years. Länder governments, municipalities, parties and trade unions explored the question of \"whether the use of nuclear power technology was reasonable and sensible for the future\".\n\nIn May 1986 clashes between anti-nuclear protesters and West German police became common. More than 400 people were injured in mid-May at the site of a nuclear-waste reprocessing plant being built near Wackersdorf. Police \"used water cannons and dropped tear-gas grenades from helicopters to subdue protesters armed with slingshots, crowbars and Molotov cocktails\".\n\nSeveral advanced reactor designs in Germany were unsuccessful. Two fast breeder reactors were built, but both were closed in 1991 without the\nlarger ever having achieved criticality. The High Temperature Reactor THTR-300 at Hamm-Uentrop, under construction since 1970, was started in 1983, but was shut down in September 1989.\n\nThe anti-nuclear protests were also a driving force of the green movement in Germany, from which the party The Greens evolved. When they first came to power in the Schröder administration of 1998 they achieved their major political goal for which they had fought for 20 years: abandoning nuclear energy in Germany.\n\nFrom the mid-1990s onwards, anti-nuclear protests were primarily directed against transports of radioactive waste called \"castor\" containers. In 1996 there were sit-ins against the second castor consignment bringing nuclear waste from La Hague in France to Gorleben. In 1997 the third castor transport reached Gorleben despite the efforts of several thousand protesters.\n\nIn 2002, the \"Act on the structured phase-out of the utilization of nuclear energy for the commercial generation of electricity\" took effect, following a drawn-out political debate and lengthy negotiations with nuclear power plant operators. The act legislated for the shut-down of all German nuclear plants by 2021. The Stade Nuclear Power Plant was the first one to go offline in November 2003, followed by the Obrigheim Nuclear Power Plant in 2005. Block-A of the Biblis Nuclear Power Plant is still provisionally scheduled to be shut down in 2008. Block-B is going back online after a year-long shutdown on 13 or 14 December 2007 and is scheduled to keep operating until 2009 or 2012.\n\nIn 2007, amid concerns that Russian energy supplies to western Europe may not be reliable, conservative politicians, including Chancellor Angela Merkel and Economics Minister Michael Glos, continued to question the decision to phase out nuclear power in Germany. WISE along with other anti-nuclear movement groups contend that the climate problem can only be solved by the use of renewable forms of energy along with efficient and economical energy technologies.\n\nIn summer 2008, a cover of the German magazine Der Spiegel read \"Atomkraft - Das unheimliche Comeback \"(Nuclear Power - Its eerie comeback). As a consequence the Germans anti-nuclear organisation \"\" decided to coordinate the various anti-nuclear movements on their website leading to a more powerful protest. Anti-nuclear Monday evening walks become popular in various German cities.\n\nIn November 2008, a shipment of radioactive waste from German nuclear plants arrived at a storage site near Gorleben after being delayed by large protests from nuclear activists. More than 15,000 people took part in the protests which involved blocking trucks with sit-down demonstrations and blocking the route with tractors. The demonstrations were partly a response to conservative calls for a rethink of the planned phaseout of nuclear power stations.\n\nIn April 2009, activists blocked the entrance to controversial Neckarwestheim Nuclear Power Plant with an 8-metre wall. Their protest coincided with the annual meeting of the company that runs the plant, EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg.\n\nAlso in April 2009 about 1,000 people demonstrated against nuclear power generation in the north-western city of Münster. Located southwest of Hamburg, Münster is surrounded by a nuclear waste dump at Ahaus, Germany's only uranium enrichment plant at Gronau and another such plant at Almelo in neighbouring Holland.\n\nOn 24 April 2010, about 120,000 people built a human chain (\"KETTENreAKTION!\") between the nuclear plants Krümmel and Brunsbüttel. This way they were demonstrating against the plans of the German government to extend the period of producing nuclear power. Demonstrations were also held in other German cities \"where public opinion is mainly opposed to nuclear energy\".\n\nIn September 2010, German government policy shifted back toward nuclear energy, and this generated some new anti-nuclear sentiment in Berlin and beyond. On 18 September 2010, tens of thousands of Germans surrounded Chancellor Angela Merkel’s office in an anti-nuclear demonstration that organisers said was the biggest of its kind since the Chernobyl disaster in 1986. In October 2010, tens of thousands of people protested in Munich against the nuclear power policy of Chancellor Angela Merkel's coalition government. Protesters called for a move away from nuclear power towards renewable energy. The action was the biggest anti-nuclear event in Bavaria for more than two decades.\n\nIn November 2010, police wielding batons clashed with protesters who disrupted the passage of a train carrying reprocessed nuclear waste from France to Germany. The train carrying the nuclear waste was heading for Dannenberg where the 123 tonnes of waste was loaded onto trucks and taken to the nearby storage facility of Gorleben, in central Germany. Tens of thousands of protesters gathered in Dannenberg to signal their opposition to the cargo. Organisers said 50,000 people had turned out but police said the figure was closer to 20,000. Around 16,000 police were mobilised to deal with the protests.\n\nIn light of the Fukushima nuclear disaster, public opposition intensified. 60,000 Germans participated in a protest on 12 March 2011, forming a 45-km human chain from Stuttgart to the Neckarwestheim power plant. 110,000 people protested in 450 other German towns on 14 March, with opinion polls indicating 80% of Germans opposed the government's extension of nuclear power. On 15 March 2011, Angela Merkel said that seven nuclear power plants which went online before 1980 would be temporarily closed and the time would be used to study speedier renewable energy commercialization. Merkel has effectively reversed a previous decision to keep older nuclear plants operating beyond their previously designated life span.\n\nFormer proponents of nuclear energy such as Angela Merkel, Guido Westerwelle, Stefan Mappus have changed their positions, yet 71% of the population believe that to be a tactical maneuvre related to upcoming state elections. In the largest anti-nuclear demonstration ever held in Germany, some 250,000 people protested on 26 March under the slogan \"Fukushima reminds - shut off all nuclear plants.\" The 27 March state elections in Baden-Württemberg and Rhineland-Palatinate saw the Greens gain their voting share significantly as a result of their long-time anti-nuclear politics, ending up with the second largest share of the vote in the Baden-Württemberg election.\n\nIn March 2011, more than 200,000 people took part in anti-nuclear protests in four large German cities, on the eve of state elections. Organisers called it the biggest anti-nuclear demonstration the country has seen, with police estimating that 100,000 people turned out in Berlin alone. Hamburg, Munich and Cologne also saw big demonstrations. The \"New York Times\" reported that \"most Germans have a deep-seated aversion to nuclear power, and the damage at the Fukushima Daiichi plant in Japan has galvanized opposition\". Thousands of Germans demanding an end to the use of nuclear power took part in nationwide demonstrations on 2 April 2011. About 7,000 people took part in anti-nuclear protests in Bremen. About 3,000 people protested outside of RWE's headquarters in Essen. Other smaller rallies were held elsewhere.\n\nChancellor Angela Merkel's coalition announced on 30 May 2011, that Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022, in a policy reversal following Japan's Fukushima I nuclear accidents. Seven of the German power stations were closed temporarily in March, and they will remain off-line and be permanently decommissioned. An eighth was already off line, and will stay so. Between 2011 and 2014 Germany burned more coal, an additional 9.5 million tonnes of oil equivalent.\n\nIn November 2011, thousands of anti-nuclear protesters delayed a train carrying radioactive waste from France to Germany. Many clashes and obstructions made the journey the slowest one since the annual shipments of radioactive waste began in 1995. The shipment, the first since Japan's Fukishima nuclear disaster, faced large protests in France where activists damaged the train tracks. Thousands of people in Germany also interrupted the train's journey, forcing it to proceed at a snail's pace, covering 1,200 kilometers (746 miles) in 109 hours. More than 200 people were reported injured in the protests and several arrests were made. Galvanised by the Fukushima nuclear disaster, first anniversary anti-nuclear demonstrations were held in Germany in March 2012. Organisers say more than 50,000 people in six regions took part.\n\nSpiegel Online has presented this timeline of events associated with the anti-nuclear power movement in Germany:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "212373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212373", "title": "Barthélemy Prosper Enfantin", "text": "Barthélemy Prosper Enfantin\n\nBarthélemy Prosper Enfantin (8 February 17961 September 1864) was a French social reformer, one of the founders of Saint-Simonianism. He was also a proponent of a Suez canal.\n\nEnfantin was born in Paris, the son of a banker of Dauphiné. After receiving his early education at a lyceum, he was sent in 1813 to the École polytechnique. In March 1814 he was one of the band of students who, on the heights of Montmartre and Saint-Chaumont, attempted resistance to the armies of the Sixth Coalition which had engaged in the invasion of Paris. In consequence of this outbreak of patriotic enthusiasm, the school was soon after closed by Louis XVIII, and the young student was compelled to seek another career.\n\nInitially, he began working for a country wine merchant, travelling to Germany, Russia and the United Kingdom of the Netherlands. In 1821 he entered a banking-house newly established at Saint Petersburg, but returned two years later to Paris, where he was appointed cashier to the \"Caisse Hypothécaire\". At the same time, he became a member of the secret society of the \"Carbonari\".\n\nIn 1825 a new turn was given to his thoughts and his life by the friendship which he formed with Olinde Rodriguez, who introduced him to the Comte de Saint-Simon. He affiliated to Saint-Simon's version of utopian socialism, and, by 1829, he had become one of the acknowledged heads of the sect.\n\nAfter the July Revolution of 1830 Enfantin resigned his office of cashier, and devoted all his energy to the cause. Besides contributing to \"Le Globe\", he made appeals to the people by systematic preaching, and organized centres of action in some of the main cities of France.\n\nThe headquarters in Paris were moved from the modest rooms in the Rue Taranne to the large halls near the Boulevard des Italiens. Enfantin and Amand Bazard were proclaimed \"Pères Suprêmes\" (\"Supreme Fathers\") – a union which was, however, only nominal, as a divergence was already manifest. Bazard, who concentrated on organizing the group, had devoted himself to political reform, while Enfantin, who favoured teaching and preaching, dedicated his time to social and moral change. The antagonism was widened by Enfantin's announcement of his theory of the relation of man and woman, which would substitute a system of \"free love\" for the \"tyranny of marriage\".\n\nBazard and his disciples broke with Enfantin's group. The latter became sole \"father\", leading a chiefly religiously-oriented movement, joined by new converts (according to Enfantin's estimate, the total number of followers would have reached 40,000). He wore on his breast a badge with his title of \"Père\", was referred to by his preachers as \"the living law\", declared himself to be the chosen of God, and sent out emissaries in a quest of a woman predestined to be the \"female Messiah,\" and the mother of a new Saviour (the latter quest was very costly and altogether fruitless).\n\nMeanwhile, the new religion gathered believers in all parts of Europe. His extravagances and success at length brought him to the attention of authorities, who argued that he was endangering public morality - Enfantin had announced that the gulf between the sexes was too wide and this social inequality would impede rapid growth of society. Enfantin called for the abolition of prostitution and for the ability for women to divorce and obtain legal rights. This was considered radical for the time. In May 1832 the halls of the new sect were closed by the government, and the \"Père\", with some of his followers, appeared before the tribunals. He then retired to his estate at Menilmontant, near Paris, where with forty disciples, all of them men, he continued to carry out his socialist views. In August of the same year he was again arrested, and on his appearance in court he desired his defence to be undertaken by two women who were with him, alleging that the matter was of special concern to women; the request was promptly refused. The trial occupied two days and resulted in a verdict of guilty, and a sentence of imprisonment for a year with a small fine.\n\nThis prosecution discredited the new society. Enfantin was released in a few months. \n\nThen, accompanied by twenty of his followers, many of whom were also engineers from the Ecole Polytechnique, including , also known as Lambert-Bey, and some women, he went first to Constantinople. Enfantin had declared 1933 the Year of the Mother, and upon arrival in Constantinople the group began to strongly preach their views about gender relations and New Christianity. The Ottoman Empire told them to leave to avoid prison.\n\nEnfantin and his group then arrived in Egypt, where he planned to penetrate the feminine Orient with the masculine Occident in a consumation of progression - build a canal connecting the Mediterranean Sea with the Red Sea. In Egypt at that time, Muhammad Ali, the Egyptian Viceroy, was at odds with the Ottoman Sultan in Constantinople, and also practiced public-private contracts known as concessions with mostly European companies to build cheap infrastructure. Ali did not agree to a project linking the two seas because he did not want to cut out the duties he collected from overland trade in Egypt, but did allow Enfantin's group to work on the Delta Barrage - a type of dam - north of Cairo - with unpaid laborers - that would act to limit Nile flooding and create predictable crop yields. During his time in Egypt, Enfantine also established technical schools based on the Ecole Polytechnique model with Ali's blessing. Also in Egypt he encountered and influenced Ferdinand de Lesseps. Enfantine returned to France in 1836, lacking the patience to finish the Nile barrage project that was encountering delays.\n\nOn his return to France, he occupied minor offices. He became first a postmaster near Lyon, and in 1841 was appointed, through the influence of some of his friends who had risen to posts of power, member of a scientific commission on Algeria, which led him to engage in researches concerning North Africa and colonization in general.\n\nIn 1845 he was appointed a director of the Paris & Lyons railway. Three years later he established, in conjunction with Duveyrier, a daily journal, entitled \"Le Credit\", which was discontinued in 1850. He was afterwards attached to the administration of the railway from Lyons to the Mediterranean. \n\nFather Enfantin held fast by his ideal to the end, but he had renounced the hope of giving it a local habitation and a name in the degenerate obstinate world. His personal influence over those who associated with him was immense. \"He was a man of a noble presence, with finely formed and expressive features. He was gentle and insinuating in manner, and possessed a calm, graceful and winning delivery\" (\"Gent. M .\" Jan. 1865). His evident sincerity, his genuine enthusiasm, gave him his marvellous ascendancy. The Société d'Études du Canal de Suez was established by Enfantin in 1846 to continue study of the Suez Canal. Its members included Arlès-Dufour, Jules, Lon and Paulin Talabot, the British Robert Stephenson and Edward Starbuck, the Austrian Alois Negrelli, inspector of the Emperor Ferdinand Northern Railway, and Feronce and Sellier of Leipzig as representatives of the German interest.\n\nThe Société sent surveying teams to Egypt, developed engineering plans, determined that the elevation difference between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean Sea was negligible, but Muhammad Ali was still reticent to the idea of a canal. Upon his death in 1848, the activities of the Société were minimized until his successor was assassinated in 1854 and Ferdinand de Lesseps took up the initiative to build a canal. Lessups had corresponded at least once with the Société in the intervening years and had known the new Egyptian viceroy, Sa'id, when he was a young man. Enfantin was listed by Lessups as a founder of the Suez Canal Company.\n\nNot a few of his disciples ranked afterwards amongst the most distinguished men of France. Enfantin died suddenly at Paris on September 1, 1864.\n\nAmongst his works are: \"Doctrine de Saint-Simon\" (written in conjunction with several of his followers), published in 1830, and several times republished; \"Economie politique et politique Saint-Simonienne\" (1831); \"\" (1835–1840); \"Corresp. philos. et religieuse\" (1843–1845); and \"La Vie eternelle passee, presente, future\" (1861). A large number of articles by his hand appeared in \"Le Producteur\", \"L'Organisateur\", \"Le Globe\", and other periodicals. He also wrote in 1832 \"Le Livre nouveau\", intended as a substitute for the Christian Scriptures, but it was not published.\n\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "19658532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19658532", "title": "Behavioral communication", "text": "Behavioral communication\n\nBehavioral Communication is defined as a psychological construct which influences individual differences in the expression of feelings, needs, and thoughts as a substitute for more direct and open communication. Specifically, it refers to people's tendency to express feelings, needs, and thoughts by means of indirect messages and behavioral impacts. It can be argued that much of our communication is, in fact, non-verbal.\n\nAny behavior (or its absence when one is expected) may be judged as communicative if it has the intent to convey a message. For example, an expressive hairstyle, a show of a certain emotion, or simply doing (or not doing) the dishes all can be means by which people may convey messages to each other.\n\nThe construct of behavioral communication is conceived as a variable of Individual differences. This means that some people more than others tend to engage in indirect or behavioral communication, whether consciously doing so, unconsciously doing so, in spite of the different alternatives of using verbal communication. An individual's behavioral style greatly effects their verbal and nonverbal communication. It is rare that someone utilizes all one behavioral communication style, all of the time. Being able to identify one's own behavioral style requires a high level of self-awareness.\n\nThere are four different types of communication behavior: aggressive, assertive, passive, and passive-aggressive.\n\nAggression is defined as an unplanned act of anger in which the aggressor intends to hurt someone or something. Aggressive communicators typically create avoidable conflict by engaging in personal attacks and put-downs. Aggressive communicators create a win-lose situation and use intimidation to get their own needs met, often at the expense of others. Aggressive communicators typically feel a strong sense of inadequacy, have a lack of empathy, and believe the only way to get their needs met is through power and control. Aggressive communicators are usually close-minded, are poor listeners, and tend to monopolize others.\n\nBehaviors often seen during aggressive communication include: putting others down, overpowering others, not showing appreciation, rushing others unnecessarily, ignoring others, not considering other’s feelings, intimidating others, and speaking in a condescending manner. Nonverbal behaviors exhibited during aggressive communication include: frowning, critical glares, rigid posture, trying to stand over others, using a loud voice and fast speech.\n\nWhile engaging in this type of communications, individuals typically feel anger, superiority, frustration, and impatience. Aggressive communication often results in counter aggression, alienation, and the creation of resistance or defiance. Additionally, individuals on the receiving end of aggressive communication typically feel: resentful, defensive, humiliated, hurt, and or afraid.\n\nThere are times when aggressive communication is pertinent, however. The aggressive communication style is essential during emergencies or when decisions have to be quickly made.\n\nAssertiveness is described as the ability to appropriately expresses one’s own wants and feelings. Assertive communication is thought to be the halfway point between passive communication and aggressive communication. Assertive communication is based on the belief that each individual is responsible for his or her own problems; therefore they are responsible for directly communicating these problems to the other party involved. Assertive communication is a direct form of communication that respects both the communicator’s and the receiver’s rights and opinions. Assertive communication is direct without being argumentative. Engaging in assertive communication helps individuals avoid conflict, maintain relationships, and usually ends in a win-win situation. Assertive communication is the communication style that is least utilized, however.\n\nIndividuals who engage in assertive communication are open to hearing the opinions of others, without criticizing their opinions, and feel comfortable enough to express their own opinions as well. Assertive communicators generally have high self-esteem, as they have the confidence to effectively communicate with others without getting offended or being manipulative. \nWhile engaging in conversation, assertive communicators will state limits and expectations, state observations without judgment, be an active listener, and check on others feelings. Essential problem solving skills that assertive communicators acquire include negotiations, confronting problems as soon as they arise, and not letting negative feelings build up.\n\nBehaviors that may be present when an individual is engaging in assertive communication include: being open when expressing their thoughts and feelings, encouraging others to openly express their own opinions and feelings, listening to other’s opinions and appropriately responding to them, accepting responsibilities, being action-orientated, being able to admit mistakes, setting realistic goal, maintaining self-control, and acting as an equal to those whom are on the receiving end of the communication.\n\nThere are many nonverbal behaviors that represent assertive communication as well. Individuals engaging in assertive communication convey an open and receptive body language, with upright posture and movements that are relaxed. Assertive communicators have a clear tone of voice and make appropriate eye contact.\nAssertive communicators typically feel more confident and self-respecting while engaging in this type of communication. People on the receiving end of assertive communication typically feel as though they can believe the communicator, know where they stand with the communicator, and possess a sense of respect for the communicator.\n\nAssertive communication has positive effects on both the communicator and the receiver. Some positive effects include: the communicator feels connected to others, the communicator feels in control of their lives, the communicator is able to mature because they address and solve issues as they come up, and creating a respectful environment for others.\n\nPassive communication involves not expressing one’s own thoughts or feelings and putting their needs last in an attempt to keep others happy. Passive communicators will internalize their discomfort in order to avoid conflict and to be liked by others. This communication style is typically exhibited when individuals feel as if their needs do not matter and that if they voice their concerns they will be rejected. Individuals who exhibit a predominately passive communication style usually have low self-esteem and may not be able to effectively recognize their own needs. They tend to trust others but they do not trust themselves.\n\nThere are many behavioral characteristics identified with this communication style. These behavioral characteristics include, but are not limited to: actively avoiding confrontation, difficulty taking responsibilities or making decisions, agreeing with someone else’s preferences, refusing compliments, sighing a lot, asking permission unnecessarily, and blaming others. There are also many non-verbal behaviors that reflect passive communication. Typically, individuals engaging in a passive communication style have a soft voice, speak hesitantly, and make themselves very small. They also tend to fidget and avoid eye contact.\n\nPassive communicators elicit numerous feelings in themselves as well as in others. They typically possess feelings of anxiety, depression, resentfulness, feelings of powerlessness, and confusion. They feel anxious because their life seems to be out of their control and they acquire depressive feelings from a perceived sense of hopelessness. Passive communicators may become resentful because they feel as if their own needs are not being met and may become confused because they cannot identify their own feelings. People on the receiving end of passive communication typically feel frustrated, guilty, and may discount the passive communicator for not knowing what they want. While engaging in this type of communication, passive individuals typically feel anxious during the conversation and hurt or angry later.\n\nPassive communicators tend to build dependency relationships, often do not know where they stand in situations, and will over-promote others, all resulting in depletion of their self-esteem. Passive communicators do not regularly respond to hurtful situations, but instead let their discomfort build until they have an explosive outburst. This outburst causes shame and confusion, leading the individual back into a passive communication style.\n\nThere are, however, numerous instances in which passive communication is necessary. A few situations may include: when an issue is minor, when the problems caused by the conflict are worse than the actual conflict, and when emotions are running high.\n\nThe Passive-Aggressive style incorporates aspects of both passive and aggressive communication styles. Individuals utilizing this style appear passive, but act out their anger in indirect ways. People who develop this style of communication usually feel powerless, resentful, and or stuck. A passive-aggressive individual exposes their anger through means of procrastination, being exaggeratedly forgetful, and or being intentionally inefficient, among other things.\n\nThere are many behavioral characteristics that are identified with this communication style. These behavioral characteristics include, but are not limited to: sarcasm, being unreliable, frequent complaining, sulking, patronizing, and gossiping. Non-verbal behaviors, such as posture or facial expression, can also reflect passive-aggressive communication.\n\nTypically, individuals engaging in passive-aggressive communication have asymmetrical posture and display jerky or quick gestures. They may also have an innocent facial expression and act excessively friendly to conceal their anger or frustration. \nPeople on the receiving end of passive-aggressive communication are usually left confused, angry, and hurt. They tend to be alienated from others because they elicit these unpleasant feelings. A passive-aggressive communication style does not address and properly deal with the pertinent issues or problems. This maladaptive problem-solving style keeps passive-aggressive communicators in a state of powerlessness, resulting in continued passive-aggression.\n\nExamples of Passive-Aggressive Language/Behavior include: wistful statements, backhanded compliments, purposefully ignoring or saying nothing, leaving someone out, sabotaging someone, and muttering to oneself instead of confronting the issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "5866454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5866454", "title": "Breast binding", "text": "Breast binding\n\nBreast binding is the act of flattening breasts by the use of constrictive materials. The term also refers to the material used in this act. Common binding materials include cloth strips, elastic or non-elastic bandages, purpose-built undergarments (often using Spandex or other synthetic fibre) and shirts layered from tight to loose. The act of breast binding is common for trans men, but is also done by androgynous, genderqueer and gender fluid people, as well as crossdressers, cosplayers, and performers. In a general sense; women may also use binders as alternatives to bras or as a practice of propriety.\n\nBreast binding by use of cloth strip or tape may result in bodily damage such as permanent deformation of the breast.\n\nThere are many reasons people would bind their breasts:\n\n\nSome adolescent girls bind their breasts as they enter puberty. This is done usually for reasons of modesty (they do not want others to see them), embarrassment (they do not want others to know they have started developing), or desire to be as they previously were (they do not want to have breasts yet). This has potential risks, as the developing tissue may conform to the restricted shape, resulting in permanent deformity. Breast binding in adolescent girls may be a symptom of body dysmorphic disorder.\n\nCis men may also find cause to bind if afflicted with gynecomastia as a means to control appearance in place of surgery or during the wait before surgery. Transgender men, or people with non-binary gender identities, as well as women who have developed larger breasts from hormone replacement therapy or breast augmentation surgery, may have motivation to bind their breasts. Transgender men and people with other gender identities (typically male presenting) may bind their breasts as an alternative to or while waiting for a \"top surgery\" (mastectomy) in order to be recognized as masculine presenting.\n\nAnother way of binding is using a specially fitted binding bra, however these can be more expensive and are not widely stocked. There are places to buy binders, and they are a much better alternative to other, more dangerous methods.\n\nSome people try to bind using an ace bandage or duct tape, however these methods are dangerous and may cause cracked ribs, trouble breathing, and even suffocation if worn to sleep. \n\nHowever, excessive use of all binding methods can lead to back pain and breathing trouble. A binding device/method should always be as loose as is practical and should not be worn for longer than 8 hours.\n\nBinding for extended periods of time can lead to rashes or yeast infections under the breasts. Unsafe binding may lead to permanent deformation of the breasts, scarring, and lung constriction and long-term binding may adversely affect the outcome of a future mastectomy.\n\nBreastbinding has been used in many historical contexts. Wearing a corset was one way that the size of breasts could be reduced. Different time periods of history have had differing viewpoints on the female form, including widespread use of corsets throughout western European history up to the Victorian era. The Japanese kimono can be considered a very elaborate form of binding, although the \"obi\" (belt) goes around the lower torso, the chest is bound by the sarashi. In the 1920s, flappers bound their chests to achieve a less traditional look. In addition, many Catholic nuns up until the 1930s were required to wear a linen breast binding under their garments in addition to their everyday vestments. This measure was designed to eliminate any potential distraction that the nuns' breasts might cause. In many ecclesiastical specialty shops, it is still possible to purchase antique linen breast bindings that have been hand-embroidered with crosses. Wearing a minimizer bra is common to help with large breasts.\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "227168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227168", "title": "Charles Eliot Norton", "text": "Charles Eliot Norton\n\nCharles Eliot Norton (November 16, 1827 – October 21, 1908) was an American author, social critic, and professor of art. He was a progressive social reformer and a liberal activist whom many of his contemporaries considered the most cultivated man in the United States.\n\nNorton was born at Cambridge, Massachusetts. His father, Andrews Norton (1786–1853), was a Unitarian theologian, and Dexter professor of sacred literature at Harvard; his mother was Catherine Eliot, a daughter of the merchant Samuel Eliot. Charles William Eliot, president of Harvard, was his cousin. Norton graduated from Harvard in 1846, where he was a member of the Hasty Pudding, and started in business with an East Indian trading firm in Boston, travelling to India in 1849. After a tour in Europe, where he was influenced by John Ruskin and pre-Raphaelite painters, he returned to Boston in 1851, and devoted himself to literature and art. He translated Dante's \"Vita Nuova\" (1860 and 1867) and the \"Divina Commedia\" (1891-91-92, 3 vols, 1902 being the publication year of Norton's thorough final edit). He worked tirelessly as secretary to the Loyal Publication Society during the Civil War, communicating with newspaper editors across the country, including the journalist Jonathan Baxter Harrison who became a lifelong friend. From 1864 to 1868, he edited the highly influential magazine \"North American Review\", in association with James Russell Lowell. In 1861 he and Lowell helped Henry Wadsworth Longfellow in his translation of Dante and in the starting of the informal Dante Club.\n\nIn 1862 Norton married Susan Ridley Sedgwick (21 February 1838 – 17 February 1872), daughter of Theodore Sedgwick III and Sara Morgan Ashburner. They were the parents of six children: Eliot (1863), Sarah (1864), Elizabeth (1866), Rupert (1867), Margaret (1870) and Richard (1872). Susan died at age thirty-three in Dresden, Germany, following the birth of their sixth child.\n\n\"Probably only someone with Norton’s experiences and scholarly range – who had written about the Mound Builders, roamed India, organized classical archaeology, scoured medieval archives, published nineteenth-century painting – could have concocted Western Civilization. And only then if he had filtered these materials through the sieve of college teaching during years of curricular anarchy. For Western civilization had a scholarly and pedagogical specificity about it.\" \n\nFrom 1855 to 1874 Norton spent much time in travel and residence on the continent of Europe and in England, and it was during this period that his friendships began with Thomas Carlyle, John Ruskin, Edward FitzGerald and Leslie Stephen, an intimacy which did much to bring American and English men of letters into close personal relation. Another friend was John Lockwood Kipling, father of Rudyard Kipling. Father and son visited Norton in Boston and the younger Kipling recalled the visit years later in his autobiography:\nNorton was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1860. He began teaching at Harvard in 1874. In 1875, he was appointed professor of the history of art at Harvard, a chair which was created for him and which he held until retirement in 1898. He \"centered his teaching upon the golden ages of art history -- classical Athens, the Italian Gothic style of Venetian architecture, and the Florence of the early Renaissance.\"\n\nThe Archaeological Institute of America chose him as its first president (1879–1890).\n\nNorton had a peculiar genius for friendship, and it is on his personal influence rather than on his literary productions that his claim to fame rests. In 1881 he inaugurated the Dante Society, whose first presidents were Longfellow, Lowell and Norton himself. From 1882 onward he confined himself to the study of Dante, his professorial duties, and the editing and publication of the literary memorials of many of his friends.\n\nIn 1883 came the \"Letters of Carlyle and Emerson\"; in 1886, 1887 and 1888, \"Carlyle's Letters and Reminiscences\"; in 1894, the \"Orations and Addresses of George William Curtis\" and the \"Letters of Lowell\". Norton was also made Ruskin's literary executor, and he wrote various introductions for the American \"Brantwood\" edition of Ruskin's works. His other publications include \"Notes of Travel and Study in Italy\" (1859), and an \"Historical Study of Church-building in the Middle Ages: Venice, Siena, Florence\" (1880). He organized exhibitions of the drawings of Turner (1874) and of Ruskin (1879), for which he compiled the catalogues. In 1886, he opposed the opening of a 'drinking saloon' on the main street near his home, in a letter which reveals little empathy for, or understanding of the significance of, Irish immigration to Cambridge in that era. Like his friend Ruskin, Norton believed one of the best things one could do for working-class people was to give them opportunities to gain satisfaction by engaging in workmanship, as opposed to monotonous routine labor where they have to work like machines. T. J. Jackson Lears has described Norton as the foremost American proponent of the Arts and Crafts movement. Norton was a founding member of The Society of Arts and Crafts of Boston.\n\nDuring the first years of the twentieth century, Norton spoke out in favor of legalized euthanasia. He lent his name to a movement led by Ohio socialite Anna S. Hall to pass physician-assisted suicide legislation in Ohio and Iowa.\nNorton died at \"Shady Hill,\" the house where he had been born, on October 21, 1908, and was buried at Mount Auburn Cemetery.\nNorton was widely admired for the breadth of his intellectual interests, remarkable scholarship and interest in the common good. He was awarded the honorary degrees of Litt.D. (Cambridge) and D.C.L. (Oxford), as well as the L.H.D. from Columbia and the LL.D. from both Harvard and Yale. One of his many students at Harvard was James Loeb, who in 1907 created the \"Charles Eliot Norton Memorial Lectureship\" in archaeology. The Charles Eliot Norton Lectures are given annually by distinguished professors at Harvard. Norton bequeathed the more valuable portion of his library to Harvard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25862206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25862206", "title": "Crisis camp", "text": "Crisis camp\n\nA crisis camp is a BarCamp gathering of IT professionals, software developers, and computer programmers to aid in the relief efforts of a major crisis such as those caused by earthquakes, floods, or hurricanes. Projects that crisis camps often work on include setting up social networks for people to locate missing friends and relatives, creating maps of affected areas, and creating inventories of needed items such as food and clothing.\n\nFollowing the 2010 Haiti earthquake, many crisis camps were set up around the world, often under the name \"Crisis Camp Haiti\", to help with the relief effort. \nDue to the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, the Crisis Commons volunteer community was mobilized and part of the effort is being coordinated by Japanese students at U.S. universities.\n\n"}
{"id": "56221934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56221934", "title": "Dataism", "text": "Dataism\n\nDataism is a term that has been used to describe the mindset or philosophy created by the emerging significance of Big Data. It was first used by David Brooks in the New York Times in 2013. More recently, the term has been expanded to describe what social scientist Yuval Noah Harari has called an emerging ideology or even a new form of religion, in which 'information flow' is the 'supreme value'.\n\n\"If you asked me to describe the rising philosophy of the day, I'd say it is Data-ism\", wrote David Brooks in the New York Times in February 2013. Brooks argued that in a world of increasing complexity, relying on data can reduce cognitive biases and \"illuminate patterns of behavior we haven't yet noticed\".\n\nIn 2015, Steve Lohr's book 'Data-ism' looked at how Big Data is transforming society, using the term to describe the Big Data revolution.\n\nIn his 2016 book, , Yuval Noah Harari takes the idea of Dataism further, putting it into a historical context. He argues that all competing political or social structures can be seen as data processing systems: \"Dataism declares that the universe consists of data flows, and the value of any phenomenon or entity is determined by its contribution to data processing\".\n\nHarari posits that \"we may interpret the entire human species as a single data processing system, with individual humans serving as its chips.\" He then argues that the whole of human history can be read as a process of improving the efficiency of this system by increasing the number and variety of processors/chips (humans) in the system, increasing the number of connections between the processors and increasing the freedom of movement along existing connections. A condensed form of this argument can be read in Harari's Wired article from 2016.\n\nHarari goes on to argue that Dataism, like any other religion, has practical commandments. A Dataist should want to \"maximise dataflow by connecting to more and more media\", and believes that freedom of information is \"the greatest good of all\". Harari also argues that Aaron Swartz, who took his life in 2013 after being prosecuted for releasing hundreds of thousands of scientific papers from the JSTOR archive online for free, could be called the \"first martyr\" of Dataism.\n\nWriting in the Financial Times, Harari argued that Dataism presents an existential challenge to the dominant moral ideology of Humanism, which sees human feelings as the ultimate authority in the world: \"humanism is now facing an existential challenge and the idea of “free will” is under threat... Once Big Data systems know me better than I know myself, authority will shift from humans to algorithms.\" Harari predicts that the logical conclusion of this process is that eventually humans will give algorithms the authority to make the most important decisions in their lives, such as who to marry and which career to pursue.\n\nCommenting on Harari's characterisation of Dataism, security analyst Daniel Miessler believes that Dataism does not present the challenge to the ideology of liberal humanism that Harari claims, because humans will simultaneously be able to believe in their own importance and that of data.\n\nHarari himself raises some criticisms, such as the problem of consciousness, which Dataism is unlikely to illuminate. Humans may also find out that organisms are not algorithms, he suggests.\n\nOther analysts such as Terry Ortleib have looked at the extent to which Dataism poses a dystopian threat to humanity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "234516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234516", "title": "Dowry", "text": "Dowry\n\nA dowry is a transfer of parental property, gifts or money at the marriage of a daughter. Dowry contrasts with the related concepts of bride price and dower. While bride price or bride service is a payment by the groom or his family to the bride's parents, dowry is the wealth transferred from the bride's family to the groom or his family, ostensibly for the bride. Similarly, dower is the property settled on the bride herself, by the groom at the time of marriage, and which remains under her ownership and control.\nDowry is an ancient custom, and its existence may well predate records of it. Dowries continue to be expected and demanded as a condition to accept a marriage proposal in some parts of the world, mainly in parts of Asia, Northern Africa and the Balkans. In some parts of the world, disputes related to dowry sometimes result in acts of violence against women, including killings and acid attacks.\n\nA dowry is the transfer of parental property to a daughter at her marriage (i.e. 'inter vivos') rather than at the owner's death (\"mortis causa\"). A dowry establishes a type of conjugal fund, the nature of which may vary widely. This fund may provide an element of financial security in widowhood or against a negligent husband, and may eventually go to provide for her children. Dowries may also go toward establishing a marital household, and therefore might include furnishings such as linens and furniture.\n\nLocally, dowry is called \"dahej\" in Hindi, \"varadhachanai\" in Tamil, \"jehaz\" in Urdu and Arabic, \"joutuk \" in Bengali, \"jiazhuang\" in Mandarin, \"çeyiz\" in Turkish, \"dot\" in French,\"daijo\" in Nepali, and in various parts of Africa as \"serotwana\", \"idana\", \"saduquat\", or \"mugtaf\".\n\nAnthropologist Jack Goody's comparative study of dowry systems around the world utilizing the Ethnographic Atlas demonstrated that dowry is a form of inheritance found in the broad swath of Eurasian societies from Japan to Ireland that practice \"diverging devolution\", i.e., that transmit property to children of both sexes. This practice differs from the majority of Sub-Saharan African societies that practice \"homogenous inheritance\" in which property is transmitted only to children of the same sex as the property holder. These latter African societies are characterized by the transmission of the \"bride price,\" the money, goods or property given by the groom or his family to the parents of the bride (not the bride herself).\n\nGoody has demonstrated a historical correlation between the practices of \"diverging devolution\" (dowry) and the development of intensive plough agriculture on the one hand, and homogeneous inheritance (brideprice) and extensive hoe agriculture on the other. Drawing on the work of Ester Boserup, Goody notes that the sexual division of labour varies in intensive plough agriculture and extensive shifting horticulture. In sparsely populated regions where shifting cultivation takes place, most of the work is done by women. These are the societies that give brideprice. Boserup further associates shifting horticulture with the practice of polygamy, and hence bridewealth is paid as a compensation to her family for the loss of her labour. In plough agriculture farming is largely men's work; this is where dowry is given. In contrast, plough agriculture is associated with private property and marriage tends to be monogamous, to keep the property within the nuclear family. Close family are the preferred marriage partners so as to keep property within the group.\n\nThere is a scholarly debate on Goody's theory. Sylvia Yanagisko argues, for example, that there are a number of societies including parts of Japan, Southern Italy, and China, that do not support Goody's claim that dowry is a form of female inheritance of male property. She notes that Goody's is an evolutionary model in which these historical variables may not be the decisive factors today. Susan Mann argues, in contrast, with examples where even in late Imperial China, dowry was a form of female inheritance.\n\nStanley J. Tambiah (Goody's co-author on the earlier \"Bridewealth and Dowry\") later argued that Goody's overall thesis remained pertinent in North India, although it required modification to meet local circumstances. He points out that dowry in North India is only partially used as a bride's conjugal fund, and that a large part goes directly to the groom's joint family. This would initially seem to discount Goody's model, except that in North India, the joint family is composed of the groom's parents, his married brothers and unmarried sisters, and their third generation children. This joint family controlled this part of the dowry, which they used to help fund their own daughter/sister's dowries. But when the parents die, and the joint family partitions, this jointly held wealth was then divided among the married sons, such that ultimately, the bride's dowry given to the joint family returned to her and her husband as their \"conjugal fund.\"\n\nSchlegel and Eloul expanded on Goody's model through further statistical analysis of the Ethnographic atlas. They argue that a major factor in determining the type of marriage transaction is the type of property controlled by the household. Bridewealth circulates property and women, and is typical of societies where property is limited. Dowry concentrates property and is found in property owning classes or commercial or landed pastoral peoples. When families give dowry, they not only ensure their daughter's economic security, they also \"buy\" the best possible husband for her, and son-in-law for themselves.\n\nEven in the oldest available records, such as the Code of Hammurabi in ancient Babylon, the dowry is described as an already-existing custom. Daughters did not normally inherit anything from their father's estate. Instead, with marriage, they got a dowry from her parents, which was intended to offer as much lifetime security to the bride as her family could afford.\n\nIn Babylonia, both bride price and dowry were practiced. However, bride price almost always became part of the dowry. In case of divorce without reason, a man was required to give his wife the dowry she brought as well as the bride price the husband gave. The return of dowry could be disputed, if the divorce was for a reason allowed under Babylonian law.\n\nA wife's dowry was administered by her husband as part of the family assets. He had no say, however, in its ultimate disposal; and legally, the dowry had to be kept separate for it was expected to support the wife and her children. The wife was entitled to her dowry at her husband's death. If she died childless, her dowry reverted to her family, that is her father if he was alive, otherwise her brothers. If she had sons, they would share it equally. Her dowry being inheritable only by her own children, not by her husband's children by other women.\n\nIn archaic Greece, the usual practice was to give a bride price (\"hédnon\" (\"ἕδνον\")). Dowries (\"pherné\" (\"φερνή\")) were exchanged by the later classical period (5th century ). A husband had certain property rights in his wife's dowry. In addition, the wife might bring to the marriage property of her own, which was not included in the dowry and which was, as a result, hers alone. This property was \"beyond the dowry\" (Greek \"parapherna\", the root of paraphernalia) and is referred to as paraphernal property or extra-dotal property.\n\nA dowry may also have served as a form of protection for the wife against the possibility of ill treatment by her husband and his family, providing an incentive for the husband not to harm his wife. This would apply in cultures where a dowry was expected to be returned to the bride's family if she died soon after marrying.\n\nIn contemporary Greece, dowry was removed from family law through legal reforms in 1983.\n\nThe Romans practiced dowry (\"dos\"). The dowry was property transferred by the bride, or on her behalf by anyone else, to the groom or groom's father, at their marriage. Dowry was a very common institution in Roman times, and it began out of a desire to get the bride’s family to contribute a share of the costs involved in setting up a new household. Dos was given for the purpose of enabling the husband to sustain the charges of the marriage state (onera matrimonii). All the property of the wife which was not dowry, or was not a donatio propter nuptias, continued to be her own property, and was called \"Parapherna\". The dowry could include any form of property, given or promised at the time of marriage, but only what remained after deducting the debts. Not only the bride's family, any person could donate his property as dowry for the woman.\n\nTwo types of dowry were known—\"dos profectitia\" and \"dos adventitia\". That dos is profectitia which was given by the father or father's father of the bride. All other dos is adventitia. Roman law also allowed for a species of dowry, called \"dos receptitia\", which was given by some other person than the father or father's father of the bride, in consideration of marriage, but on the condition that it should be restored back to the dowry giver, on the death of the wife. The bride's family were expected to give a dowry when a girl married, and in proportion to their means. It was customary for the bride's family and friends to pay promised dowries in installments over three years, and some Romans won great praise by delivering the dowry in one lump sum.\n\nThe practice of dowry in South Asia is a controversial subject. Some scholars believe dowry was practiced in antiquity, but some do not. Historical eyewitness reports (discussed below) suggest dowry in ancient India was insignificant, and daughters had inheritance rights, which by custom were exercised at the time of her marriage. Documentary evidence suggests that at the beginning of 20th century, bride price, rather than dowry was the common custom, which often resulted in poor boys remaining unmarried.\n\nStanley J. Tambiah claims the ancient Code of Manu sanctioned dowry and bridewealth in ancient India (typically in Rohtak) and especially in Kadia families, but dowry was the more prestigious form and associated with the Brahmanic (priestly) caste. Bridewealth was restricted to the lower castes, who were not allowed to give dowry. He cites two studies from the early 20th century with data to suggest that this pattern of dowry in upper castes and bridewealth in lower castes persisted through the first half of the 20th century. However, it is more likely that marriages involved both reciprocal gifts between the two families, claims Tambiah, so that insofar as the groom's family gave the bridewealth, it tended to be given back as dowry to the bride as part of her conjugal estate.\n\nMichael Witzel, in contrast, claims the ancient Indian literature suggests dowry practices were not significant during the Vedic period. Witzel also notes that women in ancient India had property inheritance rights either by appointment or when they had no brothers.\n\nThe findings of MacDonell and Keith are similar to Witzel, and differ from Tambiah; they cite ancient Indian literature suggesting bridewealth was paid even in brahma- and daiva-types of marriage associated with the Brahmanic (priestly) upper caste. Dowry was not infrequent, when the girl suffered from some bodily defect. Property rights for women increased in ancient India, suggest MacDonell and Keith, over the Epics era (200 BC – 700 AD). Kane claims ancient literature suggests bridewealth was paid only in the asura-type of marriage that was considered reprehensible and forbidden by Manu and other ancient Indian scribes. Lochtefeld suggests that religious duties listed by Manu and others, such as 'the bride be richly adorned to celebrate marriage' were ceremonial dress and jewelry along with gifts that were her property, not property demanded by or meant for the groom; Lochtefeld further notes that bridal adornment is not currently considered as dowry in most people's mind.\n\nThe above analysis by various scholars is based on interpreting verses of ancient Sanskrit fiction and inconsistent \"smritis\" from India, not eyewitness accounts. Available eyewitness observations from ancient India give a different picture. One of these are the eyewitness records from Alexander the Great's conquest (\"ca\". 300 BC), as recorded by Arrian and Megasthenes. Arrian's first book mentions a lack of dowry,\n\nArrian's second book similarly notes,\n\nThe two sources suggest dowry was absent, or infrequent enough to be noticed by Arrian. About 1200 years after Arrian's visit, another eyewitness scholar visited India named Abū Rayḥān al-Bīrūnī, also known as Al-Biruni, or Alberonius in Latin. Al-Biruni was an Islamic era Persian scholar who went and lived in India for 16 years from 1017 CE. He translated many Indian texts into Arabic, as well as wrote a memoir on Indian culture and life he observed. Al-Biruni claimed,\n\nAl-Biruni further claims that a daughter, in 11th century India, had legal right to inherit from her father, but only a fourth part of her brother. The daughter took this inheritance amount with her when she married, claimed Al-Biruni, and she had no rights to income from her parents after her marriage or to any additional inheritance after her father's death. If her father died before her marriage, her guardian would first pay off her father's debt, then allocate a fourth of the remaining wealth to her upkeep till she is ready to marry, and then give the rest to her to take with her into her married life.\n\nIt is unclear what happened to these daughter's inheritance laws in India after Al-Biruni's visit to India in the 11th century. It is also unclear when, why and how quickly the practice of dowry demand by grooms began, and whether this happened after the arrival of colonialism in the 16th century.\n\nDowry was common in different historic periods of China and continued through the modern history. Locally called \"Jiàzhuāng\" (嫁妝), the dowry ranged from land, jewelry, money to a collection of clothing, sewing equipment and collection of household items. Mann and others find that dowry was a form of inheritance to daughters. In traditional China, the property owned by a family, if any, was earmarked for equal division or inheritance by sons only. Dowry was the only way assets were transferred to a daughter. It included immovable property such as land, and movable property like jewelry and fine clothing. The dowry she brought with her was typically sequestered from the property of her husband and other male members in a joint family. She would often sell this property for cash to overcome hard economic times or needs of her children and husband. In a few cases, she may transfer the property she brought as dowry to her daughter or daughter-in-law. Dowry assets once transferred in turn constituted separate wealth of the woman who received it (\"sifang qian\", etc.). Often a woman who brought a large dowry was considered more virtuous in Chinese culture than one who didn't. In parts of China, both dowry and brideprice (\"pinjin\") were practiced from ancient eras to the 20th century. Though throughout the history of China, the practice of using a brideprice has largely been used instead of dowries, but has slowly diminished in modern times.\n\nDowry was widely practiced in Europe until the early modern era. Folklorists often interpret the folk tale \"Cinderella\" as the competition between the stepmother and the stepdaughter for resources, which may include the need to provide a dowry. Gioachino Rossini's opera \"La Cenerentola\" makes this economic basis explicit: Don Magnifico wishes to make his own daughters' dowries larger, to attract a grander match, which is impossible if he must provide a third dowry.\n\nOne common penalty for the kidnapping and rape of an unmarried woman was that the abductor or rapist had to provide the woman's dowry. Until the late 20th century this was sometimes called wreath money, or the breach of promise.\nProviding dowries for poor women was regarded as a form of charity by wealthier parishioners. The custom of Christmas stockings springs from a legend of St. Nicholas, in which he threw gold in the stockings of three poor sisters, thus providing for their dowries. St. Elizabeth of Portugal and St. Martin de Porres were particularly noted for providing such dowries, and the Archconfraternity of the Annunciation, a Roman charity dedicated to providing dowries, received the entire estate of Pope Urban VII. In 1425, the Republic of Florence created a public fund, called the \"Monte delle doti\", to provide dowries to Florentine brides.\n\nVast inheritances were standard as dowries for aristocratic and royal brides in Europe during the Middle Ages. The Portuguese crown gave two cities in India and Morocco as dowry to the British Crown in 1661 when King Charles II of England married Catherine of Braganza, a princess of Portugal.\n\nIn some cases, nuns were required to bring a dowry when joining a convent. At some times, such as Ancien Régime France, convents were also used by some parents to put less attractive daughters, so that the more marriageable daughters could have larger dowries. Ancien Régime families that could not provide proper dowries also used the convents as places to put their daughters.\n\nIn the County of Bentheim, for instance, parents who had no sons might give a land dowry to their new son-in-law. It was commonly given with the condition that he take the surname of his bride, in order to continue the family name.\nDowry was used in England, however, the right of daughters to inherit and of women to hold property and other rights in their own name made it a different instrument than on the Continent. The Salic law, which required females to be disinherited and disenfranchised from land ownership, did not apply in England. Single women held many rights men did. The most famous example of this English female inheritance and agency right is perhaps Elizabeth I of England, who held all rights a male monarch did. \n\nWhile single women held rights to hold property equivalent to those of men, marriage and married women were affected by the Norman Conquest changes to the law in the 12th Century. Coverture was introduced to the common law in some jurisdictions, requiring property of a wife to be held in the husband's name, custody and control. The Normans also introduced the dowry in England replacing the earlier custom of the new husband giving a morning gift to his bride. At first the husband publicly gave the dowry at the church door at the wedding. \n\nIf the husband died, which was frequent, there was a Widows dowry of one third of the husband's lands at the time of his marriage; the income, and in some cases, the management, of the lands, was assigned to her for the rest of her life. This concept is included in the Great Charter, and along with the recognition of female inheritance and absence of the Salic law, and women, particularly single women, holding many rights equivalent to those men held, manifests English law differing fundamentally from the law of the Continent, especially the law of the Holy Roman Empire. \n\nThirteenth-century court records are filled with disputes over dowries, and the law became increasingly complex.\n\nThe English dowry system permitted most noble families to marry off their daughters and thereby gain extended kin and patronage ties. Marriageable daughters were a valuable commodity to ambitious fathers, and the English aristocracy sent few of their eligible daughters to convents.\n\nFailure to provide a customary, or agreed-upon, dowry could cause a marriage to be called off. William Shakespeare made use of such an event in \"King Lear\": one of Cordelia's suitors gives up his suit upon hearing that King Lear will give her no dowry. In \"Measure for Measure\", Claudio and Juliet's premarital sex was brought about by their families' wrangling over dowry after the betrothal. Angelo's motive for forswearing his betrothal with Mariana was the loss of her dowry at sea.\n\nIn Victorian England, dowries were viewed by some members of the upper class as an early payment of the daughter's inheritance. In some instances, daughters who had not received their dowries were the only female heirs entitled to part of the estate when their parents died. If a couple died without children, a woman's dowry was often returned to her family.\n\nCoverture never applied universally in Britain and was repealed in the 1800s. This effectively ended the concept of dowry as the property of a single woman was either retained by her after marriage or its income became marital property under joint control with a husband (not under his sole control as in coverture).\n\nIn some parts of Europe, especially Eastern Europe, land dowries were common. \n\nThe Domostroy, a Russian advice book of the 16th century for upper classes, includes advice to set aside property for purposes of a dowry, and use it to accumulate linens, clothing, and other things for it, rather than have to suddenly buy it all for the wedding; if the daughter should happen to die, the dowry should be used to give alms and for prayers for her soul, although some might be set aside for other daughters. In late Tsarist Russia the dowry originally consisted of clothing for the bride, linen, and bedding. Linen became less common, a fact blamed on poor flax harvest and girls being poor spinners, but emphasis was added to the finest of the clothing, and a money dowry was sometimes added, particularly if the bride was regarded as having some fault. Prospective in-laws, usually concerned mostly with her working ability, grew more concerned about a money dowry.\n\nIn Romania in the late 18th and early 19th centuries (1750–1830s) the exclusion of dowered girls from the family inheritance led to increased cohesion within the nuclear family. The wife's male relatives controlled the dowry but she retained sole ownership of the dowry and wedding gifts. Her relatives could prosecute the husband for squandering a dowry; wives gained some ability to leave an abusive marriage. The long-term result was a greater legal empowerment of women, while providing economic security to divorced women, widows, and children.\n\nAccording to one ethnographic study of indigenous cultures worldwide, around six percent of North American indigenous cultures practised reciprocal exchange, involving the giving of gifts between both the bride and groom's families. Among the tribes of the American Plains, a combination of dower and dowry was used. The groom would give a gift of horses to the bride's parents, while they in turn would give a gift to the groom. The exchange was somewhat reciprocal.\n\nSpanish colonists brought the dowry custom to Mexico. Spain's laws gave brides the right to control their dowry after marriage, contrary to the usual European practice of transferring the dowry to the control of the groom and his family. Women, in practice, often did maintain control over their dowry after marriage. The husband might be given funds from the dowry to invest for the mutual benefit of the couple and their children, but wives also often used funds from their dowries to operate their own businesses, as grocers, tavern keepers, and shop owners in urban areas. Dowries were a common custom in the early colonial years, but were passing out of use by the mid-18th century. By that time, less wealthy daughters were often marrying without any dowry.\n\nThe French government made efforts to encourage marriage for the male soldiers and traders in New France by granting dowries to women willing to travel to the colony at Quebec. As the French crown provided dowries for many of the women persuaded to travel to New France for marriages and settlement there, they were known as \"filles du roi\" (daughters of the king).\n\nConvents in Quebec, as in Europe, required a dowry from the parents of girls becoming nuns, much as the dowry was expected in the marriages of upper class brides. The Catholic Church intended for this requirement to be used to maintain some control over the new members of religious communities. Girls without a dowry were often supported by benefactors, however, and occasionally convents lowered the sum required to enter the convent.\n\nThe dowry was a custom brought to the United States by colonists from England and elsewhere in Europe. One legend tells how John Hull, the Master of the Mint in Boston and a wealthy man, determined the dowry for his daughter Hannah's marriage to Samuel Sewall. Hull is said to have set his 18-year-old daughter onto one side of the large scales in his warehouse. He piled shillings into the other side of the scale until he reached her weight in silver, and that was her dowry.\n\nThe dowry system existed in certain Native American tribes. An example is found in the marriage of Virginia settler John Rolfe to Pocahontas, who brought a dowry to the marriage that included a large amount of land.\n\nThe daughters of wealthy 19th century industrialists, who were able to inherit large amounts of money and property, were given \"dowries\" by their fathers to marry European aristocrats who held a title but had little wealth. The mutual exchange of title and wealth raised the status of both bride and groom.\n\nThe dowry was a custom brought to Brazil by Portuguese settlers. Colonial economics meant that families had a great stake in inheritances of land in particular. As in Europe, the eldest daughter was usually granted the largest dowry by her father. Variations were not unusual, however, as research has shown in São Paulo, 31% of fathers gave dowries of increasing size to the younger daughters, and 21% distributed dowries with no particular favour shown to birth order of the daughters. In addition to dowries, daughters could also be granted an inheritance from their father, a share of the \"legìtima\". Inheritance laws were complex in colonial Brazil. According to Portuguese law, an estate was to be divided among children who had not already received a dowry. In the early colonial period, married daughters receiving a large dowry would refuse to accept a further inheritance after the death of their father. In the 18th century, as inheritances and dowries gradually became smaller, this custom disappeared. Daughters accepted a dowry, plus a \"legìtima.\" In this way, they folded their dowry back into the estate with the \"legìtima\", called bringing the dowry \"à colação\". The remaining third of the estate, the \"terça\", was free for the father to divide as he wished among his heirs.\n\nThere were instances where a daughter was left to marry without a dowry, whereas her sisters were given dowries, an indication of paternal control over marriage choices. During the 18th century, as inheritances decreased in size, litigation among siblings became more common. Dowries could include land, a house in the city, cash, gold dust, gold bars, tools and machinery, cattle, or horses. By the 19th century, economic changes meant that men, typically merchants, brought more to the marriage materially, and the economic dynamics of marriage changed.\n\nDowry is a common practice in many parts of the world, especially in South Asia and several Middle East and North Africa countries. Dowry is most common in nations with inadequate male-biased inheritance laws and patrilineal societies, which expect women to live with or near their husband's family. \nAn unusual exception to the dowry custom in South Asia is found in Bhutan. The dowry system does not exist in Bhutan; inheritance is matrilineal, and daughters do not take their father's name at birth, nor their husband's name upon marriage. Rural land may be registered in a woman's name. Women own businesses, and both polyandry and polygyny are socially accepted, with polygyny being more prevalent. Sometimes a prospective groom will work in the bride's family's household to earn the right to marry her.\n\nIn India, dowry is called \"Dahej\" in Hindi, and \"Jahez\" in Arabic (derived from Islamic \"jahez-e-fatimi\"). In far eastern parts of India, dowry is called \"Aaunnpot\". Dowry is a payment of cash or gifts from the bride's family to the bridegroom's family upon marriage. It may include cash, jewellery, electrical appliances, furniture, bedding, crockery, utensils, car and other household items that help the newly-weds set up their home.\n\nIn India, the dowry system puts great financial strain on the bride's family. Payment of dowry is now prohibited under the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 in Indian civil law and subsequently by Sections 304B and 498a of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Despite anti-dowry laws in India, it is still a common illegal practice. Other laws attempting to address the problem include the \"Dowry and Bridal Gifts Restrictions Rules, 1976\" and the \"Dowry Prohibition (Maintenance of Lists of Presents to the Bride and Bridegroom) Rules, 1985\", which are intended to document gifts and provide complainants with stronger evidence in the event that prosecution for crimes against the bride occurs later.\n\nDowry in India is not limited to Hindus or any specific religion. It is widespread. For example, Indian Muslims call dowry as \"jahez\", justify the practice in terms of jahez-e-fatimi. Islamists classify jahez into two categories: The first comprises some essential articles for the outfit of the bride as well as for conjugal life. The other is made up of valuable goods, clothes, jewelry, an amount of money for the groom's family, which is settled on after bargaining. The \"jahez\" often far exceeds the cost of the \"baraat\" and marriage parties. The \"jahez\" is separate from cash payment as \"Mahr\" or dower that Sharia religious law requires.\n\nAlthough Indian laws against dowries have been in effect for decades, they have been largely criticised as being ineffective. The practice of dowry deaths and murders continues to take place unchecked in many parts of India and this has further added to the concerns of enforcement.\n\nDowry-murder persists. It is the killing of a wife for not bringing sufficient dowry to the marriage. It is the culmination of a series of prior domestic abuses by the husband's family.\n\nThe original custom in Bangladesh was the bride price, called \"pawn\", where the groom's family makes a payment to the bride's parents. This has gradually been replaced by the dowry, called \"joutuk\". This transition in customs began in the 1960s. By the early 21st century, the bride price has been supplanted by the dowry. \"Joutuk\", sometimes spelled \"Joutukh\", like elsewhere in South Asia, is a serious and growing problem in Bangladesh. Between 0.6 and 2.8 brides per year per 100,000 women are reported to die because of dowry-related violence.\n\nBangladesh has seen a rise in the expected size of dowries in recent decades, as its middle class has grown. Sociologist Sarah White has argued that the dowry is not compensation for weakness in women's economic contribution. Instead its main function is now to support family advancement by mobilizing additional resources. It also demonstrates an ongoing commitment to the norms of masculine provision and protection. Dowries make women more valuable, which pushes against the background of widespread corruption and political and gender violence.\n\nA negative factor is the rise in the rate of \"dowry deaths\". In Bangladesh, dowry killings are more frequently done by stabbing or poison rather than burning. Dowry extortion is also a problem in Bangladesh. From January to October 2009, more than 3,413 complaints were made to the police in Bangladesh concerning beatings and other abuses related to dowries. One of the methods used by families who are unhappy with dowry includes acid throwing, in which concentrated acid is thrown on the bride's face to cause disfiguration and social isolation. From 1995 to 1998, 15 women reported dowry disputes as the motivation behind acid attacks, though that number may be low due to underreporting. Bangladesh is combating the problem with legislation largely copied from that of India. Laws prohibiting dowry in Bangladesh include \"Dowry Prohibition Act, 1980\"; \"Dowry Prohibition (Amendment) Ordinance, 1982\"; and \"Dowry Prohibition (Amendment) Ordinance, 1986\".\n\nDowry Prohibition Act Clause 4 states that any one demanding Dowry from a person has committed a crime. The law does not have any clause stating punishment to misuse it. Therefore, the law is frequently used by women to harass in-laws and husbands.\n\nIn Pakistan, dowry is called \"Jahez\" in Arabic (derived from Islamic \"jahez-e-fatimi\"). At over 2000 dowry-related deaths per year, and annual rates exceeding 2.45 deaths per 100,000 women from dowry-related violence, Pakistan has the highest reported number of dowry death rates per 100,000 women in the world.\n\nAccording to Ansari, Pakistan's Muslim community considers dowry as an obligatory Islamic practice. They cite sunnah of the Prophet to justify the practice of giving dowry as well as receiving dower (Mahr); the Prophet gave items as dowry to his daughter Fatima at her marriage to Ali; and as second sunnah, the marriage of Zainab—another daughter of the Prophet—is mentioned, who received expensive jewelry from her family at the time of her marriage. Over 95 percent of all marriages in Pakistan involves transfer of a dowry from the bride's family to groom's family. A 2014 Gallup survey in Pakistan found that 84% of Pakistanis believe that dowry plays either very important or somewhat important role in marriage, while 69% believed it is not possible for a girl to get married without a dowry.\n\nPakistan has seen a rise in the values of dowries in recent decades, as in other South Asian countries. However, in Pakistan it is still expected that a bride will bring some kind of dowry with her to a marriage, whether she is Muslim, Hindu, or Christian. The Dower (bride price), called \"mahr\", and dowry, called \"jahaiz\", are both customs with long histories in Pakistan. Today, the dowry will often consist of jewelry, clothing, and money. Dowry is expected while the majority of marriages are consanguineously arranged between first cousins.\n\nControl of the dowry belongs to the bride in theory, although in practice control often transfers to the husband and in-laws, and grooms sometimes extort large dowries. In rural Pakistan, dowry values are still relatively low, around 12 percent of a household's annual (non-durable goods) expenses. Also, in rural Pakistan it is standard for the bride to maintain control over her dowry after marriage, rather than control of the dowry being given to the in-laws. A recent survey in January 2017 by Gallup Pakistan showed that 56 percent of the population expects the girl to bring dowry to marriage.The pressure among some Pakistanis to provide a large dowry results in some brides' families going into debt, including debt servitude; some brides build up their dowry with their own earnings if they work outside the home. The debt trap created by providing large dowries puts pressure on parents aspiring to arrange a marriage for their daughter(s) into a better social class. It is also cited as a reason for the current trend toward delayed marriages. Arranged marriages among first cousins are common, since they provide a way of keeping dowries within an extended family.\n\nPakistan has passed several laws to address the problem of excessive dowry demands: \"West Pakistan Dowry (Prohibition of Display) Act, 1967\"; \"Dowry and Bridal Gifts (Restriction) Act, 1976\". Women's rights to inheritance separate from the dowry are offered some protection in the \"Muslim Personal Law of Shariat of 1948\" and the \"Muslim Family Laws Ordinance of 1961\".\n\nThe practice of dowry is common in Nepal, and dowry-related violence is increasingly becoming a problem. As a result, the dowry system has been banned in Nepal. Despite the laws, the violent incidents continue, under a general perception of impunity. Nepali people of the Madhesi society still freely welcome dowry as a right to the groom's side. Even highly educated people living in the Terai of Nepal accept dowry without any second thoughts. Parents have thus started dreading the birth of daughters in the family, going as far as determining the sex of fetuses in order to abort daughters. Many deaths have also been caused by not giving dowry to the groom's side. Dowry system, however, is not practiced by Non-Hindu people or indigenous people.\n\nIn Nepal, the practice of dowry is closely related to social prestige; and dowry violence is especially prevalent in the Terai belt. In 2009, Nepal enacted the Social Customs and Practices Act outlawing dowry; however, there have been no known cases of enforcement.\n\nHere, the dowry is known as \"dewedda\". The payment of dowry in Sri Lanka has a strong tradition, and has been connected to family violence. However its importance is declining, and violence related to it is not as common as in other South Asian countries, though it still exists.\n\nDowry is called \"Jehez\" in Afghanistan, and is separate from Mahr, \"sherbaha\", and brideprice (locally called \"walwar\", \"toyana\", or \"qalyn\").\n\nA large dowry is sometimes expected, and given, in Afghanistan; some houses are almost emptied so that the daughter may make a grand show at the wedding. Items included in a dowry depend on the resources of the bride's family and the demands made by the groom's family. Embroidery is traditionally included in a dowry, as is land, money, jewelry such as necklaces and \"pazab\", shoes, shawls, carpets, bedding, furniture, crockery, mirrors, clocks and such items. The dowry is transferred from bride's family house to the groom's family house one day before the wedding day in a ritual ceremony with band and a procession, which typically adopts the longest route in the residential area for the Afghan community to see the dowry being given by the bride's family.\n\nAfghanistan has both dowry and bride price, although the practice differs between different tribal and ethnic groups. In Afghanistan, a marriage typically requires two kinds of payments: a mahr, which typically consists of livestock, property and money, and in practice often takes the form of a bride price paid to the woman's family; and a dowry brought by the bride to her husband's home which may include various goods such as clothing, bedding and household utensils. The nature of dowry the bride brings often influences how she is treated when she arrives at her husband's home. Parents frequently arrange marriages for daughters at a young age, in order to end their economic responsibility for their daughter.\n\nDowry has existed in Persia for over 1000 years, and called \"jahīzīeh\" (sometimes spelled \"jahaz\" or \"jaheez\", جهیزیه). \"Jahiz\" is vestments, furniture, jewelry, cash and other paraphernalia a bride's family gives to the bride to take with her to the groom's family. Jahiz is separate from Mahr required by Sharia religious laws, as well as the traditional payment of \"Shir Baha\" (literally: price of milk), in rural Iran. Dowry-related violence and deaths in Iran are reported in Iranian newspapers, some of which appear in English media.\n\nDowry is known as \"çeyiz\" in Turkey. \"Ceyiz\" is the property and money bride's family in Turkey give during marriage. Ceyiz is different and separate from the \"Mahr\", which is paid by the groom to the bride, or traditional \"baslik\" in some parts of Turkey.\n\nCeyiz often includes furnishings, appliances, clothing, gold jewelry, cash and other items depending on the resources of the Turkish family. Some of the Turkish dowry remains with the couple after marriage, other is specifically meant for the groom's family and relatives. The \"ceyiz\" is typically agreed upon between the groom's and bride's families before the wedding date is finalized. According to tradition, even in current times, the dowry is displayed for showing-off, before the marriage in rural Turkey, at the bride's family, or groom's family—the display is typically attended and examined by females, particularly from the groom's family. In some cases, if the groom's family is not satisfied with the displayed dowry, the wedding is cancelled. The dowry is transferred, from the bride's family to the groom's family just before the wedding in a ceremonial ritual. Thereafter, the wedding is completed.\n\nScholars and government agencies claim significant domestic violence in Turkish population due to dowry disputes. Violence and property claims related disputes are more frequent if there is a divorce.\n\nDowry is known as \"cehiz\" in Azerbaijan. \"Cehiz\" is the property and money the bride's family must give to the groom's family prior to marriage. \"Cehiz\" is separate from the money under \"Mahr\" required under Sharia religious requirements in Islamic Azerbaijan. \"Cehiz\" often includes furnishings, appliances, crystal, mirrors, bed, jewelry and cash depending on the negotiations between the groom's and bride's families before the wedding day. While the groom's family receives \"Cehiz\", the bride receives \"Mahr\". Relatives of the bride often contribute to the \"Cehiz\" demands, through the ritual of \"koncas\". Dowry is transferred a few days before the wedding, and examined by groom's family, and a \"Sihaye\" (receipt) for the dowry is issued by the groom's family; this helps avoid disputes. If some items of the dowry are not satisfactory, the wedding may be delayed or cancelled. Similar traditions continue in many regions of Caucasus, including non-Muslim ethnic groups.\n\nDowries are sometimes expected in Tajikistan, and they often consist of a collection of traditional dresses which are on display on the wedding day.\n\nIn Egypt, dowry is known as \"Gehaz\". This is the property a bride is expected to bring with her at marriage, and it is different from the dower (Mahr) paid by the groom to the bride per requirements of Sharia. \"Gehaz\" is observed in rural and urban Egypt, and is typically negotiated between the groom's family and bride's. \"Gehaz\" includes furniture, appliances, jewelry, china, bedding and various household items. Families begin collecting dowry years before a girl is betrothed. Many Egyptian girls take up jobs so as to save money necessary to meet the expected dowry demands.\n\nWhile the dowry is given during the marriage, in rural Egypt, it is ritually displayed to the village prior to the marriage. Every piece of the \"gehaz\" is placed on open cars that go around the village several times, with music, in order to show off the dowry being given by the bride's family to the groom. The \"gehaz\" show off ritual is also a means to enhance the bride's status within her new marital family.\n\nDowry is a traditional and current practice in Morocco, and is called \"shura\", \"shawar\", \"ssdaq\" or \"amerwas\" depending on the speaker's region and ethnicity (e.g. Arabic, Berber, etc.). Dowry in Morocco is separate from the \"Mahr\" or \"Sadaq\" that is religiously required by Sharia.\n\nCenturies ago, \"Mahr\" and \"Sadaq\" meant something different in Morocco. \"Mahr\" was the purchase price paid for the bride by the groom's family to the bride's father or guardian, while \"Sadaq\" was the betrothal gift offered by groom to the bride. Over time, the difference vanished and they are now one and the same, but different from the practice of dowry.\n\nIn modern times, the Moroccan practice is to split the so-called \"Sadaq\", which meets the Islamic requirement of \"Mahr\", into two parts: \"naqd\" (cash) and \"kali\" (remainder Mahr). The \"Naqd Sadaq\" is paid by the groom's family to bride's family before the wedding. The bride's family supplements the \"Naqd\" amount with an equal or greater amount of cash, and gives dowry (called \"shura\", \"shawar\" or \"amerwas\"). This dowry typically includes furniture, clothing, appliances, beds, household items, divans, jewelry, and other property. The dowry amounts are negotiated before the wedding. Higher dowry and lower Mahr are expected for widows and divorcées than for virgins. If elders of the two families do not agree on the dowry amount, the marriage is typically delayed or cancelled. The value and composition of the dowry varies according to social class, family wealth and regional customs. The \"kali al-sadaq\" (sometimes called \"mwahhar\" in Northern Morocco) is paid later, to technically meet the requirements of \"Mahr\" under Islamic Sharia. The \"shura\" (dowry) far exceeds the \"kali al-sadaq\", and there is a large transfer of wealth from bride's family to the couple and the groom's family.\n\nDowry is known as \"oprema\" in Bosnia. In neighboring regions, it is sometimes called \"prikija\" or \"ženinstvo\". Another term \"miraz\" is used sometimes, but \"miraz\" is also used to mean inheritance, something different from dowry.\n\n\"Oprema\" is separate from the Mahr dower Muslim Bosnians are required to give under Islamic laws. \"Oprema\" refers to the property the bride's parents give her as part of the marriage. It often includes furniture, kitchenware, decorative items, gold jewelry and other items. Oprema is also different from \"pohod\" (gift giving, \"dar\") ritual of Bosnia, as well as the \"ruho\" (embroidered clothing) ritual. Oprema is discussed between the groom's and bride's family before the marriage; the groom's family sets the quality and quantity expectations. The \"oprema\" is typically not displayed to those who attend the wedding. Oprema and \"dar\" are a major economic burden to bride's family in Bosnia. Poorer families spend years saving money and buying \"oprema\" in order to get their daughter(s) married.\n\nIn Serbia, in some rural areas, the custom of dowry continues to be observed.\nDowry has been brought to medieval Serbia mainly through Byzantine influences; it was not originally a Slavic custom. The Turkish conquest of Serbia has caused the temporary disappearance of dowry, but the custom re-emerged in the 19th century. The communist regime sought to abolish dowry, but the custom has survived in some rural areas to this day.\n\nDisputes related to dowry sometimes result in violence against women, including killings and acid attacks. Amnesty International has stated:\nThe Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women classifies violence against women into three categories: that occurring in the family (DV), that occurring within the general community, and that perpetrated or condoned by the State. Family violence is defined as follows:\n\nKirti Singh states, \"Dowry is widely considered to be both a cause and a consequence of son preference. The practice of dowry inevitably leads to discrimination in different areas against daughters and makes them vulnerable to various forms of violence.\" Singh suggests this may lead to girls being unwanted, sex selective abortion, or her parents may abandon or mistreat her after she is born. UNICEF notes dowry helps perpetuate child marriage. The World Health Organization (WHO) has expressed concern for dowry-related femicide, citing the study by Virendra Kumar which argued that dowry deaths occur primarily in areas of the Indian subcontinent. They note the estimates for actual number of dowry deaths per year vary widely ranging from 600–750 homicides a year to 25,000 homicides a year, with official government records suggesting 7,618 deaths in 2006. Rakhshinda Perveen states thousands of dowry-related bride burning cases in Pakistan, yet few prosecutions and rare convictions for dowry-related violence against women.\n\nUNODC includes dowry deaths as a form of gender-based violence. About 4.6% of total crimes against women in India were dowry death-related, and another 1.9% were related to violation of Dowry Prohibition Act. The dowry death rate in India has been about 0.7 women per 100,000 every year from 1998 to 2009. Kiani et al., in a 2014 study, report dowry deaths in Iran.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31349429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31349429", "title": "E-society", "text": "E-society\n\nE-society is a society that consists of one or more e-Communities involved in the areas \"from e-Government, e-Democracy, and e-Business to e-Learning and e-Health\", that use information and communication technologies (ICT) in order to achieve a common interests and goals. The first areas of e-society that emerged were e-Learning and e-Business.\n\nThe development of e-Society is relying and depending on the development of virtual reality (VR) technologies that insure interaction between participants of an e-Society in a more acceptable and tangible way. The development of (VR) and consequently the e-Society is based on improvement and balancing of participants’ interaction methods, hardware necessary for such interaction, content presentation and effort required for development and maintenance.\n\n"}
{"id": "5656439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5656439", "title": "Faith community nursing", "text": "Faith community nursing\n\nFaith Community Nursing, also known as Parish Nursing, Parrish Nursing, Congregational Nursing or Church Nursing, is a movement of over 15,000 registered nurses, primarily in the United States. There are also Parish nurses in Australia, the Bahamas, Canada, England, Ghana, India, Kenya, Korea, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, New Zealand, Nigeria, Palestine, Pakistan, Scotland, Singapore, South Africa, Swaziland, Ukraine, Wales, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Faith community nursing is a practice specialty that focuses on the intentional care of the spirit, promotion of an integrative model of health and prevention and minimization of illness within the context of a community of faith. The intentional integration of the practice of faith with the practice of nursing so that people can achieve wholeness in, with, and through the population which faith community nurses serve.\n\nParish nursing began in the mid-1980s in Chicago through the efforts of Rev. Dr. Granger Westberg as a reincarnation of the faith community nursing outreach done by religious orders, such as the \"Parish Deaconesses\" in Europe and America in the 1800s. Parish nursing is rooted in the Judeo-Christian tradition, and the historic practice of professional nursing, and is consistent with the basic assumptions of many faiths that we care for self and others as an expression of God's love. However, it is not only available to Christian congregations. There are Jewish Congregational Nurses, Muslim Crescent Nurses, and RNs serving in similar capacities within other faith traditions.\n\nFaith Community Nursing (FCN) is recognized as a specialty nursing practice. \"Faith Community Nursing: Scope and Standards of Practice\" was approved by the American Nurses Association in 2005 (and updated in 2012) and define the specialty as \"...the specialized practice of professional nursing that focuses on the intentional care of the spirit as part of the process of promoting holistic health and preventing or minimizing illness in a faith community.\" (American Nurses Association, 2012, Faith Community Nursing: Scope and Standards of Practice, Silver Springs, MD: Author, p1). The 16 standards of Faith Community Nursing Practice reflect the specialty's professional values and priorities and provide practice directions and the framework for practice evaluation. Each standard is measurable by a set of specific competencies that serve as evidence of minimal compliance with that standard.\n\nTo become a faith community nurse, the registered nurse must have a minimum of 2 years experience, must have a current license in the state where the faith community is located, and have completed a parish nurse foundations course for the specialty practice as recognized by the American Nurses Association. There are several different curriculum offerings for the faith community nurse which have been developed by a panel of nursing faculty. These are offered though a partnership with the International Parish Nurse Resource Center (IPNRC) at more than 130 nursing schools and health systems around the US and abroad.\n\nFaith community nurses serve in several roles, including:\n• Health advisor\n• Educator on health issues\n• Visitor of church members at home or in the hospital\n• Provider of referrals to community resources and provide assistance in obtaining needed health services\n• Developer of support groups within the church\n• Trainer and coordinator of volunteers\n• Provider of health screenings\n\nIt is important to note that faith community nurses are not expected to provide patient care in the church or at a patient's home but rather to be a source of referrals for services in the community. They coordinate existing services and supplement them with a holistic dimension of health and caring.\nA parish nurse program or faith community nurse program can operate in several different ways. Models include: 1) one church supporting its own full or part-time nurse, 2) several churches supporting one nurse, 3) a group of volunteer nurses supporting one or several churches or 4) a nurse related to a hospital or clinic who supports a church or churches as part of his or her job. Of the several thousand faith community nurses, only about 35% in the US are compensated financially for their ministry. In the United States, faith community nurses typically belong to the Health Ministries Association which is the national professional membership organization for faith community nurses. They also have available the International Parish Nurse Resource Center and the American Nurses Association, among others.\n\nThe Caribbean has joined the community of Parish Nursing and Health Care Ministry with the launching of Health Care Ministry in The Bahamas. It began with an initial course spanning a three-week period and brought together nurses from various denominations who were commissioned on 27 February 2005. Initially, the Canadian and Australian models of Parish Nursing were introduced to The Bahamas as an extension of the Pastoral Care Ministries of Diocese 2000 & Beyond, a programme of the Anglican Diocese of The Bahamas and Turks & Caicos Islands. To date, more than 60 people have been trained and actively engaged in the ministry as either Parish Nurses or Health & Wellness Carers.\n\nSince the ministry began in 2005 it has grown steadily and was known as the Anglican Diocesan Health Care Ministry [Parish Nursing] Council. However, effective 7 March 2008 the name changed to the Ecumenical Health Care Ministry Council. It is intended that there will be continued training and that the programme will spread throughout the Commonwealth of The Bahamas and the Caribbean. To this end, the ministry will be recognised by the Bahamas Christian Council and by extension the Caribbean Council of Churches (Ecumenical Health Care Ministry, Bahamas).\n\nThese organizations help to support faith community nursing and serve a wide variety of faith communities:\n\n"}
{"id": "17226693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17226693", "title": "Fersommling", "text": "Fersommling\n\nA Fersommling (plural, Fersommlinge) (also spelled Versammling or Fersammling) is a Pennsylvania Dutch social event in which food is served, speeches are made, and one or more \"g'spiel\" (plays or skits) are performed for entertainment. \"A high degree of theatricality and ceremony is involved, especially in the groundhog lodges: pledging loyalty to the lodge and the groundhog, listening to a weather report, singing patriotic songs in Deitsch, and ending every meeting by asking God to allow them to keep their way of life and their merriment.\" as described by William W. Donner. Among these traditions is the singing of the German folk song \"Schnitzelbank\" and the patriotic \"My Country, 'Tis of Thee\", in Pennsylvania German, as translated by John Birmelin. \" there is continual creativity, as current events are incorporated into the versammling performances, speeches, and skits.\" \n\nFersommlinge are typically attended by the Fancy Dutch, as opposed to the \"Plain sects\" of the Amish, Brethren and Mennonites. The term literally means \"a congregation,\" not in the sense of a group of church-goers, but as a \"social gathering of people.\" Fersommlinge are not religious functions, though many churches and church groups hosted the events and used them to raise money. The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only language spoken at the event, and those who speak English pay a penalty, usually in the form of a nickel, dime or quarter, per word spoken, put into a bowl in the center of the table. \n\nThe first Fersommling was held by Dr. John I. Woodruff of Susquehanna University in 1933. Shortly afterward, on March 13, 1933, a second was held in Allentown, Pennsylvania at the home of William S. Troxell, who wrote a daily column on Pennsylvania German culture for the Allentown \"Morning Call\" under the pseudonym \"Pumpernickle Bill.\" The purpose of the gathering was to plan the formation of the first Grundsow (Groundhog) Lodge. On the next Groundhog Day, February 2, 1934, the first Fersommling of Grundsow Lodge Nummer Ains an Da Lechaw (Number One on the Lehigh) took place in Northampton, Pennsylvania.\n\nFersommlinge continue to be held throughout eastern Pennsylvania as a means of preserving the Pennsylvania German dialect and culture. For example, the Berks County Fersommling, which started in 1937, annually attracts more than 700 participants, most of whom are of Pennsylvania German ancestry.\n\nSince 1997, some of the texts presented at Fersommlinge are also published in the Pennsylvania German newspaper Hiwwe wie Driwwe. Current Fersommling and Grundsau lodge information is kept up to date at groundhoglodge.org and the Pennsylvania German Society\n\n\"The versammlinge which started as a way to celebrate Pennsylvania German heritage and ethnicity became over time part of that heritage and ethnicity\"\n"}
{"id": "11104696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11104696", "title": "Figure and ground (media)", "text": "Figure and ground (media)\n\nFigure and ground is a concept drawn from Gestalt psychology by media theorist Marshall McLuhan in the early 1970s. This concept underpins the meaning of his famous phrase, \"The medium is the message\". The concept was an approach to what was called \"perceptual organization.\" He began to use the terms figure and ground as a way \"to describe the parts of a situation\" and \"to help explain his ideas about media and human communication.\" The concept was later employed to explain how a communications technology, the medium or \"figure\", necessarily operates through its context, or \"ground\".\n\nTo McLuhan, \"‘figure’ refers to something that jumps out at us, something that grabs our attention, [whereas] ‘ground’ refers to something that supports or contextualizes a situation and is usually an area of unattention.\" When we first experience a new image or sensation, there are certain aspects of the object that grab our attention and engage us and certain aspects that we unintentionally ignore. We should not focus on just the \"figure\" or the \"ground\" though, as McLuhan believed that both were equally as important to understanding the full meaning of the situation. \"This distinction between that which is perceived and that which is blocked out in order to focus perception is central for McLuhan.\"\n\nMcLuhan used different words to describe the figure/ground relationship, sometimes using content for figure and environment or, more often, medium for ground.\n\n\"McLuhan looked at media through a figure/ground relationship.\" To him, people tended to focus on only specific parts of the media, and disregard other parts. \"To examine the total effect of any medium, McLuhan pointed out that we need to look at both figure AND ground, and their relationship to one another.\" He believed that \"only focusing on the ‘content’ of the media was like looking at figures without examining their ground.\" \"The ground, or environment, is not a passive container, but active processes that influence the relationships between all of the elements in it.\"\n\nMcLuhan believed that to fully grasp the impact of a new technology in regard to figure (medium) and ground (context), one must understand that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. Neither piece is definitive without the other. His \"Understanding Media\" explores different grounds as they are structured by different media including print, radio, and television.\n\nAl Held, a well-known artist, exemplifies this idea in one of his paintings. The work is called The Big N and it \"provides us with an introduction to the concepts of figure and ground.\" Looking at a glance, you might draw your attention to the black triangles. \"Once you were given the name of the painting, however, the frame became linked to the figures, and an 'N' suddenly appeared.\" In understanding the work, it is important to look at the bigger picture. Al Held’s painting is well-known for its display of framing, or context, and its importance to the meaning of the overall situation. If either the frame or the painting itself were to change, the interpretation of the work might shift. Pertaining to media, we must look at both the figure and the ground to \"understand [its] effects.\" The ground which media creates gives a context for human communication, and thus \"directs human action in unique and important ways.\"\n\nMcLuhan argued that we must study media in their historical context, particularly in relation to those technologies that preceded them. The present environment, itself made up of the effects of previous technologies, gives rise to new technologies, which, in turn, further shapes societies and individuals.\n\nFurthermore, all technologies have embedded within them their own assumptions about time and space. Again, the message conveyed by the medium can only be understood if the medium is concurrently analyzed with the environment in which it is used — and which, simultaneously, it effectively creates. McLuhan believed that an examination of the figure-ground relationship can offer a critical commentary on culture and society.\n\nAlternately, the idea of \"figure\" can also refer to content of a particular medium, while \"ground\" refers to the medium itself. McLuhan's aphorism \"The medium is the message\" can thus be read as an attempt to draw attention away from a preoccupation with the figure/message to a consideration of the importance of the ground/medium.\n\nFigure-ground (perception)\n"}
{"id": "448199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=448199", "title": "Force-field analysis", "text": "Force-field analysis\n\nForce-field analysis is a development in social science. It provides a framework for looking at the factors (\"forces\") that influence a situation, originally social situations. It looks at forces that are either driving movement toward a goal (helping forces) or blocking movement toward a goal (hindering forces). The principle, developed by Kurt Lewin, is a significant contribution to the fields of social science, psychology, social psychology, community psychology, communication, organizational development, process management, and change management.\n\nLewin, a social psychologist, believed the \"field\" to be a Gestalt psychological environment existing in an individual's (or in the collective group) mind at a certain point in time that can be mathematically described in a topological constellation of constructs. The \"field\" is very dynamic, changing with time and experience. When fully constructed, an individual's \"field\" (Lewin used the term \"life space\") describes that person's motives, values, needs, moods, goals, anxieties, and ideals. \n\nLewin believed that changes of an individual's \"life space\" depend upon that individual's internalization of external stimuli (from the physical and social world) into the \"life space\". Although Lewin did not use the word \"experiential\" (see experiential learning), he nonetheless believed that interaction (experience) of the \"life space\" with \"external stimuli\" (at what he calls the \"boundary zone\") were important for development (or regression). For Lewin, development (or regression) of an individual occurs when their \"life space\" has a \"boundary zone\" experience with external stimuli. Note, it is not merely the experience that causes change in the \"life space\", but the acceptance (internalization) of external stimuli.\n\nLewin took these same principles and applied them to the analysis of group conflict, learning, adolescence, hatred, morale, German society, etc. This approach allowed him to break down common misconceptions of these social phenomena, and to determine their basic elemental constructs. He used theory, mathematics, and common sense to define a force field, and hence to determine the causes of human and group behavior.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "179219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179219", "title": "Future Shock", "text": "Future Shock\n\nFuture Shock is a 1970 book by the futurists Alvin and Heidi Toffler, in which the authors define the term \"future shock\" as a certain psychological state of individuals and entire societies. Their shortest definition for the term is a personal perception of \"too much change in too short a period of time\". The book, which became an international bestseller, grew out of an article \"The Future as a Way of Life\" in \"Horizon\" magazine, Summer 1965 issue. The book has sold over 6 million copies and has been widely translated.\n\nA documentary film based on the book was released in 1972 with Orson Welles as on-screen narrator.\n\nThe Tofflers argued that society is undergoing an enormous structural change, a revolution from an industrial society to a \"super-industrial society\". This change overwhelms people. He believed the accelerated rate of technological and social change left people disconnected and suffering from \"shattering stress and disorientation\"—future shocked. The Tofflers stated that the majority of social problems are symptoms of future shock. In their discussion of the components of such shock, they popularized the term \"\"information overload\".\"\n\nThis analysis of the phenomenon of information overload is continued in later publications, especially \"The Third Wave\" and \"\".\n\nIn the introduction to an essay entitled \"Future Shock\" in his book, \"Conscientious Objections\", Neil Postman wrote: \"Sometime about the middle of 1963, my colleague Charles Weingartner and I delivered in tandem an address to the National Council of Teachers of English. In that address we used the phrase \"future shock\" as a way of describing the social paralysis induced by rapid technological change. To my knowledge, Weingartner and I were the first people ever to use it in a public forum. Of course, neither Weingartner nor I had the brains to write a book called \"Future Shock\", and all due credit goes to Alvin Toffler for having recognized a good phrase when one came along\" (p. 162).\n\nAlvin and Heidi distinguished three stages in development of society and production: agrarian, industrial and post-industrial.\n\nAll these waves develops own \"super-ideology” with which explain the reality. This ideology affects all the spheres which make up a civilization phase: technology, social patterns, information patterns and \"power\" patterns.\n\nThe first stage began in the period of the Neolithic Era when people invented agriculture, thereby passing from barbarity to a civilization. A large number of people acted as prosumers (eating their grown food, hunting animals, building their own houses, making clothes...). People traded by exchanging their own goods for commodities of others. The second stage began in England with the Industrial Revolution during which people invented the machine tool and the steam engine. People worked in factories to make money they could spend on goods they needed (it means they produced for exchange, not for use). Countries also created new social systems. The third stage began in the second half of the 20th century in the West when people invented automatic production, robotics and the computer. The services sector attained great value. \n\nThe Tofflers proposed one criterion for distinguishing between industrial society and post-industrial society: the share of the population occupied in agriculture versus the share of city labor occupied in the services sector. In a post-industrial society, the share of the people occupied in agriculture does not exceed 15%, and the share of city laborers occupied in the services sector exceeds 50%. Thus, the share of the people occupied with brainwork greatly exceeds the share of the people occupied with physical work in post-industrial society.\n\nThe third wave led to the Information Era (now). Homes are the dominant institutions. Most people carry on their own production and consumption in their homes or electronic cottages, they produce more of their own products and services and markets become less important for them. People consider each other to be equally free as vendors of prosumer-generated commodities.\n\nAlvin and Heidi Toffler's main thought consists of the fact that modern man feels shock from rapid changes. For example, Toffler's daughter went to shop in New York City and she couldn't find a shop in its previous location. Thus New York has become a city without a history. The urban population doubles every 11 years. The overall production of goods and services doubles each 50 years in developed countries. Society experiences an increasing number of changes with an increasing rapidity, while people are losing the familiarity that old institutions (religion, family, national identity, profession) once provided. The so-called \"brain drain\" – the emigration of European scientists to the United States – is both an indicator of the changes in society and also one of their causes.\n\n\nThe book has been reprinted several times:\n\nCurtis Mayfield's song \"Future Shock\" on the album \"Back to the World\" took its name from this book, and was in turn covered by Herbie Hancock as the title track for his 1983 recording \"Future Shock\". That album was considered groundbreaking for fusing jazz and funk with electronic music. Stanley Clarke performed a song with the same title on his 1984 album Time Exposure. The rock band, BANG released \"Future Shock\" on their self titled Capitol Records release in 1972\n\nIn the 1974 movie \"The Parallax View\" the character Joe relates a story to Lee about a wife having an affair with her psychiatrist and then a bulldozer knocking down his house by calling it \"future shock\".\n\nOther works taking their title from the book include: the \"Futurama\" episode \"Future Stock\"; The Gordons 1981 EP on Flying Nun Records; a segment on \"The Daily Show\" starring Samantha Bee; Kevin Goldstein's recurring column on the \"Baseball Prospectus\" website; a \"\" pre-constructed deck; and the National Wrestling Alliance's 1989 Starrcade event.\n\nSince 1977, UK Comic 2000 AD has run a series of short stories called Future Shocks based on this concept, some of which were written by Alan Moore. The abbreviated derogatory term \"Futsies\" was applied to citizens in 2000 AD stories (mainly in the Judge Dredd universe) who had been driven insane by Future Shock.\n\nWorks deriving themes and elements from Future Shock include the science fiction novels \"The Forever War\" (1974) by Joe Haldeman, \"The Shockwave Rider\" (1975) by John Brunner, the RPG \"Transhuman Space\" (2002) by Steve Jackson Games, and the indie RPG \"\" (2006) by designer Joshua A.C. Newman. Experimental music group Death Grips use the lyric \"Culture shock, future shock, fuck yourself, choke yourself\" in their song \"Culture Shock\".\n\nThe line \"You knocked a future shock crowbar upside my head\" occurs in the track \"The Outsiders\" on the alternative rock band R.E.M.'s 2004 album \"Around the Sun\".\n\nIn 2011, a song titled \"Future Shock\" by Darwin, Obie, and Mr-E appeared on the album \"Nu Nrg 100\", the final installment of the world-renowned label Nu Energy, while Brooklyn-based band TV on the Radio included a song titled \"No Future Shock\" on their album \"Nine Types of Light\". The same year, the Unsound Music Festival in Krakow, Poland took the concept of 'future shock' as its theme.\n\nWilliam Brittelle, the Brooklyn-based composer of pop-influenced electro-acoustic art music, has an album called \"Future Shock\".\n\nThe sense of future shock is an integral aspect of cyberpunk.\n\nFutureshock were also an electronic music duo recording for Junior Boys Own and Parlophone / EMI. The members were Phil Dockerty and Alex Tepper.\n\nThe Future Shock Book was lying on the deceased Wendell Armbruster Sr.'s desk in the 1972 movie Avanti! starring Jack Lemmon.\n\n"}
{"id": "27082987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27082987", "title": "Global civics", "text": "Global civics\n\nGlobal civics suggests to understand civics in a global sense as a social contract among all world citizens in an age of interdependence and interaction. The disseminators of the concept define it as the notion that we have certain rights and responsibilities towards each other by the mere fact of being human on Earth.\n\nThe advocates of the notion attempt to demonstrate that it is possible to imagine global civics. According to this notion, in an increasingly interdependent world, the world citizens need a compass that would frame mindsets on a global scale, and create a shared consciousness and sense of global responsibility related to specific world issues such as environmental problems and nuclear proliferation.\n\nThe term global civics was first coined by Hakan Altinay, a nonresident senior fellow with the Global Economy and Development program at the Brookings Institution, in a working paper published in March 2010. The concept builds upon the basic tenets behind global ethics, global justice and world citizenship, inviting everyone to question their increasingly important role in a highly interdependent world. In early 2011, Altinay published \"Global Civics: Responsibilities and Rights in an Interdependent World,\" a book of articles on global civics put forth by academics and intellectuals all around the world.\n\nOpponents of the global civics concept argue that even a modest level of exercising responsibility towards all the people living in the world is so overwhelming and nearly impossible to achieve. These arguments also posit that civics assumes an effective state and enforcement. The claim goes that since there is no such thing as a world government, global civics implementation is not feasible. Also, it has been suggested that superpowers of the world are selfish and dangerous nations, and that they do not feel constrained by international legitimacy and laws. Finally, the critics claim that any experience of pan-global solidarity among human beings cannot form the basis of constellation of rights and responsibilities as it is nascent at best and the experience of being a global citizen is a privilege restricted to international elites and a few activists.\n\nThe proponents of global civics also suggest that university campuses play a vital role in spreading a thorough understanding of how today's global world functions and contributes toward preparation of future generations for life in an interdependent world. This view calls for visionary universities that could successfully \"provide their students with the forums and the tools to discuss and figure out what their responsibilities are to their fellow human beings.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "47751830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47751830", "title": "Green Dot Bystander Intervention", "text": "Green Dot Bystander Intervention\n\nGreen Dot Bystander Intervention is a bystander education approach that aims to prevent violence with the help of bystanders. It is built on the premise that violence can be measurably and systematically reduced within a community. Bystander intervention as a way of violence prevention programs are becoming popular within society. Its mission is to reduce power based-violence by being a proactive bystander and a reactive bystander.\n\nThe Green Dot Bystander Intervention Program was founded by Dr. Dorothy Edwards. The program trains people about sexual assault and domestic violence on college campuses, primary and secondary schools, and communities. It develops and offers training for sexual assault and domestic violence. The method teaches students to intervene by using the 3 D's: Direct, Delegating the responsibility to others, and creating a Distraction to defuse a potentially dangerous situation. As described by Green Dot an example of this is in a situation at a party, intervening could mean that instead of calling out an inebriated student, an individual can create a distraction by \"accidentally\" spilling their drink on a potential aggressor.\n\nDr. Dorothy Edwards is the founder of the Green Dot Bystander Intervention program. Prior to creating the program Dorothy Edwards worked as the University of Kentucky's Violence Intervention and Prevention Director where she discovered that individuals were not sure how to respond when witnessing a potential sexual assault. In her first year of running the program she trained 10 individuals, but by the time she left the University of Kentucky she was training 3,500 students and volunteers. The initiative led by Dr. Edwards was supported by a new focus on bystanders in The White House. Green Dot, Bringing in the Bystander, and Coaching Boys Into Men are preventative bystander programs that have begun to make cultural changes.\n\nTitle IX of the 1972 Education Amendment is a tool meant to combat campus violence. The law requires colleges and universities to fight gender-based violence, harassment, and respond to the needs of survivors promoting equal educational access.\n\nSexual violence in schools and on campuses is a pressing civil rights issue. According to the National Women's Law Center students who suffer from sexual assault and harassment are deprived the liberty of equal education. A majority of sexual assaults involving college students also involve drugs and alcohol. A female or male who is incapacitated due to drugs and alcohol is legally incapable of giving consent and someone who has sex with an incapacitated person can be prosecuted for rape.\n\nThe goal of Green Dot is to implement a bystander intervention strategy that prevents and reduces power-based personal violence. Power-based violence includes: sexual violence, domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, child abuse, elder abuse, and bullying. The curriculum is created from the concepts and lessons learned through research and theory across disciplines including: violence against women, diffusion of innovation, public health, social networking, psychology, bystander dynamics, perpetration, and marketing/advertising.\n\nA Green Dot is a behavior, choice, or action that promotes safety for everyone. It communicates intolerance for sexual violence, dating violence, and stalking. The goal is to promote safety on college campuses.\n\nGreen Dot develops programs, strategies, curriculum, and training courses designed to address power-based personal violence across environments. Training strategies include: strategic planning, bystander mobilization, communication, and coalition building. The program provides training courses for leadership and professionals that focus on the core areas necessary for successful implementation of the program.\n\nThe Green Dot bystander program uses four training modules to educate bystanders on their impact. \n\nThe heart of the Green Dot Bystander Intervention program are the 3 D's: direct, distract, and delegate. Direct interaction with the potential perpetrator or victim can be used to address concern. Through Distraction a bystander can create a diversion to diffuse the potentially problematic situation. Lastly, through delegation a bystander can ask for someone else to help intervene in the situation. The 3 D's work in situations of high risk to act as reactive Green Dots.\n\nExamples of proactive Green Dots are creating social media campaigns, checking-in with friends, promoting awareness, and hosting green dot sports games.\n\nExamples of reactive Green Dots include: \"directly\" confronting a situation, \"distracting\" by changing the conversation and the energy of the interaction or by distracting the individuals, or \"delegating\" by finding someone who will be more successful in fixing the problem (bar tender, other friends, police offer, etc.)\n\nAnn Coker at the University of Kentucky's Center for Research on Violence Against Women (CRVAW) led a study pertaining to the effectiveness at Green Dots' reduction of sexual violence. In the study, CRVAW found a greater than 50% reduction in the self-reported frequency of sexual violence perpetration by students at schools that received Green Dot training. The CRVAW study also found a 40% reduction in self-reported frequency of total violence perpetration including sexual violence, sexual harassment, stalking, and dating violence. Ann Coker, and the CRVAW team identify violence prevention as a public health priority.\n\nA recent study of 2,504 college undergraduate students between 18 and 24 looked at the impact of bystander intervention on college campuses. The study found that 46% of the students surveyed had heard a Green Dot speech on their college campus. Out of the sample size surveyed, only 14% had received active bystander training in the past two years. Students trained in Green Dot bystander intervention reported engaging in significantly more bystander behaviors and observing more self-reported active bystander behaviors compared to non-trained students. Those receiving bystander intervention training appeared to report more active bystander behaviors than those simply hearing a Green Dot speech, and both intervention groups reported more observed and active bystander behaviors than non-exposed students.\n"}
{"id": "23845095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23845095", "title": "History of prostitution", "text": "History of prostitution\n\nProstitution has been practiced throughout ancient and modern culture. Prostitution has been described as \"the world's oldest profession,\" and despite consistent attempts at regulation, it continues nearly unchanged.\n\nThe Ancient Near East was home to many shrines, temples or \"houses of heaven,\" which were dedicated to various deities. These shrines and temples were documented by the Greek historian Herodotus in \"The Histories\", where sacred prostitution was a common practice. Sumerian records dating back to ca. 2400 BCE are the earliest recorded mention of prostitution as an occupation. These describe a temple-brothel operated by Sumerian priests in the city of Uruk. This \"kakum\" or temple was dedicated to the goddess Ishtar and was the home to three grades of women. The first grade of women were only permitted to perform sexual rituals in the temple, the second group had access to the grounds and catered to visitors, and the third and lowest class lived on the temple grounds. The third class was also free to find customers in the streets.\n\nDuring the region of Canaan, a significant portion of temple prostitutes were male. This was also widely practiced in Sardinia and in some of the Phoenician cultures, usually in honor of the goddess Ashtart. Presumably under the influence of the Phoenicians, this practice was developed in other ports of the Mediterranean Sea, such as Erice (Sicily), Locri Epizephiri, Croton, Rossano Vaglio and Sicca Veneria. Other hypotheses include Asia Minor, Lydia, Syria and the Etruscans.\n\nIn later years sacred prostitution and similar classifications for females were known to have existed in Greece, Rome, India, China, and Japan. Such practices came to an end when the emperor Constantine in the fourth century AD destroyed the goddess temples and replaced the religious practices with Christianity.\n\nProstitution was commonplace in ancient Israel. There are a number of references to prostitution in the Hebrew Bible. The Biblical story of Judah and Tamar () provides a depiction of prostitution being practiced in that time period. In this story the prostitute waits at the side of a highway where she waits for travelers. She covers her face in order to identify herself as a prostitute. Instead of being paid in money she asks for a kid goat. This would have been the equivalent of a high price, showing that only the wealthy owner of numerous herds could have afforded to pay for a single sexual encounter. Under this system if the traveller does not have his cattle with him he must give valuables to the woman as a deposit until a kid goat is delivered to her. The woman in the story was not a legitimate prostitute but actually was Judah's widowed daughter-in-law, who sought to trick Judah into impregnating her. However, since she succeeded in impersonating a prostitute her conduct can be assumed to accurately represent the behaviour of a prostitute in society during that time period.\n\nIn a later Biblical story, found in the Book of Joshua, a prostitute in Jericho named Rahab assisted Israelite spies by providing them with information regarding the current socio-cultural and military situation. Rahab was knowledgeable in these matters because of her popularity with the high-ranking nobles. The Israelite spies, in return for this information, promised to save her and her family during the planned military invasion, only if she kept the details of her contact with them a secret. She would leave a sign on her residence that indicated to the advancing soldiers not to attack the people within. When the people of Israel conquered Canaan, she converted to Judaism and married a prominent member of the people.\n\nIn the Book of Revelation, the Whore of Babylon is named \"Babylon the Great, the Mother of Prostitutes and Abominations of the Earth\". However the word \"whore\" could also be translated as \"Idolatress\". The first Babylonian prostitute was in a place called Hinchinopolises, which arose from the appraised Hinchin family. At the time Hinchinapolis was the center of attraction for all travelers who came to rest in the company of the family's women, who perfected the art of satisfaction. Some ancient scrolls could tell us that the meaning of Hinchin came from the Hebrew \"Hinam\", meaning free, because the males of the family would offer themselves for free.\n\nAmong the Aztecs, the Cihuacalli was the name given to the controlled buildings where prostitution was permitted by political and religious authorities. Cihuacalli is a Nahuatl word which means House of Women. The Cihuacalli was a closed compound with rooms, all looking over a central patio. At the center of the patio was a statue of Tlazolteotl, the goddess of purification, steam baths, midwives, filth and a patroness of adulterers. Religious authorities believed women should work as prostitutes, if they wish, only at such premises guarded by Tlazolteotl. It was believed that Tlazolteotl had the power to incite sexual activity, while cleansing the spirit of such acts. Bernal Díaz described numerous male prostitutes among the Aztecs, as well as unmarried temple priests engaging in sodomy.\n\nInca prostitutes were segregated from other people and lived under the supervision of a government agent.\n\nIn ancient Greece, both women and boys engaged in prostitution. The Greek word for prostitute is \"porne\" (Gr: πόρνη), derived from the verb \"pernemi\" (to sell). The English word \"pornography\", and its corollaries in other languages, are directly derivative of the Greek word \"pornē\" (Gr: πόρνη). Female prostitutes could be independent and sometimes influential women. They were required to wear distinctive dresses and had to pay taxes. Some similarities have been found between the Greek \"hetaera\" and the Japanese \"oiran\", complex figures that are perhaps in an intermediate position between prostitution and courtisanerie. (See also the Indian tawaif.) Some prostitutes in ancient Greece, such as Lais were as famous for their company as their beauty, and some of these women charged extraordinary sums for their services.\n\nSolon instituted the first of Athens' brothels (\"oik'iskoi\") in the sixth century BC, and with the earnings of this business he built a temple dedicated to Aphrodite Pandemos, goddess of sexual pleasure. Procuring, however, was severely forbidden. In Cyprus (Paphus) and in Corinth, a type of religious prostitution was practiced where the temple counted more than a thousand prostitutes (\"hierodules\", Gr: ιερόδουλες), according to Strabo.\n\nEach specialized category had its proper name, so there were the \"chamaitypa'i\", working outdoor (lie-down), the \"perepatetikes\" who met their customers while walking (and then worked in their houses), and the \"gephyrides\", who worked near the bridges. In the fifth century, Ateneo informs us that the price was 1 \"obole\", a sixth of a drachma and the equivalent of an ordinary worker's day salary. The rare pictures describe that sex was performed on beds with covers and pillows, while triclinia usually didn't have these accessories.\n\nMale prostitution was also common in Greece. Adolescent boys usually practiced it, a reflection of the pederastic custom of the time. Slave boys worked the male brothels in Athens, while free boys who sold their favours risked losing their political rights as adults.\n\nProstitution in ancient Rome was legal, public and widespread. Even Roman men of the highest social status were free to engage prostitutes of either sex without incurring moral disapproval, as long as they demonstrated self-control and moderation in the frequency and enjoyment of sex. Latin literature also often refers to prostitutes. Real-world practices are documented by provisions of Roman law that regulate prostitution. Inscriptions, especially graffiti from Pompeii, uncover the practice of prostitution in Ancient Rome. Some large brothels in the fourth century, when Rome was becoming Christianized, seem to have been counted as tourist attractions and were possibly state-owned. Prostitutes played a role in several Roman religious observances, mainly in the month of April, over which the love and fertility goddess Venus presided. While prostitution was so widely accepted, prostitutes were often considered shameful. Most were slaves or former slaves, or if free by birth relegated to the \"infames\", people lacking in social standing and deprived of the protections that most citizens under Roman law received. Prostitution thus reflects the ambivalent attitudes of Romans toward pleasure and sexuality.\n\nA registered prostitute was called a meretrix while the unregistered one fell under the broad category \"prostibulae\". There were some similarities between the Ancient Roman and Greek system, but as the Empire grew, prostitutes were often foreign slaves, captured, purchased or raised for the purpose of prostitution. This was sometimes done by large-scale \"prostitute farmers\" where abandoned children were raised, and almost always raised to become prostitutes. Enslavement into prostitution was sometimes used as a legal punishment against criminal free women. Buyers were allowed to inspect naked men and women for sale in private and there was no stigma attached to the purchase of males by a male aristocrat.\n\nScholars have studied the history of prostitution in India from ancient times to the present.\n\nA tawaif was a courtesan who catered to the nobility of South Asia, particularly during the era of the Mughal Empire. These courtesans would dance, sing, recite poetry and entertain their suitors at mehfils. Like the geisha tradition in Japan, their main purpose was to professionally entertain their guests. While sex was often incidental, it was not assured contractually. The most popular or highest-class tawaifs could often pick and choose between the best of their suitors. They contributed to music, dance, theatre, film and the Urdu literary tradition.\n\nThe term devadasi originally described a Hindu religious practice in which girls were married and dedicated to a deity (deva or devi). They were in charge of taking care of the temple, performing rituals they learned and practicing Bharatanatyam and other classical Indian arts traditions. This status allowed them to enjoy a high social status. The popularity of devadasis seems to have reached its pinnacle around the 10th and 11th centuries. The rise and fall in the status of devadasis can be seen to be running parallel to the rise and fall of Hindu temples. Due to the destruction of temples by Islamic invaders, the status of the temples fell very quickly in North India and slowly in South India. As the temples became poorer and lost their patron kings, and in some cases were destroyed, the devadasis were forced into a life of poverty and prostitution.\n\nDuring the British East India Company's rule in India in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, it was initially fairly common for British soldiers to engage in inter-ethnic prostitution in India, where they would frequently visit local Indian \"nautch\" dancers. As British females began arriving in British India in large numbers from the early to mid-19th century, it became increasingly uncommon for British soldiers to visit Indian prostitutes, and miscegenation was despised altogether after the events of the Indian Rebellion of 1857.\n\nIn the seventh century, the prophet Muhammad declared that prostitution is forbidden. In Islam, prostitution is considered a sin, and Abu Mas'ud Al-Ansari is attributed with saying, \"Allah's Apostle forbade taking the price of a dog, money earned by prostitution and the earnings of a soothsayer.\" () However, sexual slavery was not considered prostitution and was very common during the Arab slave trade during the Middle Ages and early modern period. Women and girls from the Caucasus, Africa, Central Asia and Europe were captured and served as concubines in the harems of the Arab World. Ibn Battuta said several times that he was given or purchased female slaves.\n\nAccording to Shia Muslims, the prophet Muhammad sanctioned fixed-term marriage, called \"muta'a\" in Iraq and \"sigheh\" in Iran, which according to some Western writers, has allegedly been used as a legitimizing cover for sex workers, in a culture where prostitution is otherwise forbidden. Sunni Muslims, who make up the majority of Muslims worldwide, believe the practice of nikah mut‘ah was revoked and ultimately forbidden by second Sunni caliph, Umar. However, Sunnis have fixed-term marriages, such as nikah urfi, nikah Misyar, and nikah halala. Fundamentalist Sunnis called for sexual jihad. Shias deem all sexual relations outside of proper marriage (the only being nikah or nikah mutah) as illegal, forbidden and against the sunnah. Like the Shia, Sunnis regard prostitution as sinful and forbidden.\n\nIn the 16th and 17th centuries, Portuguese visitors and their South Asian (and sometimes African) crew members often engaged in slavery in Japan, where they brought or captured young Japanese women and girls, who were either used as sexual slaves on their ships or taken to Macau and other Portuguese colonies in Southeast Asia, the Americas and India. For example, in Goa, a Portuguese colony in India, there was a community of Japanese slaves and traders during the late 16th and 17th centuries. Later European East India companies, including those of the Dutch and British, also engaged in prostitution in Japan.\n\nProstitution in China was due to a weak familial economy among the rural families of the country. Although China was a nation of wealth, the poverty stricken families were due to the over population of rural areas. These lives of borderline starvation drove many women out of the rural countryside to the port side cities of China. Many of the women who took part in the prostitution of China were either sold into the industry or willingly joined. Due to their lack of economic stability, parents were unable to feed all the mouths of the house and often sold their daughters into the industry. The popularity of this industry stemmed from the over population in rural villages, and an overall life of poverty for the majority of Chinese families. However, the increase of the colonial powers' presence in China added to the demand for these ladies of the night.\n\nIn Southeast Asia, prostitution was mostly prevalent in Singapore, due to its active ports. Certain districts of Singapore were dedicated brothel districts sanctioned by the colonial governments. As colonial powers entered the Asian countries, there was an increase in number of sailors at ports. Merchant ships carried large crews of men, who lacked the company of women for days on end. As these ships docked in Asian ports, like Singapore, they were drawn to the market of prostitution. This higher demand for the company of a woman created the need for these brothel districts.\n\nFrom the 15th century, Chinese, Korean and other Far Eastern visitors began frequenting brothels in Japan. This practice continued among visitors from the Western Regions, mainly European traders, beginning with the Portuguese in the 16th century who often came with their South Asian \"lascar\" crew, along with African crewmembers in some cases. In the 16th century, the local Japanese people initially assumed that the Portuguese were from \"Tenjiku\" (\"Heavenly Abode\"), the Japanese name for the Indian subcontinent due to its importance as the birthplace of Buddhism, and that Christianity was a new Indian faith. These mistaken assumptions were due to the Indian city of Goa being a central base for the Portuguese East India Company and also due to a significant portion of the crew on Portuguese ships being Indian Christians.\n\nIn the early 17th century, there was widespread male and female prostitution throughout the cities of Kyoto, Edo and Osaka, Japan. Oiran were courtesans in Japan during the Edo period. The oiran were considered a type of also known as a \"woman of pleasure\" or prostitute. Among the oiran, the tayū (太夫) was considered the highest rank of courtesan available only to the wealthiest and highest ranking men. To entertain their clients, oiran practiced the arts of dance, music, poetry and calligraphy as well as sexual services, and education was considered essential for sophisticated conversation. Many became celebrities of their times outside the pleasure districts. Their art and fashions often set trends among wealthy women. The last recorded oiran was in 1761.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the problem of regulating prostitution according to modern European models was widely debated in Japan.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages prostitution was commonly found in urban contexts. Although all forms of sexual activity outside of marriage were regarded as sinful by the Roman Catholic Church, prostitution was tolerated because it helped prevent the greater evils of rape, sodomy and masturbation. Augustine of Hippo is quoted saying, \"if you expel prostitution from society, you will unsettle everything on account of lusts.\" The general tolerance of prostitution was for the most part reluctant, and many people from the church urged prostitutes to reform.\n\nAfter the decline of organized prostitution of the Roman empire, many prostitutes were slaves. However, religious campaigns against slavery and the growing marketisation of the economy turned prostitution back into a business. By the High Middle Ages it was common to find town governments ruling that prostitutes were not to ply their trade within the town walls, but they were tolerated outside, only because these areas were beyond the jurisdiction of the authorities. In many areas of France and Germany town governments came to set aside certain streets as areas where prostitution could be tolerated. In London the brothels of Southwark were owned by the Bishop of Winchester. After this, it became common in the major towns and cities of Southern Europe to establish civic brothels. This allowed the government to outlaw any prostitution taking place outside these brothels. In much of Northern Europe a more tolerant attitude could be found towards prostitution. Prostitutes also found a fruitful market in the Crusades.\nBy the end of the 15th century attitudes began to harden against prostitution. An outbreak of syphilis in Naples during 1494, which later swept across Europe, may have originated from the Colombian Exchange. The prevalence of other sexually transmitted diseases during the earlier 16th century may have caused this change in attitude. By the early 16th century the association between prostitutes, plague and contagion emerged, causing brothels and prostitution to be outlawed by secular authority. Furthermore, outlawing brothels and prostitution was used to \"strengthen the criminal law\" system of the 16th-century secular rulers. Canon law defined a prostitute as \"a promiscuous woman, regardless of financial elements.\" The prostitute was considered a \"whore … who [was] available for the lust of many men,\" and was most closely associated with promiscuity.\n\nThe Church's stance on prostitution was three-fold. It included the \"acceptance of prostitution as an inevitable social fact, condemnation of those profiting from this commerce, and encouragement for the prostitute to repent. The Church was forced to recognize its inability to remove prostitution from the worldly society, and in the 14th century \"began to tolerate prostitution as a lesser evil.\" However, prostitutes were excluded from the Church as long as they continued with their lifestyle. Around the 12th century, the idea of prostitute saints took hold, with Mary Magdalene being one of the most popular saints of the era. The Church used Mary Magdalene's biblical history of being a reformed harlot to encourage prostitutes to repent and mend their ways. Simultaneously, religious houses were established with the purpose of providing asylum and encouraging the reformation of prostitution. Magdalene Homes were particularly popular and peaked in the early 14th century. Over the course of the Middle Ages, popes and religious communities made various attempts to remove prostitution or reform prostitutes with varying success.\n\nWith the advent of the Protestant Reformation, numbers of Southern German towns closed their brothels in an attempt to eradicate prostitution. In some periods prostitutes had to distinguish themselves from other with particular signs. They sometimes wore very short hair or no hair at all, and sometimes they wore veils in societies where other women did not wear them. Ancient codes regulated the crime of a prostitute that dissimulated her profession.\n\nAccording to Dervish Ismail Agha, in the \"Dellâkname-i Dilküşâ\", the Ottoman archives, in the Turkish baths, the masseurs were traditionally young men who helped wash clients by soaping and scrubbing their bodies. They also were as sex workers. The Ottoman texts describe who they were, their prices, how many times they could bring their customers to orgasm and the details of their sexual practices.\n\nIn the 18th century, presumably in Venice, prostitutes started using condoms made with catgut or cow bowel.\n\nIn America, prostitution was seen as a \"necessary evil\" that aided in marital fidelity, especially as a system that would allow men to obtain sex when their wives did not desire it. D'Emilio and Freedman document that prostitution was not a crime in the early part of the 19th century, and thus brothels (or bawdy houses) were tolerated in American cities and the laws against individual prostitutes were enforced only occasionally.\n\nIn the 1830s, prostitution was becoming more visible in American cities, and with the professionalization of police forces, visible prostitutes such as streetwalkers risked arrest. But D'Emilio and Freedman note that raids on brothels were comparatively rare, and prostitution was tolerated in mining towns, cattle towns, and urban centers in the American east. In 1870, prostitution was legalized and regulated in the city of St. Louis Missouri. Prostitutes were licensed by public health officials, and were required to maintain weekly inspections for sexually transmitted diseases. However, due to protests and demonstrations organized by women and members of the clergy, Missouri legislators repealed the legislation allowing regulated prostitution.\n\nThe Page Act of 1875 was passed by the US Congress and forbid any importation of women for the purpose of prostitution. The national move to criminalize prostitution was led by Protestant middle class men and women who participated in the revivalism movement of the 19th century. \n\nMany of the women who posed in 19th- and early-20th-century vintage erotica were prostitutes. The most famous were the New Orleans women who posed for E. J. Bellocq. In the 19th century legalized prostitution became a public controversy as France and then the United Kingdom passed the Contagious Diseases Acts. This legislation mandated pelvic examinations for suspected prostitutes. It applied not only to the United Kingdom and France, but also to their overseas colonies. Many early feminists fought to repeal these laws, either on the grounds that prostitution should be illegal and therefore not government regulated or because it forced degrading medical examinations upon women. A similar situation existed in the Russian Empire. This included prostitutes operating out of government-sanctioned brothels given yellow internal passports signifying their status and were subjected to weekly physical exams. Leo Tolstoy's novel \"Resurrection\" describes legal prostitution in 19th-century Russia.\n\nDuring the 19th century the British in India began to adopt the policy of social segregation, but they continued to keep their brothels full of Indian women. In the 19th and early 20th centuries there was a network of Chinese and Japanese prostitutes being trafficked across Asia, in countries such as China, Japan, Korea, Singapore and British India, in what was then known as the \"Yellow Slave Traffic.\" There was also a network of European prostitutes being trafficked to India, Ceylon, Singapore, China and Japan around the same time, this known as the \"White Slave Traffic.\" The most common destination for European prostitutes in Asia were the British colonies of India and Ceylon, where hundreds of women and girls from continental Europe and Japan serviced British soldiers.\n\nThe houses of prostitution found in every mining camp worldwide were famous, especially in the 19th century when long distance imports of prostitutes became common. Entrepreneurs set up shops and businesses to cater to the miners, and brothels were largely tolerated in mining towns. Prostitution in the American West was a growth industry that attracted sex workers from around the globe where they were pulled in by the money, despite the harsh and dangerous working conditions and low prestige. Chinese women were frequently sold by their families and taken to the camps as prostitutes, and were often forced to send their earnings back to the family in China. In Virginia City, Nevada, a prostitute, Julia Bulette, was one of the few who achieved \"respectable\" status. She nursed victims of an influenza epidemic, earning her acceptance in the community and the support of the sheriff. The townspeople were shocked when she was murdered in 1867 and they honoured her with a lavish funeral and hanging of her assailant.\n\nUntil the 1890s, madams predominately ran the businesses, after which male pimps took over. This led to the generally declined treatment of women. It was not uncommon for brothels in Western towns to operate openly, without the stigma that was beginning to emerge in East Coast cities as a result of anti-prostitution activism. Gambling and prostitution were central to life in these western towns, and only later, as the female population increased, reformers moved in and other civilizing influences arrived, did prostitution become less blatant and less common. After a decade or so the mining towns attracted respectable women who ran boarding houses, organized church societies, and worked as laundresses and seamstresses, all while striving for independent status.\n\nAustralia mining camps had a well-developed system of prostitution. City fathers sometimes tried to confine the practice to red light districts. The precise role prostitution played in various camps depended on the sex ratio in specific population groups of colonial society as well as racial attitudes toward non-whites. In the early 19th century British authorities decided it was best to have lower-class white, Asian, Middle Eastern and Aboriginal women service the prisoners and thereby keep peace while maintaining strong class lines that isolated British gentlemen and ladies from the lower elements. Prostitution was so profitable that it was easy to circumvent the legal boundaries. When Australians took control by 1900 they wanted a \"white Australia\" and tried to exclude or expel non-white women who might become prostitutes. However, feminist activists fought against Australia's discriminatory laws that led to varying levels of rights for women, races and classes. By 1939 new attitudes toward racial harmony began to surface. These were inspired by white Australians to rethink their racist policies and adopt more liberal residency laws that did not focus on sexual or racial issues.\n\nLatin American mining camps also had well-developed systems of prostitution. In Mexico the government tried to protect and idealize middle class women, but made little effort to protect prostitutes in the mining camps.\n\nIn 20th-century African mining camps prostitution followed the historical patterns developed in the 19th century. They added the theme of casual temporary marriages.\n\nDuring World War I, in colonial Philippines, US armed forces developed a prostitute management program called the \"American Plan\" which enabled the military to arrest any woman within five miles of a military cantonment. If found infected, a woman could be sentenced to a hospital or a farm colony until cured.\n\nBeginning in the 1910s and continuing in some places into the 1950s, the American Plan operated in the United States. Women were told to report to a health officer where they were coerced to submit to an invasive examination. Immigrants, minorities and the poor were primarily targeted.\n\nIn 1921, the International Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Women and Children was signed. In this convention some nations declared reservations towards prostitution.\nThe leading theorists of communism opposed prostitution. Karl Marx thought of it as \"only a specific expression of the general prostitution of the laborer,\" and considered its abolition to be necessary to overcome capitalism. Friedrich Engels considered even marriage a form of prostitution, and Vladimir Lenin found sex work distasteful. Communist governments often took wide-ranging steps to repress prostitution immediately after obtaining power, although the practice always persisted. In the countries that remained nominally communist after the end of the Cold War, especially China, prostitution remained illegal but was nonetheless common. In many current or former communist countries the economic depression brought about by the collapse of the Soviet Union led to an increase in prostitution.\n\nDuring World War II, Japanese soldiers engaged in forced prostitution during their invasions across East Asia and Southeast Asia. The term \"comfort women\" became a euphemism for the estimated 200,000 mostly Korean and Chinese women who were forced into prostitution in Japanese military brothels during the war.\n\nSex tourism emerged in the late 20th century as a controversial aspect of Western tourism and globalization. Sex tourism was typically undertaken internationally by tourists from wealthier countries. Author Nils Ringdal alleged that three out of four men between the ages of 20 and 50 who have visited Asia or Africa have paid for sex.\n\nA new legal approach to prostitution emerged at the end of the 20th century, termed \"the Swedish model\". This included the prohibition of buying, but not selling, of sexual services. This means that only the client commits a crime in engaging in paid sex, not the prostitute. Such laws were enacted in Sweden (1999), Norway (2009), Iceland (2009), Canada (2014), Northern Ireland (2015), France (2016), and the Republic of Ireland (2017), and are also being considered in other jurisdictions. These laws are an attempt to protect the worker and embrace the fallout of the sexual revolution, meaning sex will happen, and for it to happen safely and respectfully, there must be \"free-form\" regulation.\n\nIn the 21st century, Afghans revived a method of prostituting young boys, which is referred to as \"bacha bazi\".\n\nSince the break up of the Soviet Union thousands of eastern European women have become prostitutes in China, Western Europe, Israel and Turkey every year. There are tens of thousands of women from eastern Europe and Asia working as prostitutes in Dubai. Men from Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates form a large proportion of the customers.\n\nIndia's devadasi girls are forced by their poor families to dedicate themselves to the Hindu goddess Renuka. The BBC wrote in 2007 that devadasis are \"sanctified prostitutes.\"\n\nThe United Kingdom introduced the Sexual Offences Act of 1956 which would partly be repealed and altered by the Sexual Offences Act 2003. While this law did not criminalise the act of prostitution itself, it did prohibit such activities as running a brothel and soliciting for paid sex.\n\nConcerns were voiced over white British adolescent girls being used as prostitutes by Pakistani immigrants in the 1960s. These girls were wanted by several police departments in the early 1960s and were described as \"good-looking and attractive, not of common appearance ... will almost certainly earn her living by prostitution and with Pakistanis.\"\n\nIn the United States prostitution was originally widely legal. Prostitution was made illegal in almost all states between 1910 and 1915 largely due to the influence of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union, which was influential in the banning of drug use and was a major force in the prohibition of alcohol. In 1917 the prostitution district Storyville in New Orleans was closed down by the Federal government over local objections. In Deadwood, South Dakota prostitution, while technically illegal, was tolerated by local residents and officials for decades until the last madam was brought down by state and federal authorities for tax evasion in 1980. Prostitution remained legal in Alaska until 1953, and is still legal in some rural counties of Nevada, including areas outside of Las Vegas. For more, see Prostitution in Nevada.\n\nBeginning in the late 1980s many states increased the penalties for prostitution in cases where the prostitute is knowingly HIV-positive. These laws, often known as felony prostitution laws, require anyone arrested for prostitution to be tested for HIV. If the test comes back positive the suspect is informed that any future arrest for prostitution will be a felony instead of a misdemeanor. Penalties for felony prostitution vary in the states that have such laws, with maximum sentences of typically 10 to 15 years in prison. An episode of \"COPS\" which aired in the early 1990s detailed the impact of HIV/AIDS among prostitutes; this episode contributed to HIV/AIDS awareness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57379245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57379245", "title": "Incel", "text": "Incel\n\nIncels (a portmanteau of involuntary celibates) are members of an online subculture who define themselves as unable to find a romantic or sexual partner despite desiring one, a state they describe as \"inceldom\". Self-identified incels are mostly white, male, and heterosexual. Discussions in incel forums are often characterized by resentment, misanthropy, self-pity, self-loathing, misogyny, racism, a sense of entitlement to sex, and the endorsement of violence against sexually active people. The Southern Poverty Law Center described the subculture as \"part of the online male supremacist ecosystem\" that is included in their list of hate groups. At least four mass murders, resulting in 45 deaths, have been committed in North America by people who have either self-identified as incels or who had mentioned incel-related names and writings in their private writings or Internet postings. Incel communities have been criticized by the media and researchers for being misogynist, encouraging violence, as well as spreading extremist views and radicalizing their members.\n\nThe first online community to use the term \"incel\" was started in 1993 when a Canadian college student known only by her first name, Alana, created a website in order to discuss her sexual inactivity with others. The website, titled \"Alana's Involuntary Celibacy Project\", was used by people of all genders to share their thoughts and experiences. In 1997, she started a mailing list on the topic that used the abbreviation INVCEL, which was later shortened to \"incel\", where it was defined as \"anybody of any gender who was lonely, had never had sex or who hadn't had a relationship in a long time\". During her college career and after, she realized she was queer, and became more comfortable with her identity. She later gave the site to a stranger. When speaking about the website in 2018, Alana said, \"It definitely wasn't a bunch of guys blaming women for their problems. That's a pretty sad version of this phenomenon that's happening today. Things have changed in the last 20 years.\"\n\nThe message board love-shy.com was founded in 2003 as a place for people who were perpetually rejected or extremely shy of potential partners to discuss their situations.\n\nThe /r/incels subreddit, a forum on the website Reddit, became a particularly active incel community. The subreddit was known as a place where men blamed women for their involuntary celibacy, sometimes advocated for rape or other violence, and were misogynistic and often racist. One post titled \"general question about how rapists get caught\" was asked by a member pretending to be a woman, saying they wanted to know how a woman who was drugged and raped would begin finding her rapist.\n\nWhen Alana read about the 2014 Isla Vista killings, and the way parts of the incel subculture glorified the perpetrator, Elliot Rodger, she wrote, \"Like a scientist who invented something that ended up being a weapon of war, I can't uninvent this word, nor restrict it to the nicer people who need it.\" Alana expressed regret at the change in usage from her original intent of creating an \"inclusive community\" for men and women who were sexually deprived due to social awkwardness, marginalization, or mental illness. She has since started a new project, \"Love Not Anger\", which she describes as \"a project to research how lonely people might find respectful love, instead of being stuck in anger\".\n\nOn October 25, 2017, Reddit announced a new policy that would ban \"content that encourages, glorifies, incites, or calls for violence or physical harm against an individual or a group of people\". and banned the /r/incels subreddit on November 7, 2017, under its purview. At the time of the ban, the community had around 40,000 members. \n\nIncels came to wider public notice with the banning of the subreddit and when a series of mass murders were committed by men who either self-identified as involuntarily celibate or shared similar ideologies. However the incel community continued to inhabit Reddit. Increased interest in incel communities has been attributed to the feeling of \"aggrieved entitlement\" by some men, who feel they are being denied rights they deserve and blame women instead of society's expectation of masculinity.\n\nIncel communities have increasingly become more extremist and focused on violence, in recent years. This has been attributed to various factors, including influence from overlapping online hate groups and the rise of the alt-right and white supremacist groups. The misogynistic and sometimes violent rhetoric of some members of incel communities has led to numerous bans from websites and webhosts. Incel communities continue to exist on more lenient platforms, such as Voat, 4chan, and Reddit. There are also incel forums that disapprove of hatred, and a dating website that caters to incels.\n\nMany incel communities are characterized by resentment, self-pity, misogyny, misanthropy, narcissism, and racism. Discussions often revolve around the belief that men are owed sex; other common topics include idleness, loneliness, unhappiness, suicide, sexual surrogates, prostitutes and the acquirement of sex robots, as well as various attributes they believe increase one's desirability as a partner such as income or personality. Some endorse suicide among incels, violence against sexually active women and more sexually successful men, harassment of women, and catfishing women. In some communities, it is common for posts to glorify violence by self-identified incels such as Elliot Rodger (2014 Isla Vista killings) and Alek Minassian (2018 Toronto van attack, suspected), as well as by those they believe shared their ideology such as Marc Lépine (1989 École Polytechnique massacre), Seung-Hui Cho (2007 Virginia Tech shooting), and George Sodini (2009 Collier Township shooting).\n\nMany incels firmly defend concepts such as biological determinism and evolutionary psychology. Other concepts that incels may believe in include female hypergamy, the \"80/20 rule\" (an application of the Pareto principle) which suggests that 80% of women desire the top 20% of most attractive men; and among non-whites, the \"JBW\" theory, which stands for \"Just Be White\", suggesting that Caucasians face the fewest obstacles when dating. Incels also believe that single people seeking a partner participate in a cruel, mercenary, and Darwinian sexual selection wherein incels are genetically unfit and where women hold an advantage for reasons ranging from feminism to the use of cosmetics. Incels may attribute their lack of sexual success to factors such as shyness, sex-segregated work environments, negative body image, penis size, or their physical appearance, and commonly believe that the only thing more important than looks in improving a man's eligibility as a prospective partner is wealth. Some members of incel communities support the idea of \"forced 'sexual redistribution, where governments would require women to engage in certain sexual relationships, an idea which incels refer to as \"sexual Marxism\" and which others have described as \"state-sanctioned rape\". Some incels support the works of fringe social psychologist Brian Gilmartin, author of the book \"Shyness and Love\" which gained popularity among incel communities, and clinical psychologist Jordan Peterson.\n\nIncel communities are a part of the broader manosphere. According to \"The New York Times\", involuntary celibacy is an adaptation of the idea of \"male supremacy\". The Southern Poverty Law Center described the subculture as \"part of the online male supremacist ecosystem\", which they began including in their list of hate groups in 2018. \"The New York Times\" wrote that \"the group has evolved into a male supremacist movement made up of people—some celibate, some not—who believe that women should be treated as sexual objects with few rights\". Incel communities sometimes overlap with topics such as Men Going Their Own Way (MGTOW), men's rights activism, vlogs by people who believe they are experiencing \"true forced loneliness\" (TFL), and pickup artistry, although at least one male incel website has expressed hatred for pickup artistry and accuses pickup artists and dating coaches of financially exploiting incels.\n\nThe black pill is a set of beliefs that are commonly held amongst members of incel communities, such as biological determinism, fatalism and defeatism for unattractive people. Someone who believes in the black pill is \"blackpilled\".\n\nThe concept of the black pill distinguishes incels from the men's rights movement and their popular reference to the red pill, an allusion to the dilemma in the movie \"The Matrix\" where the protagonist must choose to remain in a world of illusion (taking the blue pill) or to see the world as it really is (taking the red pill). In the context of men's rights activism, \"taking the red pill\" means seeing a world where women hold power over men. The black pill, on the other hand, refers to hopelessness. It also holds that one's personality is not very important.\n\nThe term \"black pill\" was first popularized on the blog Omega Virgin Revolt, where the term commended despondency in order to distinguish incels from the pickup artist communities. On the incel subreddit /r/braincels, \"blackpills\" are memes (usually images) that users share to describe a user's thoughts, many of which criticize women as egocentric, cruel, and shallow. Although the tone of the subreddit is similar, moderators of the forum say that they do not endorse, support, or glorify violence or violent people, a distinction they make from the subject matter of its /r/incels predecessor that resulted in it being banned from Reddit.\n\nThe term \"involuntary celibate\" (shortened to \"incel\") refers to self-identifying members of an online subculture based around the inability to find a romantic or sexual partner despite desiring one, a state they describe as \"inceldom\" or \"incelibacy\". It is sometimes used interchangeably or alongside other terms, such as \"love-shy\" (describing those with social anxiety or excessive shyness preventing romantic success), \"FA\" (short for \"forever alone\"), \"unfuckability\", \"omegas\", \"zeta males\", \"betas\" \"the undersexed\", or \"the sexless\". Alana, the coiner of the term incel, initially considered using other terms such as \"perpetually single\" or \"dating shy\".\n\nMembers of incel communities regularly use jargon and a distinct dialect to refer to various concepts. For example, they may describe women as \"femoids\", \"stacys\" (attractive sexually active women), or \"beckys\" (less attractive sexually active women), and sexually active men as \"chads\". \"Mogging\" refers to the act of eclipsing another person in terms of physical appearance and thereby undermining them. \"Looksmaxing\" is an attempt at enhancing one's appearance by methods including dressing nicely, going to the gym, or undergoing plastic surgery. The abbreviation \"NEET\" refers to people who don't have jobs and aren't attending school: \"not in education, employment, or training\".\n\nMembers of incel communities use many variations of the term \"incel\" to refer to subgroups in the community, such as \"volcels\" (voluntary celibate; someone who chooses to forego sexual intercourse), \"marcels\" (married), \"nearcels\" (those who are considered nearly incel), \"hicels\" (those who have high standards; are very picky when dating), \"heightcels\" (short), and \"fakecels\" (those who claim to be incel, but in reality have recently had sex or been in a relationship). There are also a number of race-based variations of the term \"incel\" which refer to people who believe their race is the reason behind their inability to find a partner, including \"currycels\" (people of South Asian ancestry) and \"ricecels\" (those of Chinese or Southeast Asian backgrounds), or collectively, \"ethnicels\".\n\nSelf-identified incels are mostly white, male and heterosexual, and are often described as young and friendless introverts. Some media outlets depict them as unemployed and living with parents. However, due to their varied nature, there is no singular typical trait that defines all incels. Although members of incel communities mainly reside in the United States, there are also incel communities for people outside the Anglosphere, such as the Italian website Il Forum dei Brutti.\n\nThe first incel website, Alana's Involuntary Celibacy Project, was gender-inclusive. There are also women-specific forums, such as /r/Femcels and /r/ForeverAloneWomen. Nonetheless, there is disagreement in online incel communities on whether women can be incel, with some claiming that male incels outnumber female incels, others claiming that it is impossible for women to be incel, others claiming that only women with a physical deformity can be incel, while others argue that only highly unattractive women belonging to the \"bottom percentile in terms of appearance\" can be incel.\n\nEstimates on the size of incel communities vary, and range from the thousands, to tens of thousands, or hundreds of thousands.\n\nThe incel subculture includes people who are in sexless marriages (or other sexless relationships) but who wish to be sexually active. It is considered to be distinct from asexuality and from voluntary sexual abstinence.\n\n\"Involuntary celibacy\" is not a medical or psychological condition. Some people who identify as incel suffer from physical disabilities or psychological disorders such as depression, autism spectrum disorder, and body dysmorphic disorder. Some visitors of incel forums attribute their inability to find a partner to physical or mental ailments, some others attribute it to extreme introversion. Many incels engage in self-diagnosis of mental health issues, and members of incel communities often discourage posters who post about mental illness from seeing therapists or otherwise seeking treatment. Some incels with severe depression are also suicidal, and some members of incel communities encourage suicidal members to commit suicide, sometimes recommending they commit acts of mass violence before doing so.\n\nSome mass murders and other violent attacks in North America have been committed or are suspected to have been committed by men who have self-identified as involuntarily celibate, or whose statements align with incel ideologies.\n\nOn May 23, 2014, Elliot Rodger killed six people and injured fourteen others before killing himself in Isla Vista, California, near the campus of University of California, Santa Barbara. These killings drew media attention to the concept of involuntary celibacy, and particularly the misogyny and glorification of violence that are a mainstay of many incel communities. Rodger self-identified as an incel and left behind a 137-page manifesto and YouTube videos detailing his involuntary celibacy and discussing how he wanted revenge for being rejected by women. He had been an active member of an involuntary celibacy community called PUAHate (short for \"pickup artist hate\"), and referenced it several times in his manifesto. Although PUAHate shut down soon after the attack, Rodger became something of a martyr to some communities that remained, and to some of those that began later. He has been referenced by the perpetrators or suspected perpetrators of several other mass killings.\n\nRodger is among several attackers who are regularly praised by members of incel communities. The perpetrator of the 2009 Collier Township shooting, George Sodini, has been embraced by some of these communities. After the 2017 Las Vegas shooting by Stephen Paddock (a man with unclear motive), some of the involuntarily celibate community celebrated the shooter, who they felt was a hero who was targeting \"normies\". The trend has since continued—after the 2018 Toronto van attack, a poster on a website created to supersede /r/incels wrote about suspected perpetrator Alek Minassian, \"I hope this guy wrote a manifesto because he could be our next new saint.\" After the 2018 Danforth shooting, posters on an incel message board expressed excitement with the possibility that the perpetrator might be an incel, although no motive has been identified.\n\nOn October 1, 2015, Chris Harper-Mercer killed nine people and injured eight others before killing himself in a shooting at the Umpqua Community College campus in Roseburg, Oregon. He left a manifesto at the scene, outlining his interest in other mass murders including the Isla Vista killings, anger at not having a girlfriend, and animus towards the world. In his journal writings, he had related with Elliot Rodger and other mass shooters, describing them as \"people who stand with the gods\". Before the attack, when someone on an online message board had speculated he was \"saving himself for someone special\", Harper-Mercer had replied: \"Involuntarily so.\" Several hours before the shooting, someone suspected to be Harper-Mercer posted a threat to a Pacific Northwest college to /r9k/, a 4chan board with many involuntarily celibate posters.\n\nOn July 31, 2016, Sheldon Bentley robbed and killed an unconscious man in an alleyway in Edmonton, Alberta. During his trial, Bentley said he killed the man by stomping on his abdomen because he was frustrated with stress from his job as a security guard and with being involuntarily celibate for four years.\n\nOn December 7, 2017, William Atchison killed two people before killing himself in Aztec, New Mexico, in a shooting at Aztec High School, where he had previously been a student. He had used the pseudonym \"Elliot Rodger\" on several online forums, and praised \"the supreme gentleman\" (a term Rodger had used to describe himself, which has since been adopted as a moniker by incel communities).\n\nOn February 14, 2018, Nikolas Cruz killed seventeen people and injured seventeen others in a shooting at Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida before being arrested. Cruz had previously posted online that \"Elliot Rodger will not be forgotten\".\n\nOn April 23, 2018, a van driver (suspected to be Alek Minassian) killed ten people and injured fourteen others in a vehicle-ramming attack in Toronto, Ontario before being arrested. Shortly before the attack, Minassian had posted on Facebook that \"the Incel Rebellion has already begun\" and applauded Elliot Rodger. The term \"Incel Rebellion\" is sometimes used interchangeably with the term \"Beta Uprising\", which refers to a violent response to incels' perceived sexual deprivation.\n\nOn November 2, 2018, Scott Beierle killed two women and injured four women and a man before killing himself in a shooting at the Hot Yoga Tallahassee studio in Tallahassee, Florida. He had a history of arrests for grabbing women's buttocks, and in 2014 he posted several YouTube videos of himself espousing extreme hatred for women. He expressed anger over not having a girlfriend, mentioning Elliot Rodger in one video. In the months leading up to the shooting, he posted numerous misogynistic, racist, violent, and homophobic songs to SoundCloud.\n\nIncel communities have been widely criticized in the media and by researchers as violent, misogynist, and extremist. Keegan Hankes, a senior research analyst working for the Southern Poverty Law Center, has cautioned that exposure to violent content on incel forums \"play[s] a very large role\" in the radicalization of incels, and describes violent posts on the forums as \"more ... than I'm used to seeing on even white supremacist sites\". Journalist David Futrelle has described incel communities as \"violently misogynistic\", and is among critics who attribute worsening violent rhetoric on incel forums to the growth of the alt-right and white supremacy, and the overlap between incel communities and online hate groups. Senior research fellow at the Institute for Strategic Dialogue (ISD), Amarnath Amarasingam, has criticized some incel communities where calls for violence are commonplace, saying \"under the right set of psychological and personal circumstances, these kinds of forums can be dangerous and push people into violence\". Another researcher at the ISD, Jacob Davey, compared the radicalization of incels in incel forums to teenagers being urged to go to extreme measures on online forums that promote anorexia and other eating disorders and to online campaigns convincing people to join ISIL. Speaking about incels' feelings of entitlement to sex, Davey said the attitude \"can go as far as the justification of rape\". University of Portsmouth lecturer Lisa Sugiura has described incel forums as a \"networked misogyny\", and urged the posts in such forums be taken seriously not only in the context of hate speech but also as a form of grooming that could radicalize \"impressionable and vulnerable disillusioned young men\".\n\nCriticism has also been directed against platforms that host or have hosted incel content, including Reddit (who banned the /r/incels community in 2017 but has declined to ban another incel subreddit) and Twitter. Cloudflare, which provides services including DDoS protection and caching so that webpages are still accessible when a site is offline, has also been criticized for protecting incel websites against downtime even when webhosts have terminated service.\n\nReporting on incels by media outlets following the incel-related attacks during the 2010s has been criticized for its \"breathless\" coverage, normalizing incel communities by describing them as \"sexually frustrated\", and directing readers to incel communities. Some reporting has also been criticized for victim blaming by implying that women and peers who rejected the attackers held some responsibility for provoking the attacks, or for giving attackers notoriety by reporting on them at length.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1358313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1358313", "title": "Index of sociology articles", "text": "Index of sociology articles\n\nThis is an index of sociology articles. For a shorter list, see List of basic sociology topics.\n\nabsolute poverty — achieved status — acute disease — adaptation — Adultism — affect control theory — affirmative action — affluent alienation — age grade — age structure — aging in place — ageism — agency — AGIL Paradigm — aggregate — ageism — agrarian society — agribusiness — AIDS — air pollution — alcoholism — alienation — alien land law — alternative society — altruism — alzheimer's disease — Amae — amalgamation — Americanization — Anabaptist — anarchy — androgyny — animal abuse — animism — anomia — anomie — anthropology — antisemitism — apartheid — apollonian — applied science — approach — appropriate technology — The Archaeology of Knowledge — arms race — arms trade — arranged marriage — asceticism — Asch conformity experiments — ascribed status — assimilation — assisted living — attribution theory — autarky — authentic act — authoritarian personality — authoritarianism — authority — autocracy — automation — avant-garde — abortion\n\nbaby boomer — — balance of power — base and superstructure — The Bell Curve — belonging — berdache — biological determinism — bioethics — biosocial theory — Black Power — Black Panther Party — blended family — boomerang generation — bourgeoisie — brainwashing — bricolage — bureaucracy — bureaucratic collectivism — bureaucratization — bystander effect\n\ncapitalism — capitalists — carrying capacity — cash crop — caste — caste system — Catholic Worker — Catholicism — causation — cause marketing — charismatic movement — CBD — Chicago Area Project — Chicago school — Chicano — child labor — chronic disease — church — citizen — citizenship — civil disorder — civil inattention — civil religion — civil rights — civil society — clan — class — class conflict — class consciousness — class structure — classism — cognition — cohabitation — cold war — collective action — collective behavior — collective consciousness —collective punishment — collective representation — collective violence — colonialism — commodity — commodity chain — commodity fetishism — communal riot — communication — communism — community — community care — comparable worth — comparative sociology — complex society — computational sociology — conflict theory — conformity — conglomerates — conscience collective — consciousness — consensus — consensus decision-making — consumerism — content analysis — contingent work — contradiction — conversation analysis — core countries — corporation — correlation — corruption – Counterculture — counter-revolutionary — coup d'état — created environment — creole language — crime — critical theory — crowd psychology — crude birth rate — crude death rate — cult — cultural capital — cultural deprivation — cultural imperialism — cultural lag — cultural materialism — cultural pluralism — cultural relativism — cultural reproduction — cultural system — cultural transmission — cultural universal — culture — culture of poverty — curative medicine\n\nDarwinism — death — debt bondage — deconstruction — defensive medicine — deforestation — deinstitutionalisation — democracy — demographic transition — demography — dependency theory — dependent variable — depletion — desertification — deskilling — destratification — deterrence theory — devaluation — developmental state — deviance — deviance amplification — deviant subculture — dialectic — diaspora — differential association — differentiation — diffusion — dionysian — discourse — discrimination — division of labour — division of labour — domestic worker — domestic violence — double standard — doubling time — dramaturgical perspective — Disneyfication — dyad — dysfunction — dystopia\n\necologism — ecology — economic determinism — ecological modernization — economic interdependence — economies of scale — economy — ecosystem — education — education system — egalitarianism — elder abuse — elite — embourgeoisement thesis — emigration — empirical studies — encounter — endogamy — entrepreneur — entropy — environmentalism — environmental sociology — epistemology — estate — ethnic group — ethnic minority — ethnicity — ethnocentrism — ethnography — ethnomethodology — ethnostatistics - eutrophication — evolution — evolutionary sociology — evolutionism — exclusivist — existentialism — exogamy — experiment — exponential growth — export-processing zone — extended family —\n\nfalse consciousness — family — fascism — fecundity — feedback — femininity — feminism — Ferdinand Tönnies Society — fertility — fetishism — feudalism — First World — flextime plan — forces of production — Fordism — forms of activity and interpersonal relations — functionalism — functions — fundamentalism — futures studies – futurist — futurist — futurology —\n\ngang — GDP — gemeinschaft — Gemeinschaft and Gesellschaft – gender — gendered division of labour — gendering — genealogy of power/knowledge — generalized other — generalized other — genetic engineering — genocide — gentrification — geopolitics — German Society for Sociology — gesellschaft — gestalt psychology — ghetto — globalization — glocalisation — GNP — government — Great Depression — group action — group behaviour — group dynamics — The Great Transformation — Green Revolution — greenhouse effect — gross domestic product — gross national product — guerrilla movement —\n\nhabitus — health maintenance organization — hegemony — heterophobia — heterosexuality — hidden curriculum — higher circles — higher education — Hispanic – historical materialism — historical sociology — holocaust — homelessness — homophobia — homosexuality — house work — hunter-gatherer — human ecology — hybridity — hyperreality — hypothesis – honour killing\n\n'I' and the 'me' — iatrogenesis — ideal type — identity — identity politics — ideology — imagined communities — immigration — imperialism — ingroup — income — independent variable — industrial democracy — industrial production — industrial society — industrial sociology — industrialisation — industrialization of war — infant mortality— informal economy — information technology —infrastructure — inner city — instinct — institution — institutional discrimination — institutional racism — insurgency — intelligence — intelligence quotient — intelligentsia — intentional community — interaction — interest group — intergenerational mobility — internal colonialism — international division of labor — interpersonal violence — interpretive\n\nJapanization — Jim Crow laws — jingoism — Judaism — justice, distributive — juvenile delinquency —\n\nkin selection — kinship — kindness\n\nlabeling theory — labour power — laissez-faire — late modernity — Latino/a – latent function — law — legitimacy — legitimation crisis — Leipzig school — lesbianism — liberal democracy — life-course — life-cycle — life expectancy — lifeworld — limited war — literacy — local knowledge — longevity — longitudinal study — looking-glass self — love — luddism — luddite — lumpenproletariat —\n\nmacrosociology — malthusianism — managed care —managerial class — manifest function — marginalization — marriage — Marxism — masculinity — mass action — mass media — mass society — master status — materialism — matriarchy — matrilineality — matrilocal residence — McDonaldization — mean — means of production — mechanical solidarity — mechanization — median — medicaid — medical gaze — medical model — medicalization — medicare — megalopolis — mental disorder —mercantilism — medical sociology — meritocracy — metanarrative — methodology — microsociology — middle class — militarism — military-industrial complex — millenarianism — minority group — mixed economy — mode — mode of production — mode of reproduction — modernity — modernization — monogamy — monopoly — monotheism — moral panic — mores — mortality rate — multiculturalism — multilineal evolution — multinational corporation — murder\n\nnation state — nationalism — nature — neocolonialism — neoliberalism — neo-locality — new international division of labour — non-state actor — non-tariff barriers to trade — norm — normal type — normlessness — nuclear family\n\nobjectivity — oligarchy — oligopoly — ontological security — ontology — organic solidarity — organization — organizational behavior — organizational studies — organized crime\n\nparadigm — participant observation — participatory democracy — pastoral society — patient dumping — patriarchal — patriarchy — patrilineality — peasant — peer group — periphery countries — phenomenology — Physician Assistant — plea bargaining — pluralism — pluralist theory — police brutality — political economy — political party — politics — pollution — polyandry — polyarchy — polygamy — polygyny — polylogism — polytheism — popular culture — positivism — post-Fordism — post-structuralism — post-industrial society — postmodernism — postmodernity — poverty — power — power elite — powerlessness — pragmatism — on pragmatic sociology, for now, see: George Herbert Mead — prejudice — primary deviance — Primary and secondary groups — primary labor market — primary sector — private health care — privatism — profanity — professionalism — profession — proletariat — prostitution — proto-globalization — psychopathy — psychosis — public order crime — public health — public sphere — purchasing power parity —\n\nqualitative research — quantitative research\n\nrace — racism — radical — rape — rationalisation process — rationality — rationalization — realism — rebellion — recidivism — reciprocity — reductionism — reflexive — reflexivity — reform movement — reify — relations of production — relative deprivation — relative poverty — relativism — religion — representative democracy — research methods — reserve army of labour — resocialization — retirement home — revolution — riot — risk — rite of passage — ritual — role — role conflict — rural sociology — ruling class — ruling elite\n\nsacred — sampling — sampling frame — sanction — Sapir–Whorf hypothesis — scapegoating — schizophrenia — science — Second World — secondary data — secondary deviance — secondary group — secondary labor market — sect — secularization — self — self-consciousness — semi-periphery countries — semiotics — serial monogamy — serial reciprocity — sex — sex role — sexism — sexual harassment — sexual script — sick role — significant other — simulation — snowball sampling — for entries beginning with social, see sections below — socialism — socialization — society — sociobiology — sociocultural context — sociocultural evolution — for entries beginning with sociological, see sections below — sociology — for entries beginning with sociology of, see sections below — solid waste — solidarity — sovereignty — split labor market theory — standing army — state (polity) — stateless nation — status — status group — status inconsistency — status offense — stem cell — stepfamily — stereotype — stigma — stigmatise — Strategic Defense Initiative — stratification — strike — structural unemployment — structuration — structure — subculture — suburbanization — surplus value — surveillance — survey — symbol — Symbolic Convergence Theory — symbolic interactionism — symbolic system — systems theory\n\nsociology books — sociological framework — sociological imagination — sociological naturalism — sociological paradigm — sociological perspective — sociological positivism — sociological theory\n\nsociology of aging — sociology of architecture — sociology of art — sociology of the body — sociology of childhood — sociology of conflict — sociology of deviance — sociology of disaster — sociology of education — sociology of emotions — sociology of the family — sociology of fatherhood — sociology of film — sociology of food — sociology of gender — sociology of government — sociology of health and illness — sociology of the history of science — sociology of immigration — sociology of knowledge — sociology of language — sociology of law — sociology of leisure — sociology of markets — sociology of medicine — sociology of the military — sociology of music — sociology of politics — sociology of punishment — sociology of race — sociology of religion — sociology of science and technology — sociology of sport — sociology of terrorism — sociology of work-sociology of motherhood\n\ntaboo — Scientific management — Taylorization — technology — terrorism — tertiary sector of economic activity — the Enlightenment — the Renaissance — theoretical approach — theory — Third World — total institution — total war — totalitarianism — totemism — totem — trading network — traditional state — transnational company — transsexualism — trust — temperament\n\nunconscious — underclass — underdevelopment — unemployment — unilineal evolution — unintended consequences — unions — universal health care — upper class — urban ecology — urban renewal — urbanism — urbanization — urban sociology\n\nvalue — value-added theory — verstehen — vertical mobility — Vested interest (communication theory) — victimless crime — violence — visual sociology\n\nwealth – wealthfare – welfare – welfare state – whisper campaign – white-collar crime – white flight – white guilt – white privilege – women's liberation movement – work – working class – world-systems theory –\n\nxenophobia — xenocentrism\n\nyouth, youth subculture, youth welfare\n\nzero population growth\n\"Please help the Wikipedia by adding relevant articles to this list. Articles marked red are yet to be created.\"\n"}
{"id": "1467021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1467021", "title": "Inside Deep Throat", "text": "Inside Deep Throat\n\nInside Deep Throat is a 2005 American documentary film about the 1972 pornographic film \"Deep Throat\", at the forefront of the Golden Age of Porn, and its effects on American society. \n\nThe film discusses how \"Deep Throat\" was distributed to theaters. Prints would be hand-delivered and employees would count heads of moviegoers and then collect the cash profits from the theaters. This process was known as sending \"checkers and sweepers\".\n\nIt features scenes from the film, news of the time and interviews, both from archive and purpose-made, with director Gerard Damiano, actor Harry Reems, actress Linda Lovelace, Gore Vidal, Larry Flynt, Hugh Hefner, John Waters, Erica Jong, a prosecutor, Reems' defense, Mafia money collectors, and other people involved or just commenting on the film. Much of the material was compiled from approximately 800 hours of interview and archive footage collected by the filmmakers.\n\n\n\nNarrated by Dennis Hopper, the documentary was written, produced, and directed by Fenton Bailey and Randy Barbato, and produced by Brian Grazer. It is a production of Imagine Entertainment, HBO Documentary Films, and World of Wonder, and distributed by Universal Pictures.\n\n\"Inside Deep Throat\" was rated NC-17 by the Motion Picture Association of America for explicit sexual content; specifically, explicit excerpts from the original film. It was the first film rated NC-17 to be released by Universal since \"Henry & June\" in 1990, which was the first film to receive the NC-17 rating. \n\nAn edited version received an R rating for \"strong sexuality including graphic images, nudity and dialogue\". In addition, Arrow Productions edited the original, pornographic version of \"Deep Throat\" to get an \"R\" rating, and also submitted the original for reclassification. Both reedited films were released theatrically in 2005 in a double-bill.\n\n"}
{"id": "42172529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42172529", "title": "Institutional analysis and development framework", "text": "Institutional analysis and development framework\n\nThe Institutional Analysis and Development framework (IAD) was developed by Elinor Ostrom, an American political scientist, also known as the first woman to receive the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 2009. The IAD relates a set of concepts to help in the analysis of collective action problems that involve social structures, positions, and rules. Under the rational choice models, the IAD was devised in an attempt to \"explain and predict\" outcomes by formalising the structures, positions, and rules involved in collective choice problems. Thus, it can be seen as a systematic method to collect policy analysis functions similar to analytic technique commonly used in physical and social sciences and understand how institution operate and change over a period of time. \n\nOstrom thought of the IAD as a \"multi-level conceptual map\" with which one could zoom in and out of particular hierarchical parts of the regularised interactions in an established social system. The IAD framework helps to perceive complex collective action problems by dividing them into 'action arenas', that are smaller pieces of practically understandable function. The analyst assumes that the structure of the action situation is fixed in the short-term. For an action situation to exist, there must be \"actors in positions\" (the number of possible roles that are available in this recurring interaction situation). Actors have choices within the existing (rule) structure. In the study of outcomes from collective choice situations, actors are influenced by the institutional arrangements, the socio-economic conditions, and the physical environment. The institutional arrangements can be studied by seven rule types (as per below).\n"}
{"id": "4561436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4561436", "title": "Internal mail", "text": "Internal mail\n\nIn a large organisation with many employees, there is frequently an internal mail system. The post room sorts the incoming mail and the 'mailboy' takes it around on a trolly to the various pigeon-holes and direct to the desks of important people.\n\nThis is the name of the department or the room where mail is sorted internally within a large organisation. Mailroom is used primarily by US companies and Post room by UK companies and organisations (e.g. hospitals and universities.)\n\nThis is where goods as opposed to letters are delivered to and distributed from. Small packets and letters in bulk (e.g. mailsacks) would be sent on to the mailroom. Goods are often heavy and bulky and may require specialist handling (e.g. fragile), lifting equipment (forklifts for pallets) and transportation devices (sacktrucks, motorised trollies, vans and flatbeds) and are therefore rarely handled by the mailroom.\n\nThis is the name for mail which is sent and received between employees and departments. Internal mail will often use a special envelope which can be reused. It is common for them to have many address boxes that are used in order. The most recent box is the current delivery address.\n\n\nThis is the name used to describe mail which comes from or is going to another organisation.\n\n\n\nThis is the departmental system of mail delivery for employees that don't have a desk.\n\nThis is where mail is delivered to or received from when an employee has a desk. Each desk has a minimum of three letter trays labelled, in, out and pending. The in tray is where mail is received. The out tray is mail that is waiting to be collected. The pending tray is for documents that cannot be worked on at present because input from another person is required, or the requests are low priority. Sometimes additional trays are used for post, filing, dictation, etc. according to the needs of the individual or organisation.\n\nThis person usually works independently and is responsible for a company's incoming and outgoing mail. They are in charge of the mailroom and all of the employees that work there.\n\nA person who works in a mailroom is known as a mailroom clerk, mailroom operator or post room operator. A mailroom clerk deals with the preparation of packaged goods, letters, and other mail for shipping by the local post office or by an independent shipping service. A mailroom clerk's job may be with a private firm, government agency, non-profit group, or a military operation. In some small companies, the pigeonholes are in the reception area so the receptionist may take on this role.\n\nMailboy is the traditional name for the mailroom clerk who collects and delivers mail within a large organisation. A 'mailboy', delivers mail for other employees in different departments using a mail cart or a trolley often sorting as he goes using the pouches or wallets that are part of the trolley. It is typically the most junior of roles and many employees start here so they can get a feel for the entire organisation, get to know everyone rapidly, and then to decide where in an organisation they would like to train for and work within. In the modern workplace it is a role suitable for people with learning difficulties and helps an organisation meet legislative quotas. A trolly with many slots is frequently used so that sorting can take place while the trolly does its rounds thereby reducing the amount of mail that has to be sorted in the mailroom.\n\nBring Me the Head of Willy the Mailboy! is the title of a Dilbert book and contains a great deal of humour about modern office life through the eyes of a computer engineer.\n\nSome companies use an automated system to assist with mail. Tracks which loop around the building carry the mail between the mailroom and the departmental mailrooms or reception areas The mail and small packets are placed on \"trucks\" or \"trollies\" which are programmed with the destination \n\n"}
{"id": "6479206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6479206", "title": "Lateral communication", "text": "Lateral communication\n\nLateral communication is \"the exchange, imparting or sharing of information, ideas or feelings between people within a community, peer groups, departments or units of an organization who are at or about the same hierarchical level as each other for the purpose of coordinating activities, efforts or fulfilling a common purpose or goal\".\n\nLateral communication in organisms or animals can give rise to collective intelligence, or the appearance of collective intelligence. Examples of lateral communication in organisms include:\n\n\nCommunities communicate and store collective knowledge through lateral communication and is an essential ingredient in making hierarchies work, by compensating for errors in vertical information flows.\n\nIn an organization, lateral communication is communication between different individuals/departments at the same organizational level.\n\nThe term lateral communication can be used interchangeably with horizontal communication. In his text entitled \"Organizational Communication\", Michael J. Papa defines horizontal communication as \"the flow of messages across functional areas at a given level of an organization\". People at the same level \"communicate directly without going through several levels of organization\". Given this elasticity, members of an organization have an easier time with \"problem-solving, information sharing across different work groups, and task coordination between departments or project teams\". The use of lateral or horizontal communication in the workplace \"can also enhance morale and afford a means of resolving conflicts.\n\nOther research asserted, \"lateral communication involves not only the movement of information from the upper levels to the lower levels of the organizational hierarchy but also is defined primarily as the quality of information sharing among peers at similar levels. Specifically, lateral communication occurs among coworkers, during staff meetings and informational presentations, throughout shift changes, and among employees regardless of peer types. In short, lateral communication's purpose is to keep organizational personnel informed of all current practices, policies, and procedures\".\n\n\"Communicating effectively laterally involves the exchange of information between and among all organizational members. While we may perceive that organizational information flows vertically or from top to bottom, in reality, information moves laterally. In other words, as information directives are communicated from an upper to a lower position on the hierarchy, peers at each hierarchical level should quickly interpret and communicate these directives between and among peers at similar hierarchical levels. Thus, it is critical for an organization to understand its structure and culture, which are the two major determinants of the quality of lateral communication.\".\n\n\n\n\"Organizational culture refers to the organization's shared visions, values, beliefs, goals, and practices (Gilsdorf, 1998). Deals and Kennedy (1982) have connected culture with effective communication. Strong cultures and effective communication result in employees who are more productive because they know exactly what is expected of them in organizational settings. Gilsdorf (1998) has implied that the more employees perceive a positive or strong organizational culture, the more productive they will be. Poole (1985) has contended that an organization's quality of communication is summed-up in its culture. In many cases, a strong positive organizational culture or climate can encourage employees to communicate effectively laterally when sharing achievements and disappointments. Thus, as Comer (1991) has asserted, managers should actively encourage employees to communicate effectively laterally with their peers. In sum, lateral communication allows for a spirit of collaboration and teamwork by empowering employees at every level of the organizational hierarchy to work effectively together (see, for example, Thamara, 2000)\".\n\nAlthough laterl communication can be effective, according to Papa, \"horizontal communication problems occur because of territoriality, rivalry, specialization, and simple lack of motivation.\" In addition to these problems and in general, \"organizations that traditionally have functioned under rigid authority structures with fixed lines of communication may find that the values and expectations that members have acquired under such systems inhibit attempts at horizontal communication.\" \n\nOther problems with this form of communication can happen between multinational corporations. \"Horizontal communication between subsidiaries of the same multinational corporation (MNC) is a problem faced by staff as the demands for communicating across borders are pushed downwards in the organizational hierarchy.\".\n\nTerritoriality often occurs when members of an organization \"control task-related activity within a defined and fixed jurisdictional area\" and as a result \"regard others' involvement in that area as territorial encroachment.\" \"Departments value their turf and strive to protect it. This problem may be compounded by interdepartmental rivalries that arise from win/lose the competition for rewards and resources\"\n\nRivalry within organizations occurs for example when different groups at a given organization level fail to cooperate. For example, Papa gives an example of \"corporate executives in a national department store chain\" who \"encountered territorial rivalry when they discovered that local stores within each of the company's major sales districts refused to cooperate with one another on sales promotions\". \"Stores within the same sales region literally were in competition with one another as well as with other department store chains\" \n\nSpecialization can inhibit communication when organizations do not have uniformity within departments. Specialization can occur within procedures or jargon used by different departments. For example, when \"different specialties use the same terms in different ways\", this can create confusion and miscommunication. When this occurs organizations have trouble functioning properly and do not run smoothly.\n\n\"Horizontal communication often fails simply because organization members are unwilling to expend the additional effort that it requires.\" \"Horizontal communication may require contact with people in units that are well removed from our own. The channels and rules of interaction may be unclear. We do not really know these people. The need to communicate with them makes us uneasy or takes too much time, so we avoid or ignore it\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7733852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7733852", "title": "Laura Smith Haviland", "text": "Laura Smith Haviland\n\nLaura Smith Haviland (December 20, 1808- April 20, 1898) was an American abolitionist, suffragette, and social reformer. She was an important figure in the history of the Underground Railroad.\n\nLaura Smith Haviland was born on December 20, 1808, in Kitley Township, Ontario, Canada to American parents, Daniel Smith and Asenath \"Sene\" Blancher, who had immigrated shortly before her birth. Haviland wrote that Daniel was \"a man of ability and influence, of clear perceptions, and strong reasoning powers,\" while her mother Sene was \"of a gentler turn, ... a quiet spirit, benevolent and kind to all, and much beloved by all who knew her.\" The Smiths, farmers of modest means, were devout members of the Society of Friends, better known as Quakers. Haviland's father was a minister in the Society and her mother was an Elder.\n\nThough the Quakers dressed plainly, and strictly forbade dancing, singing, and other pursuits they deemed frivolous, many of their views were progressive by the standards of the day. The Quakers encouraged the equal education of men and women, an extraordinarily forward-thinking position in an age when most individuals were illiterate, and providing a woman with a thorough education was largely viewed as unnecessary. Quaker women as well as men acted as ministers. While most Quakers did not agitate vocally for abolition, the majority condemned slavery as brutal and unjust. It was in this atmosphere that Haviland was raised.\n\nIn 1815, her family left Canada and returned to the United States, settling in the remote and sparsely populated town of Cambria, in western New York. At the time there was no school near their home, and for the next six years Haviland's education consisted of little more than \"a spelling lesson\" given to her daily by her mother. Haviland described herself as an inquisitive child, deeply interested in the workings of the world around her, who at a young age began questioning her parents about everything from scripture to Newton's Law of Universal Gravitation. Once she had mastered spelling, Haviland supplemented her meager education by devouring every book she could borrow from friends, relatives, and neighbors, reading everything from religious material to serious historical studies.\n\nAt sixteen, Laura met Charles Haviland, Jr., a devout young Quaker, whose parents were both respected ministers. They were married on November 11, 1825, at Lockport, New York. According to Laura, Charles was a devoted husband and theirs was a happy marriage. They were the parents of eight children.\n\nThe Havilands spent the first four years of their marriage in Royalton Township, near Lockport, New York, before moving in September, 1829, to Raisin, Lenawee County in the Michigan Territory. They settled three miles (5 km) from the homestead her parents acquired four years earlier. Michigan was then a largely unsettled wilderness, but land was cheap, and there were a number of other Quakers in the vicinity.\n\nHaviland vividly recalled seeing African Americans verbally abused, and even physically assaulted, in Lockport, New York, when she was a child. These experiences, combined with the horrific descriptions in John Woolman's history of the slave-trade, made an indelible impression.\n\nThe pictures of these crowded slave-ships, with the cruelties of the slave system after they were brought to our country, often affected me to tears ... My sympathies became too deeply enlisted for the poor negroes who were thus enslaved for time to efface.\n\nHaviland and other members of the Raisin community helped Elizabeth Margaret Chandler organize the Logan Female Anti-Slavery Society in 1832. It was the first anti-slavery organization in Michigan. Five years later, in 1837, Haviland and her husband founded a \"manual labor school ... designed for indigent children,\" which was later known as the Raisin Institute. Haviland instructed the girls in household chores, while her husband and one of her brothers, Harvey Smith, taught the boys to perform farm work. At the Havilands' insistence, the school was open to all children, \"regardless of race, creed, or sex.\" It was the first racially integrated school in Michigan. Some of Haviland's white students, upon learning they were to study with African Americans, threatened to leave. Most were persuaded to remain, however, and Laura wrote that once the students were together in the classroom their prejudices \"soon melted away.\"\n\nIn 1838, Harvey Smith sold his farm, and the proceeds were used to erect accommodations for fifty students. The Havilands expanded the school's curriculum, operating it more closely along the lines of traditional elementary and secondary schools. They then hired a graduate of Oberlin College to serve as the school's principal. Due to their diligence, the Raisin Institute was soon recognized as one of the best schools in the Territory.\n\nAs the Havilands became more actively involved in anti-slavery work, tensions grew within the Quaker community. There was a split between the so-called \"radical abolitionists,\" like the Havilands, who wanted immediate emancipation, and the majority of Orthodox Quakers. Although the Quakers condemned slavery, most did not approve of active participation in abolitionist societies. By 1839, in order to continue with their abolitionist work, the Havilands, her parents, and fourteen other like-minded Quakers, felt compelled to resign their membership. They then joined a group of Methodists known as the Wesleyans, who were equally devoted to the abolitionist cause.\n\nIn the spring of 1845, an epidemic of erysipelas killed six members of Haviland's family, including both of her parents, her husband, and her youngest child. Haviland also fell ill, but survived. At thirty-six, Haviland found herself a widow with seven children to support, a farm to run, the Raisin Institute to manage, and substantial debts to repay. Sadly, just two years later tragedy struck again, when her eldest son died. Due to lack of funds, Haviland was forced to close the Raisin Institute in 1849.\n\nIn spite of her personal losses, she continued with her abolitionist work, and in 1851, she helped organize the Refugee Home Society in Windsor, Ontario, Canada. Fugitive slaves were settled there, a church and school were erected for them, and each family was given twenty-five acres to farm. Laura remained on for several months as the settlement's teacher. She then traveled to Ohio, where, with her daughter Anna, she taught in a school founded for African American children in Cincinnati and Toledo, Ohio.\n\nBy 1856, she had raised enough funds to reopen the Raisin Institute, and returned to Michigan. The new curriculum included having former slaves give lectures about the realities of life on a slave plantation. The Institute closed once again in 1864, after most of the staff, and some of the students, enlisted to fight during the Civil War.\n\nDuring the 1830s, the Haviland family began hiding runaway slaves on their farm. Their home became the first Underground Railroad station established in Michigan. After her husband's death, Haviland continued to shelter fugitive slaves in her home, in some cases, personally escorting them to Canada. She played an important role in the Detroit branch of the group, where she was considered railroad \"superintendent\", with George DeBaptiste the \"president\"and William Lambert the \"vice president\" or \"secretary\".\n\nShe also traveled to the South on multiple occasions to aid escaped slaves. Her first trip was made in 1846, in an effort to free the children of fugitive slaves, Willis and Elsie Hamilton. The children were still in the possession of their mother's former slave owner, John P. Chester, a tavern-keeper in Washington County, Tennessee.\n\nChester had learned of the Hamilton's whereabouts and sent slave-catchers after them. When that failed, Chester attempted to lure the Hamiltons to his plantation with the promise that they would be treated as freedmen and reunited with their children. Suspecting a trap, Haviland went to Tennessee in their place, accompanied by her son Daniel and a student from the Raisin Institute, James Martin, who posed as Willis Hamilton. Mr. Chester became irate once he realized Willis Hamilton was not with Mrs. Haviland. He held the trio at gunpoint, threatening to murder them, kidnap James Martin, and enslave him in Willis Hamilton's stead. They managed to escape, but Mr. Chester did not forget Laura Haviland. His family would continue to haunt her for fifteen years, pursuing her legally in court and privately with slave catchers, while barraging her with derogatory letters. The following letter was sent by Chester's son, Thomas K. Chester, in February 1847. It's provides a good example of the tone which permeated the Chester family's correspondence with Haviland:\n\nHaviland responded, sarcastically thanking him for naming the child after her family and stating that she hoped \"like Moses, may he become instrumental in leading his people away from a worse bondage than that of Egypt.\" Enraged by what he deemed her insolence, Thomas Chester placed a bounty on Haviland's head. All throughout the South he circulated \"hand-bills\" (fliers) describing Mrs. Haviland, detailing her abolitionist work, naming her place of residence and offering $3000, a considerable sum at the time, to anyone willing to kidnap or murder her on his behalf.\n\nThree years later, after the passage of the Fugitive Slave Law, the Chester family attempted to have Haviland tried under the new statute for \"stealing\" their slaves. Haviland not only ran the risk of being physically harmed by angry slave-owners, like the Chesters, or their slave-catchers, if found guilty of violating the Fugitive Slave Law she would also be subject to hefty fines and imprisonment. Still, Haviland was determined to continue with her work, no matter what the personal cost:\n\n... I would not for my right hand become instrumental in returning one escaped slave to bondage. I firmly, believe in our Declaration of Independence, that all men are created free and equal, and that no human being has a right to make merchandise of others born in humbler stations, and place them on a level with horses, cattle, and sheep, knocking them off the auction-block to the highest bidder, sundering family ties, and outraging the purest and tenderest feelings of human nature.\n\nFortunately for Haviland, her case was brought before Judge Ross Wilkins, who sympathized with the abolitionists. The Chesters attempted to regain possession of the Hamiltons by force, but were prevented by Haviland and her neighbors. Judge Wilkins delayed her case, allowing Haviland to help the Hamiltons escape to Canada. In the end, Haviland evaded legal punishment.\n\nIn addition to another failed rescue attempt, detailed in her autobiography, Haviland later made other, more successful journeys south that went unmentioned in her memoirs. In the guise of a white cook, and once even posing as a fair skinned free person of color, she visited plantations and managed to help some slaves escape north.\n\n During the Civil War, Laura toured many refugee camps and hospitals, even venturing onto the frontlines, to distribute supplies to displaced citizens, freed slaves, and soldiers.\n\nIn the spring of 1865, the commissioner of the newly created Freedmen's Bureau, General Oliver O. Howard, named Haviland Inspector of Hospitals. Haviland's actual duties consisted of far more than inspecting hospitals. She spent the next two years traveling through Virginia, Tennessee, Kansas and Washington, D.C., distributing supplies, reporting on the living conditions of Freedmen and indigent whites, organizing refugee camps, establishing schools, working as a teacher, volunteering as a nurse at Freedmen's hospitals, and giving public lectures. In an effort to help whites understand what the Freedmen had endured under slavery, she toured abandoned plantations and collected chains, irons, restraints, and other implements which had been used on slaves. Haviland transported these items north and exhibited them during her lectures. She also met personally with President Andrew Johnson to petition for the release of former slaves still being held in Southern prisons for attempting years before to escape slavery.\n\nWhile working at the Freedmen's Hospital in Washington, D.C., Haviland met and befriended Sojourner Truth, who later recalled an incident that took place one day when they had gone into town to get supplies. Haviland suggested they take a street car back to the hospital. Truth described what happened next as follows:\n\nAfter the Civil War, the Freedmen's Aid Commission acquired the former Raisin Institute, renamed it the Haviland Home, and converted it into an orphanage for African American children. Its first residents were seventy-five homeless children brought by Haviland from Kansas. As other children joined their ranks, and their numbers increased, many whites in Michigan became unnerved. They claimed that Haviland was burdening white taxpayers and demanded that Haviland Home be closed. Matters came to a head in 1867, when the orphanage was purchased by the American Missionary Association, who closed the orphanage, and literally threw the orphans out into the street.\n\nHaviland abandoned her work in Washington, D.C., to return to Michigan and help the children. She managed to collect enough donations to purchase the orphanage and began to manage it herself. By 1870, funds were extremely scarce. The situation became so dire that, at Haviland's urging, the state took over the orphanage and it became the Michigan Orphan Asylum.\n\nWhen the Reconstruction ended in 1877, many African Americans fled the South, where they were subject to attacks by racist individuals and groups such as the Ku Klux Klan. Thousands of African American men, women and children, crowded into makeshift refugee camps in Kansas. Determined to help, Haviland set out with her daughter Anna for Washington, D.C., where she testified about the appalling conditions at the camps, before traveling to Kansas with supplies for the refugees. Using her personal savings, Haviland purchased in Kansas for the Freedmen at one of the refugee camps to live on and farm.\n\nDuring her life, Laura Haviland not only combated slavery and worked to improve the living conditions of Freedmen, she was also actively involved in other social causes, advocating for women's suffrage, and helping to organize the Women's Christian Temperance Union in Michigan.\n\nLaura Haviland died on April 20, 1898 in Grand Rapids, Michigan, at the home of her brother, Samuel Smith. She is buried next to her husband in the Raisin Valley Cemetery in Adrian, Michigan.\n\nSymbolically, at Haviland's funeral, hymns were sung by a choir of white and African American singers, and then her casket was carried to the grave by a group white and African American pall-bearers.\n\nIn recognition of her efforts, the town of Haviland, Kansas was named in her honor. A statue of Laura Haviland stands in front of the Lenawee County Historical Museum in Adrian, Michigan. The inscription on the statue reads:\n\nA Tribute to a Life Consecrated to the Betterment of Humanity.\n\nLaura Smith Haviland Elementary School in Waterford, Michigan is named in her honor.\n\nLaura Smith Haviland will be inducted into the National Abolition Hall of Fame in Peterboro, NY in October, 2018 (www.nationalabolitionhalloffameandmuseum.org) https://newyorkhistoryblog.org/2018/07/08/hall-of-fame-inducts-three-who-resisted-fugitive-slave-laws/\n\n\nA Woman's Life-Work : Labors and Experiences of Laura S. Haviland (1882) - Library of Congress call number 10101385 Internet Archive https://archive.org/details/womanslifeworkla01havi\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27357307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27357307", "title": "Mailroom", "text": "Mailroom\n\nA mailroom (US) or post room (UK) is a room in which incoming and outgoing mail is processed and sorted. Mailrooms are commonly found in schools, offices, apartment buildings, and the generic post office. A person who works in a mailroom is known as a mailroom clerk or mailboy and the head person (sometimes the only person) is called the postmaster. The mailroom is responsible for a company's incoming and outgoing mail. A mailroom clerk prepares outgoing mail and packages prior to their being sent out via the post office or other carrier. \n\nIn a large organization, the mailroom is the central hub of the internal mail system and the interface with external mail. The postmaster manages the department, clerks assist them and mailboys deliver mail for other employees in different departments using a mail cart or a trolley doing regular rounds throughout the day. Sometimes the mailboys will trolley sort using the departmental slots on the trolley to reduce work at the central hub and to speed internal mail.\n\nIn a small organization, or within a department or a large organization, a mailroom can be associated with the breakroom; these rooms can be combined into one. For instance, a mailroom can contain an area for employees to take a break. Besides pigeon-hole messageboxes, this area might have a kitchenette with a coffee maker, microwave, table and chairs, refrigerator, sink, pantry, or oven.\n\n"}
{"id": "23025574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23025574", "title": "Making Sense of Abstinence", "text": "Making Sense of Abstinence\n\nMaking Sense of Abstinence is a collection of 16 lessons for teaching about sexual abstinence in the context of comprehensive sexuality education. According to the Minnesota Organization on Adolescent Pregnancy, Prevention, and Parenting, it is \"a curriculum that takes abstinence beyond a one-dimensional scope of 'just say no,'...[utilizing] positive and engaging activities to help young people think about abstinence in a way that values their ability to make decisions.\"\n\nSample lessons include such titles as \"So What's An Abstinence Anyway?\" \"Hey, Mom? Hey, Dad? Hey...Gram? Can We Talk about Abstinence?\" \"Just Say Know,\" \"Masturbation: A Touchy Subject,\" \"Handling Horny,\" and \"Some Day: Making the Transition from Sexual Abstinence\".\n\nThe manual has received praise from sexuality educators for expanding the way sexuality education teaches about abstinence, and for teaching the subject in a positive way, unlike other fear-based approaches. For example, the online journal \"Sexual Intelligence\" praised \"Making Sense of Abstinence\" for \"not treating kids like robotic idiots.\"\n\nAbstinence-only advocates have criticized the manual for including such topics as outercourse and masturbation, behaviors they believe should not be acknowledged. Critics also claim that teenagers should not learn information to protect themselves when their abstinence decisions change.\n\nThe authors of \"Making Sense of Abstinence\" state that neither the \"Just say no\" approach, nor the \"Always say yes,\" is appropriate for abstinence education. Rather, they emphasize that teens need complete information to help them make the best decisions for themselves.\n"}
{"id": "45329986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45329986", "title": "Margaret Polson Murray", "text": "Margaret Polson Murray\n\nMargaret Smith Polson (\"née\" Murray; Paisley July 20, 1865 – January 27, 1927 Montreal), better known as Margaret Polson Murray, was a Canadian social reformer, magazine editor and founder of the Imperial Order Daughters of the Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "34648175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34648175", "title": "Mark Cohen (journalist)", "text": "Mark Cohen (journalist)\n\nMark Cohen (26 November 1849 – 3 March 1928) was a New Zealand journalist, newspaper editor, educationalist and social reformer. He was born in London, England on 26 November 1849.\n\nHe was a member of the New Zealand Legislative Council from 25 June 1920 to 24 June 1927; and 25 June 1927 to 3 March 1928, when he died. He was appointed by the Reform Government.\n\nHe was from Dunedin and Otago. He died at Auckland, where he was staying with his youngest daughter after his wife died.\n"}
{"id": "31768127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31768127", "title": "Mature minor doctrine", "text": "Mature minor doctrine\n\nThe mature minor doctrine is an American term for the statutory, regulatory, or common law policy accepting that an unemancipated minor patient may possess the maturity to choose or reject a particular health care treatment, sometimes without the knowledge or agreement of parents, and should be permitted to do so. It is now generally considered a form of patients rights; formerly, the mature minor rule was largely seen as protecting health care providers from criminal and civil claims by parents of minors at least 15.\n\nJurisdictions may codify an age of medical consent, accept the judgment of licensed providers regarding an individual minor, or accept a formal court decision following a request that a patient be designated a mature minor, or may rely on some combination. For example, patients at least 16 may be assumed to be mature minors for this purpose, patients aged 13 to 15 may be designated so by licensed providers, and pre-teen patients may be so-designated after evaluation by an agency or court. The mature minor doctrine is sometimes connected with enforcing confidentiality of minor patients from their parents.\n\nIn the United States, a typical statute lists: \"Who may consent [or withhold consent for] surgical or medical treatment or procedures.\"\n\nBy definition, a \"mature minor\" has been found to have the capacity to make serious medical decisions alone. By contrast, \"medical emancipation\" formally releases children from some parental involvement requirements but does not necessarily grant that decision making to children themselves. Pursuant to statute, several jurisdictions grant medical emancipation to a minor who has become pregnant or requires sexual-health services, thereby permitting medical treatment without parental consent and, often, confidentiality from parents. A limited guardianship may be appointed to make medical decisions for the medically emancipated minor and the minor may not be permitted to refuse or even choose treatment.\n\nOne early U.S. case of significance, \"Smith v. Seibly\", 72 Wn.2d 16, 431 P.2d 719 (1967), before the Washington Supreme Court, establishes precedent on the mature minor doctrine. The plaintiff, Albert G. Smith, an 18-year-old married father, was suffering from myasthenia gravis, a progressive disease. Because of this, Smith expressed concern that his wife might become burdened in caring for him for their existing child and possibly for additional children. On March 9, 1961, while still 18, Smith requested a vasectomy. His doctor required written consent, which Smith provided, and the surgery was performed. Later, after reaching Washington's statutory age of majority, then 21, the doctor was sued by Smith, who now claimed that he had been a minor and thus unable to grant surgical or medical consent. The Court rejected Smith's argument: \"Thus, age, intelligence, maturity, training, experience, economic independence or lack thereof, general conduct as an adult and freedom from the control of parents are all factors to be considered in such a case [involving consent to surgery].\"\n\nThe court further quoted another recently decided case, \"Grannum v. Berard\", 70 Wn.2d 304, 307, 422 P.2d 812 (1967): \"The mental capacity necessary to consent to a surgical operation is a question of fact to be determined from the circumstances of each individual case.\" The court explicitly stated that a minor may grant surgical consent even without formal emancipation.\n\nEspecially since the 1970s, older pediatric patients sought to make autonomous decisions regarding their own treatment and sometimes sued successfully to do so. The decades of accumulated evidence tended to demonstrate that children are capable of participating in medical decision-making in a meaningful way; and legal and medical communities have demonstrated an increasing willingness of formally affirming decisions made by young people, even regarding life and death.\n\nReligious beliefs have repeatedly influenced a patient's decision to choose treatment or not. In a case in 1989 in Illinois, a 17 year old female Jehovah's Witness was permitted to refuse necessary life saving treatments.\n\nIn 1990, the United States Congress passed the Patient Self-Determination Act; even though key provisions apply only to patients over age 18, the legislation advanced patient involvement in decisionmaking. The West Virginia Supreme Court, in \"Belcher v. Charleston Area Medical Center\", 422 S.E.2d 827, 188 W.Va. 105 (1992), defined a \"mature minor\" exception to parental consent, according consideration to seven factors to be weighed regarding such a minor: age, ability, experience, education, exhibited judgment, conduct, and appreciation of relevant risks and consequences.\n\nIn the United States, bodily integrity has long been considered a common law right; the United States Supreme Court, in 1891's \"Union Pacific Railway Company v. Botsford\", found, \"No right is held more sacred, or is more carefully guarded, by the common law, than the right of every individual to the possession and control of his own person, free from all restraint or interference of others, unless by clear and unquestionable authority of law.\" The Supreme Court in 1990 (\"Cruzan v. Director, Missouri Department of Health\") allowed that \"constitutionally protected liberty interest in refusing unwanted medical treatment may be inferred\" in the \"Due Process Clause\" of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, but the Court refrained from explicitly establishing what would have been a newly enumerated right. Nevertheless, lower courts have increasingly held that competent patients have the right to refuse any treatment for themselves.\n\nIn 1989, the Supreme Court of Illinois interpreted the Supreme Court of the United States to have already adopted major aspects of mature minor doctrine, concluding,\n\nAn ongoing case of Z.M is being heard in Maryland regarding the minor's right to refuse chemotherapy.\n\nIn Connecticut, Cassandra C. a seventeen year old was ordered by the Connecticut Supreme Court to receive treatment. The court decided that Cassandra was not mature enough to make medical decisions.\n\nIn 2009, the Supreme Court of Canada ruling in \"A.C. v. Manitoba\" [2009] SCC 30 (CanLII) found that children \"may\" make life and death decisions about their medical treatment. In the majority opinion, Justice Rosalie Abella wrote:\nA \"dissenting\" opinion by Justice Ian Binnie would have gone further:\nAnalysts note that the Canadian decision merely requires that younger patients be permitted a \"hearing\", and still allows a judge to \"decide whether or not to order a medical procedure on an unwilling minor\".\n"}
{"id": "387430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=387430", "title": "Odalisque", "text": "Odalisque\n\nAn odalisque () was a chambermaid or a female attendant in a Turkish seraglio, particularly the court ladies in the household of the Ottoman sultan.\n\nThe word \"odalisque\" is French in form and originates from the Turkish \"odalık\", meaning \"chambermaid\", from \"oda\", \"chamber\" or \"room\". It can also be transliterated \"odahlic\", \"odalisk\", and \"odaliq\".\n\nJoan DelPlato has described the term's shift in meaning from Turkish to English and French:\n\nThe English and French term odalisque (rarely odalique) derives from the Turkish 'oda', meaning \"chamber\"; thus an odalisque originally meant a chamber girl or attendant. In western usage, the term has come to refer specifically to the harem concubine. By the eighteenth century the term odalisque referred to the eroticized artistic genre in which a nominally eastern woman lies on her side on display for the spectator.\n\nAn \"odalık\" was not a concubine of the harem, but a maid, although it was possible that she could become one. An \"odalık\" was ranked at the bottom of the social stratification of a harem, serving not the man of the household, but rather, his concubines and wives as personal chambermaids. \"Odalık\" were usually slaves given as gifts to the sultan by wealthy Turkish men. Generally, an \"odalık\" was never seen by the sultan but instead remained under the direct supervision of his mother, the Valide Sultan.\n\nIf an \"odalık\" was of extraordinary beauty or had exceptional talents in dancing or singing, she would be trained as a possible concubine. If selected, an \"odalık\" trained as a court lady would serve the sultan sexually and only after such sexual contact would she change in status, becoming thenceforth one of the consorts of the sultan.\n\nIn contrast to European depictions of nude harem women, they more often wore androgynous robes resembling those worn by the male pages of the palace. The conditions of the Ottoman harem \"resembled a monastery for young girls more than the bordello of European imagination.\"\n\nW. S. Gilbert refers to the \"Grace of an odalisque on a divan\" in Colonel Calverley's song \"If You Want A Receipt For That Popular Mystery\" from the Gilbert and Sullivan opera \"Patience.\"\n\nIn popular use, the word \"odalisque\" also may refer to a mistress, concubine or paramour of a wealthy man.\n\nDuring the 19th century, \"odalisques\" became common fantasy figures in the artistic movement known as Orientalism, being featured in many erotic paintings from that era. \n\nBy the later 19th century, Turkish writers such as Melek Hanum used the word odalisque to refer to slave-concubines when writing in English:\nIf any lady possesses a pretty-looking slave, the fact soon gets known. The gentlemen who wish to buy an odalisque or a wife, make their offers. Many Turks, indeed, prefer to take a slave as a wife, as, in such case, there is no need to dread fathers, mothers, or brothers-in-law, and other undesirable relations.\nIn 2011, the Law Society of British Columbia brought a discipline hearing against an unnamed lawyer for referring to another lawyer's client as living with an odalisque. The Law Society found the use of the word, though an extremely poor choice, did not rise to the level of professional misconduct.\n\n"}
{"id": "6085509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6085509", "title": "Open-source religion", "text": "Open-source religion\n\nOpen-source religions employ open-source methods for the sharing, construction, and adaptation of religious belief systems, content, and practice. In comparison to religions utilizing proprietary, authoritarian, hierarchical, and change-resistant structures, open-source religions emphasize sharing in a cultural Commons, participation, self-determination, decentralization, and evolution. They apply principles used in organizing communities developing open-source software for organizing group efforts innovating with human culture. New open-source religions may develop their rituals, praxes, or systems of beliefs through a continuous process of refinement and dialogue among participating practitioners. Organizers and participants often see themselves as part of a more generalized open-source and free-culture movement.\n\nIn 1994, with his essay, \"The Holy War: Mac vs. DOS,\" the scholar and novelist Umberto Eco popularized the use of religious metaphors in comparing operating system design and user experience. By the late 1990s, the term \"open-source religion\" began appearing in technology magazines as a reference to the open-source Linux operating system's organizing principle and as an analogy for highlighting the philosophical differences between advocates of open-source vs. proprietary software . In 2001, Daniel Kriegman began describing a religion he invented called Ozacua (later Yoism) as \"the world's first opensource religion.\" The concept of an \"open source religion\" was further expanded upon by the media theorist, Douglas Rushkoff in his book, \"Nothing's Sacred: The Truth about Judaism\" (2003), where he offered the following description as an introduction to Open Source Judaism:\n\nBefore the coinage of the term open-source in 1998 or even the birth of the Free Software movement, the \"Principia Discordia\", a Discordian religious text written by Greg Hill with Kerry Wendell Thornley, included the following Copyright disclaimer in its 4th edition (1970), \"Ⓚ ALL RIGHTS REVERSED – Reprint what you like.\" By the summer of 1970, the implications of the disclaimer were being discussed in other underground publications.\n\nVia the counterculture, by the mid-1970s, the concept had influenced a generation of Discordians including the nascent hacker culture. The project to create Tiny BASIC was proposed in Bob Albrecht and Dennis Allison's \"Dr. Dobb's Journal of Tiny BASIC Calisthenics & Orthodontia\", a journal of the Homebrew Computer Club, a small group of computer hobbyists who began meeting in 1975 around Silicon Valley. The first lines of the source code for Tiny Basic as released in 1976 by Li-Chen Wang stated ‘(ↄ) COPYLEFT ALL WRONGS RESERVED’. In 1984/5 programmer Don Hopkins sent Richard Stallman a letter labeled \"Copyleft—all rights reversed\". Stallman chose the phrase to identify his free software method of distribution. The relationship between Discordianism and \"Kopyleft\" remain part of the culture of Discordianism, as explained by the Discordian Rev. Dr. Jon Swabey in his \"Apocrypha Discordia.\"\n\nFor established traditions whose canonical works, records of discourse, and inspired artworks reside in the public domain, keeping these works open and available in the face of proprietary interests has inspired several open-source initiatives. Open access to resources and adaptive reuse of shared materials under open content licensing provide a structure by which communities can innovate new religious systems collaboratively under the aegis of copyright law. For some religious movements, however, public access and literacy, and the potential of adaptive reuse also provide an opportunity for innovation and reform within established traditions. In an interview by Alan Jacobs in \"The Atlantic\" magazine on open-source religion, Aharon Varady (founding director of the Open Siddur Project) explained that \"cultures breathe creativity like we breathe oxygen\" arguing that open-source provides one possible strategy for keeping a tradition vibrant while also preserving historical works as non-proprietary during a period of transition from analog to digital media.\n\nAlthough a work of radical 1960s Jewish counterculture rather than an explicitly religious work, the satirical songbook \"Listen to the mocking bird\" (Times Change Press, 1971) by the Fugs' Naphtali \"Tuli\" Kupferberg contains the earliest explicit mention of \"copyleft\" in a copyright disclaimer. Later open-source efforts in Judaism begin to appear in 1988 with the free software code written for calculating the Hebrew calendar included in Emacs. After the popularization of the term \"open-source\" in 1998, essays and manifestos linking open-source and Judaism began appearing in 2002 among Jewish thinkers familiar with trends in new media and open-source software. In August 2002, Aharon Varady proposed the formation of an \"Open Siddur,\" an open-source licensed user-generated content project for digitizing liturgical materials and writing the code needed for the web-to-print publishing of Siddurim (Jewish prayer books). Meanwhile, media theorist Douglas Rushkoff began articulating his understanding of open-source in Judaism. \"The object of the game, for me,\" Rushkoff explained, \"was to recontextualize Judaism as an entirely Open Source proposition.\"\nThe term \"Open Source Judaism\" first appeared in Douglas Rushkoff's book \"Nothing Sacred: The Truth about Judaism\" (2003). Rushkoff employed the term \"Open Source\" to describe a democratic organizational model for collaborating in a commonly held source: the Hebrew Bible and other essential works of Rabbinic Judaism. Rushkoff conceived of Judaism as essentially an open-source religion which he conceived as, \"the contention that religion is not a pre-existing truth but an ongoing project. It may be divinely inspired, but it is a creation of human beings working together. A collaboration.\" For Rushkoff, open-source offered the promise of enacting change through a new culture of collaboration and improved access to sources. \"Anyone who wants to do Judaism should have access to Judaism. Judaism is not just something that you do, it's something you enact. You've got to learn the code in order to alter it.\" The 2003 publication of Rushkoff's book \"Nothing Sacred: The Truth about Judaism\" and an online forum dedicated to \"Open Source Judaism\" inspired several online projects in creating web applications for generating custom made haggadot for Passover, however neither content nor code for these were shared under free-culture compatible open content terms.\n\nBeginning with the Open Siddur Project in 2009, open-source projects in Judaism began to publicly share their software code with open-source licenses and their content with free-culture compatible open content licenses. The explicit objectives of these projects also began to differ from Rushkoff's \"Open Source Judaism.\" Rather than seek reforms in religious practices or doctrines, these projects used Open Content licenses to empower users to access and create their own resources from a common store of canonical texts and associated translations and metadata. By 2012, open-source projects in Judaism were mainly active in facilitating collaboration in sharing resources for transcribing and translating existing works in the Public Domain, and for adaptation and dissemination of works being shared by copyright owners under Open Content licenses.\n\nFollowing proprietary claims on Yoga movements by some Yoga instructors, Open Source Yoga Unity was formed in 2003 to assert that Yoga movements reside in the public domain. The organization provides a common voice, and the pooling of resources, to legally resist the application of a proprietary Copyright to any Yoga style thereby \"ensuring its continued natural unfettered practice for all to enjoy and develop.\" The organization explains, that \"while we appreciate the teachings of yoga teachers, we do not believe that they have the legal right to impose control over another's Yoga teaching or practice.\" In Open Source Yoga Unity v. Bikram Choudhury (2005), the organization settled out of court, avoiding a federal court hearing to determine whether Bikram Choudhury’s copyrighted sequence of 26 poses and two breathing exercises could be legally protected.\n\nConcerned with the lack of a source text containing documentation on Wicca in the tradition of Gerald Gardner, Dr. Leo Ruickbie self-published \"Open Source Wicca: The Gardnerian Tradition\" (2007) for \"putting you back in control of spirituality.\" The work, a collection of \"the original foundation documents of Wicca\" authored between 1949 and 1961, was published digitally and in print under a Creative Commons Attribution license.\n\nSeveral projects aiding individuals and communities in formulating their own belief systems cite inspiration from ideas common to the open-source movement and self-identify as open-source religions or religious initiatives. The establishment of new religions through open-source methods is closely related to chaos magic, which emphasizes the pragmatic use of belief systems and the creation of new and unorthodox methods, the difference being that any knowledge gained through such innovation is shared openly.\n\nAccording to its founder, Daniel Kriegman, Yoism (founded 1994) combines rational inquiry, empiricism, and science with Spinozan or Einsteinian pantheism. Inspired by the Linux operating system, Kriegman describes his religion as \"open-source\" and explains that, similar to open-source software projects, participants in Yoism do not owe their allegiance to any leader and that their sense of authority emerges via group consensus decision-making. Yoism adopted the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike copyleft license for sharing original works in May 2015.\n\nThe Belief Genome Project aims to use crowdsourcing to catalog all beliefs as a resource for those wishing to build and discover their own belief system. The project is an initiative of the Open Source Religion Social Network , a website established in 2009 by Sidian M.S. Jones which he described as \"a system for the mixing of religious and non-religious beliefs in an individual, even across multiple religions.\"\n\nHuman Worship, or Open Religion, is an \"eternal tradition of considering Human absolute, highest value\", \"considering God as Human continuation to infinity through Soul\", described in its sacred book, shared in public domain by the formula \"All rights reserved for God. Open Soul Holy Scripture of Human Worship is word of God, common heritage of Humankind, published anonymously, free for copying\". The blessing gesture and sacred sign of Open Religion is the circle or zero, with the human in the center of coordinates. Human Worshippers bow to every human soul, laying the hand on heart and saying \"Believe in yourself!\". They organize \"soul societies\" for missionary work, friendship, love and common joy. Also they believe in every human having the capacity to be a prophet, every human action to be prayer and all consequences as revelation from God, claiming that practical experience inspires true faith and skeptics are the same holy persons as prophets.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1957138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1957138", "title": "Our Bodies, Ourselves", "text": "Our Bodies, Ourselves\n\nOur Bodies, Ourselves is a book about women's health and sexuality produced by the nonprofit organization Our Bodies Ourselves (originally called the Boston Women's Health Book Collective). First published in the late 1960s, it contains information related to many aspects of women's health and sexuality, including: sexual health, sexual orientation, gender identity, birth control, abortion, pregnancy and childbirth, violence and abuse, and the menopause. The most recent edition of the book was published in 2011. The book was revolutionary in that it encouraged women to celebrate their sexuality, including chapters on reproductive rights, lesbian sexuality, and sexual independence. The move towards women’s active engagement with their actual sexual desires was contradicting the popular gendered myth of “women as docile, and passive,” and “men as active and aggressive” in a sexual relationship.\n\nThe book has been translated and adapted by women's groups around the world and is available in 29 languages. Sales for all the books exceed four million copies. The \"New York Times\" has called the seminal book \"America's best-selling book on all aspects of women's health\" and a \"feminist classic\".\n\nThe health seminar that inspired the booklet was organized in 1969 by Nancy Miriam Hawley at Boston's Emmanuel College. \"We weren't encouraged to ask questions, but to depend on the so-called experts,\" Hawley told \"Women's eNews\". \"Not having a say in our own health care frustrated and angered us. We didn't have the information we needed, so we decided to find it on our own.\" As a result of this goal, the book contained information intended to guide women on \"how to maneuver the American health care system, with subsections called 'The Power and Role of Male Doctors,' 'The Profit Motive in Health Care,'\" 'Women as Health Care Workers,' and 'Hospitals.'\n\nThe original writers of the book stated four main reasons for creating it. First, that personal experiences provide a valuable way to understand one's own body beyond the mere facts that experts can provide, creating an empowering learning experience. Second, this kind of learning meant that they were \"better prepared to evaluate that institutions that are supposed to meet our health needs . . .\". Third, the historical lack of self-knowledge about the female body \"had had one major consequence - pregnancy\" and through greater information, women will have more ability to make proactive choices about when to get pregnant. Fourth, information about one's body is perhaps the most essential kind of education, because \"bodies are the physical bases from which we move out into the world\". Without this basic information, women are alienated from their own body and necessarily on unequal footing with men.\n\nThe women researched and wrote up the information themselves. Wendy Sanford wrote about abortion, Jane Pincus and Ruth Bell about pregnancy, and Paula Doress and Esther Rome about postpartum depression. The 12 feminists then published their research as a 35-cent, 136-page booklet called \"Women and Their Bodies\", published in 1970 by the New England Free Press. The booklet sold 250,000 copies in New England without any formal advertising.\n\nAs a result of their success, the women formed the non-profit Boston Women's Health Book Collective (which now goes by the name Our Bodies Ourselves) and published the first 276-page \"Our Bodies, Ourselves\" in 1973. The collective published it with the major publisher Simon & Schuster only on the condition that they would have complete editorial control and that nonprofit health centers could purchase copies at a significant discount. It featured first-person stories from women, and tackled many topics then regarded as taboo. Since then, over four million copies have been sold.\n\nIn 2018, the group announced that due to financial pressures, it would no longer publish new print editions nor have experts update its web site with new health information.\n\nThe Boston Women's Health Book Collective, also known as the Our Bodies, Ourselves Collective, is a feminist group that created \"Our Bodies, Ourselves\". The collective formed at the peak of the women's movement in Boston.\n\nTwelve women all between the ages of 23 to 39 first attended a workshop entitled \"Women and Their Bodies\" which allowed the women to discuss together the issues they had surrounding their health. The discussion created a consciousness-raising environment, providing each woman with information that they all deal with when handling issues about their bodies. The strong discussion supplied the women with the necessary tools and ideas that lead to the creation of their book that addressed issues surrounding sexuality and abortion. They put their knowledge into an accessible format that served as a model for women who wanted to learn about themselves, communicate with doctors, and challenge the medical establishment to change and improve the health of women everywhere.\n\nReproductive justice was at the forefront during the women's liberation, causing much debate over the biological rights of women. The Equal Rights Amendment had a section specifically targeting the important issues about Reproductive justice that combines multiple reproductive rights and issues surrounding family. The strategy of the reproductive justice plank was to establish the necessary rights and access for women to gain control over their bodies. Through the passing of this legislation woman would be granted the ability to have abortions, obtain access to birth control and gain full control over their bodies. \n\nThe Boston Collective focused on these ideas to allow women the ability to understand their bodies and themselves as women. During the National Women's Conference, women from all over the country deliberated to determine the exact laws that should be put into place for women's reproductive justice. The Boston Collective work together to teach courses and create books that provide knowledge from women not only in Boston, but women across the nation. These women use their skills and knowledge to provide many women with knowledge about their lives through rhetoric that avoids describing the female reproductive system as passive, unproductive, helpless, or powerless.\n\nThe organization has also created two single-topic books. \"Our Bodies, Ourselves: Menopause\" was published in 2006, and \"Our Bodies, Ourselves: Pregnancy and Birth\" in 2008. The Boston Women's Health Book Collective earlier produced \"Changing Bodies, Changing Lives: A Book For Teens on Sex and Relationships\" and \"The New Ourselves, Growing Older: Women Aging with Knowledge and Power\".\n\nThe first book was a product of the feminist movement and could still be said to reflect its values. The personal experiences of women are taken into account and are quoted throughout, while the social and political context of women's health informs the content of the book. The book emphasizes empowerment through information and learning, specifically, information gained through women sharing their personal narratives with each other because \"by sharing our responses we can develop a base on which to be critical of what the experts tell us.\"\n\nTopics such as male-to-female and female-to-male transsexualism/transgenderism are discussed in the most recent edition and considered in a nonjudgmental manner, despite the controversy to which they have been subject within the feminist movement. The writing style of the book tends toward a familiar, inclusive tone, with the authors referring to women and themselves as a collective group.\n\nThe collective of women who initiated \"Our Bodies, Ourselves\" are part of the documentary \"She's Beautiful When She's Angry\", about the founders of the modern women's movement from 1966 to 1971.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9657146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9657146", "title": "Public rights", "text": "Public rights\n\nIn the United States, public rights, as compared to private rights, belong to citizens but are vested in and vindicated by political entities. Public rights cannot be vindicated by private citizens. A right must normally be a private right to be vindicated in court.\n\nAn exception to this general proposition is found in \"Flast v. Cohen\", 392 U.S. 83 (1968). In \"Flast\", the U.S. Supreme Court held that a private citizen could challenge the constitutionality of a federal tax if the citizen established \"a logical link between [their] status [as a taxpayer] and the type of legislative enactment attacked [and] . . . a nexus between that status and the precise nature of the constitutional infringement alleged.\" \n\nIn Australia, public rights is an entitlement enjoyed by the community, in contrast to a private or personal entitlement. Such as a claim to tolls on a public highway, a right of ferry. Public rights may exist at common law or under statute. For example, the right of access to information held by the government is existing at common law. \n\n"}
{"id": "53487778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53487778", "title": "Rebecca Naylor Hazard", "text": "Rebecca Naylor Hazard\n\nRebecca Ann Naylor Hazard (née Rebecca Ann Naylor; November 10, 1826 - March 1, 1912) was a 19th-century American philanthropist, suffragette, reformer, and writer from the U.S. state of Ohio. With a few other women, she formed the Woman Suffrage Association of Missouri and an Industrial Home for Girls in St. Louis. She organized a society known as the Freedmen's Aid Society, and served as president of the American Woman Suffrage Association.\n\nRebecca Naylor was born in Woodsfield, Ohio, November 10, 1826, the daughter of Robert F. Naylor (born in Pennsylvania, but lived mostly in Virgini) and Mary Bettis Archbold (of Virginia). Till the age of 14, she studied at Monroe Institute and the Marietta Seminary. The family then removed to Cincinnati, Ohio, and later to Quincy, Illinois. In Quincy, in 1844, while still a teenager, she married William Tweedy Hazard, of Newport, Rhode Island. \n\nThe husband was not a college man. His occupation during most of his life was that of a manufacturer (flour mills). Five children were born to the couple. In 1850, the family removed to St. Louis, Missouri. For many years, domestic affairs claimed the attention of Hazard. \n\nIn 1854, she united with other women in establishing an Industrial Home for Girls in St. Louis. For five years she was on the board of managers of that institution, which has sheltered thousands of homeless children. At the breaking out of the American Civil War, Hazard, who was an ardent Unionist, engaged in hospital work, including the care of sick and wounded soldiers. She helped to organize the Union Aid Society and served as a member of the executive committee in the great Western Sanitary Fair. Finding that large numbers of African American women and children were by the exigencies of war helplessly stranded in the city, Hazard sought means for their relief. They were in a deplorable condition, and, as the supplies contributed to the soldiers could not be used for them, she organized a society known as the Freedmen's Aid Society, for their special benefit. At the close of the war, that society was merged in an orphan asylum. Closely following that work came the establishment of a home for women, which was maintained under great difficulties for some years, before being abandoned. With Mary Foote Henderson, Hazard co-founded the School of Design for women in the field of decorative art. It later became part of the Woman’s Exchange.\n\nDeeply impressed with the disabilities under which women labor in being deprived of political rights, Hazard, Virginia Minor, Anna Clapp, Lucretia Hall, and Penelope Allen, met in May 1867, and formed the Woman Suffrage Association of Missouri, the first society bearing the name, and having for its sole object the ballot for woman. Devoted to this cause, Hazard gave it her attention for many years, filling the various offices of the association, and also serving one term as president of the American Woman Suffrage Association. In 1870, the city of St. Louis, falling under evil counsels, framed into law the Social Evil Ordinance. Realizing the danger to good morals, Hazard at once engaged in the conflict for the overthrow of law. Three years later, she met with other women and organized an appeal to the legislature through a petition campaign to rescind it. The law was repealed by the Missouri Legislature in 1874. The call for the formation of the association for the advancement of women, known as the Woman's Congress, was signed by Hazard, and she continued to be a member of that body, contributing at various times to its sessions the following papers: \"Home Studies for Women,\" \"Business Opportunities for Women,\" and \"Crime and its Punishment.\" \n\nAfter the death of her husband, in 1879, Hazard mostly retired from public work, but at her home in Kirkwood, Missouri, a suburb of St. Louis, a class of women met each week for study and mutual improvement. As a result of these studies, Hazard published two papers on the \"Divina Commedia.\" She also wrote a volume on the war period in St. Louis. Her contributions to local and other papers were numerous. Hazard was a member of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union and of the American Akademe, a philosophical society having headquarters in Jacksonville, Illinois. She died in Kirkwood in 1912.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5593007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5593007", "title": "Robert W. Fuller", "text": "Robert W. Fuller\n\nRobert Works Fuller (born 1936) is an American physicist, author, social reformer, and former president of Oberlin College.\n\nFuller graduated from Oberlin College, and earned his Ph.D. in physics at Princeton University in 1961. He taught at Columbia University, where he co-authored the book \"Mathematics of Classical and Quantum Physics\".\n\nThe mounting social unrest of the 1960s, and Fuller's commitment to educational reform—which he had already demonstrated as a Trinity College dean—led his alma mater, Oberlin College, in 1970, to make him its tenth president, succeeding Robert K. Carr. At age 33, Fuller became one of the youngest college presidents in U.S. history. During his Oberlin presidency—a turbulent time at Oberlin and in higher education generally—Fuller reshaped the student body by tripling the enrollment of minorities at the college. He also recruited and hired Jack Scott as Chairman of the Physical Education Dept. and Athletic Director. Scott, in turn, recruited and hired the first four African-American athletic coaches in a predominantly white American college or university, including Tommie Smith, the Gold Medalist sprinter from the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City. Scott and Fuller were interviewed on campus by Howard Cosell and appeared on primetime television to talk about these changes. In 1974, after four years of service as Oberlin's president, Fuller considered that he had fulfilled his mission and resigned the office.\n\nIn 1971, on a visit to India, Fuller had witnessed the famine caused by war with Pakistan, a war that saw the emergence of Bangladesh as an independent nation. With the election of President Jimmy Carter, Fuller began a campaign to persuade the new president to end world hunger. In 1977, Fuller co-founded The Hunger Project, along with Werner Erhard and John Denver. His June 1977 meeting with Carter in the Oval Office helped lead to the establishment of the Presidential Commission on World Hunger. \n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, Fuller traveled frequently to the Soviet Union, working as a citizen-scientist to improve superpower relations during the Cold War. This led to the creation of the Mo Tzu Project, a group of citizen-diplomats traveling the world seeking citizen to citizen understanding to create sustainable peace. It also lead to the creation of the nonprofit global corporation Internews, which promotes democracy via free and independent media. For many years Fuller served as its chairman, working with Kim Spencer, David M. Hoffman and Evelyn Messinger (founders of Internews), Alia Johnson, Robert Cabot, and John Steiner, among others. In 1982, Fuller appeared in the PBS documentary \"Thinking Twice About Nuclear War\".\n\nWith the collapse of the USSR, Fuller's turn as a citizen-diplomat came to a close. Reflecting on the different roles he had played, he came to understand that he had, at various times, enjoyed the status of a \"somebody\" while at other times he had embraced the position of a \"nobody.\" His experiences in \"Nobodyland\" led him to identify rankism—a term he coined, and defined as the abuse of the power inherent in rank.\n\nIn 2003, Fuller published his seminal work, \"Somebodies and Nobodies: Overcoming the Abuse of Rank\" (New Society Publishers). The book inspired a group in Virginia to set up the Dignitarian Foundation. He published a sequel that focused on building a dignitarian society, titled \"All Rise: Somebodies, Nobodies, and the Politics of Dignity\" (Berrett-Koehler, 2006). In 2008, Fuller and co-author Pamela A. Gerloff released an 86-page \"action-oriented guide\" titled \"Dignity for All: How to Create a World Without Rankism\".\n\nAn energetic evangelist for the Dignity Movement, Fuller frequently speaks at universities, conferences, and social policy organizations. Notable recent engagements include:\n\nFuller currently maintains a blog at www.breakingranks.net, and he also writes regular articles for The Huffington Post and Psychology Today. His most recent book is \"The Rowan Tree: A Novel.\"\n\nFuller lives in Berkeley, California with his wife, Claire Sheridan. He has four children and four grandchildren.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8523422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8523422", "title": "Samuel Mauger", "text": "Samuel Mauger\n\nSamuel Mauger (pronounced \"Major\") (12 November 1857 – 26 June 1936) was an Australian social reformer, hat manufacturing unionist and a Protectionist politician.\n\nMauger was born in Geelong, Victoria, son of immigrants from Guernsey, Channel Islands, Samuel Mauger Senior and Caroline \"née\" Liz who migrated to Australia in the 1850s. Mauger junior was educated at the Geelong National School, but left school early to become an errand boy for a hat maker when his father contracted rheumatic fever. Mauger later owned the hat manufacturing business. Mauger was a Bible class teacher at St Mark's Church of England in Fitzroy. He later became the Sunday-school superintendent at St Paul's Congregational Church in North Fitzroy. On 13 May 1880, Mauger married Hanna Rice who he had met at St Mark's; they eventually had four sons and four daughters.\n\nMauger held various memberships to various organisations. He was a superintendent in the Fire Brigades' Association of Victoria and four times president of the Metropolitan Fire Brigades Board. Mauger was one of the founders and secretary of the Anti-Sweating League from 1895. Mauger was on the Board enquiry for unemployment in 1899 and involved in the royal commission of Victorian factories and shops law in 1900.\n\nBeing a devout Christian of the Australian Church, Mauger was president of the Young Men's Christian Association and president of the Melbourne Total Abstinence Society.\n\nMauger attempted to run for politics in various State electorates before becoming a Member of Parliament. He stood for the seat of Fitzroy in 1892, South Melbourne in 1896 and Portland in 1897. In 1899 he was a firefighter in the Melbourne suburb of Richmond. In 1900, Mauger was elected to the Victorian Legislative Assembly seat of Footscray. He held the seat of Footscray until May 1901, where he resigned from State politics and ran for Federal politics. Mauger was the first member for Melbourne Ports in 1901 until his defeat to ALP candidate James Mathews in 1906. Mauger then soon elected to the new Federal seat of Maribyrnong and became the electorate's first Federal Member of Parliament. He was a Minister without a Portfolio from 1906 until 1907 and then Postmaster-General until 1908. Mauger lost his seat of Maribyrnong to ALP candidate James Fenton in 1910.\n\nMauger ran for the Victorian Senate in 1913 and 1914, but failed to get elected. He was an ardent protectionist and was for some time honorary secretary of the protectionists' association of Victoria; he was for a time president of the Melbourne Total Abstinence Society, and chairman of the Indeterminate Sentences Board; and he presumably found some time for his business as a hatter and mercer. For about 50 years in every movement in Melbourne intended to better the conditions of the mass of the people, Mauger was to be found working incessantly and showing much organizing ability.\n\nIn 1934 Mauger wrote a brochure on \"The Rise and Progress of the Metropolitan Fire Brigade, Victoria, Australia\", on page 29 some verses relating to the success of the staff fund illustrate his philosophy of life. Basically it was that if anything is brought forward for the good of humanity, difficulties will vanish if the problem is tackled with sufficient courage.\nMauger died in Elsternwick, Victoria and is buried in the Melbourne General Cemetery. At his funeral, he was given a fire guard honour. Mauger was survived by his wife, two sons and four daughters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55615232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55615232", "title": "Sara Weeks Roberts", "text": "Sara Weeks Roberts\n\nSara Weeks Roberts (January 29, 1865 – ?) was an American social reformer and activist. She succeeded Thomas Nelson Page as president of the National Library for the Blind.\n\nSara Weeks was born in St. Albans, Vermont, January 29, 1865. She was the daughter of Hiram Bellows and Sarah M. (Burgess) Weeks. She was educated in the public schools of that city before attending Emerson College of Oratory, Boston, where she was a student in the regular and post-graduate courses.\n\nShe married Ernest W. Roberts, a lawyer and a member of Congress, from Chelsea, Massachusetts, on February 2, 1898. Their children were Ernest Weeks (born 1898); Sara Dean (born 1899); John Page (born 1901); and Hiram Weeks (born 1907). \n\nRoberts was the president of the National Library for the Blind; vice-president, Board of Lady Managers, National Home Hospital, Washington, D.C.; hon. vice president, Consumers' League. Washington, D. C.; member Massachusetts Suffrage Association; and president, Chelsea Woman's, Congressional, of Washington, D.C. She was a member of the Universalist church; and had homes in Chelsea, Washington, D. C., and Rockport, Massachusetts.\n\n"}
{"id": "495795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=495795", "title": "Scientific Integrity in Policymaking", "text": "Scientific Integrity in Policymaking\n\n\"Scientific Integrity in Policymaking: An Investigation into the Bush Administration's Misuse of Science\" is the title of a report published by the Union of Concerned Scientists in February, 2004. The report was the culmination of an investigation of the Bush administration's objectivity in science, and ultimately a criticism thereof. (After it was published, the report's existence was fairly well-publicized by the United States' mass media.)\n\nA central thesis of the report, according to the Executive Summary (on page 2 of the text), was that the Bush administration had behaved in ways considered to be consistent with the following three situations.\n\n\nIn \"Part III\", the text of the report posits that the aforementioned activities are unprecedented in the history of the United States. The report lists the following persons and organization who had supposedly acted or made statements to support this claim.\n\n\"This list is sorted first by category, then by the order in which the persons or organizations are mentioned in the report.\"\n\n\nPage 29 of the report states: \"This behavior by the administration violates the central premise of the scientific method, and is therefore of particularly grave concern to the scientific community.\" It then goes on, in a short section titled \"Conclusions and Recommendations: What's at Stake\" at the end of the report, to provide recommendations for \"restoring scientific integrity to federal policymaking\" (page 30). These recommendations (on pages 30–31) include a suggestion for the President of the United States to issue executive orders, and other actions, that would prevent further \"abuse\"; for the United States Congress to hold appropriate hearings, consider the consequences of statutory law under its influence, increase the amount of publicly available scientific information, and establish an organization to guide Congress in its deliberations in technical matters; for scientists to raise awareness of the aforementioned issues and provide public policy recommendations; for the public to exercise its political influence in a constructive manner.\n\nOn April 2, 2004, the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy issued a statement by Dr. John Marburger, the director of OSTP, that claims the descriptions of the incidents in the UCS report are all \"false,\" \"wrong,\" or \"a distortion.\" He said he was disappointed with the report and dismissed it as \"biased.\".\n\nThe following is a duplication of the report's table of contents.\n\n\nAt the time of issue of this report, the UCS released a statement supporting the criticisms detailed in the above report. This statement was originally signed by the 62 prominent scientists listed below. Since that time it has gathered support from more than 12,000 scientists.\n\nSignatories of the original statement include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4818168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4818168", "title": "Sexualization", "text": "Sexualization\n\nSexualization (or sexualisation) is to make something sexual in character or quality, or to become aware of sexuality, especially in relation to men and women. Sexualization is linked to sexual objectification. According to the American Psychological Association, sexualization occurs when \"individuals are regarded as sex objects and evaluated in terms of their physical characteristics and sexiness.\" \"In study after study, findings have indicated that women more often than men are portrayed in a sexual manner (e.g., dressed in revealing clothing, with bodily postures or facial expressions that imply sexual readiness) and are objectified (e.g., used as a decorative object, or as body parts rather than a whole person). In addition, a narrow (and unrealistic) standard of physical beauty is heavily emphasized. These are the models of femininity presented for young girls to study and emulate.\" Women who embrace their sexual desires are considered to be sexy and attractive to men who want nothing more than to have a woman as a sex toy. In the eyes of men, women that practice this behavior serve the pure purpose of providing satisfaction and showcasing their human nature. According to the Media Education Foundation's, \"Killing Us Softly 4: Advertising's Image of Women\", the sexualization of girls in media and the ways women are portrayed in the dominant culture are detrimental to the development of young girls as they are developing their identities and understanding themselves as sexual beings.\n\nReports have found that sexualization of younger children is becoming increasingly more common in advertisements. Research has linked sexualization of young girls to negative consequences for girls and society as a whole, finding that the viewing of sexually objectifying material can contribute to body dissatisfaction, eating disorders, low self-esteem, depression and depressive affect. Medical and social science researchers generally deployed \"sexualization\" to refer to a liminal zone between sexual abuse and normal family life, in which the child's relationship with their parents was characterized by an \"excessive\", improper sexuality, though without recognizable forms of abuse having occurred. American Psychological Association also argues that the sexualization of young girls contributes to sexist attitudes within society, and a societal tolerance of sexual violence.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2005, \"sexualization\" began to ascend to the status of an issue in the public eye. The cause of this rise was that it became positioned by a number of discursive actors as a feminist issue. This is not to say that a single \"feminist perspective on sexualization\" emerged in this period; among discursive actors mobilizing feminist discourses, or identifying themselves explicitly with feminism, there were a host of different views. Yet a particular, relatively cohesive position emerged after 2003 among a number of media discourses: these discourses tended to emphasize that, in the context of a commercialized and sexist culture, young women are unable to exercise meaningful choice even when they experience themselves as doing so. These media actors, in their problematization of sexualization, positioned themselves as the true heirs to the feminist tradition and its critical insights, in contrast to contemporary youth.\n\nConsumerism and globalization has led to sexualization of girls occurring across all advanced economies, in media and advertisements, to clothing and toys marketed for young girls.\n\nThe term \"sexualization\" itself only emerged in Anglophone discourse in recent decades. Beginning in the mid-nineteenth century, the term was infrequently drawn upon by English writers to refer the assignation of a gendered frame to a particular object, such as the gendering of nouns (e.g., de Quincey [1839]1909, 195). In contrast, the term \"asexualization\" saw greater use, as a synonym for sterilization in eugenics discourse from around the turn of the twentieth century (e.g., Lydston 1904). The opposite or antonym to sexualization is desexualization.\n\nIn 2006, an Australian report called \"Corporate paedophilia: sexualisation of children in Australia\" was published. The Australian report summarises its conclusion as follows:\n\nIn 2007, the American Psychological Association published a report titled \"Report of the APA Task Force on the Sexualization of Girls\", discussed below.\n\nIn 2010, the American Psychological Association published an additional report titled \" Report of the APA Task Force on the Sexualization of Girls\", which performed a study where college students were asked to try on and evaluate either a swimsuit or a sweater. While they waited for 10 minutes wearing the garment, they completed a math test. The results revealed that young women in swimsuits performed significantly worse on the math problems than did those wearing sweaters.The hypothesis is that individuals about to try on the sweaters had less pressure to look beautiful because they were not wearing revealing clothing therefore they performed better.\n\nIn 2012, an American study found that self-sexualization was common among 6–9-year old girls. Girls overwhelmingly chose the sexualized doll over the non-sexualized doll for their ideal self and as popular. However other factors, such as how often mothers talked to their children about what is going on in TV shows and maternal religiosity, reduced those odds. Surprisingly, the mere quantity of girls' media consumption (TV and movies) was unrelated to their self-sexualization for the most part; rather, maternal self-objectification and maternal religiosity moderated its effects.\n\nHowever, in 2010 the Scottish Executive released a report titled \"External research on sexualised goods aimed at children\". The report considers the drawbacks of the United States and Australian reviews, concluding:\n\nThe Scottish review also notes that:\n\nIt also notes that previous coverage \"rests on moral assumptions … that are not adequately explained or justified.\"\n\nLetting Children be Children: Report of an Independent Review of the Commercialisation and Sexualisation of Childhood (UK)\nThe report 'Letting Children Be Children', also known as the Bailey Report, is a report commissioned by the UK government on the subject of the commercialisation and sexualisation of childhood. The report was published in June 2011 and was commissioned as a result of concerns raised as to whether children's lives are negatively affected by the effects of commercialisation and sexualisation.\n\nThe Bailey Report is so-called as it was researched and compiled by Reg Bailey, the Chief Executive of the Mothers' Union, a \"charity supporting parents and children in 83 countries in the world\". The report asked for contributions from parents; children; organisations; businesses and the general public in order to consider their views and inform their recommendations and identified four themes that were of particular concern to parents and the wider public. These themes were:\n\nThe report returned recommendations based on the research from interested parties, on each of the key themes, in the form of \"what we would like to see\". On the theme of \"the wallpaper of children's lives\" it said that it would like to see that sexualised images used in public places should be more in line with what parents find acceptable, to ensure that images in public spaces becomes more child friendly. On theme two \"clothing, products and services for children\" the Bailey report said that it would like to see retailers no longer selling or marketing inappropriate clothing, products or services for children. What they would like to see on theme three \"children as consumers\" is comprehensive regulation protecting children from excessive commercial pressures across all media in-line with parental expectations; that marketers are ethical and do not attempt to exploit gaps in the market to influence children into becoming consumers and to ensure that parents and children have an awareness of marketing techniques and regulations. Finally in terms of \"making parents voices heard\" it would like to see parents finding it easier to voice their concerns to, and be listened to by, businesses and regulators.\n\nThere is a motion for a European Parliament resolution going through which gives the following definition of sexualization: \n\nThe sexualization of women of color is different than the sexualization of white women. The media plays a significant role in this sexualization. \"The media are likely to have powerful effects if the information is presented persistently, consistently, and corroborated among forms. As a media affect, stereotypes rely on the repetition to perpetuate and sustain them.\" According to Celine Parrenas Shimizu, \"To see race is to see sex, and vice versa.\"\n\nIn an NPR interview with Professor Herbert Samuels at LaGuardia Community College in New York and Mireille Miller-Young a professor at UC Santa Barbara they talk about sexual stereotypes of black bodies in America and how even in sex work, already a dangerous job, black women are treated much worse than their counterparts due to the effects of their oversexualization and objectification in society. Black women's bodies are either invisible or hypervisible. In the 1800s, a South African woman named Sarah Baartman was known as \"Hottentot Venus\" and her body was paraded around in London and Paris where they looked at her exotic features such as large breasts and behind. Her features were deemed lesser and oversexual. There is also the \"Jezebel\" stereotype that portrays black women as \"hypersexual, manipulative, animalistic and promiscuous females who cannot be controlled.\"\n\nIn the Dominican Republic, women are frequently stereotyped as sultry and sexual as the reputation of Dominican sex workers grows. Many poor women have resorted to sex work because the demand is high and the hours and pay are often dictated by the workers themselves. White European and American men \"exoticize dark-skinned 'native' bodies\" because \"they can buy sex for cut-rate prices\". This overgeneralizing of the sexuality of Dominican women can also carries back to the women's homes. Even \"women who...worked in Europe have become suspect...\" even if they had a legal job. They have become \"exports\" instead of people because of their sexualization.\n\nThe image of Asian women in Hollywood cinema is directly linked to sexuality as essential to any imagining about the roles they play as well as her actual appearance in popular culture. Asian female fatale's hypersexualized subjection is derived from her sexual behaviour that is considered as natural to her particular race and culture. Two types of Asian stereotypes that are commonly found in media are the Lotus Flower and the Dragon Lady. The Lotus Flower archetype is the \"self-sacrificing, servile, and suicidal Asian women.\" The dragon lady archetype is the opposite of the lotus flower, a \"self-abnegating Asian woman…[who] uses her 'Oriental' femininity, associated with seduction and danger to trap white men on behalf of conniving Asian males.\" According to film-maker and film scholar, Celine Shimizu, \"The figure of the Asian American femme fatale signifies a particular deathly seduction. She attracts with her soft, unthreatening, and servile femininity while concealing her hard, dangerous, and domineering nature.\"\n\nStarting from the time of white colonization of Native American land, some Native American women have been referred to as \"squaw,\" an Algonquin word for vagina. \"The 'squaw' [stereotype] is the dirty, subservient, and abused tribal female who is also haggard, violent, and eager to torture tribal captives.\" Another stereotype is the beautiful Indian princess who leaves her tribe and culture behind to marry a white man.\n\nLatina characters that embody the hot Latina stereotype in film and television is marked by easily identifiable behavioral characteristics such as \"'addictively romantic, sensual, sexual and even exotically dangerous', self-sacrificing, dependent, powerless, sexually naive, childlike, pampered, and irresponsible\". Stereotypical Latina physical characteristics include \"red lips, big bottoms, large hips, voluptuous bosoms, and small waists\" and \"high heels, huge hoop earrings, seductive clothing.\" Within the hot Latina stereotype lies three categories of representation: the Cantina Girl, the Faithful, self-sacrificing señorita, and the vamp. The Cantina Girl markers are \"'great sexual allure,' teasing, dancing, and 'behaving in an alluring fashion.'\" The faithful, self-sacrificing Señorita starts out as a good girl and turns bad by the end. The Señorita, in an attempt to save her Anglo love interest, utilizes her body to protect him from violence. The Vamp representation \"uses her intellectual and devious sexual wiles to get what she wants.\" The media represents Latinas \"as either [a] hot-blooded spitfire\" or \"[a] dutiful mother\". The sexual implications of the \"hot-blooded\" Latina has become an overgeneralized representation of Latin people. This has led many to see the Latin people as \"what is morally wrong\" with the United States. Some believe it to be wrong simply because the interpretation of this culture seems to go against white, Western culture. Culturally, the Latina is expected to dress \"as a proper señorita\" in order to be respected as a woman which conflicts with the Western ideals that a girl is sexual if she dresses \"too 'mature' for [her] age\". Even in the business world this stereotype continues; \"tight skirts and jingling bracelets [are misinterpreted] as a come-on\". This sexualization can also be linked to certain stereotypical jobs. The image of the Latina woman often is not in the business world but in the domestic. The sexualization of Latina women sexualizes the positions that they are expected to occupy. Domestic servants, maids, and waitresses are the typical \"media-engendered\" roles that make it difficult for Latinas to gain \"upward mobility\" despite the fact that many hold PhDs.\n\nThe American Psychological Association (APA) in its 2007 Report looked at the cognitive and emotional consequences of sexualization and the consequences for mental and physical health, and impact on development of a healthy sexual self-image. The report considers that a person is sexualized in the following situations:\n\nSome cultural critics have postulated that over recent decades children have evidenced a level of sexual knowledge or sexual behaviour inappropriate for their age group.\n\nThe causes of this premature sexualization that have been cited include portrayals in the media of sex and related issues, especially in media aimed at children; the marketing of products with sexual connotations to children, including clothing; the lack of parental oversight and discipline; access to adult culture via the internet; and the lack of comprehensive school sex education programs.\n\nFor girls and young women in particular, the APA reports that studies have found that sexualization has a negative impact on their \"self-image and healthy development\".\n\nThe APA cites the following as advertising techniques that contribute to the sexualization of girls:\nThe APA additionally further references the teen magazine market by citing a study by Roberts \"et al\" that found that \"47% of 8- to 18-year-old [girls] reported having read at least 5 minutes of a magazine the previous day.\" A majority of these magazines focused on a theme of presenting oneself as sexually desirable to men, a practice which is called \"costuming for seduction\" in a study by Duffy and Gotcher.\n\nStudies have found that thinking about the body and comparing it to sexualized cultural ideals may disrupt a girl's mental concentration, and a girl's sexualization or objectification may undermine her confidence in and comfort with her own body, leading to emotional and self-image problems, such as shame and anxiety.\n\nResearch has linked sexualization with three of the most common mental health problems diagnosed in girls and women: eating disorders, low self-esteem, and depression or depressed mood.\n\nResearch suggests that the sexualization of girls has negative consequences on girls' ability to develop a healthy sexual self-image.\n\nA result of the sexualization of girls in the media is that young girls are \"learning how to view themselves as sex objects\". When girls fail to meet the thin ideal and dominant culture's standard of beauty they can develop anxieties. Sexualization is problematic for young children who are developing their sexual identity as they may think that turning themselves into sex objects is empowering and related to having sexual agency.\n\nSome commercial products seen as promoting the sexualization of children have drawn considerable media attention:\n\nThe Scottish Executive report surveyed 32 High street UK retailers and found that many of the larger chains, including Tesco, Debenhams, JJ Sports, and Marks & Spencer did not offer sexualized goods aimed at children. The report noted that overall prevalence was limited but this was based on a very narrow research brief. Whilst this shows that not all High street retailers were aiming products deemed sexualized by the researchers, the research cannot be taken out of context and used to say that there is not an issue of sexualization.\n\nSexualization has also been a subject of debate for academics who work in media and cultural studies. Here, the term has not been used to simply to label what is seen as a social problem, but to indicate the much broader and varied set of ways in which sex has become more visible in media and culture. These include;\nthe widespread discussion of sexual values, practices and identities in the media;\nthe growth of sexual media of all kinds; for example, erotica, slash fiction, sexual self-help books and the many genres of pornography; \nthe emergence of new forms of sexual experience, for example instant message or avatar sex made possible by developments in technology; \na public concern with the breakdown of consensus about regulations for defining and dealing with obscenity; \nthe prevalence of scandals, controversies and panics around sex in the media.\n\nThe terms \"pornification\" and \"pornographication\" have also been used to describe the way that aesthetics that were previously associated with pornography have become part of popular culture, and that mainstream media texts and other cultural practices \"citing pornographic styles, gestures and aesthetics\" have become more prominent. This process, which Brian McNair has described as a \"pornographication of the mainstream\". has developed alongside an expansion of the cultural realm of pornography or \"pornosphere\" which itself has become more accessible to a much wider variety of audiences. According to McNair, both developments can be set in the context of a wider shift towards a \"striptease culture\" which has disrupted the boundaries between public and private discourse in late modern Western culture, and which is evident more generally in cultural trends which privilege lifestyle, reality, interactivity, self-revelation and public intimacy.\n\nChildren and adolescents spend more time engaging with media than any other age group. This is a time in their life that they are more susceptible to information that they receive. Children are getting sex education from the media, little kids are exposed to sexualized images and more information than ever before in human history but are not able to process the information, they are not developmentally ready to process it, and this impacts their development and behavior.\n\nSexualization of young girls in the media and infantilization of women creates an environment where it becomes more acceptable to view children as \"seductive and sexy\". It makes having healthy sexual relationships more difficult for people and creates sexist attitudes. Sexualization also contributes to sexual violence and childhood sexual abuse \"where 1 in 4 girls and 1 in 6 boys are sexually abused during childhood\".\n\nThe Australian writers, Catharine Lumby and Kath Albury (2010) have suggested that sexualization is \"a debate that has been simmering for almost a decade\" and concerns about sex and the media are far from new. Much of the recent writing on sexualization has been the subject of criticism that because of the way that it draws on \"one-sided, selective, overly simplifying, generalizing, and negatively toned\" evidence and is \"saturated in the languages of concern and regulation\". In these writings and the widespread press coverage that they have attracted, critics state that the term is often used as \"a non-sequitur causing everything from girls flirting with older men to child sex trafficking\" They believe that the arguments often ignore feminist work on media, gender and the body and present a very conservative and negative view of sex in which only monogamous heterosexual sexuality is regarded as normal. They say that the arguments tend to neglect any historical understanding of the way sex has been represented and regulated, and they often ignore both theoretical and empirical work on the relationship between sex and media, culture and technology.\n\nThe sexualization of women being influenced by society is a problem that should be avoided due to its impact on how women value and present themselves. The way society shapes ones personal interest is presented in a book review of \"Girls Gone Skank\" by Patrice Oppliger, Amanda Mills states that \"consequently, girls are socialized to participate in their own abuse by becoming avid consumers of and altering their behavior to reflect sexually exploitative images and goods.\" The belief that women are powerful and fully capable as men is stated in the text \"Uses Of The Erotic: The Erotic As Power\" by Audre Lorde stating that the suppression of the erotic of women has led them feeling superior to men \"the superficially, erotic had been encouraged as a sign of female inferiority on the other hand women have been made to suffer and to feel opposed contemptible and suspect by virtue of its existence\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2148069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2148069", "title": "Social peer-to-peer processes", "text": "Social peer-to-peer processes\n\nSocial peer-to-peer processes are interactions with a peer-to-peer dynamic. These peers can be humans or computers. Peer-to-peer (P2P) is a term that originated from the popular concept of the P2P distributed computer application architecture which partitions tasks or workloads between peers. This application structure was popularized by file sharing systems like Napster, the first of its kind in the late 1990s.\n\nThe concept has inspired new structures and philosophies in many areas of human interaction. P2P human dynamic affords a critical look at current authoritarian and centralized social structures. Peer-to-peer is also a political and social program for those who believe that in many cases, peer-to-peer modes are a preferable option.\n\nP2P is a specific form of relational dynamic, based on the assumed equipotency of its participants, organized through the free cooperation of equals in view of the performance of a common task, for the creation of a common good, with forms of decision making and autonomy that are widely distributed throughout the network.\n\nThere are several fundamental aspects of social P2P processes:\n\nPeer production does not produce commodities for exchange value, and does not use the price mechanism or corporate hierarchy to determine the allocation of resources. It must therefore be distinguished from both the capitalist market (though it can be linked and embedded in the broader market) and from production through state and corporate planning; as a mode of governance it differs from traditional linear hierarchies; and as a mode of property it differs from both traditional private property and state-based collective public property; it is rather the common property of its producers and users and the whole of humankind. Unlike private property, peer property is inclusive rather than exclusive — its nature is to share ownership as widely, rather than as narrowly, as possible.\n\nP2P processes are not structureless, but are characterized by dynamic and changing structures which adapt themselves to phase changes. Its rules are not derived from an external authority, as in hierarchical systems, but are generated from within. It does not deny ‘authority’, but only fixed forced hierarchy, and therefore accepts authority based on expertise, initiation of the project, etc. P2P may be the first true meritocracy. P2P eliminates most, if not all, barriers to entry. The threshold for participation is kept as low as possible. Equipotency means that there is no prior formal filtering for participation, but rather that it is the immediate practice of cooperation which determines the expertise and level of participation. Communication is not top-down and based on strictly defined reporting rules, but feedback is systemic, integrated in the protocol of the cooperative system. Techniques of 'participation capture' and other social accounting make automatic cooperation the default scheme of the project. Personal identity becomes partly generated by the contribution to the common project. P2P characterists have been studied by Howard Rheingold \"et al.\"'s Cooperation Project.\n\nP2P is a network, not a linear or 'pyramidal' hierarchy (though it may have elements of it); it is 'distributed', though it may have elements of centralization and 'decentralisation'; intelligence is not located at any center, but everywhere within the system. Assumed equipotency means that P2P systems start from the premise that ‘it doesn’t know where the needed resource will be located’, it assumes that ‘everybody’ can cooperate, and does not use formal rules in advance to determine its participating members. Participants are expected to self-select the module that corresponds best to their expertise. Equipotency, i.e. the capacity to cooperate, is verified in the process of cooperation itself. Validation of knowledge, acceptance of processes, are determined by the collective through the use of digital rules which are embedded in the project's basic protocol. Cooperation must be free, not forced, and not based on neutrality (i.e. the buying of cooperation in a monetary system). It exists to produce something. It enables the widest possible participation. These are a number of characteristics that we can use to describe P2P systems ‘in general’, and in particular as it emerges in the human lifeworld. Whereas participants in hierarchical systems are subject to the panoptism of the select few who control the vast majority, in P2P systems, participants have access to holoptism, the ability for any participant to see the whole.\n\nThe first requirement to facilitate the emergence of peer-to-peer processes is the existence of a technological infrastructure that enables distributed access to fixed capital. Individual computers that enable a universal machine capable of executing any logical task are a form of distributed fixed capital, available at low cost to many producers. The internet, as a point to point network, was specifically designed for participation by the edges (computer users) without the use of obligatory hubs. Although it is not fully in the hands of its participants, the internet is controlled through distributed governance, and outside the complete hegemony of particular private or state actors. The Internet's hierarchical elements, such as the stacked IP protocols and Domain Name System, do not deter participation. Viral communicators, or meshworks, are a logical extension of the internet. With this methodology, devices create their own networks through the use of excess capacity, bypassing the need for a pre-existing infrastructure. Wireless community networks, Open Spectrum advocacy, file-serving television, and alternative meshwork-based telecommunication infrastructures are exemplary of this trend.\n\nThe second requirement is alternative information and communication systems which allow for autonomous communication between cooperating agents. The web (in particular the Writeable Web and the Web 2.0 that is in the process of being established) allows for the universal autonomous production, dissemination, and 'consumption' of written material while the associated podcasting and webcasting developments create an 'alternative information and communication infrastructure' for audio and audiovisual creation. The existence of such an infrastructure enables autonomous content production that may be distributed without the intermediary of the classic publishing and broadcasting media (though new forms of mediation may arise).\n\nThe third requirement is the existence of a 'software' infrastructure for autonomous global cooperation. A growing number of collaborative tools, such as blogs and wikis, embedded in social networking software facilitate the creation of trust and social capital, making it possible to create global groups that can create use-value without the intermediary of manufacturing or distribution by for-profit enterprises.\n\nThe fourth requirement is a legal infrastructure that enables the creation of use-value and protects it from private appropriation. The General Public License (which prohibits the appropriation of software code), the related Open Source Initiative, and certain versions of the Creative Commons license fulfill this role. They enable the protection of common use-value and use viral characteristics to spread. GPL and related material can only be used in projects that in turn put their adapted source code in the public domain.\n\nThe fifth requirement is cultural. The diffusion of mass intellectuality, (i.e. the distribution of human intelligence) and associated changes in ways of feeling and being (ontology), ways of knowing (epistemology) and value constellations (axiology) have been instrumental in creating the type of cooperative individualism needed to sustain an ethos which can enable P2P projects.\n\nThere are two important aspects to the emergence of P2P in the economic sphere. On the one hand, as format for peer production processes, it is emerging as a 'third mode of production' based on the cooperation of autonomous agents. Indeed, if the first mode of production was laissez-faire based capitalism, and the second mode was the model of a centrally-planned economy, then the third mode is defined neither by the motor of profit, nor by central planning: to allocate resources and make decisions, it does not use market and pricing mechanisms, or managerial commands, but instead uses social relations. Peer production is a significant part of the mainstream economy, even if it is not much advertised as such in mainstream economic literature.\n\nDespite significant differences, P2P and the capitalist market are highly interconnected. P2P is dependent on the market and the market is dependent on P2P. Peer production produces use-value through mostly immaterial production, without directly providing an income for its producers. Participants cannot live from peer production, though they derive meaning and value from it.\n\nThe market and capitalism are also dependent on P2P. Capitalism has become a system relying on distributed networks, in particular on the P2P infrastructure in computing and communication. Productivity is highly reliant on cooperative teamwork, most often organized in ways that are derivative of peer production's governance. The support given by major IT companies to open-source development is a testimony to the use derived from even the new common property regimes. The general business model seems to be that businesses use the P2P infrastructure, and create a surplus value through services, which can be packaged for exchange value. For-profit enterprises mostly use partial implementations of P2P. Amazon built itself around user reviews, eBay lives on a platform of worldwide distributed auctions, and Google is constituted by user-generated content. Value creation today is no longer confined to the enterprise, but beholden to the mass intellectuality of knowledge workers, who through their lifelong learning/experiencing and systemic connectivity, constantly innovate within and without the enterprise. Yet more recently, in the last decade, peer-to-peer exchanges have become even more prevalent in the so-called \"sharing economy\", also termed an \"access economy\" or a \"peer exchange economy.\" For instance, businesses such as Uber, Lyft, and Airbnb are all based on peer-to-peer physical exchanges. This sharing economy is projected by some analysts to encompass $335 billion by 2025.\n\nPeer-to-peer systems contribute to more specific forms of distributed capitalism. The massive use of open source software in business, enthusiastically supported by venture capital and large IT companies such as IBM, is creating a distributed software platform that will drastically undercut the monopolistic rents enjoyed by companies such as Microsoft and Oracle, while Skype and VoIP will drastically redistribute the telecom infrastructure. In addition, it also points to a new business model that is 'beyond' products, focusing instead on services associated with the nominally free FS/OS software model. Industries are gradually transforming themselves to incorporate user-generated innovation, and a new intermediation may occur around user-generated media. Many knowledge workers are choosing non-corporate paths and becoming mini-entrepreneurs, relying on an increasingly sophisticated participatory infrastructure, a kind of digital corporate commons.\n\nSocial P2P systems are different from market economy: neither market pricing nor managerial command are required for P2P processes to make decisions regarding the allocation of resources. There are further differences:\n\n\nMarkets do not function well for common needs that do not involve direct payment (national defense, general policing, education and public health). In addition, they fail to take into account negative externalities (the environment, social costs, future generations).\n\nIn \"The Political Economy of Peer Production\" Bauwens regards P2P phenomena as an emerging alternative to capitalist society. P2P economy may be seen as extending or already existing outside the sphere of free/open source software production and other non-rival immaterial goods. Peer production effectively enables the free cooperation of producers, who have access to their own means of production, and the resulting use-value of the projects supersedes for-profit alternatives.\n\nHistorically, though forces of higher productivity may be temporarily embedded in the old productive system, they ultimately lead to deep upheavals and reconstitutions of the political economy. The emergence of capitalist modes within the feudal system is a case in point. This is particularly significant because leading sectors of the for-profit economy are deliberately slowing down productive growth (through patents and monopolization) and trying to outlaw P2P production and sharing practices.\n\nGovernments of countries are composed of a specialized and privileged body of individuals, who monopolize political decision-making. Their function is to enforce existing laws, legislate new ones, and arbitrate conflicts via their monopoly on violence. Legislation can be open to the general citizenry through open source governance, allowing policy development to benefit from the collected wisdom of the people as a whole.\n\nMichel Bauwens has stated, that society is not a peer group with an a priori consensus, but rather a decentralized structure of competing groups and representative democracy cannot be replaced entirely by peer governance.\n\nPeer projects which evolve beyond a certain scale and start facing issues of decisions about scarce resources, will probably adapt some representational mechanisms. Representative and bureaucratic decision-making can and will in some places be replaced by global governance networks which may be self-governed to a large extent, but in any case, it will and should incorporate more and more Multistakeholder Models (i.e. collaborative e-democracy), which strives to include all groups that could be affected. This group-based partnership model is different, but related in spirit, to the individual-based peer governance, because they share an ethos of participation.\n\nMany new movements are taking on P2P organizational formats, such as the alter-globalization movement and the \"Occupy\" movement (i.e. Occupy Wall Street). The movements see itself as a network of networks that combines players from a wide variety of fields and opinion, who, despite the fact that they do not see eye to eye in all things, manage to unite around a common platform of action around certain key events.\n\nThey are able to mobilize vast numbers of people from every continent, without having at their disposal any of the traditional news media, such as television, radio or newspapers. Rather, they rely almost exclusively on the P2P technologies described above. Thus, Internet media are used for communication and learning on a continuous basis, prior to the mobilizations, and also during the mobilizations.\n\nIndependent Internet media platforms such as Indymedia, as well as the skillful use of mobile phones, are used for real-time response management, undertaken by small groups that use buddy-list technologies, and sometimes open source programs that have been explicitly designed for political activism such as TextMob.\n\nMany reports have appeared, including those described in Howard Rheingold's Smart Mobs, about the political significance of SMS in organizing successful protests and ‘democratic revolutions’. The network model allows for a more fluid organization that does not fix any group in a permanent adversarial position. Various temporary coalitions are created on an ad hoc basis depending on the issues.\n\nThe following is a list of individuals who have made contributions to the peer-to-peer paradigm.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMIT Press, 2004 (power as embedded in the digital protocols governing networked systems)\n\n"}
{"id": "17112589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17112589", "title": "Social viewing", "text": "Social viewing\n\nSocial viewing describes a recently developed practice revolving around the ability for multiple users to aggregate from multiple sources and view online videos together in a synchronized viewing experience.\n\nTypically the experience also involves some form of instant messaging or communication to facilitate discussion pertaining to the common viewing experience.\n\nThe term in this context originated with the Toronto and Los Angeles-based company View2Gether which has created proprietary technology for aggregating content from sources not controlled by the user for synchronized play and inclusion in common playlists by multiple participants with a commensurate instant messaging chat function. Other sites which provide similar functionality include Oortle (Photophlow), SeeToo and development of social viewing for existing portals such as Yahoo have recently been announced.\n\nThe term has been used in some cases to describe online viewing within the framework of a social network, however View2gether and similar sites have reconfigured the term to mean a common viewing experience as a social activity.\n\nSocial viewing has also been used in the past to describe activities such as gathering for the viewing of particular television programs, such as soap operas.\n\nSome examples of modern social viewing sites include Twitch, YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter.\n"}
{"id": "3608055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3608055", "title": "Sociology of gender", "text": "Sociology of gender\n\nSociology of gender is a prominent subfield of sociology. Social interaction directly correlated with sociology regarding social structure. One of the most important social structures is status. This is determined based on position that an individual possesses which effects how he/she will be treated by society. One of the most important statuses an individual claims is gender. Public discourse and the academic literature generally use the term \"gender\" for the perceived or projected (self-identified) masculinity or femininity of a person.\n\nThe term \"gender role\" was coined by John Money in a seminal 1955 paper where he defined it as \"all those things that a person says or does to disclose himself or herself as having the status of boy or man, girl or woman.\"\n\nA person's gender is complex, encompassing countless characteristics of appearance, speech, movement and other factors not solely limited to biological sex. Societies tend to have gender systems in which everyone is categorized as male or female. Some societies include a third gender role; for instance, the Native American Two-Spirit people and the Hijras of India. There is debate over the extent to which gender is a social construct or a biological construct .\n\nDuring the 1970s, there was no consensus about how the terms were to be applied. In the 1974 edition of \"Masculine/Feminine or Human\", the author uses \"innate gender\" and \"learned sex roles\", but in the 1978 edition, the use of \"sex\" and \"gender\" is reversed. By 1980, most feminist writings had agreed on using \"gender\" only for socioculturally adapted traits.\n\nLiberal feminism is the belief that individuals should be free to develop their own talents and pursue their interests. Individuals seek to expand equality by removing the barriers in society. Socialist feminism thinks that capitalism strengthens patriarchy by concentrating wealth and power in the hands of a few. The traditional family structure should be replaced by a collective revolution. In Radical feminism, they believe that patriarchy is so deeply rooted in society that even a sociological revolution would not end it; Society must eliminate gender itself.\n\nIn English, both \"sex\" and \"gender\" are used in contexts where they could not be substituted (sexual intercourse; anal sex; safe sex; sex worker; sex slave). Other languages, like German, use the same word \"Geschlecht\" to refer both to grammatical gender and to biological sex, making the distinction between \"sex\" and \"gender\" advocated by some anthropologists difficult. In some contexts, German has adopted the English loan-word \"gender\" to achieve this distinction. Sometimes 'Geschlechtsidentität' is used as gender (although it literally means \"gender identity\") and 'Geschlecht' as sex (translation of Judith Butler's \"Gender Trouble\"). More common is the use of modifiers: \"biologisches Geschlecht\" for \"sex\", \"Geschlechtsidentität\" for \"gender identity\" and \"Geschlechterrolle\" for \"gender role\" etc.\n\nMedia criticism is a reflection of the gender inequality in society through print, advertisements, television and music. Media influences and reinforces the idea of The Beauty Myth as discussed in Naomi Wolf's book, The Beauty Myth: How Images of Beauty Are Used Against Women, which refers to unrealistic standards of beauty for women. Some argue that the mainstream media perpetuates the idea of hetero-masculinity by portraying men as dominant. Some also argue that the media objectifies and oppresses women, and men who don't fall into the heteronormative category.\n\nThrough the media, men are taught to be ultra-masculine by being desensitized, violent, and physically strong. Other forms of media that often portray the ultra-masculine figure are advertisements, specifically beer commercials. These forms encourage men to oppress other men if they do not fit the ideals of heteromasculinity.\n\nObjectification of women refers to instances in the media in which women may be viewed as, or directly compared to, insentient objects that can be acquired and/or possessed. This can be examined in the context of advertisements, where objects may be anthropomorphized and given feminine qualities or aspects of the female form. Some studies indicate that widespread objectification of women in the media may have significant repercussions on society, such as low self-esteem and/or eating disorders among women.\n\nSocialization theory offers a straightforward account of the acquisition of gendered identities. Infants are seen as blank slates, waiting to be written down on by their environment. Through their interactions with people close to them and exposure to the values of their society, infants learn what sex is attributed to them and what roles they are expected to learn. Reinforcement (through rewarding gender-appropriate behavior and punishing what may seem as deviant behavior) socializes children into their genders. Parents, for example, are far more likely to engage with their sons in rough physical play than they are with their daughters, and it has been argued that long-term consequences may follow (in this case, a head start for boys in the development of physical violence and aggressiveness.)\n\nParents and family can influence the way that a child develops their view of gender. These types of influences can include parental attitudes and difference of treatment regarding male and female children. Researcher Susan Witt claims that parents also expose children to gender from the time they are born via specific toys, colors, and names associated with genders in the binary. Witt suggests that parental attitudes about gender can differ from male to female children and that these attitudes develop quickly after a child's birth.\n\nAuthor Susan Grieshaber, in \"Constructing the Gendered Infant\", suggests that attitudes regarding pregnancy change after parents find out the sex of their child, subsequently changing parental attitudes towards the unborn child. According to Grieshaber's theory, once parents determine the sex of their unborn child, they assume a gender while planning for the child's arrival. Because of this, Grieshaber claims that infants are born into a gendered world where they never know anything other than the gender traits that are assumed due to their sex. Dr. Kara Smith utilizes similar theory throughout the analysis of her pregnancy journals kept throughout her second pregnancy. Smith concluded that her attitude towards her child changed after learning that her child’s sex was male. Smith's claim is reflected in changes in tone of voice when talking to the unborn child as well as differences in physical touch of her stomach throughout the rest of her pregnancy. Another theory of gender socialization, discussed by Susan McHale, is that the gender roles and attitudes of older siblings can impact the gender roles adopted by younger children. Throughout the findings of McHale's study, it is maintained that parents still have the most familial influence on childhood socialization.\n\nBy the time children reach the age of three, many will have acquired a firm sense of themselves as male or female, a gender identity that remains throughout life. In addition, many pre-schoolers develop a firm awareness of gender stereotypes, insisting that certain activities or items of clothing are not for girls and others not for boys. Yet gender identity does not automatically follow from biological sex.\n\nAdults respond differently to communicative efforts of boys and girls. A study of infants aged 13 months found that when boys demand attention - by behaving aggressively, or crying, whining or screaming - they tended to get it. By contrast, adults tended to respond to girls only when they used language, gestures, or gentle touches; girls who used attention-seeking techniques were likely ignored. There was little difference in the communicative patterns at the start of the study, but by the age of two, the girls have become more talkative and boys more assertive in their communicative techniques.\n\nThe norms that are taught throughout childhood are influential in an individual's life because the ideas about gender that are typically taught by parents in early years are reinforced outside of the home. A study done by Dr. Mick Cunningham states that the normative behaviors and attitudes that children observe can influence the way that these children grow up to structure their own households in adulthood. Normative gender roles can be reinforced outside of the household, adding power to these hegemonic ideas about gender. An analysis of children’s books in the twenty-first century, by Janice McCabe, suggests that this particular avenue of children’s media symbolically annihilates females, representing them about half as often as that of males. Underrepresentation such as this can affect children and their views of gender. Children’s TV networks, such as Disney, Nickelodeon, and Cartoon Network have demonstrated a disproportional representation of males and females on their respective shows in a study done by Beth Hentges and Kim Case. According to Hentges and Case, there are less female characters across all three children’s networks; however, there is more propagation of stereotypical gendered behavior on Cartoon Network and Nickelodeon than that of Disney.\n\nSome children are raised in atypical households that challenge normative gender roles. In Jada Tidwell's study, she observes the play of children who come from households with lesbian feminist mothers (both single mothers and couples). Tidwell's observations consisted of both individual play as well as play integrated with the mothers. As a result of these observations, Tidwell asserts that atypical environments can affect children’s lives and ideas. According to Tidwell, households that challenge hegemonic cultural ideas ultimately give children a different perspective of gender than those of children raised in heterosexual, two parent households. In the families studied by Jada Tidwell, children reported ideas that both endorsed and challenged stereotypical gender roles at times. In a different study, Abbie Goldberg observed toddlers from various types of households and how these children engaged in play. Goldberg's findings suggest that children whose parents are of the same gender tend to play in ways that are less adherent to stereotypical gender roles than children from heterosexual households. Susan Witt, in her article “Parental Influence on Children’s Socialization to Gender Roles’, advocates for androgynous gender roles in parenting, arguing that environments are more open minded about gender and encouraging to both their sons and daughters.\n\nOne of the most influential of the psychoanalytic theories of gender identity is the perspective developed in the book The Reproduction of Mothering. Its author, Nancy Chodorow, traces the implications for emotional development by linking them with the way mothers usually care for their infants in their formative years, while fathers are more emotionally distant. The development of an identity takes place as the infant gets more and more separated from his/her mother, with whom the infant is initially psychically merged. This process however operates differently for boys and girls. Girls can separate gradually, maintain a continuous sense of relationship with the mother, who is after all experienced as alike. For boys, on the other hand, separating from the mother, who is experienced as different, involves repressing the feminine aspects of themselves and rejecting their tenderness that was central to that early relationship. Boys' sense of maleness, according to Chodorow, is achieved at a great emotional cost.\n\nConsequently, men grow up to have a more autonomous sense of self, and to be more independent, more instrumental and competitive in their dealings with others. They are also more likely to have difficulty expressing their emotions and to be anxious about intimacy. Women, on the other hand, have more ability and more need to sustain relationship with others.; they have greater empathy with others. They have difficulty however in maintaining the boundaries of an independent and autonomous self.\n\nChodorow however believes that these patterns aren't inevitable. Changes in the social arrangements for care of children such as dual parenting, which would involve fathers in emotional intimacy with their children, can break the cycle.\n\nBefore industrialization, economic activity, which centered around agricultural work, crafts and so on, was organized by households. Household members, whether male or female, young or old, contributed to the family's livelihood. Although women might do some types of work and men others, depending on region and class, the distinction between men as breadwinners and women as housewives didn't characterize pre-industrial divisions of labor.\n\nIndustrialization shifted much productive activity to factories, shops and offices. This separation of work from home signaled a profound change in gender relations and gender discourse. The home came to be understood not as the site of a family enterprise, but as a refuge from the world of work. Women were defined as the keepers of the home, as it was seen as their nature to create harmony and virtue rather than services and goods. Preindustrial society relied on gendered roles in the workforce to create equilibrium between men and women. Men were assigned the hunter role while women were assigned the domestic roles. Men were expected to supply food and shelter for the family while women were the caretakers for the children and their household. As centuries passed, this continued and created a divide in gendered roles in labor. Women remained dependent on men to provide, this dependence led to male roles being more valued in society which still remains in the 21st century.\n\nSome research has found that, in classroom settings, male students tend to talk more, and longer, than female students. This was determined to be particularly noticeable when the instructor is male.\n\nSimilar results were found previously in hospitals by Erving Goffman in 1961, university discussion groups by Elizabeth Aries in 1972, and in corporate settings by Rosabeth Kanter in 1977.\n\nWomen and men experience different types of mobility within the workplace. Women tend to experience a glass ceiling, an invisible barrier that prevents them from moving up the corporate ladder. Men in jobs traditionally held by women, such as nursing, elementary school teaching, and social work, experience a \"glass escalator\" effect in which they are able to quickly ascend the job hierarchy to become managers and principals. There also tends to be a gender pay gap between men and women, with women earning 77% as much as men.\nOne cause of the gender pay gap may be due to occupational segregation, which pushes men and women towards gender-specific forms of employment, rather than pay discrimination. Another cause is the double burden, a phenomenon in which women perform most of the unpaid childcare and household work despite being otherwise employed for pay. A third cause is occupational sexism, one part of which favors men for promotions due to their traditional breadwinner status. The 2001 class action lawsuit, Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., charged Wal-Mart with sexist hiring and promotion practices.\n\nIn addition, the emergence of transgender individuals in the workplace has begun to disrupt the gender binary of male and female. By creating a hybrid gender identity, the transgender community suggests notions of movement toward postgenderism.\n\nIntersectionality is a Neo-Marxist concept stemming from a critical theory social analysis of class, race, and gender. The theory of intersectionality argues that forms of \"inequality, oppression, and privilege\" are shaped by interconnected axes of identity, and are mutually reinforced by social interactions and by social, political, and economic structures, such as capitalism, patriarchy, and institutionalized heteronormativity. The theory of Intersectionality argues that race, class, gender, and other markers of identity are social constructions. This theory argues against the assumption that systems of power relations are normative and can hold individuals accountable for their own character and efforts.\n\nWest & Fenstermaker in their 1995 article \"Doing Difference\" offer that models that conceive gender, race and class as distinct axes are highly limiting in their understanding of the whole experience or identity of an individual. For example, they critique the additive model, in which the whole will never be greater (or lesser) than the sum of it parts. By analyzing each identity marker as an individual characteristic, we ignore the effect of the interconnection of these markers.\n\nAdditional sociologists have written about the intersectionality of class, race, and gender. Joan Acker outlines four gendered processes of intersectionality. The first includes procedures that create hierarchies based on gender and race. Another is the process in which social images and ideas condone gendered institutions. The third is a process of interaction between individuals and groups that, through communication, creates gender. The fourth is the internal labeling of the self and others to gendered personas. Evelyn Nakano Glenn critiques both the patriarchy model of gender, which ignores racial differences among oppressed women, and the internal colonialism model, which focuses on minority populations in general, ignoring gender differences.\n\nEmbodiment may be defined as the ways in which cultural ideals of gender in a given society create expectations for and influence the form of our bodies. There is a bidirectional relationship between biology and culture; by embodying societally determined gender roles we reinforce cultural ideals and simultaneously shape, both temporarily and permanently, our bodies, which then perpetuates the cultural ideal. While there is actually more variation in body type within the male and female sexes than there is between the two sexes, embodiment exaggerates the perceived bodily differences between gender categories.\n\nSocial embodiment, for both men and women, is variable across cultures and over time. Examples of women embodying gender norms across cultures include foot binding practices in Chinese culture, neck rings in African and Asian cultures, and corsets in Western cultures. Another interesting phenomenon has been the practice of wearing high heels, which shifted from a masculine fashion to a feminine fashion over time. In the United States, the ideal body image and dimensions have changed for both women and men, with the body ideal female body shape becoming progressively slimmer and the body ideal for men becoming progressively larger.\n\nThese differences are epitomized in the example of children's toys; G.I. Joe dolls depict the physical ideals for boys and Barbie dolls embody the ideals for girls. The Beauty Myth, as discussed in Naomi Wolf's book The Beauty Myth: How Images of Beauty Are Used Against Women, refers to the unattainable standard of beauty for women, which sustains consumer culture. In contrast, men's bodies are also \"dictated\" by cultural ideals of gender, as is evident in consumer culture—especially beer commercials—in which men are portrayed as outdoorsy, tough, strong, and \"manly.\"\n\nSexuality encompasses both sexual behavior and sexual desire. However, Heteronormativity structures social life so that Heterosexuality is always assumed, expected, ordinary and privileged. Its pervasiveness makes it difficult for people to imagine other ways of life. Mass media works to glorify heterosexuality, which in turn lends to its pervasiveness and to its power. Both ordinary and exceptional constructions of heterosexuality work to normalize heterosexuality; thus, it becomes difficult to imagine anything other than this form of social relationship or anyone outside of these bonds.\n\nThere is a common perception of heterosexuality as the \"natural\" emotional and sensual inclination for Human sexuality. Furthermore, marital heterosexuality occupies the largely invisible core of normative and desirable sexuality, while all other sexualities are marginalized and considered perverse and unnatural. Alfred Kinsey created a Heterosexual-Homosexual Rating Scale called the Kinsey Scale, which challenges the common perception of Human sexuality as strictly binary and directly linked to Gender. Drag queens are an example of \"troubling\" gender, complicating the understanding of sexuality in our society by causing people to think outside the binary of male/female.\n\nFriedrich Engels argued that in hunter-gatherer societies the activities of men and women, although different, had the same importance. As technological advances let to productive surplus, social equality and communal sharing gave way to private property and ultimately class hierarchy. With the rise of agriculture, men gained significant power over women. With surplus wealth to pass on to their heirs, upper class men wanted to ensure their sons were indeed theirs, which led them to control the sexuality of women. The desire to control property brought about monogamous marriage and family. Women were taught to remain virgins until marriage and remain faithful to their husbands thereafter, and to build their lives around bearing and raising one man's children.\n\nMasculinity is a performed gender identity. Contrary to popular perception, it is not the same as sex or sexual orientation. The contents and practices of masculinity are socially constructed and reproduced through daily interaction, especially on a more micro scale. Theorists West & Zimmerman emphasized that gender is maintained through accountability. Men are expected to perform masculinity to the point that it is naturalized. Thus, a man's status depends on his performance. It is important to note, however, that masculinity can be performed by any sex.\n\nThe dominant form of masculinity in a society is known as hegemonic masculinity. Men are constantly performing this to prove their status as men. It is not really possible to reach it, especially as peers are in constant surveillance of each other, looking for flaws in their performance. Hegemonic masculinity is constructed in opposition to femininity and is dominant to all other gender identities (including alternative masculinities). Men are socialized from birth to perform it, especially through behavior and symbolism. One of the prominent behaviors is aggression in order to protect one's reputation. An example of symbols used would be clothing.\n\nSociologist Michael Kimmel describes three cultures that support masculinity (especially in young men) in his 2008 book, \"Guyland\":\n\nSome of the prominent attitudes and behaviors of western hegemonic masculinity are: power, sexual dominance and activity, wealth, aggression, independence, and lack of emotion. Less extreme sexual harassment is often seen as normal behavior. Exemplifying control theory, the norms of masculinity are so rigidly ingrained that men find little room to escape and end up constantly reproducing them.\n\nHegemonic masculinity is often reproduced and reinforced through media and culture. \"Media representations of men…often glorify men's use of physical force, a daring demeanor, virility, and emotional distance.\" Contemporary rap music is a striking example of masculinity on display. Rappers boast about their sexual conquests of women (emphasizing heterosexuality as well), wealth, power and violence.\n\nGender-based violence is the physical, sexual or emotional harm or suffering enacted upon an individual as contextualized by societal gender norms. Violence affects the lives of millions worldwide, in all socio-economic and educational classes. It cuts across cultural and religious barriers, impeding the right of many to participate fully in society. Violence is about power, control, and domination. Systems of inequality and oppression interact positioning certain groups as particularly vulnerable to violence. Gendered violence takes place within a socially constructed power dynamic in which one ideology (masculinity) dominates another (femininity). What it means to be a woman in society is influenced and ascribed by the media, which acts a \"powerful educational force\". The media glamorizes violence against women cultivating a \"toxic cultural environment\" in which women are institutionally positioned as inferior and worthy objects of violence.\n\nMen are disproportionally the offenders, and women disproportionally the victims. Those that commit violent crimes are overwhelmingly male—rape (98%), armed robbery (92%), drunk driving (90%), murder (88%), aggravated assault (87%), arson (86%), and family violence (83%). According to Michael Kimmel, hegemonic masculinity creates a culture of entitlement, silence, and protection, which effectively normalizes violence against women and silences victims of violence.\n\nThe Declaration on the Elimination of Violence defines three social arenas in which violence commonly takes place (1) in the family—including domestic violence, infanticide, and traditional practices such as female genital mutilation, foot binding, and bride burning; (2) in the community—including rape, sexual assault, sexual harassment, and commercialized violence such as sexual slavery, labor exploitation, female migrant workers; and (3) by the State—including violence against women in detention, and in situations of armed conflict such as systematic war rape. In order to address and end gendered violence, solutions must address both the root causes and interpersonal manifestations of gender roles and power relations in order to ensure a balance of power at all levels of society.\n\nGlobalization refers to the increasingly global relationships of culture, people and economic activity. Globalization impacts female equality on a large and international scale, both negatively and positively. With continuous changes in international relations, the perception of feminism in Western and Nonwestern societies is frequently revised. It is important to be wary of Western bias in sociological accounts of global feminism, as Modern Western society is not always due credit for feminist reform in other cultures and countries.\n\nFeminist sentiments – or a push for gender equality – emerge as a result of the nation-specific circumstances, not according to the exported beliefs of Western society. Advances in female equality and status are often not the result of national groups or corporations, but of individuals and small groups.\n\nOne of the results of globalization is the increased use of female factory workers in nonwestern countries. In Mexico, the female worker is ideal because she is seen as docile and inexpensive labor. Stereotypical feminine traits such as beauty, domesticity, and docility are exaggerated and exploited for the production of goods. These gender traits then frame the behavior of the women beyond the occupational realm. Despite increasing feminism, the lack of economic and social mobility prevents women in many nations from having equal status in society.\n\nOne of the solutions to erasing gender inequalities globally, is to provide resources and funds to impoverished women who will in turn use them for education as well as business ventures. The global economy could benefit drastically from incorporating educated women into the workforce.\n\nThroughout history, and around the world, the idea of a third gender has existed. In Native American culture, the two spiririt had gender roles different from men and women. The muxe of southern Mexico are males who identify as neither male or female. In Samoa the Fa'afafine are biological males who identify as females. The hijra are biological males who identify as women. They are considered outsiders in their communities and have formed their own language. In the United States, the concept of a third gender is beginning to gain traction. California now allows for drivers licenses to have the gender \"non-binary\", see genderqueer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5828847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5828847", "title": "Strategic communication", "text": "Strategic communication\n\nStrategic communication can mean either communicating a concept, a process, or data that satisfies a long term strategic goal of an organization by allowing facilitation of advanced planning, or communicating over long distances usually using international telecommunications or dedicated global network assets to coordinate actions and activities of operationally significant commercial, non-commercial and military business or combat and logistic subunits. It can also mean the related function within an organization, which handles internal and external communication processes. Strategic communication can also be used for political warfare.\n\nStrategic communication refers to policy-making and guidance for consistent information activity within an organization and between organizations. Equivalent business management terms are: integrated (marketing) communication, organizational communication, corporate communication, institutional communication, etc. (see paragraph on 'Commercial Application' below).\n\nIn the U.S. government context, strategic communication has been defined as \"Focused United States Government efforts to understand and engage key audiences to create, strengthen, or preserve conditions favorable for the advancement of United States Government interests, policies, and objectives through the use of coordinated programs, plans, themes, messages, and products synchronized with the actions of all instruments of national power.\"\n\nStrategic communication management could be defined as the systematic planning and realization of information flow, communication, media development and image care in a long-term horizon. It conveys deliberate message(s) through the most suitable media to the designated audience(s) at the appropriate time to contribute to and achieve the desired long-term effect. Communication management is process creation. It has to bring three factors into balance: the message(s), the media channel(s) and the audience(s).\n\nAn alternative view of strategic communication is offered by Steve Tatham of the UK Defence Academy. He argues that whilst it is desirable to bound and coordinate communications together - particularly from governments or the military - it should be regarded in a much more fundamental manner than simply process. The 'informational effect' should be placed at the very epi-centre of command and that all action must be calibrated against that effect - including the evaluation of 2nd and 3rd order effects. This is, he argues, proper Strategic Communication (communication singular — an abstract noun) whilst the actual process of communicating (which include Target Audience Analysis, evaluation of conduits, measurements of effect etc.) — is Strategic Communications (plural).\n\nIn the August 2008 paper, \"DoD Principles of Strategic Communication,\" Robert T. Hastings, Jr., acting Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs, described strategic communication as \"the synchronization of images, actions and words to achieve a desired effect.\"\n\nCommunication is strategic when it is completely consistent with the organisation mission, vision, values and when it is able to enhance the strategic positioning and competitiveness between their competitors. It is important to understand the concept of communication strategy, it should be seen from the organization’s perspective and no one else beside them. As a result of this communication, strategic communication should follow ‘The nature of organisational communication in general, and strategic communication in particular, is defined as the purposeful use of communication by an organisation to fulfill its mission’ stated by (Hallahan et al., 2007). Therefore, the Strategic Communications Framework should be lay out to aim the objectives of communicating to the audience/organisation. The deliberate application of the specific content will help achieve the business goal clearly. While communication is something that does happen in the organisation, businesses that take steps to implement sound strategies impacting the effectiveness of their business communications can achieve measurable results. According to Mulhern(2009), Technological advancement have been a huge factor in business meaning that information can be communicated through many diverse channels and media like the internet and through ads. Technology have been rapidly growing throughout the year pretty fast, accelerating communication that allow customers to connect and communicate with others. This will make it easier for them to reach to each other in a traditional communication way that suit the demand of their needs. ‘These changes mean that marketers are in a far more challenging competitive environment in attempting to fulfil customers wants and needs, while simultaneously seeking to develop long-term relationships’( Mulhern, 2009). Having changes in communication will help communication goals, organisation, and communication channels. This will have an effect of measuring the effectiveness of the communication tactics used in a business for their audience. To start a business no matter how small it is, communication strategy should be a goal to start with and it will indicate the future of the business. A business that communicate with their employees about benefit options will have increased the level of trust between them.\n\nStrategic communication provides a conceptual umbrella that enables organizations to integrate their disparate messaging efforts. It allows them to create and distribute communications that, while different in style and purpose, have an inner coherence. This consistency can, in some instances, foster an echo chamber that reinforces the organizational message and brand. At minimum, it prevents contradictory, confusing messaging to different groups across all media platforms.\n\nTo have an object, the first thing to do is have a plan for the business to communicate how the business is formed and to see how strong its core is. Ensure that alignment with the organization’s understanding of where it is currently at. An approach that could be used to determine the current state of the objective, is to do a SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats) analysis. When using a SWOT analysis, the strengths and weaknesses must be realistic. This is to help make improvements or adjustments that were not so good. The analysis will help get a better understanding of the business and will help plan and make the objectives more solid because it shows the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats the business is facing. This helps decide where the business is today, and where it will be in the future.\nPlanning is a continuous process of research and analysis, task analysis, execution, and assessment. Success in this process requires diligent and continual analysis, and assessment being fed back into planning and actions.\n\nHave interviews with the customers to learn their priorities and what goals they want to achieve with the organization. Having a good understanding of the business issues, this will allow the organisation to offer effective solutions that will help the objective. Ask questions to see what the customer’s aim is, with the main goal to focus on what needs to be achieved and done and not what he/ or she wants. ‘Sustainability calls for a value chain approach, whereby firms need to take wider responsibility and collaborate with a range of stakeholders to ensure that unsustainable practices are addressed’ (Scandelius, & Cohen,2015).\n\nObjectives should have a specific end points to provide an indicator of success. Kotler et al., (2013) stated by understanding the consumer and the marketplace, he or she can design a marketing strategy. To have an understanding to what is happening around the organisation will ensure that planning the marketing strategy will be easy because the vision is there and making sure the objectives are SMART. Objectives are the intended goals of a business campaigns, to show what is achievable. The objectives are effective when using SMART goals: they need to be specific, measurable, achievable, realistic and time-sensitive. Have assignments for individuals or groups so the responsibilities for each of these objectives are already set and no adjustments are needed because they have been assigned to a specific person or group. The responsibility is in their hands. This is to indicate the specific individual or group have a direct preliminary objective they are assigned to. They will need to develop a range of possible strategies and tactics to achieve the objectives given to them.\n\nBrainstorm a list of potential strategies achievable for each of the objectives given out by the business and its customers, and have tactics that will support these strategies and objectives. Gather as a team to discuss the merits of each proposed strategy to the organisation. The discussion must be about the strategies that will most likely be able to be used and those that are unlikely to be used. Some strategies will not be achievable, will be difficult or no solution will be available for it so these will be crossed of the list. This shortens the list and helps to round up the best strategies left to be used. Collectively decide which strategies and tactics are going to be pursued to provide a clear objective for the business. The main focus is to achieve the objectives that were given out by the organisation.\n\nHave the detail behind those strategies and tactics name out so that there is a clear objective and what is needed to be focus on. Explain how it will be successful, how it is measured, the time frame and who will be responsible. To ensure that everything is successfully plan out and the success of these strategies and tactics. To do this planning wisely is a key part, planning does not only help a business achieve the objective but also help with communication within the group. Everyone will be assigned to a responsibility so that these strategies and tactics are meet.\n\nThe recently approved NATO Policy on Strategic Communication defines Strategic Communication as \"the coordinated and appropriate use of NATO communications activities and capabilities – Public Diplomacy, Military Public Affairs, Information Operations and Psychological Operations, as appropriate – in support of Alliance policies, operations and activities, and in order to advance NATO's aims\" (SG(2009)0794). \"It is important to underline that Strategic Communication is first and foremost a process that supports and underpins all efforts to achieve the Alliance's objectives; an enabler that guides and informs our decisions, and not an organization\nin itself. It is for this reason that Strategic Communication considerations should be integrated into the earliest planning phases - communication activities being a consequence of that planning\" (MCM-0164-2009).\n\nStrategic Communication is communication aligned with the company's overall strategy, to enhance its strategic positioning.\n\nStrategic communication is currently subject to multinational CD&E, led by the military, because communication is always an indispensable part of crisis management and compliance strategies. Across the spectrum of missions and broadly covering all levels of involvement in a civil-military, comprehensive approach context, the function of Strategic Communication and its military tool for implementation – Information Operations – have evolved and are still under development, in particular concerning their exact delineation of responsibilities and the integration of non-military and non-coalition actors.\n\nThree major lines of development are acknowledged as state of the art, with practical impact on current crisis management operations and/or multinational interoperability: (1) U.S. national developments, which one can argue have resulted in the most mature concepts for both Strategic Communication and Information Operations so far; (2) NATO concept development, which in the case of Strategic Communication is very much driven by current mission requirements (such as ISAF in Afghanistan), but also has benefitted much from multinational CD&E in the case of Information Operations; and (3) multinational CD&E projects such as the U.S.-led Multinational Experiment (MNE) series and the Multinational Information Operations Experiment (MNIOE), led by Germany.\n\nIntensive discussions involving civil and military practitioners of Strategic Communication and Information Operations - with a view on existing national and NATO approaches to Strategic Communication, and current best practice - have questioned whether a new approach and definition of Strategic Communication really is required. Consequently, a reorientation of CD&E efforts was suggested, focussing now on the theme of \"Integrated Communication\", which better reflects the shared baseline assessment with a broader scope, including but not limited to Strategic Communication:\n\n\nThis change also should prevent false expectations of potential customers of resulting concepts who currently are reluctant to engage in CD&E on the widely implemented subject of Strategic Communication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20004766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20004766", "title": "Tangible symbol systems", "text": "Tangible symbol systems\n\nTangible symbols are a type of augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) that uses objects or pictures that share a perceptual relationship with the items they represent as symbols. A tangible symbol's relation to the item it represents is perceptually obvious and concrete - the visual or tactile properties of the symbol resemble the intended item. Tangible Symbols can easily be manipulated and are most strongly associated with the sense of touch.These symbols can be used by individuals who are not able to communicate using speech or other abstract symbol systems, such as sign language. However, for those who have the ability to communicate using speech, learning to use tangible symbols does not hinder further developing acquisition of natural speech and/or language development, and may even facilitate it.\n\nThe term tangible symbols was first developed by Charity Rowland and Philip Schweigert, and refers to two-dimensional pictures or three-dimensional objects used as symbols to convey meaning. The items are termed \"tangible\" because they are concrete items that can be manipulated by the user and communication partner. Symbols can be used individually or combined with other symbols in order to create new messages. Tangible symbols are used as a means of communication for individuals who are unable to understand or communicate using abstract systems, such as speech or sign language.\n\nProperties of tangible symbols include permanency, capacity to be manipulated by both the user and the communication partner, and an obvious relationship between the symbol and the referent. They can represent items, people, activities and/or events, and look or feel similar to what they refer to. For example, a cup can be used as three-dimensional tangible symbol to represent the action: \"drink\". A photograph of a cup can be used as a two-dimensional tangible symbol to also represent the action : \"drink\". Two- and three-dimensional symbols are used to fit the cognitive and sensory abilities of the individual, as well as the individual's unique experiences. \nRowland and Schweigert use the term tangible symbols to refer to conceptually tangible items like two-dimensional pictures or three-dimensional objects. However, other authors, such as Beukelman and Mirenda, use the term to exclusively describe three-dimensional physical objects that display concrete properties such as shape or texture.\n\nAccording to Rowland and Schweigert, \"for some individuals, the use of tangible symbols may be used to bridge the gap between gestural communication and the use of formal language systems. For others, tangible symbols may represent an ultimate level of communicative competence.\"\n\nHistorically, objects and pictures have frequently been used as communication devices. Many authors have also used picture symbols, such as line drawings and photographs to develop language in individuals with little or no speech and/or cognitive disabilities. Tangible symbols emerged from Van Dijk’s work in the 1960s using objects as symbols to develop language in deaf-blind children. In turn, Van Dijk’s work was based on the concept \"symbol formation\" developed by Werner and Kaplan (1963), who theorized that \"symbol formation\" referred to the process of developing language by creating symbols in our minds.\n\nRowland and Schweigert propose that tangible symbols can be divided into hierarchical categories, ranging from most concrete to most abstract symbols: \n\nThe type of tangible symbol used is chosen based on the cognitive and sensory abilities of the learner/user. The meaning behind each symbol is not universal, but by using a symbol the individual is familiar with, a meaningful symbol is created. Tangible symbols should be constructed by meaningful and motivating symbols that will provide the individual with the most opportunities to practice using the new system.\n\nIndividuals who can benefit from using tangible symbols include those who may lack the skills to communicate using verbal speech or other various communication systems such as sign language. Users of tangible symbols may include individuals with cognitive disabilities (including developmental delay and intellectual disability), sensory and/or visual impairments (blindness and/or deafblindness), developmental disabilities (such as autism spectrum disorder), and orthopedic impairments. Rowland and Schweigert claim that tangible symbols do not require the use of high demands on the learner’s cognitive abilities, memory, visual perception, and motor abilities because they are:\nFurthermore, simple behavioral responses can be used with tangible items. For example, learners that are unable to speak can simply point, touch, pick up, or look (in cases of severe motoric impairment) at the object to answer a question or make a request. Finally, three-dimensional objects can be distinguished from one another using touch, and therefore they are suitable for people with visual impairments or blindness.\nA study by Rowland and Schweigert found individuals who were already able to communicate using gestures or vocalizations more readily learned to use tangible symbols than those who did not have intentional pre-symbolic communication skills.\n\nPresentation format depends on the users visual scanning and motoric ability. The tangible symbols can placed in front of the user within reach, placed on a board for visual scanning, or placed in a book for access.\n\nTypically, tangible symbols are custom made and tailored to the individual child. If pre-made sets are used, it is assumed that the symbols are familiar and motivating for the user. It is important to utilize frequently occurring and highly motivating symbols in order to optimize opportunities for use.\n\nTangible symbol system offers a manual and DVD as well as an online course. For more information on tangible symbol system instructional strategies, please reference: http://designtolearn.com/products/tangible_symbol_systems\n\nIn 2009, Ellen Trief, Susan M. Bruce, Paul W. Cascella, and Sarah Ivy created a Universal Tangible Symbol System. They began by developing a survey to determine which tangible symbols were already in use, new activities and concepts for which tangible systems are needed, and participant preferences for tangible symbols from a pilot study. Participants included teachers and speech-language pathologists from four New York City schools. Following the survey, an advisory board consisting of directors of the New York City schools, speech-language pathologists, the designer and manufacturer of the symbols, a representative from the Perkins School for the Blind, college professors, and a graduate research assistant reviewed and discussed the results. This resulted in the establishment of the 55 universal tangible symbols seen in the chart below. However, this universal tangible symbol system should not replace a system already established for an individual.\n"}
{"id": "1041702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1041702", "title": "The Gutenberg Galaxy", "text": "The Gutenberg Galaxy\n\nThe Gutenberg Galaxy: The Making of Typographic Man is a 1962 book by Marshall McLuhan, in which the author analyzes the effects of mass media, especially the printing press, on European culture and human consciousness. It popularized the term \"global village\", which refers to the idea that mass communication allows a village-like mindset to apply to the entire world; and \"Gutenberg Galaxy\", which we may regard today to refer to the accumulated body of recorded works of human art and knowledge, especially books.\n\nMcLuhan studies the emergence of what he calls Gutenberg Man, the subject produced by the change of consciousness wrought by the advent of the printed book. Apropos of his axiom, \"The medium is the message,\" McLuhan argues that technologies are not simply inventions which people employ but are the means by which people are re-invented. The invention of movable type was the decisive moment in the change from a culture in which all the senses partook of a common interplay to a tyranny of the visual. He also argued that the development of the printing press led to the creation of nationalism, dualism, domination of rationalism, automatisation of scientific research, uniformation and standardisation of culture and alienation of individuals.\n\nMovable type, with its ability to reproduce texts accurately and swiftly, extended the drive toward homogeneity and repeatability already in evidence in the emergence of perspectival art and the exigencies of the single \"point of view\". He writes:\n\nThe book is unusual in its design. McLuhan described it as one which \"develops a mosaic or field approach to its problems\". The mosaic image to be constructed from data and quotations would then reveal \"causal operations in history\".\n\nThe book consists of five parts:\n\n\nThe main body of the book, part 2, \"The Gutenberg Galaxy\", consists of 107 short \"chapters\",\nmany of which are just three, two, or even one page(s) in length.\nSuch a large collection of small chapters does fit the picture of a mosaic.\n\nApparently, McLuhan also had some ideas about how to browse a book. \"Marshall McLuhan, the guru of The Gutenberg Galaxy\" (1962), recommends that the browser turn to page 69 of any book and read it. If you like that page, buy the book.\" Such apparent arbitrariness fits with picking a particular piece (or part) of a mosaic and deciding if you like it. Certainly the McLuhan test can be applied to the Gutenberg Galaxy itself. Doing so will reveal a further insight into the purpose of his own book.\n\nMcLuhan declares his book to be \"complementary to \"The Singer of Tales\" by Albert B. Lord.\" The latter work follows on from the Homeric studies of Milman Parry who turned to \"the study of the Yugoslave epics\" to prove that the poems of Homer were oral compositions.\n\nThe book may also be regarded as a way of describing four epochs of history:\n\nFor the break between the time periods in each case the occurrence of a new medium is responsible, the \"hand-writing\" terminates the oral phase, the printing and the electricity revolutionizes afterwards culture and society.\n\nGiven the clue of \"hand-writing\" that terminates the \"oral phase\" one expects \"printing\" to terminate the manuscript phase and the \"electrifying\" to bring an end to the Gutenberg era. The strangeness of the use of \"electrifying\" is entirely appropriate in the McLuhan context of 1962. The Internet did not exist then.\n\nMcLuhan himself suggests that the last section of his book might play the major role of being the first section:\n\nThe last section of the book, \"The Galaxy Reconfigured,\" deals with the clash of electric and mechanical, or print, technologies, and the reader may find it the best prologue.\nThe oral tradition is not dead. In schools or at home or in the street, where children are taught to learn by heart, to memorize, nursery rhymes or poems or songs, then they can be said to participate in the oral tradition. The same is often true of the children belonging to religious groups who are taught to learn to say their prayers. In other words, childhood is one of the ages of man (in Shakespeare's sense) and is essentially an oral tribal culture. The transition from this oral culture takes place when the child is taught to read and write. Then the child enters the world of the manuscript culture.\n\nMcLuhan identifies James Joyce's \"Finnegans Wake\" as a key that unlocks something of the nature of the oral culture.\"\n\nOf particular importance to the Oral Culture is the Art of memory.\n\nIn commenting on the then Soviet Union, McLuhan puts \"the advertising and PR community\" on a par with them in so far that both \"are concerned about access to the media and about results.\" More remarkably he asserts that \"Soviet concern with media \"results\" is natural to any oral society where interdependence is the result of instant interplay of cause and effect in the total structure. Such is the character of a village, or since electric media, such is also the character of global village.\"\n\nThe culture of the manuscript (literally hand-writing) is often referred to by McLuhan as scribal culture.\n\nMedieval illumination, gloss, and sculpture alike were aspects of the art of memory, central to scribal culture.\nAssociated with this epoch is the Art of memory (in Latin Ars Memoriae).\n\nFinnegans Wake:\nJoyce's \"Finnegans Wake\" (like Shakespeare's \"King Lear\") is one of the texts which McLuhan frequently uses throughout the book in order to weave together the various strands of his argument.\n\nThroughout \"Finnegans Wake\" Joyce specifies the Tower of Babel as the tower of Sleep,\nthat is, the tower of the witless assumption, or what Bacon calls the reign of the Idols.\nHis episodic and often rambling history takes the reader from pre-alphabetic tribal humankind to the electronic age. According to McLuhan, the invention of movable type greatly accelerated, intensified, and ultimately enabled cultural and cognitive changes that had already been taking place since the invention and implementation of the alphabet, by which McLuhan means phonemic orthography. (McLuhan is careful to distinguish the phonetic alphabet from logographic/logogramic writing systems, like hieroglyphics or ideograms.)\n\nPrint culture, ushered in by the Gutenberg press in the middle of the fifteenth century, brought about the cultural predominance of the visual over the aural/oral. Quoting with approval an observation on the nature of the printed word from \"Prints and Visual Communication\" by William Ivins, McLuhan remarks:\nIn this passage [Ivins] not only notes the ingraining of lineal, sequential habits, but, even more important, points out the visual homogenizing of experience of print culture, and the relegation of auditory and other sensuous complexity to the background. [...] The technology and social effects of typography incline us to abstain from noting interplay and, as it were, \"formal\" causality, both in our inner and external lives. Print exists by virtue of the static separation of functions and fosters a mentality that gradually resists any but a separative and compartmentalizing or specialist outlook.\n\nThe main concept of McLuhan's argument (later elaborated upon in \"The Medium is the Massage\") is that new technologies (like alphabets, printing presses, and even speech itself) exert a gravitational effect on cognition, which in turn affects social organization: print technology changes our perceptual habits (\"visual homogenizing of experience\"), which in turn affects social interactions (\"fosters a mentality that gradually resists all but a... specialist outlook\"). According to McLuhan, the advent of print technology contributed to and made possible most of the salient trends in the Modern period in the Western world: individualism, democracy, Protestantism, capitalism and nationalism. For McLuhan, these trends all reverberate with print technology's principle of \"segmentation of actions and functions and principle of visual quantification.\"\n\nIn the early 1960s, McLuhan wrote that the visual, individualistic print culture would soon be brought to an end by what he called \"electronic interdependence\": when electronic media would replace visual culture with aural/oral culture. In this new age, humankind will move from individualism and fragmentation to a collective identity, with a \"tribal base.\" McLuhan's coinage for this new social organization is the \"global village\".\n\nThe term is sometimes described as having negative connotations in \"The Gutenberg Galaxy\", but McLuhan himself was interested in exploring effects, not making value judgments:\nInstead of tending towards a vast Alexandrian library the world has become a computer, an electronic brain, exactly as an infantile piece of science fiction. And as our senses have gone outside us, Big Brother goes inside. So, unless aware of this dynamic, we shall at once move into a phase of panic terrors, exactly befitting a small world of tribal drums, total interdependence, and superimposed co-existence. [...] Terror is the normal state of any oral society, for in it everything affects everything all the time. [...] In our long striving to recover for the Western world a unity of sensibility and of thought and feeling we have no more been prepared to accept the tribal consequences of such unity than we were ready for the fragmentation of the human psyche by print culture.\n\nKey to McLuhan's argument is the idea that technology has no \"per se\" moral bent—it is a tool that profoundly shapes an individual's and, by extension, a society's self-conception and realization:\nIs it not obvious that there are always enough moral problems without also taking a moral stand on technological grounds? [...] Print is the extreme phase of alphabet culture that detribalizes or decollectivizes man in the first instance. Print raises the visual features of alphabet to highest intensity of definition. Thus print carries the individuating power of the phonetic alphabet much further than manuscript culture could ever do. Print is the technology of individualism. If men decided to modify this visual technology by an electric technology, individualism would also be modified. To raise a moral complaint about this is like cussing a buzz-saw for lopping off fingers. \"But\", someone says, \"we didn't know it would happen.\" Yet even witlessness is not a moral issue. It is a problem, but not a moral problem; and it would be nice to clear away some of the moral fogs that surround our technologies. It would be good for morality.\n\nThe moral valence of technology's effects on cognition is, for McLuhan, a matter of perspective. For instance, McLuhan contrasts the considerable alarm and revulsion that the growing quantity of books aroused in the latter seventeenth century with the modern concern for the \"end of the book.\" If there can be no universal moral sentence passed on technology, McLuhan believes that \"there can only be disaster arising from unawareness of the causalities and effects inherent in our technologies.\"\n\nThough the World Wide Web was invented thirty years after \"The Gutenberg Galaxy\" was published, McLuhan may have coined and certainly popularized the usage of the term \"surfing\" to refer to rapid, irregular and multidirectional movement through a heterogeneous body of documents or knowledge, e.g., statements like \"Heidegger surf-boards along on the electronic wave as triumphantly as Descartes rode the mechanical wave.\" Paul Levinson's 1999 book \"Digital McLuhan\" explores the ways that McLuhan's work can be better understood through the lens of the digital revolution. Later, Bill Stewart's 2007 \"Living Internet\" website describes how McLuhan's \"insights made the concept of a global village, interconnected by an electronic nervous system, part of our popular culture well before it actually happened.\"\n\nMcLuhan frequently quoted Walter Ong's \"Ramus, Method, and the Decay of Dialogue\" (1958), which evidently had prompted McLuhan to write \"The Gutenberg Galaxy\". Ong wrote a highly favorable review of this new book in \"America\". However, Ong later tempered his praise, by describing McLuhan's \"The Gutenberg Galaxy\" as \"a racy survey, indifferent to some scholarly detail, but uniquely valuable in suggesting the sweep and depth of the cultural and psychological changes entailed in the passage from illiteracy to print and beyond.\" McLuhan himself said of the book, \"I'm not concerned to get any kudos out of [\"The Gutenberg Galaxy\"]. It seems to me a book that somebody should have written a century ago. I wish somebody else had written it. It will be a useful prelude to the rewrite of \"Understanding Media\" [the 1960 NAEB report] that I'm doing now.\" \n\nMcLuhan's \"The Gutenberg Galaxy\" won Canada's highest literary award, the Governor-General's Award for Non-Fiction, in 1962. The chairman of the selection committee was McLuhan's colleague at the University of Toronto and oftentime intellectual sparring partner, Northrop Frye.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1124901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1124901", "title": "Tianxia", "text": "Tianxia\n\nTianxia () or All under Heaven is a Chinese term for an ancient Chinese cultural concept that denoted either the entire geographical world or the metaphysical realm of mortals, and later became associated with political sovereignty. In ancient China, \"tianxia\" denoted the lands, space, and area divinely appointed to the Emperor by universal and well-defined principles of order. The center of this land was directly apportioned to the Imperial court, forming the center of a world view that centered on the Imperial court and went concentrically outward to major and minor officials and then the common citizens, tributary states, and finally ending with the fringe \"barbarians\". \n\nThe center of this world view was not exclusionary in nature, and outer groups, such as ethnic minorities and foreign people, who accepted the mandate of the Chinese Emperor were themselves received and included into the Chinese \"tianxia\". However, as the concept of the Mandate of Heaven in this context was a narrative device facilitating transitions between various ethnic Chinese political dynasties (with notable exceptions) this essentially made such people second-class citizens subservient to an ethno-Chinese polity. In classical Chinese political thought, the \"Son of Heaven\" (Emperor of China) (), having received the Mandate of Heaven (), would nominally be the ruler of the entire world. Although in practice there would be areas of the known world which were not under the control of the Emperor, in Chinese political theory the rulers of those areas derived their power from the Emperor.\n\nThe larger concept of \"tianxia\" is closely associated with civilization and order in classical Chinese philosophy, and has formed the basis for the world view of the Chinese people and nations influenced by them since at least the first millennium BC. \"Tianxia\" has been independently applied by other countries in the East Asian cultural sphere, including Japan, Korea, and Vietnam.\n\nThe \"tianxia\" world view was not fully developed during the Shang dynasty. Only during the Zhou dynasty when Heaven took on human deity traits (or at least when references to Heaven as such enter recorded history) did the concept of \"tianxia\" become common. Terms like \"Four Quarters\" and \"Ten Thousand States\" appear in texts of the time; the term \"Four Quarters\" () means territory established by the royal court and governed by the Zhou kings from the capital, but with peripheral non-Han tribes on the outer borders and Han Chinese in the center. The term \"Ten Thousand States\" () refers to both territory and the subjects who reside therein, both Han and \"barbarian\". The Zhou kings received and empowered these \"Ten Thousand States\" by virtue of the Mandate of Heaven. This is some of the earliest evidence of the Hua-Yi distinction.\n\nDuring the Spring and Autumn and Warring States periods in the latter half of the Zhou dynasty, the power of the feudal lords developed rapidly, and several non-Han regions became powerful states themselves. As many of these feudal states had shared cultural and economic interests, the concept of a great nation centered on the Yellow River Plain gradually expanded. The term \"tianxia\" began to appear in classical texts such as the \"Zuo Zhuan\" and \"Guoyu\".\n\nThe territory and governments of the Zhou dynasty and the Qin dynasty were unified after the conquests of Qin Shi Huang, and the concept of \"tianxia\" was adapted to act as an actual geographic entity. Qin Shi Huang's goal to \"unify all under Heaven\" was, in fact, representative of his desire to control and expand Chinese territory. At the founding of the Han dynasty, the equivalence of \"tianxia\" with the Chinese nation evolved due to the feudal practice of conferring land and autonomy upon the aristocracy to avoid having to expend military expense in their subjugation. Although many areas enjoyed great autonomy, the practice established and spread Chinese language and culture throughout an even wider territory.\n\nUnification theme applied to \"tianxia\" can be seen in Sun Tzu's \"The Art of War\" where the supreme goal of offensive strategy was to conquer without destroying that which you sought to conquer:\n\nUnified China fractured into many different nations during the Southern and Northern Dynasties, and with it went the practical use of the term \"tianxia\". When Emperor Gaozu reunited China under the Tang dynasty in the 7th century, some northern tribes, after being made vassal, referred to him as the \"Khan of Heaven\".\n\nBy the time of the Song dynasty, China's northern borders were met by the Khitan-led Liao dynasty, the Jurchen-led Jin dynasty, and the Tangut-led Western Xia kingdom. After being threatened by these northern states and realizing the possible effects of a war to the country and people, the Song rulers invented a false concept of kinship with the Jurchens in an attempt to improve relations. The Mongols divided Chinese citizens into two types during the Yuan dynasty: those of the south, and those of the north. When the Ming dynasty expelled the Mongols and reunited China under Han rule, the concept of \"tianxia\" returned largely as it was during the Han dynasty.\n\nAt the end of the Ming dynasty, criticisms of Neo-Confucianism and its mantras of \"cultivation of moral character, establishment of family, ordering the state, and harmonizing \"tianxia\"\" (a quote from the Great Learning) became widespread, producing large shifts in Confucianism. Contemporary philosopher Wang Fuzhi believed that tianxia was of a fixed, unchangeable dimension, notwithstanding the fact that the Great Learning's mentioning of \"harmonizing \"tianxia\"\" was actually in reference to government. Using these arguments, Wang was highly critical of Neo-Confucianism. On the other hand, the collapse of the Ming dynasty and the establishment of the Qing dynasty by the Manchus, people previously considered \"fringe barbarians\", heavily influenced people's views of \"tianxia\". Gu Yanwu, a contemporary of Wang Fuzhi, wrote that the destruction of the State was not equivalent to the destruction of \"tianxia\". He argued that the Manchus simply filled the role of Emperor, and that the \"tianxia\" of traditional Chinese culture was thus carried on.\n\nThe idea of the absolute authority of the Chinese emperor and the extension of \"tianxia\" by the assimilation of vassal states began to fade for good with Earl Macartney's embassy to China in 1793. Earl Macartney hoped to deal with China as equal sovereign nations, as Great Britain would with other European nations of the time, and to persuade the Emperor to sign a trade agreement. The Qianlong Emperor rejected his request, and stated that China was the foremost and most divine nation on Earth and had no interest in foreign goods, and rejected the idea that Great Britain could negotiate with China as an equal nation. In the early 19th century, Britain's victory over Qing China in the First Opium War forced China to sign an unequal treaty. This marked the beginning of the end for the \"tianxia\" concept.\n\nFollowing their defeat in the Second Opium War, China was forced to sign the Treaty of Tianjin, in which China was made to refer to Great Britain as a \"sovereign nation\", equal to itself. This made it impossible for China to continue dealing with other nations under the traditional \"tianxia\" system, and forced it to establish a foreign affairs bureau.\n\nBecause Western nations' system of international affairs was based on the idea that the sovereign nations dealt with each other as equals, China's traditional \"tianxia\" world view slowly collapsed. After China's defeat in the First Sino-Japanese War, the Japanese terminated Korea's traditional status as a protectorate of China, and the system of feudal enfeoffment and vassalage that had been practiced since the Han dynasty came to an end, a move that greatly changed attitudes toward the \"tianxia\" concept. At the end of the 19th century, Chinese Ambassador to Great Britain Xue Fucheng took the traditional Hua-Yi distinction in the \"tianxia\" world view and replaced it with a Chinese-foreigner distinction.\n\nReferences to \"tianxia\" first appear in Japanese history during the Kofun period, approximately 250 to 538 AD. At the time, Japanese rulers were respectful and submissive to the Chinese court, and Chinese immigrants (then called \"toraijin\" 渡來人) were received happily and sought after for their knowledge of the Chinese language and culture. The excavated Eda Funayama grave mound in Kumamoto contained an iron sword with engraved characters that dates to the late 5th century. The characters on the sword refer to the king of the time as the \"Grand King who rules all under \"Tianxia\"\" (). This discovery demonstrates that the Kofun-era Japanese (at least of that area) had begun viewing their realm to be a complete and divinely-appointed \"tianxia\" in its own right, separate from the \"tianxia\" of the older and larger Chinese empire.\n\nAccording to the \"Book of Sui\", the Yamato king in 607 sent a hand-written epistle to Emperor Yang of the Sui dynasty in which he called himself the \"Son of Heaven in the Land of the Rising Sun\" (), showing that the Japanese notion of their independent \"tianxia\" had continued to that time.\n\nWith the development of \"Ritsuryō\" in 7th-century Japan, a Sino-centric concept of \"tianxia\" was introduced and replaced older concepts. The hallmark of \"Ritsuryō\" – the concept of citizenship – necessarily accompanied its introduction into Japan, since Neo-Confucianism said that all were \"Equal Citizens Under Heaven\" ().\n\nIn the journals of Fujiwara no Kanezane (藤原兼実、九條兼実), an official of the Kamakura shogunate whose journals became the \"Gyokuyō\" (玉葉), he describes the founding of the Shogunate by Minamoto no Yoritomo as \"beginning \"tianxia\"\". His usage of \"tianxia\" is entirely \"Ritsuryō\" in nature, and his phrase \"beginning \"tianxia\" refers to the establishment of a new nation, jurisprudence, and system of order. However, even if Yoritomo had the intention to become a monarch-level ruler, Japan's \"tianxia\" concept had not achieved the Chinese level of an Emperor who governed feudal kingdoms and was entrusted with the ordering of the world by Heaven. In the journals of Gidō Shūshin (義堂周信), Gidō records a discussion he had with Ashikaga Yoshimitsu where the Shōgun repeatedly referred to his dominion as \"tianxia\"\". In the Muromachi period, people gradually began regarding the Shōgun as the representative of Heaven.\n\nAs the Muromachi shogunate weakened, regional warlords began fighting with each other for control of the nation. More powerful nobles, such as Oda Nobunaga and Toyotomi Hideyoshi, controlled large areas and viewed their domains as \"tianxia\". The term was used with increasing frequency as generals sought to reunify Japan, and came to be equivalent with the land of Japan itself.\n\nBy the Edo period, the \"shōgun\" was referred to as \"Man of \"Tianxia\"\" and the Shogunate as \"Court of \"Tianxia\"\". The widespread adoption of the \"tianxia\" concept helped influence Japan's long period of isolation before the Meiji Restoration.\n\nBased on epitaphs dating to the 4th and 5th centuries, Goguryeo had concepts of Son of Heaven (天帝之子) and independent \"tianxia\". The rulers of Goryeo used the titles of emperor and Son of Heaven and positioned Goryeo at the center of the \"Haedong\" \"East of the Sea\" \"tianxia\", which encompassed the historical domain of the \"Samhan\", another name for the Three Kingdoms of Korea.\n\nIn the 17th century, with the fall of the Ming dynasty in China, a concept of Korea as the cultural center of Confucianism, or the \"Little China\" (), emerged among the Confucian literati of the Joseon dynasty.\n\nThe Vietnamese concept of \"tianxia\" as well as cultural identity originate in the Yuan dynasty's invasion in the 13th century. The Trần dynasty's defeat of the Mongol-Chinese armies gave them the confidence to adopt their own \"tianxia\" view and become the official sustainers of the Kingdom of Vietnam. From that time forward, the area from the Lingnan region of China to northern Vietnam was considered an independent \"tianxia\". However, near the end of the Lê dynasty in the late 18th century, the orthodox idea of Vietnam as the Vietnamese king's dynasty fell out of favor, and Vietnam was referred to as \"Great South\" until the European conquests of Southeast Asia.\n\nThe \"all under the heaven\" expression became the origin for the literary expressions denoting China in a number of Western languages, such as the Russian \"Podnebesnaya\" (Поднебесная, i.e. \"Under the heaven\"). The English term \"Celestial Empire\" is said to have been based on the title of Chinese emperors, \"tian zi\" (Son of Heaven).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46112", "title": "Violence", "text": "Violence\n\nViolence is defined by the World Health Organization as \"the intentional use of physical force or power, threatened or actual, against oneself, another person, or against a group or community, which either results in or has a high likelihood of resulting in injury, death, psychological harm, maldevelopment, or deprivation,\" although the group acknowledges that the inclusion of \"the use of power\" in its definition expands on the conventional understanding of the word.\nGlobally, violence resulted in the deaths of an estimated 1.28 million people in 2013 up from 1.13 million in 1990. Of the deaths in 2013, roughly 842,000 were attributed to self-harm (suicide), 405,000 to interpersonal violence, and 31,000 to collective violence (war) and legal intervention. In Africa, out of every 100,000 people, each year an estimated 60.9 die a violent death. Corlin, past president of the American Medical Association said: \"The United States leads the world—in the rate at which its children die from firearms.\" He concluded: \"Gun violence is a threat to the public health of our country.\" For each single death due to violence, there are dozens of hospitalizations, hundreds of emergency department visits, and thousands of doctors' appointments. Furthermore, violence often has lifelong consequences for physical and mental health and social functioning and can slow economic and social development.\nIn 2013, assault by firearm was the leading cause of death due to interpersonal violence, with 180,000 such deaths estimated to have occurred. The same year, assault by sharp object resulted in roughly 114,000 deaths, with a remaining 110,000 deaths from personal violence being attributed to other causes.\nViolence in many forms is preventable. There is a strong relationship between levels of violence and modifiable factors such as concentrated poverty, income and gender inequality, the harmful use of alcohol, and the absence of safe, stable, and nurturing relationships between children and parents. Strategies addressing the underlying causes of violence can be effective in preventing violence.\n\nViolence can be divided into three broad categories:\n\nViolent acts can be:\n\nThis initial categorization differentiates between violence a person inflicts upon himself or herself, violence inflicted by another individual or by a small group of individuals, and violence inflicted by larger groups such as states, organized political groups, militia groups and terrorist organizations. These three broad categories are each divided further to reflect more specific types of violence.\n\nViolence is primarily classified as either instrumental or reactive / hostile.\n\nSelf-directed violence is subdivided into suicidal behaviour and self-abuse. The former includes suicidal thoughts, attempted suicides – also called \"para suicide\" or \"deliberate self-injury\" in some countries – and completed suicides. Self-abuse, in contrast, includes acts such as self-mutilation.\n\nCollective violence is subdivided into structural violence and economic violence. Unlike the other two broad categories, the subcategories of collective violence suggest possible motives for violence committed by larger groups of individuals or by states. Collective violence that is committed to advance a particular social agenda includes, for example, crimes of hate committed by organized groups, terrorist acts and mob violence. Political violence includes war and related violent conflicts, state violence and similar acts carried out by larger groups. Economic violence includes attacks by larger groups motivated by economic gain – such as attacks carried out with the purpose of disrupting economic activity, denying access to essential services, or creating economic division and fragmentation. Clearly, acts committed by larger groups can have multiple motives.\n\nThis typology, while imperfect and far from being universally accepted, does provide a useful framework for understanding the complex patterns of violence taking place around the world, as well as violence in the everyday lives of individuals, families and communities. It also overcomes many of the limitations of other typologies by capturing the nature of violent acts, the relevance of the setting, the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim, and – in the case of collective violence – possible motivations for the violence. However, in both research and practice, the dividing lines between the different types of violence are not always so clear.. State violence also involves upholding, forms of violence of a structural nature, such as poverty, through dismantling welfare, creating strict policies such as 'welfare to work', in order to cause further stimulation and disadvantage Poverty as a form of violence may involve oppressive policies that specifically target minority or low socio-economic groups. The 'war on drugs', for example, rather than increasing the health and well-being of at risk demographics, most often results in violence committed against these vulnerable demographics through incarceration, stigmatization and police brutality\n\nWar is a state of prolonged violent large-scale conflict involving two or more groups of people, usually under the auspices of government. It is the most extreme form of collective violence.\nWar is fought as a means of resolving territorial and other conflicts, as war of aggression to conquer territory or loot resources, in national self-defence or liberation, or to suppress attempts of part of the nation to secede from it. We know also ideological, religious and revolutionary wars.\n\nSince the Industrial Revolution, the lethality of modern warfare has grown. World War I casualties were over 40 million and World War II casualties were over 70 million.\n\nViolence includes those acts that result from a power relationship, including threats and intimidation, neglect or acts of omission. Such non-physical violence has a broad range of outcomes – including psychological harm, deprivation and maldevelopment. Violence may not necessarily result in injury or death, but nonetheless poses a substantial burden on individuals, families, communities and health care systems worldwide. Many forms of violence can result in physical, psychological and social problems that do not necessarily lead to injury, disability or death. These consequences can be immediate, as well as latent, and can last for years after the initial abuse. Defining outcomes solely in terms of injury or death thus limits the understanding of the full impact of violence.\n\nInterpersonal violence is divided into two subcategories: Family and intimate partner violence – that is, violence largely between family members and intimate partners, usually, though not exclusively, taking place in the home. Community violence – violence between individuals who are unrelated, and who may or may not know each other, generally taking place outside the home. The former group includes forms of violence such as child abuse, intimate partner violence and abuse of the elderly. The latter includes youth violence, random acts of violence, rape or sexual assault by strangers, and violence in institutional settings such as schools, workplaces, prisons and nursing homes. When interpersonal violence occurs in families, its psychological consequences can affect parents, children, and their relationship in the short- and long-terms.\n\nChild maltreatment is the abuse and neglect that occurs to children under 18 years of age. It includes all types of physical and/or emotional ill-treatment, sexual abuse, neglect, negligence and commercial or other child exploitation, which results in actual or potential harm to the child’s health, survival, development or dignity in the context of a relationship of responsibility, trust, or power. Exposure to intimate partner violence is also sometimes included as a form of child maltreatment.\n\nChild maltreatment is a global problem with serious lifelong consequences, which is, however, complex and difficult to study.\n\nThere are no reliable global estimates for the prevalence of child maltreatment. Data for many countries, especially low- and middle-income countries, are lacking. Current estimates vary widely depending on the country and the method of research used. Approximately 20% of women and 5–10% of men report being sexually abused as children, while 25–50% of all children report being physically abused.\n\nConsequences of child maltreatment include impaired lifelong physical and mental health, and social and occupational functioning (e.g. school, job, and relationship difficulties). These can ultimately slow a country's economic and social development. Preventing child maltreatment before it starts is possible and requires a multisectoral approach. Effective prevention programmes support parents and teach positive parenting skills. Ongoing care of children and families can reduce the risk of maltreatment reoccurring and can minimize its consequences.\n\nFollowing the World Health Organization, youth are defined as people between the ages of 10 and 29 years. Youth violence refers to violence occurring between youths, and includes acts that range from bullying and physical fighting, through more severe sexual and physical assault to homicide.\n\nWorldwide some 250,000 homicides occur among youth 10–29 years of age each year, which is 41% of the total number of homicides globally each year (\"Global Burden of Disease\", World Health Organization, 2008). For each young person killed, 20-40 more sustain injuries requiring hospital treatment. Youth violence has a serious, often lifelong, impact on a person's psychological and social functioning. Youth violence greatly increases the costs of health, welfare and criminal justice services; reduces productivity; decreases the value of property; and generally undermines the fabric of society.\n\nPrevention programmes shown to be effective or to have promise in reducing youth violence include life skills and social development programmes designed to help children and adolescents manage anger, resolve conflict, and develop the necessary social skills to solve problems; schools-based anti-bullying prevention programmes; and programmes to reduce access to alcohol, illegal drugs and guns. Also, given significant neighbourhood effects on youth violence, interventions involving relocating families to less poor environments have shown promising results. Similarly, urban renewal projects such as business improvement districts have shown a reduction in youth violence.\n\nDifferent types of youth on youth violence include witnessing or being involved in physical, emotional and sexual abuse (e.g. physical attacks, bullying, rape) and violent acts like gang shootings and robberies. According to researchers in 2018, \"More than half of children and adolescents living in cities have experienced some form of community violence.\" The violence \"can also all take place under one roof, or in a given community or neighborhood and can happen at the same time or at different stages of life.\" It seems that youth violence is on the rise due to the growing number of legal and illegal guns on the streets especially in low income neighborhoods. Youth violence has immediate and long term adverse impact whether the individual was the recipient of the violence or a witness to it. Our knowledge about the impact of trauma on the brain, mind and body is growing every day as more research studies have been conducted and results are published. \"Youth violence is a leading cause of death for adolescents and young adults. Some forms of youth violence, such as bullying, slapping, or hitting, can cause severe emotional harm, nonfatal physical injuries, and long-lasting problems.\" \n\nThe cost to individuals, their families, and society in general is huge and rising. These people often have lifelong injuries which means ongoing doctor and hospital visits the cost of which quickly adds up. Since the victims of youth on youth violence may not be able to attend school or work because of their physical and/or mental injuries, it is often up to their family members to take care of them (including paying their daily living expenses and medical bills). Their caretakers may have to give up their jobs or work reduced hours to provide help to the victim of violence. This causes a further burden on society because the victim and maybe even their caretakers have to obtain government assistance to help pay their bills. Recent research has found that psychological trauma during childhood can change a child's brain. \"Trauma is known to physically affect the brain and the body which causes anxiety, rage, and the ability to concentrate. They can also have problems remembering, trusting, and forming relationships.\" Since the brain becomes used to violence it may become alerted and stay continually in an alert state (similar to being stuck in the fight or flight mode). \"Researchers claim that the youth who are exposed to violence may have emotional, social, and cognitive problems. They may have trouble controlling emotions, paying attention in school, withdraw from friends, or show signs of post-traumatic stress disorder\". Youth who do not get help and get it under control may have more issues down the line.\n\nThere are informal ways in which the youth who have suffered trauma caused by violence can improve their mental health. They can practice yoga and learn how to use meditation and mindfulness techniques which has been known to help people deal with stress. There are more formal organizations now which aim to help mentor and provide a safe environment for the youth especially those living in neighborhoods with higher rates of violence. This includes organizations such as Becoming a Man, CeaseFire Illinois, Chicago Area Project, Little Black Pearl, and Rainbow House\". These programs are designed to help give the youth a safe place to go, stop the violence from occurring, offering counseling and mentoring to help stop the cycle.\n\nGrowing up in a life of violence violence can have an impact that has long lasting negative repercussions. Some people get caught up in violence while others are able to turn their life around and make a positive contribution to the world. For example, Derek grew up amongst the violence in Chicago in the 1980's and was even a former gang leader. It took him thirty years in a gang and time in jail to realize he was on the wrong path. He created a boxing program called \"Boxing Out Negativity\" which provides youth in high crime areas a safe place to get out their anger and energy. It helps them in a positive way and keeps them off the street. This shows that anyone that grows up in violence can eventually use their \"bad\" experiences for future \"good\".\n\nIntimate partner violence refers to behaviour in an intimate relationship that causes physical, sexual or psychological harm, including physical aggression, sexual coercion, psychological abuse and controlling behaviours.\n\nPopulation-level surveys based on reports from victims provide the most accurate estimates of the prevalence of intimate partner violence and sexual violence in non-conflict settings. A study conducted by WHO in 10 mainly developing countries found that, among women aged 15 to 49 years, between 15% (Japan) and 70% (Ethiopia and Peru) of women reported physical and/or sexual violence by an intimate partner.\n\nIntimate partner and sexual violence have serious short- and long-term physical, mental, sexual and reproductive health problems for victims and for their children, and lead to high social and economic costs. These include both fatal and non-fatal injuries, depression and post-traumatic stress disorder, unintended pregnancies, sexually transmitted infections, including HIV.\n\nFactors associated with the perpetration and experiencing of intimate partner violence are low levels of education, history of violence as a perpetrator, a victim or a witness of parental violence, harmful use of alcohol, attitudes that are accepting of violence as well as marital discord and dissatisfaction. Factors associated only with perpetration of intimate partner violence are having multiple partners, and antisocial personality disorder.\n\nA recent theory named \"The Criminal Spin\" suggests a mutual flywheel effect between partners that is manifested by an escalation in the violence. A violent spin may occur in any other forms of violence, but in Intimate partner violence the added value is the mutual spin, based on the unique situation and characteristics of intimate relationship.\n\nThe primary prevention strategy with the best evidence for effectiveness for intimate partner violence is school-based programming for adolescents to prevent violence within dating relationships. Evidence is emerging for the effectiveness of several other primary prevention strategies – those that: combine microfinance with gender equality training; promote communication and relationship skills within communities; reduce access to, and the harmful use of alcohol; and change cultural gender norms.\n\nSexual violence is any sexual act, attempt to obtain a sexual act, unwanted sexual comments or advances, or acts to traffic, or otherwise directed against a person’s sexuality using coercion, by any person regardless of their relationship to the victim, in any setting. It includes rape, defined as the physically forced or otherwise coerced penetration of the vulva or anus with a penis, other body part or object.\n\nPopulation-level surveys based on reports from victims estimate that between 0.3–11.5% of women reported experiencing sexual violence. Sexual violence has serious short- and long-term consequences on physical, mental, sexual and reproductive health for victims and for their children as described in the section on intimate partner violence. If perpetrated during childhood, sexual violence can lead to increased smoking, drug and alcohol misuse, and risky sexual behaviors in later life. It is also associated with perpetration of violence and being a victim of violence.\n\nMany of the risk factors for sexual violence are the same as for domestic violence. Risk factors specific to sexual violence perpetration include beliefs in family honor and sexual purity, ideologies of male sexual entitlement and weak legal sanctions for sexual violence.\n\nFew interventions to prevent sexual violence have been demonstrated to be effective. School-based programmes to prevent child sexual abuse by teaching children to recognize and avoid potentially sexually abusive situations are run in many parts of the world and appear promising, but require further research. To achieve lasting change, it is important to enact legislation and develop policies that protect women; address discrimination against women and promote gender equality; and help to move the culture away from violence.\n\nElder maltreatment is a single or repeated act, or lack of appropriate action, occurring within any relationship where there is an expectation of trust which causes harm or distress to an older person. This type of violence constitutes a violation of human rights and includes physical, sexual, psychological, emotional; financial and material abuse; abandonment; neglect; and serious loss of dignity and respect.\n\nWhile there is little information regarding the extent of maltreatment in elderly populations, especially in developing countries, it is estimated that 4–6% of elderly people in high-income countries have experienced some form of maltreatment at home However, older people are often afraid to report cases of maltreatment to family, friends, or to the authorities. Data on the extent of the problem in institutions such as hospitals, nursing homes and other long-term care facilities are scarce. Elder maltreatment can lead to serious physical injuries and long-term psychological consequences. Elder maltreatment is predicted to increase as many countries are experiencing rapidly ageing populations.\n\nMany strategies have been implemented to prevent elder maltreatment and to take action against it and mitigate its consequences including public and professional awareness campaigns, screening (of potential victims and abusers), caregiver support interventions (e.g. stress management, respite care), adult protective services and self-help groups. Their effectiveness has, however, not so far been well-established.\n\nSeveral rare but painful episodes of assassination, attempted assassination and school shootings at elementary, middle, high schools, as well as colleges and universities in the United States, led to a considerable body of research on ascertainable behaviors of persons who have planned or carried out such attacks. These studies (1995–2002) investigated what the authors called \"targeted violence,\" described the \"path to violence\" of those who planned or carried out attacks and laid out suggestions for law enforcement and educators. A major point from these research studies is that targeted violence does not just \"come out of the blue\".\n\nAs an anthropological concept, \"everyday violence\" may refer to the incorporation of different forms of violence (mainly political violence) into daily practices.\n\nViolence cannot be attributed to a single factor. Its causes are complex and occur at different levels. To represent this complexity, the ecological, or social ecological model is often used. The following four-level version of the ecological model is often used in the study of violence:\n\nThe first level identifies biological and personal factors that influence how individuals behave and increase their likelihood of becoming a victim or perpetrator of violence: demographic characteristics (age, education, income), genetics, brain lesions, personality disorders, substance abuse, and a history of experiencing, witnessing, or engaging in violent behaviour.\n\nThe second level focuses on close relationships, such as those with family and friends. In youth violence, for example, having friends who engage in or encourage violence can increase a young person’s risk of being a victim or perpetrator of violence. For intimate partner violence, a consistent marker at this level of the model is marital conflict or discord in the relationship. In elder abuse, important factors are stress due to the nature of the past relationship between the abused person and the care giver.\n\nThe third level explores the community context—i.e., schools, workplaces, and neighbourhoods. Risk at this level may be affected by factors such as the existence of a local drug trade, the absence of social networks, and concentrated poverty. All these factors have been shown to be important in several types of violence.\n\nFinally, the fourth level looks at the broad societal factors that help to create a climate in which violence is encouraged or inhibited: the responsiveness of the criminal justice system, social and cultural norms regarding gender roles or parent-child relationships, income inequality, the strength of the social welfare system, the social acceptability of violence, the availability of weapons, the exposure to violence in mass media, and political instability.\n\nCross-cultural studies have shown that greater prevalence of corporal punishment of children tends to predict higher levels of violence in societies. For instance, a 2005 analysis of 186 pre-industrial societies found that corporal punishment was more prevalent in societies which also had higher rates of homicide, assault, and war. In the United States, domestic corporal punishment has been linked to later violent acts against family members and spouses. While studies showing associations between physical punishment of children and later aggression cannot prove that physical punishment causes an increase in aggression, a number of longitudinal studies suggest that the experience of physical punishment has a direct causal effect on later aggressive behaviors. The American family violence researcher Murray A. Straus believes that disciplinary spanking forms \"the most prevalent and important form of violence in American families\", whose effects contribute to several major societal problems, including later domestic violence and crime.\n\nThe causes of violent behaviour in humans are often a topic of research in psychology. Neurobiologist Jan Volavka emphasizes that, for those purposes, \"violent behavior is defined as intentional physically aggressive behavior against another person.\"\n\nBased on the idea of human nature, scientists do agree violence is inherent in humans. Among prehistoric humans, there is archaeological evidence for both contentions of violence and peacefulness as primary characteristics.\n\nSince violence is a matter of perception as well as a measurable phenomenon, psychologists have found variability in whether people perceive certain physical acts as \"violent\". For example, in a state where execution is a legalized punishment we do not typically perceive the executioner as \"violent\", though we may talk, in a more metaphorical way, of the state acting violently. Likewise, understandings of violence are linked to a perceived aggressor-victim relationship: hence psychologists have shown that people may not recognise defensive use of force as violent, even in cases where the amount of force used is significantly greater than in the original aggression.\n\nThe \"violent male ape\" image is often brought up in discussions of human violence. Dale Peterson and Richard Wranghamin \"Demonic Males: Apes and the Origins of Human Violence\" write that violence is inherent in humans, though not inevitable.\nHowever, William L. Ury, editor of a book called \"Must We Fight? From the Battlefield to the Schoolyard—A New Perspective on Violent Conflict and Its Prevention\" criticizes the \"killer ape\" myth in his book which brings together discussions from two Harvard Law School symposiums. The conclusion is that \"we also have lots of natural mechanisms for cooperation, to keep conflict in check, to channel aggression, and to overcome conflict. These are just as natural to us as the aggressive tendencies.\"\n\nThe psychiatrist James Gilligan argues that most violent behavior represents an effort to eliminate feelings of shame and humiliation, which he calls \"the death of self\". The use of violence often is a source of pride and a defence of honor, especially among males who believe violence defines manhood.\n\nIn an article entitled \"The History of Violence\" in \"The New Republic\", Steven Pinker posits that, on average, the amount and cruelty of violence to humans and animals has decreased over the last few centuries.\n\nPinker's observation of the decline in interpersonal violence echoes the work of Norbert Elias, who attributes the decline to a \"civilizing process\", in which the state's monopolization of violence, the maintenance of socioeconomic interdependencies or \"figurations\", and the maintenance of behavioural codes in culture all contribute to the development of individual sensibilities, which increase the repugnance of individuals towards violent acts.\n\nSome scholars disagree with the argument that all violence is decreasing arguing that not all types of violent behaviour are lower now than in the past. They suggest that research typically focuses on lethal violence, often looks at homicide rates of death due to warfare, but ignore the less obvious forms of violence. However, non-lethal violence, such as assaults or bullying appear to be declining as well.\nIn his article \"The Coming Anarchy\", Robert D. Kaplan introduces the notion of liberating violence. According to Kaplan, we will observe more violent civil wars in the future, which will be fought due to economic inequalities around the world.\n\nThe concept of violence normalization, is known as socially sanctioned or structural violence, and is a topic of increasing interest to researchers trying to understand violent behavior. It has been discussed at length by researchers in sociology, medical anthropology, psychology, philosophy, and bioarchaeology.\n\nEvolutionary psychology offers several explanations for human violence in various contexts, such as sexual jealousy in humans, child abuse, and homicide. Goetz (2010) argues that humans are similar to most mammal species and use violence in specific situations. He writes that \"Buss and Shackelford (1997a) proposed seven adaptive problems our ancestors recurrently faced that might have been solved by aggression: co-opting the resources of others, defending against attack, inflicting costs on same-sex rivals, negotiating status and hierarchies, deterring rivals from future aggression, deterring mate from infidelity, and reducing resources expended on genetically unrelated children.\"\n\nGoetz writes that most homicides seem to start from relatively trivial disputes between unrelated men who then escalate to violence and death. He argues that such conflicts occur when there is a status dispute between men of relatively similar status. If there is a great initial status difference, then the lower status individual usually offers no challenge and if challenged the higher status individual usually ignores the lower status individual. At the same an environment of great inequalities between people may cause those at the bottom to use more violence in attempts to gain status.\n\nResearch into the media and violence examines whether links between consuming media violence and subsequent aggressive and violent behaviour exists. Although some scholars had claimed media violence may increase aggression, this view is coming increasingly in doubt both in the scholarly community and was rejected by the US Supreme Court in the Brown v EMA case, as well as in a review of video game violence by the Australian Government (2010) which concluded evidence for harmful effects were inconclusive at best and the rhetoric of some scholars was not matched by good data.\n\nThe threat and enforcement of physical punishment has been a tried and tested method of preventing some violence since civilisation began. It is used in various degrees in most countries.\n\nA review of scientific literature by the World Health Organization on the effectiveness of strategies to prevent interpersonal violence identified the seven strategies below as being supported by either strong or emerging evidence for effectiveness. These strategies target risk factors at all four levels of the ecological model.\n\nAmong the most effective such programmes to prevent child maltreatment and reduce childhood aggression are the Nurse Family Partnership home-visiting programme and the Triple P (Parenting Program). There is also emerging evidence that these programmes reduce convictions and violent acts in adolescence and early adulthood, and probably help decrease intimate partner violence and self-directed violence in later life.\n\nEvidence shows that the life skills acquired in social development programmes can reduce involvement in violence, improve social skills, boost educational achievement and improve job prospects. Life skills refer to social, emotional, and behavioural competencies which help children and adolescents effectively deal with the challenges of everyday life.\n\nEvaluation studies are beginning to support community interventions that aim to prevent violence against women by promoting gender equality. For instance, evidence suggests that programmes that combine microfinance with gender equity training can reduce intimate partner violence. School-based programmes such as Safe Dates programme in the United States of America and the Youth Relationship Project in Canada have been found to be effective for reducing dating violence.\n\nRules or expectations of behaviour – norms – within a cultural or social group can encourage violence. Interventions that challenge cultural and social norms supportive of violence can prevent acts of violence and have been widely used, but the evidence base for their effectiveness is currently weak. The effectiveness of interventions addressing dating violence and sexual abuse among teenagers and young adults by challenging social and cultural norms related to gender is supported by some evidence.\n\nInterventions to identify victims of interpersonal violence and provide effective care and support are critical for protecting health and breaking cycles of violence from one generation to the next. Examples for which evidence of effectiveness is emerging includes: screening tools to identify victims of intimate partner violence and refer them to appropriate services; psychosocial interventions – such as trauma-focused cognitive behavioural therapy – to reduce mental health problems associated with violence, including post-traumatic stress disorder; and protection orders, which prohibit a perpetrator from contacting the victim, to reduce repeat victimization among victims of intimate partner violence.\n\nNot surprisingly, scientific evidence about the effectiveness of interventions to prevent collective violence is lacking. However, policies that facilitate reductions in poverty, that make decision-making more accountable, that reduce inequalities between groups, as well as policies that reduce access to biological, chemical, nuclear and other weapons have been recommended. When planning responses to violent conflicts, recommended approaches include assessing at an early stage who is most vulnerable and what their needs are, co-ordination of activities between various players and working towards global, national and local capabilities so as to deliver effective health services during the various stages of an emergency.\n\nOne of the main functions of law is to regulate violence. Sociologist Max Weber stated that the state claims the monopoly of the legitimate use of force practised within the confines of a specific territory. Law enforcement is the main means of regulating nonmilitary violence in society. Governments regulate the use of violence through legal systems governing individuals and political authorities, including the police and military. Civil societies authorize some amount of violence, exercised through the police power, to maintain the status quo and enforce laws.\n\nHowever, German political theorist Hannah Arendt noted: \"Violence can be justifiable, but it never will be legitimate ... Its justification loses in plausibility the farther its intended end recedes into the future. No one questions the use of violence in self-defence, because the danger is not only clear but also present, and the end justifying the means is immediate\". Arendt made a clear distinction between violence and power. Most political theorists regarded violence as an extreme manifestation of power whereas Arendt regarded the two concepts as opposites.\nIn the 20th century in acts of democide governments may have killed more than 260 million of their own people through police brutality, execution, massacre, slave labour camps, and sometimes through intentional famine.\n\nViolent acts that are not carried out by the military or police and that are not in self-defense are usually classified as crimes, although not all crimes are violent crimes. Damage to property is classified as violent crime in some jurisdictions but not in all. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) classifies violence resulting in homicide into criminal homicide and justifiable homicide (e.g. self-defense).\n\nThe criminal justice approach sees its main task as enforcing laws that proscribe violence and ensuring that \"justice is done\". The notions of individual blame, responsibility, guilt, and culpability are central to criminal justice's approach to violence and one of the criminal justice system's main tasks is to \"do justice\", i.e. to ensure that offenders are properly identified, that the degree of their guilt is as accurately ascertained as possible, and that they are punished appropriately. To prevent and respond to violence, the criminal justice approach relies primarily on deterrence, incarceration and the punishment and rehabilitation of perpetrators.\n\nThe criminal justice approach, beyond justice and punishment, has traditionally emphasized indicated interventions, aimed at those who have already been involved in violence, either as victims or as perpetrators. One of the main reasons offenders are arrested, prosecuted, and convicted is to prevent further crimes – through deterrence (threatening potential offenders with criminal sanctions if they commit crimes), incapacitation (physically preventing offenders from committing further crimes by locking them up) and through rehabilitation (using time spent under state supervision to develop skills or change one's psychological make-up to reduce the likelihood of future offences).\n\nIn recent decades in many countries in the world, the criminal justice system has taken an increasing interest in preventing violence before it occurs. For instance, much of community and problem-oriented policing aims to reduce crime and violence by altering the conditions that foster it – and not to increase the number of arrests. Indeed, some police leaders have gone so far as to say the police should primarily be a crime prevention agency. Juvenile justice systems – an important component of criminal justice systems – are largely based on the belief in rehabilitation and prevention. In the US, the criminal justice system has, for instance, funded school- and community-based initiatives to reduce children's access to guns and teach conflict resolution. In 1974, the US Department of Justice assumed primary responsibility for delinquency prevention programmes and created the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, which has supported the \"Blueprints for violence prevention\" programme at the University of Colorado Boulder.\n\nThe public health approach is a science-driven, population-based, interdisciplinary, intersectoral approach based on the ecological model which emphasizes primary prevention. Rather than focusing on individuals, the public health approach aims to provide the maximum benefit for the largest number of people, and to extend better care and safety to entire populations. The public health approach is interdisciplinary, drawing upon knowledge from many disciplines including medicine, epidemiology, sociology, psychology, criminology, education and economics. Because all forms of violence are multi-faceted problems, the public health approach emphasizes a multi-sectoral response. It has been proved time and again that cooperative efforts from such diverse sectors as health, education, social welfare, and criminal justice are often necessary to solve what are usually assumed to be purely \"criminal\" or \"medical\" problems. The public health approach considers that violence, rather than being the result of any single factor, is the outcome of multiple risk factors and causes, interacting at four levels of a nested hierarchy (individual, close relationship/family, community and wider society) of the Social ecological model.\n\nFrom a public health perspective, prevention strategies can be classified into three types:\n\nA public health approach emphasizes the primary prevention of violence, i.e. stopping them from occurring in the first place. Until recently, this approach has been relatively neglected in the field, with the majority of resources directed towards secondary or tertiary prevention. Perhaps the most critical element of a public health approach to prevention is the ability to identify underlying causes rather than focusing upon more visible \"symptoms\". This allows for the development and testing of effective approaches to address the underlying causes and so improve health.\n\nThe public health approach is an evidence-based and systematic process involving the following four steps:\n\nIn many countries, violence prevention is still a new or emerging field in public health. The public health community has started only recently to realize the contributions it can make to reducing violence and mitigating its consequences. In 1949, Gordon called for injury prevention efforts to be based on the understanding of causes, in a similar way to prevention efforts for communicable and other diseases. In 1962, Gomez, referring to the WHO definition of health, stated that it is obvious that violence does not contribute to \"extending life\" or to a \"complete state of well-being\". He defined violence as an issue that public health experts needed to address and stated that it should not be the primary domain of lawyers, military personnel, or politicians.\n\nHowever, it is only in the last 30 years that public health has begun to address violence, and only in the last fifteen has it done so at the global level. This is a much shorter period of time than public health has been tackling other health problems of comparable magnitude and with similarly severe lifelong consequences.\n\nThe global public health response to interpersonal violence began in earnest in the mid-1990s. In 1996, the World Health Assembly adopted Resolution WHA49.25 which declared violence \"a leading worldwide public health problem\" and requested that the World Health Organization (WHO) initiate public health activities to (1) document and characterize the burden of violence, (2) assess the effectiveness of programmes, with particular attention to women and children and community-based initiatives, and (3) promote activities to tackle the problem at the international and national levels. The World Health Organization's initial response to this resolution was to create the Department of Violence and Injury Prevention and Disability and to publish the World report on violence and health (2002).\n\nThe case for the public health sector addressing interpersonal violence rests on four main arguments. First, the significant amount of time health care professionals dedicate to caring for victims and perpetrators of violence has made them familiar with the problem and has led many, particularly in emergency departments, to mobilize to address it. The information, resources, and infrastructures the health care sector has at its disposal are an important asset for research and prevention work. Second, the magnitude of the problem and its potentially severe lifelong consequences and high costs to individuals and wider society call for population-level interventions typical of the public health approach. Third, the criminal justice approach, the other main approach to addressing violence (link to entry above), has traditionally been more geared towards violence that occurs between male youths and adults in the street and other public places – which makes up the bulk of homicides in most countries – than towards violence occurring in private settings such as child maltreatment, intimate partner violence and elder abuse – which makes up the largest share of non-fatal violence. Fourth, evidence is beginning to accumulate that a science-based public health approach is effective at preventing interpersonal violence.\n\nThe human rights approach is based on the obligations of states to respect, protect and fulfill human rights and therefore to prevent, eradicate and punish violence. It recognizes violence as a violation of many human rights: the rights to life, liberty, autonomy and security of the person; the rights to equality and non-discrimination; the rights to be free from torture and cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment; the right to privacy; and the right to the highest attainable standard of health. These human rights are enshrined in international and regional treaties and national constitutions and laws, which stipulate the obligations of states, and include mechanisms to hold states accountable. The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, for example, requires that countries party to the Convention take all appropriate steps to end violence against women. The Convention on the Rights of the Child in its Article 19 states that States Parties shall take all appropriate legislative, administrative, social and educational measures to protect the child from all forms of physical or mental violence, injury or abuse, neglect or negligent treatment, maltreatment or exploitation, including sexual abuse, while in the care of parent(s), legal guardian(s) or any other person who has the care of the child.\n\nViolence, as defined in the dictionary of human geography, \"appears whenever power is in jeopardy\" and \"in and of itself stands emptied of strength and purpose: it is part of a larger matrix of socio-political power struggles\". Violence can be broadly divided into three broad categories – direct violence, structural violence and cultural violence. Thus defined and delineated, it is of note, as Hyndman says, that \"geography came late to theorizing violence\" in comparison to other social sciences. Social and human geography, rooted in the humanist, Marxist, and feminist subfields that emerged following the early positivist approaches and subsequent behavioral turn, have long been concerned with social and spatial justice.\nAlong with critical geographers and political geographers, it is these groupings of geographers that most often interact with violence. Keeping this idea of social/spatial justice via geography in mind, it is worthwhile to look at geographical approaches to violence in the context of politics.\n\nDerek Gregory and Alan Pred assembled the influential edited collection \"Violent Geographies: Fear, Terror, and Political Violence\", which demonstrates how place, space, and landscape are foremost factors in the real and imagined practices of organized violence both historically and in the present. Evidently, political violence often gives a part for the state to play. When \"modern states not only claim a monopoly of the legitimate means of violence; they also routinely use the threat of violence to enforce the rule of law\", the law not only becomes a form of violence but is violence. Philosopher Giorgio Agamben's concepts of state of exception and \"homo sacer\" are useful to consider within a geography of violence. The state, in the grip of a perceived, potential crisis (whether legitimate or not) takes preventative legal measures, such as a suspension of rights (it is in this climate, as Agamben demonstrates, that the formation of the Social Democratic and Nazi government's lager or concentration camp can occur). However, when this \"in limbo\" reality is designed to be in place \"until further notice…the state of exception thus ceases to be referred to as an external and provisional state of factual danger and comes to be confused with juridical rule itself\". For Agamben, the physical space of the camp \"is a piece of land placed outside the normal juridical order, but it is nevertheless not simply an external space\". At the scale of the body, in the state of exception, a person is so removed from their rights by \"juridical procedures and deployments of power\" that \"no act committed against them could appear any longer as a crime\"; in other words, people become only \"homo sacer\". Guantanamo Bay could also be said to represent the physicality of the state of exception in space, and can just as easily draw man as homo sacer.\n\nIn the 1970s, genocides in Cambodia under the Khmer Rouge and Pol Pot resulted in the deaths of over two million Cambodians (which was 25% of the Cambodian population), forming one of the many contemporary examples of state-sponsored violence. About fourteen thousand of these murders occurred at Choeung Ek, which is the best-known of the extermination camps referred to as the Killing Fields. The killings were arbitrary; for example, a person could be killed for wearing glasses, since that was seen as associating them with intellectuals and therefore as making them part of the enemy. People were murdered with impunity because it was no crime; Cambodians were made \"homo sacer\" in a condition of bare life. The Killing Fields—manifestations of Agamben's concept of camps beyond the normal rule of law—featured the state of exception. As part of Pol Pot's \"ideological intent…to create a purely agrarian society or cooperative\", he \"dismantled the country's existing economic infrastructure and depopulated every urban area\". Forced movement, such as this forced movement applied by Pol Pot, is a clear display of structural violence. When \"symbols of Cambodian society were equally disrupted, social institutions of every kind…were purged or torn down\", cultural violence (defined as when \"any aspect of culture such as language, religion, ideology, art, or cosmology is used to legitimize direct or structural violence\") is added to the structural violence of forced movement and to the direct violence, such as murder, at the Killing Fields. Vietnam eventually intervened and the genocide officially ended. However, ten million landmines left by opposing guerillas in the 1970s continue to create a violent landscape in Cambodia.\n\nHuman geography, though coming late to the theorizing table, has tackled violence through many lenses, including anarchist geography, feminist geography, Marxist geography, political geography, and critical geography. However, Adriana Cavarero notes that, \"as violence spreads and assumes unheard-of forms, it becomes difficult to name in contemporary language\". Cavarero proposes that, in facing such a truth, it is prudent to reconsider violence as \"horrorism\"; that is, \"as though ideally all the…victims, instead of their killers, ought to determine the name\". With geography often adding the forgotten spatial aspect to theories of social science, rather than creating them solely within the discipline, it seems that the self-reflexive contemporary geography of today may have an extremely important place in this current (re)imaging of violence, exemplified by Cavarero.\n\nAs of 2010, all forms of violence resulted in about 1.34 million deaths up from about 1 million in 1990. Suicide accounts for about 883,000, interpersonal violence for 456,000 and collective violence for 18,000. Deaths due to collective violence have decreased from 64,000 in 1990.\n\nBy way of comparison, the 1.5 millions deaths a year due to violence is greater than the number of deaths due to tuberculosis (1.34 million), road traffic injuries (1.21 million), and malaria (830'000), but slightly less than the number of people who die from HIV/AIDS (1.77 million).\n\nFor every death due to violence, there are numerous nonfatal injuries. In 2008, over 16 million cases of non-fatal violence-related injuries were severe enough to require medical attention. Beyond deaths and injuries, forms of violence such as child maltreatment, intimate partner violence, and elder maltreatment have been found to be highly prevalent.\n\nIn the last 45 years, suicide rates have increased by 60% worldwide. Suicide is among the three leading causes of death among those aged 15–44 years in some countries, and the second leading cause of death in the 10–24 years age group. These figures do not include suicide attempts which are up to 20 times more frequent than completed suicide. Suicide was the 16th leading cause of death worldwide in 2004 and is projected to increase to the 12th in 2030. Although suicide rates have traditionally been highest among the male elderly, rates among young people have been increasing to such an extent that they are now the group at highest risk in a third of countries, in both developed and developing countries.\n\nRates and patterns of violent death vary by country and region. In recent years, homicide rates have been highest in developing countries in Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean and lowest in East Asia, the western Pacific, and some countries in northern Africa. Studies show a strong, inverse relationship between homicide rates and both economic development and economic equality. Poorer countries, especially those with large gaps between the rich and the poor, tend to have higher rates of homicide than wealthier countries. Homicide rates differ markedly by age and sex. Gender differences are least marked for children. For the 15 to 29 age group, male rates were nearly six times those for female rates; for the remaining age groups, male rates were from two to four times those for females.\n\nStudies in a number of countries show that, for every homicide among young people age 10 to 24, 20 to 40 other young people receive hospital treatment for a violent injury.\n\nForms of violence such as child maltreatment and intimate partner violence are highly prevalent. Approximately 20% of women and 5–10% of men report being sexually abused as children, while 25–50% of all children report being physically abused. A WHO multi-country study found that between 15–71% of women reported experiencing physical and/or sexual violence by an intimate partner at some point in their lives.\n\nWars grab headlines, but the individual risk of dying violently in an armed conflict is today relatively low—much lower than the risk of violent death in many countries that are not suffering from an armed conflict. For example, between 1976 and 2008, African Americans were victims of 329,825 homicides. Although there is a widespread perception that war is the most dangerous form of armed violence in the world, the average person living in a conflict-affected country had a risk of dying violently in the conflict of about 2.0 per 100,000 population between 2004 and 2007. This can be compared to the average world homicide rate of 7.6 per 100,000 people. This illustration highlights the value of accounting for all forms of armed violence rather than an exclusive focus on conflict related violence. Certainly, there are huge variations in the risk of dying from armed conflict at the national and subnational level, and the risk of dying violently in a conflict in specific countries remains extremely high. In Iraq, for example, the direct conflict death rate for 2004–07 was 65 per 100,000 people per year and, in Somalia, 24 per 100,000 people. This rate even reached peaks of 91 per 100,000 in Iraq in 2006 and 74 per 100,000 in Somalia in 2007.\n\nOrganized, large-scale, militaristic, or regular human-on-human violence was absent for the vast majority of the human timeline, and is first documented to have started only relatively recently in the Holocene, an epoch that began about 11,700 years ago, probably with the advent of higher population densities due to sedentism. Social anthropologist Douglas P. Fry writes that scholars are divided on the origins of this greater degree of violence—in other words, war-like behavior: \n\nJared Diamond in his books \"Guns, Germs and Steel\" and \"The Third Chimpanzee\" posits that the rise of large-scale warfare is the result of advances in technology and city-states. For instance, the rise of agriculture provided a significant increase in the number of individuals that a region could sustain over hunter-gatherer societies, allowing for development of specialized classes such as soldiers, or weapons manufacturers.\n\nIn academia, the idea of the peaceful pre-history and non-violent tribal societies gained popularity with the post-colonial perspective. The trend, starting in archaeology and spreading to anthropology reached its height in the late half of the 20th century. However, some newer research in archaeology and bioarchaeology may provide evidence that violence within and among groups is not a recent phenomenon. According to the book \"The Bioarchaeology of Violence\" violence is a behavior that is found throughout human history.\n\nLawrence H. Keeley at the University of Illinois writes in \"War Before Civilization\" that 87% of tribal societies were at war more than once per year, and that 65% of them were fighting continuously. He writes that the attrition rate of numerous close-quarter clashes, which characterize endemic warfare, produces casualty rates of up to 60%, compared to 1% of the combatants as is typical in modern warfare. \"Primitive Warfare\" of these small groups or tribes was driven by the basic need for sustenance and violent competition.\n\nFry explores Keeley's argument in depth and counters that such sources erroneously focus on the ethnography of hunters and gatherers in the present, whose culture and values have been infiltrated externally by modern civilization, rather than the actual archaeological record spanning some two million years of human existence. Fry determines that all present ethnographically studied tribal societies, \"by the very fact of having been described and published by anthropologists, have been irrevocably impacted by history and modern colonial nation states\" and that \"many have been affected by state societies for at least 5000 years.\"\n\nSteven Pinker's 2011 book, \"The Better Angels of Our Nature\", roused both acclaim and controversy by asserting that modern society is less violent than in periods of the past, whether on the short scale of decades or long scale of centuries or millennia.\n\nSteven Pinker argues that by every possible measure, every type of violence has drastically decreased since ancient and medieval times. A few centuries ago, for example, genocide was a standard practice in all kinds of warfare and was so common that historians did not even bother to mention it. According to Pinker, rape, murder, warfare and animal cruelty have all seen drastic declines in the 20th century. However, Pinker's analyses have met with much criticism; for example, Pinker himself, on his FAQ page, states that he does not include catastrophic ecological violence (including violence against wild or domesticated non-human animals or plants, or against ecosystems) or the violence of economic inequality and of coercive working conditions in his definition; he controversially regards these forms of violence as \"metaphorical\". Some critics have therefore argued that Pinker suffers from \"a reductive vision of what it means to be violent.\"\n\nBeyond deaths and injuries, highly prevalent forms of violence (such as child maltreatment and intimate partner violence) have serious lifelong non-injury health consequences. Victims may engage in high-risk behaviours such as alcohol and substance misuse and smoking, which in turn can contribute to cardiovascular disorders, cancers, depression, diabetes and HIV/AIDS, resulting in premature death Violence may beget violence. The balances of prevention, mitigation, mediation and exacerbation are complex, and vary with the underpinnings of violence.\n\nIn countries with high levels of violence, economic growth can be slowed down, personal and collective security eroded, and social development impeded. Families edging out of poverty and investing in schooling their sons and daughters can be ruined through the violent death or severe disability of the main breadwinner. Communities can be caught in poverty traps where pervasive violence and deprivation form a vicious circle that stifles economic growth. For societies, meeting the direct costs of health, criminal justice, and social welfare responses to violence diverts many billions of dollars from more constructive societal spending. The much larger indirect costs of violence due to lost productivity and lost investment in education work together to slow economic development, increase socioeconomic inequality, and erode human and social capital.\n\nAdditionally, communities with high level of violence do not provide the level of stability and predictability vital for a prospering business economy. Individuals will be less likely to invest money and effort towards growth in such unstable and violent conditions.\n\nIn 2016, the Institute for Economics and Peace, released the Economic Value of Peace report, which estimates the economic impact of violence and conflict on the global economy, the total economic impact of violence on the world economy in 2015 was estimated to be $13.6 trillion in purchasing power parity terms.\n\nReligious and political ideologies have been the cause of interpersonal violence throughout history. Ideologues often falsely accuse others of violence, such as the ancient blood libel against Jews, the medieval accusations of casting witchcraft spells against women, and modern accusations of satanic ritual abuse against day care center owners and others.\n\nBoth supporters and opponents of the 21st-century War on Terrorism regard it largely as an ideological and religious war.\n\nVittorio Bufacchi describes two different modern concepts of violence, one the \"minimalist conception\" of violence as an intentional act of excessive or destructive force, the other the \"comprehensive conception\" which includes violations of rights, including a long list of human needs.\n\nAnti-capitalists assert that capitalism is violent. They believe private property and profit survive only because police violence defends them and that capitalist economies need war to expand. They may use the term \"structural violence\" to describe the systematic ways in which a given social structure or institution kills people slowly by preventing them from meeting their basic needs, for example the deaths caused by diseases because of lack of medicine.\n\nFrantz Fanon critiqued the violence of colonialism and wrote about the counter violence of the \"colonized victims.\"\n\nThroughout history, most religions and individuals like Mahatma Gandhi have preached that humans are capable of eliminating individual violence and organizing societies through purely nonviolent means. Gandhi himself once wrote: \"A society organized and run on the basis of complete non-violence would be the purest anarchy.\" Modern political ideologies which espouse similar views include pacifist varieties of voluntarism, mutualism, anarchism and libertarianism.\n\nTerence Fretheim writing about the Old Testament:\nFor many people, ... only physical violence truly qualifies as violence. But, certainly, violence is more than killing people, unless one includes all those words and actions that kill people slowly. The effect of limitation to a “killing fields” perspective is the widespread neglect of many other forms of violence. We must insist that violence also refers to that which is psychologically destructive, that which demeans, damages, or depersonalizes others. In view of these considerations, violence may be defined as follows: any action, verbal or nonverbal, oral or written, physical or psychical, active or passive, public or private, individual or institutional/societal, human or divine, in whatever degree of intensity, that abuses, violates, injures, or kills. Some of the most pervasive and most dangerous forms of violence are those that are often hidden from view (against women and children, especially); just beneath the surface in many of our homes, churches, and communities is abuse enough to freeze the\nblood. Moreover, many forms of systemic violence often slip past our attention because they are so much a part of the infrastructure of life (e.g., racism, sexism, ageism).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "429437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429437", "title": "Waterbed", "text": "Waterbed\n\nA waterbed, water mattress, or flotation mattress is a bed or mattress filled with water. Waterbeds intended for medical therapies appear in various reports through the 19th century. The modern version, invented in San Francisco, California and patented in 1971, became a popular consumer item in the United States through the 1980s with up to 20% of the market in 1986. Currently they account for less than 5% of new bed sales.\n\nWaterbeds primarily consist of two types, hard-sided beds and soft-sided beds.\n\nA hard-sided waterbed consists of a water-containing mattress inside a rectangular frame of wood resting on a plywood deck that sits on a platform.\n\nA soft-sided waterbed consists of a water-containing mattress inside of a rectangular frame of sturdy foam, zippered inside a fabric casing, which sits on a platform. It looks like a conventional bed and is designed to fit existing bedroom furniture. The platform usually looks like a conventional foundation or box spring, and sits atop a reinforced metal frame.\n\nEarly waterbed mattresses, and many inexpensive modern mattresses, have a single water chamber. When the water mass in these \"free flow\" mattresses is disturbed, significant wave action can be felt, and they need time to stabilize after a disturbance. Later types employed wave-reducing methods, including fiber batting and interconnected water chambers. More expensive \"waveless\" modern waterbeds have a mixture of air and water chambers, usually interconnected.\n\nWater beds are normally heated. Temperature is controlled via a thermostat and set to personal preference, but is most commonly average skin temperature, 30 °C or about 86 °F. A typical heating pad consumes 150–400 watts of power. Depending on insulation, bedding, temperature, use, and other factors, electricity usage may vary, significantly.\n\nWaterbeds are usually constructed from soft polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or similar material. They can be repaired with practically any vinyl repair kit.\n\nSource:\n\nA form of waterbed was invented in 1833 by the Scottish physician Neil Arnott. \"Dr. Arnott's Hydrostatic Bed\" was devised to prevent bedsores in invalids, and comprised a bath of water with a covering of rubber-impregnated canvas, on which lighter bedding was placed. Arnott didn't patent it, permitting anyone to construct a bed to this design.\n\nThe use of a waterbed (for the ailing Mrs. Hale) is mentioned in Elizabeth Gaskell's 1855 novel \"North and South\".\n\nThe protagonist Graham is placed on a waterbed in a glass case during his coma of 103 years in the 1898 H. G. Wells novel \"The Sleeper Awakes\".\n\nIn 1871, a waterbed was in use in Elmira, New York, for \"invalids\". It was briefly mentioned by Mark Twain in his article \"A New Beecher Church\", which was published in \"The New York Times\" on 23 July 1871. Twain wrote: \"In the infirmary will be kept one or two water-beds (for invalids whose pains will not allow them to be on a less yielding substance) and half a dozen reclining invalid-chairs on wheels. The water-beds and invalid-chairs at present belonging to the church are always in demand, and never out of service\".\n\nScience fiction writer Robert A. Heinlein described therapeutic waterbeds in his novels \"Beyond This Horizon\" (1942), \"Double Star\" (1956), and \"Stranger in a Strange Land\" (1961). In 1980 Heinlein recalled in \"Expanded Universe\":\n\nHeinlein made no attempt to build his invention.\n\nThe modern waterbed was created by Charles Prior Hall in 1968, while he was a design student at San Francisco State University in California. Hall originally wanted to make an innovative chair. His first prototype was a vinyl bag with 300 pounds (136 kg) of cornstarch. Ultimately, he abandoned working on a chair, and settled on perfecting a bed.\n\nHall was granted a patent on his waterbed, (#3,585,356) which he originally called \"liquid support for human bodies.\" The patent came to trial in 1991 in \"Intex v. Hall /wbx\". The Patent was upheld in court and Hall received a $4.8 million judgment for infringement. In 1971, he founded Innerspace Environments, a manufacturing and sales company which became the leading retailer of waterbeds in the United States, with 30 owned-and-operated stores. Hall /wbx Received additional royalties from licensing. Some later lawsuits were dismissed because of laches.\n\nSales peaked in 1987 at 22% of the domestic mattress industry. Although the waterbed was initially advertised for offering \"undisturbed sleep\", Hall admitted that \"[customers] bought it for the sensual or the sexual part of it\" and the sexual association advertising was highly effective in the 1970s and early 1980s. Henry Petroski of Duke University said of the waterbed: \"Not only was it the cool new gadget, but it emerged during a time when the culture embraced anything different, especially a product that embodied sexual liberation\".\n\nThe waterbed can be useful and comfortable for some and dangerous for others. The main feature of the waterbed found attractive is its form-fitting, pressure-minimizing nature. Not only is this a boon to those seeking mere comfort, but the removal of pressure from the spine can provide relief to those with back pain. In addition, the distribution of weight can prevent bedsores among the paralytic and the comatose. However, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development warns that the form-fitting nature of the water-bed poses a danger to infants, providing a possibility of asphyxiation.\n\nAnother advantage of a waterbed is its easy cleaning. It is impossible for dirt and dead skin particles to penetrate the water mattress, which can then be wiped periodically with a cloth and vinyl cleaner. The cover over the mattress can be regularly washed—thus virtually eliminating house dust mites in the bed. Dust mites can trigger asthma, eczema, and allergies in people sensitive to them.\n\nFirst, since some hard-sided waterbeds are of different sizes than other mattresses, bed sheets are harder to find and come in fewer varieties. Soft-sided mattresses are conventionally sized to avoid this problem. Second, moving a waterbed is a more difficult process than moving a normal bed; the water must be drained and the frame disassembled, then the frame must be reassembled, the mattress refilled with water, and the water heated for a potentially long period to get the new water to the correct temperature. And heating the bed can be costly: a waterbed consumes between 300 and 1500 kW·h/year (36-180 USD at 12c/kW·h, the US national average for residential energy), depending on the climate, bed size, and other factors. The energy usage can be decreased by about 60% with the use of a soft-sided waterbed. The water itself can pose challenges: occasionally, water mattresses may leak. Plastic liners will reduce damage, but emptying, patching, refilling, and reheating it (and sleeping elsewhere until all this is completed) is an inconvenience.\n\nThere can be contractual inconveniences; many apartment leases and home insurance policies restrict the use of \"water-filled furniture\" due to concerns about water damage to the dwelling due to accidental leakage as well as the stress on the floor.\n\n\n"}
