{"id": "24106777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24106777", "title": "Added art", "text": "Added art\n\nAdded Art uses an existing piece of artwork for its canvas, just as traditional graffiti uses the wall of a building for the canvas. It is essentially the graffiti of artwork. Added Art is a merging of high and low art, using the concepts of graffiti, in a high art environment. Adding to someone else’s work has been a very common occurrence in graffiti for decades. In the urban environment, it is typically considered aggressive or antagonistic in nature, but also form of competition. However, it is still considered a taboo in the more established high arts, even though it has been practiced for over fifty years by stalwarts such as Rauschenberg in his \"Erased de Kooning Drawing\". In more recent examples, Banksy has done several added art pieces over Damien Hirst's \"spot\" painting, and Mat Benote used an untitled work by Robert Morris at the MoMA in NYC as a canvas. A very interesting example was done by the Chapman Brothers, who painted over sketches originally created by Adolf Hitler.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6030646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6030646", "title": "Alfred Bruyas", "text": "Alfred Bruyas\n\nAlfred Bruyas (15 August 1821 – 1 January 1876) was an art collector and a personal friend of many important artists of his time, among them Gustave Courbet. He donated his collection to the Musée Fabre, in Montpellier.\n\nBorn Jacques Louis Bruyas, he was the son of a wealthy banker in Montpellier. His interest in art was clear even at school. In 1840 he studied at the studio of Charles Matet, however he soon recognized the limits of his own talents and shifted his focus to the promotion and collection of contemporary art.\n\nFrom 1849 to 1854 he spent most of his time in Paris. There he collected work by Louis Hector Allemand, Camille Corot, Thomas Couture, Eugène Delacroix, Narcisse Diaz de Peña, Adrien Guignet, Adolphe Hervier, Prosper Marilhat, Edouard-Antoine Marsal, Jean-François Millet, Théodore Rousseau, Philippe-Joseph Tassaert, Marcel Verdier and Constant Troyon, but above all the work of Gustave Courbet.\n\n"}
{"id": "4878340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4878340", "title": "Algorithmic art", "text": "Algorithmic art\n\nAlgorithmic art, also known as \"algorithm art\", is art, mostly visual art, of which the design is generated by an algorithm. Algorithmic artists are sometimes called algorists.\n\nAlgorithmic art, also known as computer-generated art, is a subset of generative art (generated by an autonomous system) and is related to systems art (influenced by systems theory). Fractal art is an example of algorithmic art.\n\nFor an image of reasonable size, even the simplest algorithms require too much calculation for manual execution to be practical, and they are thus executed on either a single computer or on a cluster of computers. The final output is typically displayed on a computer monitor, printed with a raster-type printer, or drawn using a plotter. Variability can be introduced by using pseudo-random numbers. There is no consensus as to whether the product of an algorithm that operates on an existing image (or on any input other than pseudo-random numbers) can still be considered computer-generated art, as opposed to computer-assisted art.\n\nRoman Verostko argues that Islamic geometric patterns are constructed using algorithms, as are Italian Renaissance paintings which make use of mathematical techniques, in particular linear perspective and proportion.\n\nSome of the earliest known examples of computer-generated algorithmic art were created by Georg Nees, Frieder Nake, A. Michael Noll, Manfred Mohr and in the early 1960s. These artworks were executed by a plotter controlled by a computer, and were therefore computer-generated art but not digital art. The act of creation lay in writing the program, which specified the sequence of actions to be performed by the plotter. Sonia Landy Sheridan established Generative Systems as a program at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago in 1970 in response to social change brought about in part by the computer-robot communications revolution. Her early work with copier and telematic art focused on the differences between the human hand and the algorithm. \n\nAside from the ongoing work of Roman Verostko and his fellow algorists, the next known examples are fractal artworks created in the mid to late 1980s. These are important here because they use a different means of execution. Whereas the earliest algorithmic art was \"drawn\" by a plotter, fractal art simply creates an image in computer memory; it is therefore digital art. The native form of a fractal artwork is an image stored on a computer –this is also true of very nearly all equation art and of most recent algorithmic art in general. However, in a stricter sense \"fractal art\" is not considered algorithmic art, because the algorithm is not devised by the artist.\n\nIn light of such ongoing developments, pioneer algorithmic artist Ernest Edmonds has documented the continuing prophetic role of art in human affairs by tracing the early 1960s association between art and the computer up to a present time in which the algorithm is now widely recognized as a key concept for society as a whole. \n\nFrom one point of view, for a work of art to be considered algorithmic art, its creation must include a process based on an algorithm devised by the artist. Here, an algorithm is simply a detailed recipe for the design and possibly execution of an artwork, which may include computer code, functions, expressions, or other input which ultimately determines the form the art will take. This input may be mathematical, computational, or generative in nature. Inasmuch as algorithms tend to be deterministic, meaning that their repeated execution would always result in the production of identical artworks, some external factor is usually introduced. This can either be a random number generator of some sort, or an external body of data (which can range from recorded heartbeats to frames of a movie.) Some artists also work with organically based gestural input which is then modified by an algorithm. By this definition, fractals made by a fractal program are not art, as humans are not involved. However, defined differently, algorithmic art can be seen to include fractal art, as well as other varieties such as those using genetic algorithms. The artist Kerry Mitchell stated in his 1999 \"Fractal Art Manifesto\":\n\n\"Algorist\" is a term used for digital artists who create algorithmic art.\n\nAlgorists formally began correspondence and establishing their identity as artists following a panel titled \"Art and Algorithms\" at SIGGRAPH in 1995. The co-founders were Jean-Pierre Hébert and Roman Verostko. Hébert is credited with coining the term and its definition, which is in the form of his own algorithm:\n\nCellular automata can be used to generate artistic patterns with an appearance of randomness, or to modify images such as photographs by applying a transformation such as the stepping stone rule (to give an impressionist style) repeatedly until the desired artistic effect is achieved. Their use has also been explored in music.\n\nFractal art consists of varieties of computer-generated fractals with colouring chosen to give an attractive effect. Especially in the western world, it is not drawn or painted by hand. It is usually created indirectly with the assistance of fractal-generating software, iterating through three phases: setting parameters of appropriate fractal software; executing the possibly lengthy calculation; and evaluating the product. In some cases, other graphics programs are used to further modify the images produced. This is called post-processing. Non-fractal imagery may also be integrated into the artwork.\n\nGenetic or evolutionary art makes use of genetic algorithms to develop images iteratively, selecting at each \"generation\" according to a rule defined by the artist.\n\nAlgorithmic art is not only produced by computers. Wendy Chun explains:\n\nThe American artist, Jack Ox, has used algorithms to produce paintings that are visualizations of music without using a computer. Two examples are \"visual performances\" of extant scores, such as Anton Bruckner's Eighth Symphony and Kurt Schwitters' \"Ursonate\". Later, she and her collaborator, Dave Britton, created the 21st Century Virtual Color Organ that does use computer coding and algorithms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25489423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25489423", "title": "Arts Initiative KNIE", "text": "Arts Initiative KNIE\n\nArts Initiative KNIE was founded as an initiative for contemporary art in 1995 in Oberndorf bei Salzburg. It is the origin of the stolperstein project in Braunau am Inn District. \nInfluenced by the concept of intervention, the Arts Initiative KNIE sees itself as an intermediary and a critical voice. The Arts Initiative KNIE installed art in the public sphere, where the relationship to its location is unmistakable. The \"Grenzpavillion\" (\"Border Pavilion\"), located on the Salzachknie riverbend between Laufen and Oberndorf, has ideal qualifications. The pavilion is a large cube, roughly 8 meters a side, with doors, windows and a weatherproof roof. Over time, it became an \"art station\", which from 1995 to 2002 served primarily as a venue for symposia.\n\nConcepts such as borders, river, bridge, relationship history, technology, disaster, nature and art are transposed by invited artists into sensory images to experience. National and international artists have created installations, performance evenings, onomatopoeia and paintings.\n\nIn 1997, Gunter Demnig's Project Stolperstein nearly ended Initiative KNIE. On February 2, 2002, German artists Julius Deutschbauer and Gerhard Spring announced the end of the arts initiative. In 2006, Andreas Maislinger invited Gunter Demnig back to Braunau am Inn to install 13 more \"stolpersteine\" in honor of Nazi victims.\n"}
{"id": "18368611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18368611", "title": "Arts criticism", "text": "Arts criticism\n\nArts criticism is the process of describing, analyzing, interpreting, and judging works of art. It is distinct from art criticism (which focuses on visual arts) due to its broader remit. The disciplines of arts criticism can be defined by the object being considered rather than the methodology (through analysis of its philosophy): buildings (architecture criticism), paintings (visual art criticism), performances (dance criticism, theatre criticism), music (music journalism), visual media (film criticism, television criticism), or literary texts (literary criticism).\n\nCriticism of the arts can be broadly divided into two types. There is academic criticism such as that found in scholarly works and specialist journals, then there is criticism of a more journalistic nature (often called 'a review') which is seen by a wider public through newspapers, television and radio. The academic criticism will be of a more vigorous and analytical nature than the journalistic, the journalistic may even focus on entertaining the reader at the expense of detail about the art under discussion.\n\n"}
{"id": "11268796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11268796", "title": "Audiovisual art", "text": "Audiovisual art\n\nAudiovisual art is the exploration of kinetic abstract art and music or sound set in relation to each other. It includes \nvisual music, abstract film, audiovisual performances and installations. \n\nThe book \"Art and the Senses\" cites the Italian Futurist artists, Fortunato Depero and Luigi Russolo as designing art machines in 1915 to create a multisensory experience of sound, movement and colour. In the 1970s Harry Bertoia created sound sculptures of objects to have a multisensory effect, exploring the relationships between the sound, the initiating event and the material properties of the objects. In an example with overt musical connections, \"The Oxford Handbook of New Audiovisual Aesthetics\" cites musician Brian Williams (aka Lustmord) as someone whose practise crosses audiovisual art and mainstream media, where his work is \"not traditionally 'musical'\" and has \"clearly visual aspects\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36557722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36557722", "title": "Bus-Tops", "text": "Bus-Tops\n\nBus-Tops was a project for the 2012 Cultural Olympiad, part of the Artists Taking The Lead project funded by Arts Council England and in collaboration with LOCOG.\n\nBus-Tops saw a series of 30 red LED screens situated on the roofs of bus stops in 20 London boroughs displaying art work made by both the public and established artists. The screens were powered by Beagle Boards running custom software and 3G connections to receive art content and upload sensor-based information. The installations were fed art content via the project's website where anyone could upload artwork to be considered for inclusion on a screen.\n\nThe project was scheduled to end at the end of the Olympic period, 30 September 2012.\n"}
{"id": "1681971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1681971", "title": "Camaïeu", "text": "Camaïeu\n\nCamaïeu (also called \"en camaïeu\") is a technique that employs two or three tints of a single color, other than gray, to create a monochromatic image without regard to local or realistic color. When a picture is monochromatically rendered in gray, it is called grisaille; when in yellow, cirage.\n\nThe term is also applied to monochrome painting in enamels. This technique uses a buildup of white enamel to create highlights and light areas. However, instead of using a black background, as in grisaille, transparent enamel is laid in first, beneath the whites. This technique is frequently used on snuffboxes, watches and medallions.\n\n\"\" can also refer, following the French usage, to chiaroscuro woodcut prints that imitate highlighted drawing on tinted paper. However, the correct term in English for these is \"chiaroscuro woodcuts\".\n\nThis French word once was synonymous with \"cameo\", but its meaning became restricted in the early eighteenth century.\n\nCamaïeu is also a registered trademark of a manufacturer.\n\n"}
{"id": "765652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=765652", "title": "Cloisonné", "text": "Cloisonné\n\nCloisonné () is an ancient technique for decorating metalwork objects. In recent centuries, vitreous enamel has been used, and inlays of cut gemstones, glass and other materials were also used during older periods. The resulting objects can also be called \"cloisonné\". The decoration is formed by first adding compartments (\"cloisons\" in French) to the metal object by soldering or affixing silver or gold wires or thin strips placed on their edges. These remain visible in the finished piece, separating the different compartments of the enamel or inlays, which are often of several colors. Cloisonné enamel objects are worked on with enamel powder made into a paste, which then needs to be fired in a kiln.\n\nIn antiquity, the cloisonné technique was mostly used for jewellery and small fittings for clothes, weapons or similar small objects decorated with geometric or schematic designs, with thick cloison walls. In the Byzantine Empire techniques using thinner wires were developed to allow more pictorial images to be produced, mostly used for religious images and jewellery, and by then always using enamel. By the 14th century this enamel technique had spread to China, where it was soon used for much larger vessels such as bowls and vases; the technique remains common in China to the present day, and cloisonné enamel objects using Chinese-derived styles were produced in the West from the 18th century.\n\nCloisonné first developed in the jewellery of the ancient Near East, typically in very small pieces such as rings, with thin wire forming the cloisons. In the jewellery of ancient Egypt, including the pectoral jewels of the Pharaohs, thicker strips form the cloisons, which remain small. In Egypt gemstones and enamel-like materials sometimes called \"glass-paste\" were both used. The Byzantines perfected a unique form of cloisonné icons. Byzantine enamel spread to surrounding cultures and a particular type, often known as garnet cloisonné is widely found in the Migration Period art of the \"barbarian\" peoples of Europe, who used gemstones, especially red garnets, as well as glass and enamel, with small thick-walled cloisons. Red garnets and gold made an attractive contrast of colours, and for Christians the garnet was a symbol of Christ. This type is now thought to have originated in the Late Antique Eastern Roman Empire and to have initially reached the Migration peoples as diplomatic gifts of objects probably made in Constantinople, then copied by their own goldsmiths. Glass-paste cloisonné was made in the same periods with similar results – compare the gold Anglo-Saxon fitting with garnets (right) and the Visigothic brooch with glass-paste in the gallery. Thick ribbons of gold were soldered to the base of the sunken area to be decorated to make the compartments, before adding the stones or paste. Sometimes compartments filled with the different materials of cut stones or glass and enamel are mixed to ornament the same object, as in the Sutton Hoo purse-lid. In the Byzantine world the technique was developed into the thin-wire style suitable only for enamel described below, which was imitated in Europe from about Carolingian period onwards.\n\nThe earliest surviving cloisonné pieces are rings in graves from 12th century BC Cyprus, using very thin wire. Subsequently, enamel was just one of the fillings used for the small, thick-walled cloisons of the Late Antique and Migration Period style described above. From about the 8th century, Byzantine art began again to use much thinner wire more freely to allow much more complex designs to be used, with larger and less geometric compartments, which was only possible using enamel. These were still on relatively small objects, although numbers of plaques could be set into larger objects, such as the Pala d'Oro, the altarpiece in Saint Mark's Cathedral, Venice. Some objects combined thick and thin cloisons for varied effect. The designs often (as at right) contained a generous background of plain gold, as in contemporary Byzantine mosaics. The area to be enamelled was stamped to create the main depression, pricked to help the enamel adhere, and the cloisons added.\n\nTwo different techniques in Byzantine and European cloisonné enamel are distinguished, for which the German names are still typically used in English. The earliest is the Vollschmelz (\"full\" enamel, literally \"full melt\") technique where the whole of a gold base plate is to be covered in enamel. The edges of the plate are turned up to form a reservoir, and gold wires are soldered in place to form the \"cloisons\". The enamel design therefore covers the whole plate. In the Senkschmelz (\"sunk\" enamel, literally \"sunk melt\") technique the parts of the base plate to hold the design are hammered down, leaving a surrounding gold background, as also seen in contemporary Byzantine icons and mosaics with gold glass backgrounds, and the saint illustrated here. The wires and enamels are then added as before. The outline of the design will be apparent on the reverse of the base plate. The transition between the two techniques occurs around 900 in Byzantine enamel, and 1000 in the West, though with important earlier examples. The plaques with apostles of around the latter date on the Holy Crown of Hungary show a unique transitional phase, where the base plaque has hammered recesses for the design, as in \"senkschmelz\" work, but the enamel covers the whole plaque except for thick outlines around the figures and inscriptions, as in the \"vollschmelz\" technique (see the gallery below for examples of this technique and \"vollschmelz\" work). Some 10th-century pieces achieve a \"senkschmelz\" effect by using two plates superimposed on each other, the upper one with the design outline cut out and the lower one left plain. \nFrom Byzantium or the Islamic world the technique reached China in the 13–14th centuries; the first written reference is in a book of 1388, where it is called \"Dashi ware\". No Chinese pieces clearly from the 14th century are known, the earliest datable pieces being from the reign of the Xuande Emperor (1425–35), which however show a full use of Chinese styles suggesting considerable experience in the technique. It was initially regarded with suspicion by Chinese connoisseurs, firstly as being foreign, and secondly as appealing to feminine taste. However, by the beginning of the 18th century the Kangxi Emperor had a cloisonné workshop among the many Imperial factories. The most elaborate and highly valued Chinese pieces are from the early Ming Dynasty, especially the reigns of the Xuande Emperor and Jingtai Emperor (1450–57), although 19th century or modern pieces are far more common. The Chinese industry seems to have benefited from a number of skilled Byzantine refugees fleeing the Fall of Constantinople in 1453, although based on the name alone, it is far more likely China obtained knowledge of the technique from the middle east. In much Chinese cloisonné blue is usually the predominant colour, and the Chinese name for the technique, \"jingtailan\" (\"Jingtai blue ware\"), refers to this, and the Jingtai Emperor. Quality began to decline in the 19th century. Initially heavy bronze or brass bodies were used, and the wires soldered, but later much lighter copper vessels were used, and the wire glued on before firing. The enamels compositions and the pigments change with time.\n\nIn Byzantine pieces, and even more in Chinese work, the wire by no means always encloses a separate color of enamel. Sometime a wire is used just for decorative effect, stopping in the middle of a field of enamel, and sometimes the boundary between two enamel colors is not marked by a wire. In the Byzantine plaque at right the first feature may be seen in the top wire on the saint's black sleeve, and the second in the white of his eyes and collar. Both are also seen in the Chinese bowl illustrated at top right.\n\nChinese cloisonné is amongst the best known enamel cloisonné in the world.\n\nThe Japanese also produced large quantities from the mid-19th century, of very high technical quality. In Japan cloisonné enamels are known as \"shippō-yaki\" (七宝焼). Early centres of cloisonné were Nagoya during the Owari Domain. Companies of renown were the Ando Cloisonné Company. Later centres of renown were Edo and Kyoto. In Kyoto Namikawa became one of the leading companies of Japanese cloisonné. The Namikawa Yasuyuki Cloisonné Museum is specifically dedicated to it.\n\nRussian cloisonné from the Tsarist era is also highly prized by collectors, especially from the House of Fabergé or Khlebnikov, and the French and other nations have produced small quantities. Chinese cloisonné is sometimes confused with Canton enamel, a similar type of enamel work that is painted on freehand and does not use partitions to hold the colors separate.\n\nIn medieval Western Europe cloisonné enamel technique was gradually overtaken by the rise of champlevé enamel, where the spaces for the enamel to fill are created by making recesses (using various methods) into the base object, rather than building up compartments from it, as in cloisonné. Later techniques were evolved that allowed the enamel to be painted onto a flat background without running. Plique-à-jour is a related enameling technique which uses clear enamels and no metal backplate, producing an object that has the appearance of a miniature stained glass object - in effect cloisonné with no backing. Plique-a'-jour is usually created on a base of mica or thin copper which is subsequently peeled off (mica) or etched away with acid (copper).\n\nOther ways of using the technique have been developed, but are of minor importance. In 19th century Japan it was used on pottery vessels with ceramic glazes, and it has been used with lacquer and modern acrylic fillings for the cloisons. A version of cloisonné technique is often used for lapel badges, logo badges for many objects such as cars, including BMW models, and other applications, though in these the metal base is normally cast with the compartments in place, so the use of the term cloisonne', though common, is questionable. That technique is correctly referred by goldsmiths, metalsmiths and enamellists as champlevé.\n\nA large collection of 150 Chinese cloisonné pieces is at the G.W. Vincent Smith Art Museum in Springfield, Massachusetts.\n\nFirst the object to be decorated is made or obtained; this will normally be made by different craftspeople. The metal usually used for making the body is copper, since it is cheap, light and easily hammered and stretched, but gold, silver or other metals may be used. Cloisonné wire is made from fine silver or fine gold and is usually about .010 x .040 inches in cross section. It is bent into shapes that define the colored areas. The bends are all done at right angles, so that the wire does not curve up. This is done with small pliers, tweezers, and custom-made jigs. The cloisonné wire pattern may consist of several intricately constructed wire patterns that fit together into a larger design. Solder can be used to join the wires, but this causes the enamel to discolour and form bubbles later on. Most existing Byzantine enamels have soldered cloisons, however the use of solder to adhere the cloison wires has fallen out of favor due to its difficulty, with the exception of some \"purist contemporary enamellists\" who create fine watch faces and high quality very expensive jewelry. Instead of soldering the cloisons to the base metal, the base metal is fired with a thin layer of clear enamel. The cloisonné wire is glued to the enamel surface with gum tragacanth. When the gum has dried, the piece is fired again to fuse the cloisonné wire to the clear enamel. The gum burns off, leaving no residue.\n\nVitreous enamels in the different colors are ground to fine powders in an agate or porcelain mortar and pestle, then washed to remove the impurities that would discolor the fired enamel. The enamel is made from silica, niter, and lead oxide to which metallic oxides are added for coloring. These ingredients are melted together, forming a glassy frit which is ground again before application. Each color of enamel is prepared this way before it is used and then mixed with a very dilute solution of gum tragacanth. Using fine spatulas, brushes or droppers, the enameler places the fine colored powder into each cloison. The piece is left to dry completely before firing, which is done by putting the article, with its enamel fillings, in a kiln. The enamel in the cloisons will sink down a lot after firing, due to melting and shrinkage of the granular nature of the glass powder, much as sugar melting in an oven. This process is repeated until all cloisons are filled to the top of the wire edge.\n\nThree styles of cloisonné are most often seen: concave, convex, and flat. The finishing method determines this final appearance. With concave cloisonné the cloisons are not completely filled. Capillary action causes the enamel surface to curve up against the cloisonné wire when the enamel is molten, producing a concave appearance. Convex cloissoné is produced by overfilling each cloison, at the last firing. This gives each color area the appearance of slightly rounded mounds. Flat cloisonné is the most common. After all the cloisons are filled the enamel is ground down to a smooth surface with lapidary equipment, using the same techniques as are used for polishing cabochon stones. The top of the cloisonné wire is polished so it is flush with the enamel and has a bright lustre. Some cloisonné wire is electroplated with a thin film of gold, which will not tarnish as silver does.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28092714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28092714", "title": "Cubist sculpture", "text": "Cubist sculpture\n\nCubist sculpture developed in parallel with Cubist painting, beginning in Paris around 1909 with its proto-Cubist phase, and evolving through the early 1920s. Just as Cubist painting, Cubist sculpture is rooted in Paul Cézanne's reduction of painted objects into component planes and geometric solids; cubes, spheres, cylinders, and cones. Presenting fragments and facets of objects that could be visually interpreted in different ways had the effect of 'revealing the structure' of the object. Cubist sculpture essentially is the dynamic rendering of three-dimensional objects in the language of non-Euclidean geometry by shifting viewpoints of volume or mass in terms of spherical, flat and hyperbolic surfaces.\n\nIn the historical analysis of most modern movements such as Cubism there has been a tendency to suggest that sculpture trailed behind painting. Writings about individual sculptors within the Cubist movement are commonly found, while writings about Cubist sculpture are premised on painting, offering sculpture nothing more than a supporting role.\n\nWe are better advised, writes Penelope Curtis, \"to look at what is sculptural within Cubism. Cubist painting is an almost sculptural translation of the external world; its associated sculpture translates Cubist painting back into a semi-reality\". Attempts to separate painting and sculpture, even by 1910, are very difficult. \"If painters used sculpture for their own ends, so sculptors exploited the new freedom too\", writes Curtis, \"and we should look at what sculptors took from the discourse of painting and why. In the longer term we could read such developments as the beginning of a process in which sculpture expands, poaching painting's territory and then others, to become steadily more prominent in this century\".\n\nIncreasingly, painters claim sculptural means of problem solving for their paintings. Braque's paper sculptures of 1911, for example, were intended to clarify and enrich his pictorial idiom. \"This has meant\" according to Curtis, \"that we have tended to see sculpture through painting, and even to see painters as poaching sculpture. This is largely because we read Gauguin, Degas, Matisse, and Picasso as painters even when looking at their sculpture, but also because their sculptures often deserve to be spoken of as much as paintings as sculptures\".\nA painting is meant both to capture the palpable three-dimensionality of the world revealed to the retina, and to draw attention to itself as a two-dimensional object, so that it is both a depiction and an object in itself. Such is the case for Picasso's 1909-10 \"Head of a Woman (Head of Fernande)\", often considered the first Cubist sculpture. Yet \"Head of a Woman\", writes Curtis, \"had mainly revealed how Cubism was more interesting in Painting—where it showed in two dimensions how to represent three dimensions—than in sculpture\". Picasso's \"Head of a Woman\" was less adventurous than his painting of 1909 and subsequent years.\n\nThough it is difficult to define what can properly be called a 'Cubist sculpture', Picasso's 1909-10 \"Head\" bares the hallmarks of early Cubism in that the various surfaces constituting the face and hair are broken down into irregular fragments that meet at sharp angles, rendering practically unreadable the basic volume of the head beneath. These facets are obviously a translation from two to three dimensions of the broken planes of Picasso's 1909-10 paintings.\n\nAccording to the art historian Douglas Cooper, \"The first true Cubist sculpture was Picasso's impressive \"Woman's Head\", modeled in 1909-10, a counterpart in three dimensions to many similar analytical and faceted heads in his paintings at the time.\"\nIt has been suggested that in contrast to Cubist painters, Cubist sculptors did not create a new art of 'space-time'. Unlike a flat painting, high-relief sculpture from its volumetric nature could never be limited to a single view-point. Hence, as Peter Collins highlights, it is absurd to state that Cubist sculpture, like painting, was not limited to a single point of view.\n\nThe concept of Cubist sculpture may seem \"paradoxical\", writes George Heard Hamilton, \"because the fundamental Cubist situation was the representation on a two-dimensional surface of a multi-dimensional space at least theoretically impossible to see or to represent in the three dimensions of actual space, the temptation to move from a pictorial diagram to its spatial realization proved irresistible\".\nNow liberated from the one-to-one relationship between a fixed coordinate in space captured at a single moment in time assumed by classical vanishing-point perspective, the Cubist sculptor, just as the painter, became free to explore notions of \"simultaneity\", whereby several positions in space captured at successive time intervals could be depicted within the bounds of a single three-dimensional work of art.\n\nOf course, 'simultaneity' and 'multiple perspective' were not the only characteristics of Cubism. In Du \"Cubisme\" the painters Albert Gleizes and Jean Metzinger write:\n\nMore astonishing still, writes John Adkins Richardson, \"is the fact that the artists participating in the [Cubist] movement not only created a revolution, they surpassed it, going on to create other styles of an incredible range and dissimilarity, and even devised new forms and techniques in sculpture and ceramic arts\".\n\n\"Cubists sculpture\", writes Douglas Cooper, \"must be discussed apart from the painting because it followed other paths, which were sometimes similar but never parallel\".\n\n\"But not infrequently the sculptor and the painter upset the equilibrium of the work of others by doing things which are out of key or out of proportion.\" (Arthur Jerome Eddy)\n\nThe use of diverging vantage-points for representing the features of objects or subject matter became a central factor in the practice of all Cubists, leading to the assertion, as noted by the art historian Christopher Green, \"that Cubist art was essentially conceptual rather than perceptual\". Jean Metzinger and Albert Gleizes in their 1912 writing, along with the writings by the critic , were most responsible for the emphasis given to this claim. Raynal argued, echoing Metzinger and Gleizes, that the rejection of classical perspective in favor of multiplicity represented a break with the 'instantaneity' that characterized Impressionism. The mind now directed the optical exploration of the world. Painting and sculpture no longer merely recorded sensations generated through the eye; but resulted from the intelligence of both artist and observer. This was a mobile and dynamic investigation that explored multiple facets of the world.\n\nThe origins of Cubist sculpture are as diverse as the origins of Cubist painting, resulting from a wide range of influences, experiments and circumstances, rather than from one source. With its roots stemming as far back as ancient Egypt, Greece and Africa, the proto-Cubist period (englobing both painting and sculpture) is characterized by the geometrization of form. It is essentially the first experimental and exploratory phase, in three-dimensional form, of an art movement known from the spring of 1911 as Cubism.\n\nThe influences that characterize the transition from classical to modern sculpture range from diverse artistic movements (Post-Impressionism, Symbolism, Les Nabis and Neo-Impressionism), to the works of individual artists such as Auguste Rodin, Aristide Maillol, Antoine Bourdelle, Charles Despiau, Constantin Meunier, Edgar Degas, Paul Cézanne, Georges Seurat and Paul Gauguin (among others), to African art, Egyptian art, Ancient Greek art, Oceanic art, Native American art, and Iberian schematic art.\n\nBefore the advent of Cubism artists had questioned the treatment of form inherent in art since the Renaissance. Eugène Delacroix the romanticist, Gustave Courbet the realist, and virtually all the Impressionists had jettisoned Classicism in favor of \"immediate sensation\". The \"dynamic\" expression favored by these artists presented a challenge to the \"static\" traditional means of expression.\n\nIn his 1914 \"Cubists and Post-Impressionism\" Arthur Jerome Eddy makes reference to Auguste Rodin and his relation to both Post-Impressionism and Cubism:\n\nThe truth is there is more of Cubism in great painting than we dream, and the extravagances of the Cubists may serve to open our eyes to beauties we have always felt without quite understanding.\n\nTake, for instance, the strongest things by Winslow Homer; the strength lies in the big, elemental manner in which the artist rendered his impressions in lines and masses which departed widely from photographic reproductions of scenes and people.\n\nRodin's bronzes exhibit these same elemental qualities, qualities which are pushed to violent extremes in Cubist sculpture. But may it not be profoundly true that these very extremes, these very extravagances, by causing us to blink and rub our eyes, end in a finer understanding and appreciation of such work as Rodin's?\n\nHis Balzac is, in a profound sense, his most colossal work, and at the same time his most elemental. In its simplicity, in its use of planes and masses, it is—one might say, solely for purposes of illustration—Cubist, with none of the extravagances of Cubism. It is purely Post-Impressionistic.\nSeveral factors mobilized the shift from a representational art form to one increasingly abstract; a most important factor would be found in the works of Paul Cézanne, and his interpretation of nature in terms of the cylinder, the sphere, and the cone. In addition to his tendency to simplify geometric structure, Cézanne was concerned with rendering the effect of volume and space. Cézanne's departure from classicism, however, would be best summarized in the complex treatment of surface variations (or modulations) with overlapped shifting planes, seemingly arbitrary contours, contrasts and values combined to produce a planar faceting effect. In his later works, Cézanne achieves a greater freedom, with larger, bolder, more arbitrary faceting, with dynamic and increasingly abstract results. As the colors planes acquire greater formal independence, defined objects and structures begin to lose their identity.\n\nAvant-garde artists working in Paris had begun reevaluating their own work in relation to that of Cézanne following a retrospective of his paintings at the Salon d'Automne of 1904, and exhibitions of his work at the Salon d'Automne of 1905 and 1906, followed by two commemorative retrospectives after his death in 1907. The influence generated by the work of Cézanne, in combination with the impact of diverse cultures, suggests a means by which artists (including Alexander Archipenko, Constantin Brâncuși, Georges Braque, Joseph Csaky, Robert Delaunay, Henri le Fauconnier, Albert Gleizes, Fernand Léger, Jean Metzinger, Amedeo Modigliani and Pablo Picasso) made the transition to diverse forms of Cubism.\n\nYet the extreme to which the Cubist painters and sculptors exaggerated the distortions created by the use of multiple perspective and the depiction of forms in terms of planes is the late work of Paul Cézanne, led to a fundamental change in the formal strategy and relationship between artist and subject not anticipated by Cézanne.\n\nAnother factor in the shift towards abstraction was the increasing exposure to Prehistoric art, and art produced by various cultures: African art, Cycladic art, Oceanic art, Art of the Americas, the Art of ancient Egypt, Iberian sculpture, and Iberian schematic art. Artists such as Paul Gauguin, Henri Matisse, André Derain, Henri Rousseau and Pablo Picasso were inspired by the stark power and stylistic simplicity of artworks produced by these cultures.\n\nAround 1906, Picasso met Matisse through Gertrude Stein, at a time when both artists had recently acquired an interest in Tribal art, Iberian sculpture and African tribal masks. They became friendly rivals and competed with each other throughout their careers, perhaps leading to Picasso entering a new period in his work by 1907, marked by the influence of ethnographic art. Picasso's paintings of 1907 have been characterized as proto-Cubism, as \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\", the antecedent of Cubism.\n\nThe African influence, which introduced anatomical simplifications, along with expressive features reminiscent of El Greco, are the generally assumed starting point for the Proto-Cubism of Picasso. He began working on studies for Les Demoiselles d'Avignon after a visit to the ethnographic museum at Palais du Trocadero. But that wasn't all. Aside from further influences of the Symbolists, Pierre Daix explored Picasso’s Cubism from a formal position in relation to the ideas and works of Claude Lévi-Strauss on the subject of myth. And too, without doubt, writes Podoksik, Picasso’s proto-Cubism came not from the external appearance of events and things, but from great emotional and instinctive feelings, from the most profound layers of the psyche.\n\nEuropean artists (and art collectors) prized objects from different cultures for their stylistic traits defined as attributes of primitive expression: absence of classical perspective, simple outlines and shapes, presence of symbolic signs including the hieroglyph, emotive figural distortions, and the dynamic rhythms generated by repetitive ornamental patterns.\n\nThese were the profound energizing stylistic attributes, present in the visual arts of Africa, Oceana, the Americas, that attracted not just Picasso, but many of the Parisian avant-garde that transited through a proto-Cubist phase. While some delved deeper into the problems of geometric abstraction, becoming known as Cubists, others such as Derain and Matisse chose different paths. And others still such as Brâncuși and Modigliani exhibited with the Cubists yet defied classification as Cubists.\n\nIn \"The Rise if Cubism\" Daniel Henry Kahnweiler writes of the similarities between African art with Cubist painting and sculpture:\n\nIn the years 1913 and 1914 Braque and Picasso attempted to eliminate the use of color as chiaroscuro, which had still persisted to some extent in their painting, by amalgamating painting and sculpture. Instead of having to demonstrate through shadows how one plane stands above, or in front of a second plane, they could now superimpose the planes one on the other and illustrate the relationship directly. The first attempts to do this go far back. Picasso had already begun such an enterprise in 1909, but since he did it within the limits of closed form, it was destined to fail. It resulted in a kind of colored bas-relief. Only in open planal form could this union of painting and sculpture be realized. Despite current prejudice, this endeavor to increase plastic expression through the collaboration of the two arts must be warmly approved; an enrichment of the plastic arts is certain to result from it. A number of sculptors like Lipchitz, Laurens and Archipenko have since taken up and developed this sculpto-painting.<br><br>\n\nNor is this form entirely new in the history of the plastic arts. The negroes of the Ivory Coast have made use of a very similar method of expression in their dance masks. These are constructed as follows: a completely flat plane forms the lower part of the face; to this is joined the high forehead, which is sometimes equally flat, sometimes bent slightly backward. While the nose is added as a simple strip of wood, two cylinders protrude about eight centimeters to form the eyes, and one slightly shorter hexahedron forms the mouth. The frontal surfaces of the cylinder and hexahedron are painted, and the hair is represented by raffia. It is true that the form is still closed here; however, it is not the \"real\" form, but rather a tight formal scheme of plastic primeval force. Here, too, we find a scheme of forms and \"real details\" (the painted eyes, mouth and hair) as stimuli. The result in the mind of the spectator, the desired effect, is a human face.\"\n\nJust as in painting, Cubist sculpture is rooted in Paul Cézanne's reduction of painted objects into component planes and geometric solids (cubes, spheres, cylinders, and cones) along with the arts of diverse cultures. In the spring of 1908 Picasso worked on the representation of three-dimensional form and its position in space on a two-dimensional surface. \"Picasso painted figures resembling Congo sculptures\", wrote Kanhweiler, \"and still lifes of the simplest form. His perspective in these works is similar to that of Cézanne\".\n\nThe diverse styles of Cubism have been associated with the formal experiments of Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso exhibited exclusively at the Kahnweiler gallery. However, alternative contemporary views on Cubism have formed to some degree in response to the more publicized Salon Cubists (Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Robert Delaunay, Henri Le Fauconnier, Fernand Léger, Alexander Archipenko and Joseph Csaky), whose methods and ideas were too distinct from those of Braque and Picasso to be considered merely secondary to them. Cubist sculpture, just as Cubist painting, is difficult to define. Cubism in general cannot definitively be called either a style, the art of a specific group or even a specific movement. \"It embraces widely disparate work, applying to artists in different milieux\". (Christopher Green)\n\nArtist sculptors working in Montparnasse were quick to adopt the language of non-Euclidean geometry, rendering three-dimensional objects by shifting viewpoints and of volume or mass in terms of successive curved or flat planes and surfaces. Alexander Archipenko's 1912 \"Walking Woman\" is cited as the first modern sculpture with an abstracted void, i.e., a hole in the middle. Joseph Csaky, following Archipenko, was the first sculptor to join the Cubists, with whom he exhibited from 1911 onward. They were joined by Raymond Duchamp-Villon (1876-1918), whose career was cut short by his death in military service, and then in 1914 by Jacques Lipchitz, Henri Laurens and later Ossip Zadkine.\n\nAccording to Herbert Read, this has the effect of \"revealing the structure\" of the object, or of presenting fragments and facets of the object to be visually interpreted in different ways. Both of these effects transfer to sculpture. Although the artists themselves did not use these terms, the distinction between \"analytic cubism\" and \"synthetic cubism\" could also be seen in sculpture, writes Read (1964): \"In the analytical Cubism of Picasso and Braque, the definite purpose of the geometricization of the planes is to emphasize the formal structure of the motif represented. In the synthetic Cubism of Juan Gris the definite purpose is to create an effective formal pattern, geometricization being a means to this end.\"\n\nAlexander Archipenko studied Egyptian and archaic Greek figures in the Louvre in 1908 when he arrived in Paris. He was \"the first\", according to Barr, \"to work seriously and consistently at the problem of Cubist sculpture\". His torso entitled \"Hero\" (1910) appears related stylistically to Picasso's Les Demoiselles d'Avignon, \"but in its energetic three-dimensional torsion it is entirely independent of Cubist painting.\" (Barr)\n\nArchipenko evolved in close contact with the Salon Cubists (Jean Metzinger, Albert Gleizes, Henri Le Fauconnier, Robert Delaunay, Joseph Csaky and others). At the same time, his affinities with Futurism were documented by the British magazine \"The Sketch\" in October 1913, where Archipenko's \"Dancers (Dance)\", reproduced on its front cover, was described as a 'Futurist sculpture'. \"In this work\", writes Alexandra Keiser, \"two abstracted figures are engaged in a dynamic dance movement.\" Moreover, the chiaroscuro observed in the photographic reproduction \"accentuated the artist's multi-faceted use of positive and negative space as a compositional element to create dynamic movement, in both the fragmentation of the dancers' bodies as well as in the void created between their bodies\". In the photographic reproduction of \"Dancers\", writes Keiser, \"the sculpture is set off at an angle reinforcing the idea of dynamism and creating the illusion that the sculpture is propelled through space. The sculpture \"Dance\" itself as well as the style of its reproduction played strongly to the generalized notions of Futurism and to the idea that sculpture could be conceived as a specifically modern medium\".\n\nHerwarth Walden of Der Sturm in Berlin described Archipenko as 'the most important sculptor of our time'. Walden also promoted Archipenko as the foremost Expressionist sculptor. (Before World War I \"Expressionism\" encompassed several definitions and artistic concepts. Walden used the term to describe modern art movements including Futurism and Cubism).\n\nArchipenko's \"Woman with a Fan\" (1914) combines high-relief sculpture with painted colors (polychrome) to create striking illusions of volumetric space. Experimenting with the dynamic interplay of convex and concave surfaces, Archipenko created works such as \"Woman Combing her Hair\" (1915). Depending on the movement around the sculpture and effects of lighting, concave and convex surfaces appear alternately to protrude or recede. His use of sculptural voids was inspired by the philosopher Henri Bergson's \"Creative Evolution\" (1907) on the distortions of our understanding of reality, and how our intellect tends to define unanticipated circumstances positively or negatively. 'If the present reality is not one we are seeking, we speak of an absence of this sought reality wherever we find the presence of another'. \"Archipenko's sculptural voids\", write Antliff and Leighten, \"allows us to fill this illusory gap with our own durational consciousness\".\n\nIn 1914, Arthur Jerome Eddy examined what made Archipenko's sculpture, \"Family Life\", exhibited at the Armory Show unique, powerful, modern and Cubist:\n\nSpiritual, emotional, and mathematical intellectuality, too, is behind the family group of Archipenko. This group, in plaster, might have been made of dough. It represents a featureless, large, strong male—one gets the impression of strength from humps and lumps—an impression of a female, less vivid, and the vague knowledge that a child is mixed up in the general embrace. The faces are rather blocky, the whole group with arms intertwined—arms that end suddenly, no hands, might be the sketch of a sculpture to be. But when one gets an insight it is intensely more interesting. It is, eventually, clear that in portraying his idea of family love the sculptor has built his figures with pyramidal strength; they are grafted together with love and geometric design, their limbs are bracings, ties of strength, they represent, not individuals, but the structure itself of family life. Not family life as one sees it, but the unseen, the deep emotional unseen, and in making his group when the sculptor found himself verging upon the seen—that is, when he no longer felt the unseen—he stopped. Therefore the hands were not essential. And this expression is made in the simplest way. Some will hoot at it, but others will feel the respect that is due one who simplifies and expresses the deep things of life. You may say that such is literature in marble—well, it is the most modern sculpture.<br><br>\n\nThe group is so angular, so \"Cubist\", so ugly according to accepted notions, that few look long enough to see what the sculptor means; yet strange as the group was it undeniably gave a powerful impression of the binding, the \"blending\" character of the family tie, a much more powerful impression than groups in conventional academic pose could give.\n\nJoseph Csaky arrived in Paris from his native Hungary during the summer of 1908. By autumn of 1908 Csaky shared a studio space at Cité Falguière with Joseph Brummer, a Hungarian friend who had opened the Brummer Gallery with his brothers. Within three weeks, Brummer showed Csaky a sculpture he was working on: an exact copy of an African sculpture from the Congo. Brummer told Csaky that another artist in Paris, a Spaniard by the name of Pablo Picasso, was painting in the spirit of 'Negro' sculptures.\n\nLiving and working at La Ruche in Montparnasse, Csaky exhibited his highly stylized 1909 sculpture \"Tête de femme (Portrait de Jeanne)\" at the 1910 Salon de la Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts, now significantly beyond the influence of Auguste Rodin. The following year he exhibited a proto-Cubist work entitled \"Mademoiselle Douell\" (1910).\n\nCsaky's proto-Cubist works include \"Femme et enfant\" (1909), collection Zborovsky, \"Tête de femme de profil\" (1909), exhibited Société National des Beaux-Arts, 1910, \"Tête de femme de face\" (1909). By 1910-11 Csaky's Cubist works included \"Tête d'homme, Autoportrait, Tête Cubiste\" (1911), exhibited at the Salon d'Automne of 1911.\n\nIn 1911, Csaky exhibited his Cubist sculptures, including \"Mademoiselle Douell\" (no. 1831) at the \"Salon des Indépendants\" (21 April - 13 June) with Archipenko, Duchamp, Gleizes, Laurencin, La Fresnaye, Léger, Picabia and Metzinger. This exhibition provoked a scandal out of which Cubism was revealed to the general public for the first time. From that exhibition it emerged and spread throughout Paris and beyond.\n\nFour months later Csaky exhibited at the \"Salon d'Automne\" (1 October - 8 November) in room XI together with the same artists, in addition to Modigliani and František Kupka, his \"Groupe de femmes\" (1911–1912), a massive, highly stylized block-like sculpture representing three women. At the same Salon Csaky exhibited \"Portrait de M.S.H.\", no. 91, his deeply faceted \"Danseuse (Femme à l'éventail, Femme à la cruche)\", no. 405, and \"Tête d'homme (\"Tête d'adolescent)\" no. 328, the first in a series of self-portraits that would become increasingly abstract in accord with his Cubist sensibility.\n\nThe following spring, Csaky showed at the Salon des Indépendants (1913) with the same group, including Lhote, Duchamp-Villon and Villon.\n\nCsaky exhibited as a member of Section d'Or at the Galerie La Boétie (10–30 October 1912), with Archipenko, Duchamp-Villon, La Fresnaye, Gleizes, Gris, Laurencin, Léger, Lhote, Marcoussis, Metzinger, Picabia, Kupka, Villon and Duchamp.\n\nAt the 1913 Salon des Indépendants, held March 9 through 18 May, Csaky exhibited his 1912 \"Tête de Femme (Buste de femme)\", an exceedingly faceted sculpture later purchased by Léonce Rosenberg. The Cubist works were shown in room 46. Metzinger exhibited his large \"L'Oiseau bleu\" — Albert Gleizes, Albert Gleizes. \"Les Joueurs de football\" (Football Players)\" 1912-13, National Gallery of Art, Washington D.C — Robert Delaunay \"The Cardiff Team (L'équipe de Cardiff )\" 1913, Van Abbemuseum, Eindhoven — Fernand Léger, \"Le modèle nu dans l'atelier (Nude Model In The Studio)\" 1912-13, Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York — Juan Gris, \"L'Homme dans le Café (Man in Café)\" 1912, Philadelphia Museum of Art.\n\nThe inspirations that led Csaky to Cubism were diverse, as they were for artists of Le Bateau-Lavoir, and other still of the Section d'Or. Certainly Cézanne's geometric syntax was a significant influence, as well as Seurat's scientific approach to painting. Given a growing dissatisfaction with the classical methods of representation, and the contemporary changes—the industrial revolution, exposure to art from across the world—artists began to transform their expression. Now at 9 rue Blainville in the fifth arrondissement in Paris Csaky—along with the Cubist sculptors who would follow—stimulated by the profound cultural changes and his own experiences, contributed his own personal artistic language to the movement.\n\nCsaky wrote of the direction his art had taken during the crucial years:\n\n\"There was no question which was my way. True, I was not alone, but in the company of several artists who came from Eastern Europe. I joined the cubists in the Académie La Palette, which became the sanctuary of the new direction in art. On my part I did not want to imitate anyone or anything. This is why I joined the cubists movement.\" (Joseph Csaky)\n\nJoseph Csaky contributed substantially to the development of modern sculpture, both as an early pioneer in applying Cubist principles to sculpture, and as a leading figure in nonrepresentational art of the 1920s.\n\nAlthough some comparison can be drawn between the mask-like totemic characteristics of various Gabon sculptures, primitive art was well beyond the conservative French sensibilities visible in the work of Raymond Duchamp-Villon. Gothic sculpture, on the other hand, seems to have provided Duchamp-Villon the impetus for expressing novel possibilities of human representation, in a manner parallel to that provided by African art for Derain, Picasso, Braque and others.\n\nTo his credit, Duchamp-Villon exhibited early on with the Cubists (Albert Gleizes, Jean Metzinger, Fernand Léger, Henri le Fauconnier, Roger de La Fresnaye, Francis Picabia, Joseph Csaky) at the 1912 Salon d'Automne; a massive public Cubist manifestation that caused yet another scandal, following from the Salon des Indépendants and Salon d'Automne of 1911. His role as architect of \"la Maison Cubiste (Cubist house)\" propelled him into the center of a politico-social scandal that accused the Cubists of \"foreign aesthetic inspiration\".\n\nWith the same group, including his brothers Jacques Villon and Marcel Duchamp, he exhibited at the Salon de la Section d'Or in the fall of 1912.\n\nIn \"Les Peintres Cubistes\" (1913) Guillaume Apollinaire writes of Duchamp-Villon:\n\nThe early sculptures of Jacques Lipchitz, 1911-1912, were conventional portraits and figure studies executed in the tradition of Aristide Maillol and Charles Despiau. He progressively turned toward Cubism in 1914 with periodic reference to Negro sculpture. His 1915 \"Baigneuse\" is comparable to figures from Gabun. In 1916 his figures became more abstract, though less so than those of Brâncuși's sculptures of 1912-1915. Lipchitz' \"Baigneuse Assise\" (70.5 cm) of 1916 is clearly reminiscent of Csaky's 1913 \"Figure de Femme Debout, 1913 (Figure Habillée)\" (80 cm), exhibited in Paris at the Salon des Indépendants in the spring of 1913, with the same architectonic rendering of the shoulders, head, torso, and lower body, both with an angular pyramidal, cylidrical and spherical geometric armature. Just as some of the works of Picasso and Braque of the period are virtually indistinguishable, so too are Csaky's and Lipchitz sculptures, only Csaky's predates that of Lipchitz by three years.\n\nLike Archipenko and Csaky, both Lipchitz and Henri Laurens were aware of primitive African art, though hardly evident in their works. Lipchitz collected African art from 1912 on, but Laurens, in fact, appears to have been entirely unaffected by African art. Both his early reliefs and three-dimensional sculptures attach problems posed by Cubist painters first. Lipchitz and Laurens were concerned with giving tangible substance to idea first pronounced by Jean Metzinger in his 1910 \"Note sur la peinture\" of simultaneous multiple views. \"They were\", as Goldwater notes, \"undoubtedly impressed with the natural three-dimensionality of African sculpture and with its rhythmic interplay of solid and related void. But in its frontality and mass, though often composed of \"cubic\" shapes, it was anything but cubist, and was indeed, fundamentally anti-cubist in conception\". The African sculptor, writes Goldwater, \"whether his forms were rectangular, elliptical, or round in outline, and whether he cut back little or much into the cylinder of fresh wood with which he began, was content to show one aspect of his figure at a time\". Goldwater continues: :\"He achieved his \"instinctive\" three-dimensional effect by calculated simplification and separation of parts that allowed the eye to grasp each one as a unified, coherent mass. The cubist sculptor, on the other hand, wished to \"make his figure turn\" by simultaneously showing or suggesting frontal and orthogonal planes, by flattening diagonals, and by swinging other hidden surfaces into view.\"\n\nSome time after Joseph Csaky's 1911-14 sculptural figures consisting of conic, cylindrical and spherical shapes, a translation of two-dimensional form into three-dimensional form had been undertaken by the French sculptor Henri Laurens. He had met Braque in 1911 and exhibited at the Salon de la Section d'Or in 1912, but his mature activity as a sculptor began in 1915 after experimenting with different materials.\n\nUmberto Boccioni exhibited his Futurist sculptures in Paris in 1913 after having studied the works of Archipenko, Brâncuși, Csaky, and Duchamp-Villon. Boccioni's background was in painting, as his Futurist colleagues, but unlike others was impelled to adapt the subjects and atmospheric faceting of Futurism to sculpture. For Boccioni, physical motion is relative, in opposition with absolute motion. The Futurist had no intention of abstracting reality. \"We are not against nature,\" wrote Boccioni, \"as believed by the innocent late bloomers [retardataires] of realism and naturalism, but against art, that is, against immobility.\" While common in painting, this was rather new in sculpture. Boccioni expressed in the preface of the catalogue for the \"First Exhibition of Futurist Sculpture\" his wish to break down the stasis of sculpture by the utilization of diverse materials and coloring grey and black paint of the edges of the contour (to represent chiaroscuro). Though Boccioni had attacked Medardo Rosso for adhering closely to pictorial concepts, Lipchitz described Boccioni's 'Unique Forms' as a relief concept, just as a futurist painting translated into three-dimensions.\n\nThe works of Constantin Brâncuși differ considerably from others through lack of severe planar faceting often associated with those of prototypical Cubists such as Archipenko, Csaky and Duchamp-Villon (themselves already very different from one another). However, in common is the tendency toward simplification and abstract representation.\n\nBefore reviewing the works of Brâncuși, Arthur Jerome Eddy writes of Wilhelm Lehmbruck:\n\nThe heads by Brâncuși were idealistic in the extreme; the sculptor carried his theories of mass and form so far he deliberately lost all resemblance to actuality. He uses his subjects as motives rather than models. In this respect he is not unlike—though more extreme than—the great Japanese and Chinese artists, who use life and nature arbitrarily to secure the results they desire.\n\nI have a golden bronze head—a \"Sleeping Muse,\" by Brâncuși—so simple, so severe in its beauty, it might have come from the Orient.\n\nOf this head and two other pieces of sculpture exhibited by Brâncuși in July, 1913, at the Allied Artists' Exhibition in London, Roger Fry said in \"The Nation\", August 2: Constantin Brâncuși's sculptures have not, I think, been seen before in England. His three heads are the most remarkable works of sculpture at the Albert Hall. Two are in brass and one in stone. They show a technical skill which is almost disquieting, a skill which might lead him, in default of any overpowering imaginative purpose, to become a brilliant pasticheur. But it seemed to me there was evidence of passionate conviction; that the simplification of forms was no mere exercise in plastic design, but a real interpretation of the rhythm of life. These abstract vivid forms into which he compresses his heads give a vivid presentment of character; they are not empty abstractions, but filled with a content which has been clearly, and passionately apprehended.\n\nEddy elaborates on Brâncuși and Archipenko:\n\nNature is purposely left far behind, as far behind as in Cubist pictures, and for very much the same reasons.\n\nOf all the sculpture in the International Exhibition Armory Show the two pieces that excited the most ridicule were Brâncuși's egg-shaped \"Portrait of Mlle. Pogany\" and \"Family Life\" by Archipenko.\n\nBoth are creative works, products of the imagination, but in their inspiration they are fundamentally different.\n\nIn June 1915 the young modern sculptor Henri Gaudier-Brzeska lost his life in the war. Shortly before his death he wrote a letter and sent it to friends in London:\n\nI have been fighting for two months and I can now gage the intensity of life.[...]\n\nIt would be folly to seek artistic emotions amid these little works of ours.[...]\n\nMy views on sculpture remain absolutely the same.\n\nIt is the vortex of will, of decision, that begins.\n\nI shall derive my emotions solely from the arrangement of surfaces. I shall present my emotions by the arrangement of my surfaces, the planes and lines by which they are defined.\n\nJust as this hill, where the Germans are solidly entrenched, gives me a nasty feeling, solely because its gentle slopes are broken up by earthworks, which throw long shadows at sunset—just so shall I get feeling, of whatsoever definition, from a statue according to its slopes, varied to infinity.\n\nI have made an experiment. Two days ago I pinched from an enemy a mauser rifle. Its heavy, unwieldy shape swamped me with a powerful image of brutality.\n\nI was in doubt for a long time whether it pleased or displeased me.\n\nI found that I did not like it.\n\nI broke the butt off and with my knife I carved in it a design, through which I tried to express a gentler order of feeling, which I preferred.\n\nBut I will emphasize that my design got its effect (just as the gun had) from a very simple composition of lines and planes. (Gaudier-Brzeska, 1915)\n\nExperimentation in three-dimensional art had brought sculpture into the world of painting, with unique pictorial solutions. By 1914 it was clear that sculpture had moved inexorably closer to painting, becoming a formal experiment, one inseparable from the other.\n\nBy the early 1920s, significant Cubist sculpture had been done in Sweden (by sculptor Bror Hjorth), in Prague (by Gutfreund and his collaborator Emil Filla), and at least two dedicated \"Cubo-Futurist\" sculptors were on staff at the Soviet art school Vkhutemas in Moscow (Boris Korolev and Vera Mukhina).\n\nThe movement had run its course by about 1925, but Cubist approaches to sculpture didn't end as much as they became a pervasive influence, fundamental to the related developments of Constructivism, Purism, Futurism, Die Brücke, De Stijl, Dada, Abstract art, Surrealism and Art Deco.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48403782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48403782", "title": "Cultureme", "text": "Cultureme\n\nA cultureme is any portion of cultural behavior apprehended in signs of symbolic value that can be broken down into smaller units or amalgamated into larger ones. A cultureme is a \"cultural information-bearing unit\", the contents of which are recognizable by a group of people. Culturemes are the bridge between linguistic units and culture.\n\nTheir usage can be seen in cultural expressions, phraseologisms, jokes, slogans, literature, religion, folklore, sociology, anthropology, etc. All of which are subcultures in a culture system. Culturemes of this nature have historical relevance that when translated or explained result in a miscommunication and misunderstanding. \n\nThe notion of cultureme is being increasingly used in translation studies and other disciplines. It is a recently used concept that is yet to be defined and distinguished from others, such as phraseme, idiom, symbol, cultural word, etc.\n\nFernando Poyatos breaks down the features of a cultureme into four phases. These phases analysis the broadest of culturemes to the most particular aspects of culturemes.\n\nBasic culturemes are the broadest of culturemes. They characterize the initial semblance of a culture. Basic culturemes are separated into two cultural \"realms,\" urban and rural, and two domains: exterior and interior. Basic culturemes begin with urban and rural realms because of their dichotomy in cultural identity and displays of social interactions. Within either cultures, there are exteriors (what is observed from the outside) and interiors (what is observed from the inside of buildings or establishments that are not seen from an outdoors perspective). The main divisions of culturemes are: urban-exterior, urban-interior, rural-exterior, and rural-interior.\n\nThe significance of basic culturemes is to give a general sense of surroundings. For instance,\n\n\"in \"North America\" (United States and Canada): the larger size of many automobiles, the summery sound and smell of lawn mowing, the smell of city bus exhausts, the basic separation of the 'downtown' business and residential areas in the small town or village, the sirens of their police cars, the smell of hamburger and French fries of many eating establishments, the unique drugstore smell, the 'Licensed' signs in many second-rate restaurants (indicating a cultural attitude towards drinking\"\n\nPrimary culturemes exist in the phase when acculturation occurs, in which one's culture is becoming more complex. The basic four culturemes are subcategorized into environmental (cultural settings) and behavioral (behaviors of people and their interactions). These culturemes are a result of recognizing cultural patterns and \"experiencing it through mere observation or systemic learning.\" \n\nCulturemes are further broken down into settings, in which a specific culture is exemplified. These includes cultures in the school, the park, the bar, etc. These are secondary culturemes. Phase three is the point where the cultures identified in phase two begin to interact; interrelationships are seen among different cultural systems and values.\n\nPhase four delves deeper into human senses, analyzing to the fullest extent possible. The completion of phase four allows one to identify the cultureme's cultural system and subculture. Knowing the cultural system and subculture are important as it helps to navigate through other identifiable systems within the culture.\n\nTranslating a cultureme can be challenging, as connotations are sometimes very strong. For instance: the Spanish word \"alcázar\" means \"the castle\", \"palace\" or \"fortress\", but, as it is of Arabic origin, it recalls eight centuries of history (Al Andalus), which cannot be easily translated into English, so the translator must adopt a crucial decision: either choose the English word \"fortress\" and lose all the historical and cultural connotations, or use the loan word alcazar.\n\nA language may have various cultures and various languages may share the same culture. Cultures may differ in conceptualization that may in turn affect how thoughts are conveyed in their languages. The asymmetry of language complicates the matter of providing a linguistically and culturally sound equivalent of a cultureme in another language. The complex relationship of language and culture is significant in giving culturemes their intended value. Dictionaries further complicate cross-cultural gaps of meaning because without the collaborative effort of all cultures, it is impossible to define the significance of words that may be culturemes in the dictionary. Though, slowly, interactive and multimedia dictionaries have become extensive in information that lessen the bridge across languages and cultures.\n\nCulturemes are translated in several ways:\n\nIn translating, the inability to convey cultural meaning strips a cultureme of its \"cultureme\" title and it simply becomes an ambiguous word. Culture is classified into three categories: Norms, Ideas, and Materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8884", "title": "Danse Macabre", "text": "Danse Macabre\n\nThe Danse Macabre (from the French language), also called the Dance of Death, is an artistic genre of allegory of the Late Middle Ages on the universality of death: no matter one's station in life, the Dance Macabre unites all.\n\nThe Danse Macabre consists of the dead or a personification of death summoning representatives from all walks of life to dance along to the grave, typically with a pope, emperor, king, child, and laborer. They were produced as mementos mori, to remind people of the fragility of their lives and how vain were the glories of earthly life. Its origins are postulated from illustrated sermon texts; the earliest recorded visual scheme was a now-lost mural at Holy Innocents' Cemetery in Paris dating from 1424 to 1425.\n\nThe earliest recorded visual example is the lost mural on the south wall of the cemetery of the Holy Innocents in Paris, which was painted in 1424-25 during the regency of John, Duke of Bedford: with its emphatic inclusion of a dead crowned king at a time when France did not have a crowned king, the mural may well have had a political subtext. There were also painted schemes in Basel (the earliest dating from c.1440); a series of paintings on canvas by Bernt Notke, in Lübeck (1463); the initial fragment of the original Bernt Notke painting (accomplished at the end of the 15th century) in the St Nicholas' Church, Tallinn, Estonia (Danse Macabre); the painting at the back wall of the chapel of Sv. Marija na Škrilinama in the Istrian town of Beram (1471), painted by Vincent of Kastav; the painting in the Holy Trinity Church, Hrastovlje, Istria by John of Kastav (1490). \n\nA notable example was painted on the cemetery walls of the Dominican Abbey in Bern by Niklaus Manuel Deutsch in 1516/7.\nThis work was destroyed when the wall was torn down in 1660, but a 1649 copy by Albrecht Kauw is extant.\nThere was also a Dance of Death painted around 1430 and displayed on the walls of Pardon Churchyard at Old St Paul's Cathedral, London, with texts by John Lydgate, known as the 'Dauce of (St) Poulys', which was destroyed in 1549.\n\nThe deathly horrors of the 14th century such as recurring famines, the Hundred Years' War in France, and, most of all, the Black Death, were culturally assimilated throughout Europe. The omnipresent possibility of sudden and painful death increased the religious desire for penance, but it also evoked a hysterical desire for amusement while still possible; a last dance as cold comfort. The danse macabre combines both desires: in many ways similar to the mediaeval mystery plays, the dance-with-death allegory was originally a didactic dialogue poem to remind people of the inevitability of death and to advise them strongly to be prepared at all times for death (see \"memento mori\" and \"Ars moriendi\").\n\nShort verse dialogues between Death and each of its victims, which could have been performed as plays, can be found in the direct aftermath of the Black Death in Germany and in Spain (where it was known as the \"Totentanz\" and \"la Danza de la Muerte\", respectively). The French term \"danse macabre\" may derive from the Latin \"Chorea Machabæorum\", literally \"dance of the Maccabees.\" In 2 Maccabees, a deuterocanonical book of the Bible, the grim martyrdom of a mother and her seven sons is described and was a well-known mediaeval subject. It is possible that the Maccabean Martyrs were commemorated in some early French plays or that people just associated the book's vivid descriptions of the martyrdom with the interaction between Death and its prey.\n\nAn alternative explanation is that the term entered France via Spain, the , \"maqabir\" (cemetery) being the root of the word. Both the dialogues and the evolving paintings were ostensive penitential lessons that even illiterate people (who were the overwhelming majority) could understand.\nFrescoes and murals dealing with death had a long tradition and were widespread, e.g. the legend of the Three Living and the Three Dead: on a ride or hunt, three young gentlemen meet three cadavers (sometimes described as their ancestors) who warn them, \"Quod fuimus, estis; quod sumus, vos eritis\" (What we were, you are; what we are, you will be). Numerous mural versions of that legend from the 13th century onwards have survived (for instance, in the of Wismar or the residential Longthorpe Tower outside Peterborough). Since they showed pictorial sequences of men and corpses covered with shrouds, those paintings are sometimes regarded as cultural precursors of the new genre.\n\nA \"danse macabre\" painting may show a round dance headed by Death or a chain of alternating dead and live dancers. From the highest ranks of the mediaeval hierarchy (usually pope and emperor) descending to its lowest (beggar, peasant, and child), each mortal's hand is taken by a skeleton or an extremely decayed body. The famous \"Totentanz\" by Bernt Notke in St. Mary's Church, Lübeck (destroyed during the Allied bombing of Lübeck in World War II), presented the dead dancers as very lively and agile, making the impression that they were actually dancing, whereas their living dancing partners looked clumsy and passive. The apparent class distinction in almost all of these paintings is completely neutralized by Death as the ultimate equalizer, so that a sociocritical element is subtly inherent to the whole genre. The \"Totentanz\" of Metnitz, for example, shows how a pope crowned with his mitre is being led into Hell by the dancing Death.\n\nUsually, a short dialogue is attached to each victim, in which Death is summoning him (or, more rarely, her) to dance and the summoned is moaning about impending death. In the first printed \"Totentanz\" textbook (Anon.: Vierzeiliger oberdeutscher Totentanz, Heidelberger Blockbuch, approx. 1460), Death addresses, for example, the emperor:\n\nAt the lower end of the \"Totentanz\", Death calls, for example, the peasant to dance, who answers:\n\nThe famous designs by Hans Holbein the Younger (1497–1543) for his Dance of Death series were drawn in 1526 while he was in Basel. They were cut in wood by the accomplished Formschneider (block cutter) Hans Lützelburger. William Ivins (quoting W.J. Linton) writes of Lützelburger's work: \"'Nothing indeed, by knife or by graver, is of higher quality than this man's doing,' for by common acclaim the originals are technically the most marvelous woodcuts ever made.\" These woodcuts soon appeared in proofs with titles in German. The first book edition, containing forty-one woodcuts, was published at Lyons by the Treschsel brothers in 1538. The popularity of the work and the currency of its message are underscored by the fact that there were eleven editions before 1562 and over the sixteenth century perhaps as many as a hundred unauthorized editions and imitations. Ten further designs were added in later editions.\n\nThe \"Dance of Death\" (1523–26) refashions the late-medieval allegory of the \"danse macabre\" as a reformist satire, and one can see the beginnings of a gradual shift from traditional to reformed religion. That shift had many permutations however, and in a thoroughly detailed study Natalie Zemon Davis has shown that the contemporary reception and afterlife of Holbein's designs lent themselves to neither purely Catholic or Protestant doctrine, but could be outfitted with different surrounding prefaces and sermons as printers and writers of different political and religious leanings took them up. Most importantly, it was \"The pictures and the Bible quotations above them were the main attractions ... Both Catholics and Protestants wished, through the pictures, to turn men's thoughts to a Christian preparation for death.\".\n\nThe 1538 edition which contained Latin quotations from the Bible above Holbein's designs, and a French quatrain below composed by Gilles Corrozet, actually did not credit Holbein as the artist. It bore the title: Les simulachres & / HISTORIEES FACES / DE LA MORT, AUTANT ELE/gammēt pourtraictes, que artifi/ciellement imaginées. / A Lyon. / Soubz l'escu de COLOIGNE. / M.D. XXXVIII. (\"Images and Illustrated facets of Death, as elegantly depicted as they are artfully conceived.\") These images and workings of death as captured in the phrase \"historiees faces\" of the title \"are the particular exemplification of the way death works, the individual scenes in which the lessons of mortality are brought home to people of every station.\" In his preface to the work Jean de Vauzèle, the Prior of Montrosier, addresses Jehanne de Tourzelle, the Abbess of the Convent at St. Peter at Lyons, and names Holbein's attempts to capture the ever-present, but never directly seen, abstract images of death \"simulachres.\" He writes: \"... simulachres les dis ie vrayement, pour ce que simulachre vient de simuler, & faindre ce que n'est point.\" (\"Simulachre they are most correctly called, for simulachre derives from the verb to simulate and to feign that which is not really there.\") He next employs a trope from the memento mori (remember we all must die) tradition and a metaphor from printing which well captures the undertakings of Death, the artist, and the printed book before us in which these simulachres of death barge in on the living: \"Et pourtant qu'on n'a peu trouver chose plus approchante a la similitude de Mort, que la personne morte, on d'icelle effigie simulachres, & faces de Mort, pour en nos pensees imprimer la memoire de Mort plus au vis, que ne pourroient toutes les rhetoriques descriptiones de orateurs.\" (\"And yet we cannot discover any one thing more near the likeness of Death than the dead themselves, whence come these simulated effigies and images of Death's affairs, which imprint the memory of Death with more force than all the rhetorical descriptions of the orators ever could.\").\n\nHolbein's series shows the figure of \"Death\" in many disguises, confronting individuals from all walks of life. None escape Death's skeletal clutches, not even the pious. As Davis writes, \"Holbein's pictures are independent dramas in which Death comes upon his victim in the midst of the latter's own surroundings and activities. This is perhaps nowhere more strikingly captured than in the wonderful blocks showing the plowman earning his bread by the sweat of his brow only to have his horses speed him to his end by Death. The Latin from the 1549 Italian edition pictured here reads: \"In sudore vultus tui, vesceris pane tuo.\" (\"Through the sweat of thy brow you shall eat your bread\"), quoting Genesis 3.19. The Italian verses below translate: (\"Miserable in the sweat of your brow,/ It is necessary that you acquire the bread you need eat,/ But, may it not displease you to come with me,/ If you are desirous of rest.\"). Or there is the nice balance in composition Holbein achieves between the heavy-laden traveling salesman insisting that he must still go to market while Death tugs at his sleeve to put down his wares once and for all: \"Venite ad me, qui onerati estis.\" (\"Come to me, all ye who [labor and] are heavy laden\"), quoting Matthew 11.28. The Italian here translates: (\"Come with me, wretch, who are weighed down,/ Since I am the dame who rules the whole world:/ Come and hear my advice,/ Because I wish to lighten you of this load.\").\n\nMusical examples include\n\nThe motif \"Death and the Maiden\", is related to, and may have been derived from, the \"Danse Macabre\". It has received numerous treatments in various media—most prominently Schubert's quartet of that name. Further developments of the \"Danse Macabre\" motif include \"Death and the King's Horseman\", \"Death and the Senator\", \"Death and the Compass\", and \"Death and the Physician\".\n\n\n“Dance Macabre” a song put out by a band called Ghost in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "43390516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43390516", "title": "Databending", "text": "Databending\n\nDatabending (or data bending) is the process of manipulating a media file of a certain format, using software designed to edit files of another format. Distortions in the medium typically occur as a result, and the process either falls under a broader category of, or is frequently employed in glitch art.\n\nThe term \"databending\" is derived from circuit bending, in which objects such as children's toys, effects pedals and electronic keyboards are deliberately short circuited by bending the circuit board to produce erratic and spontaneous sounds. Like circuit bending, databending involves the (often unpredictable) alteration of its target's behavior. Databending achieves this alteration by manipulating the information within a media file of a certain format, using software designed to edit files of a different format; distortions in the medium typically occur as a result. \n\nMany techniques exist, including the use of hex editors to manipulate certain components of a compression algorithm, to comparatively simple methods. Michael Betancourt has posed a short set of instructions, included in the \"Signal Culture Cookbook,\" that involves the direct manipulation of the digital file using a hexadecimal editing program. One such method involves the addition of audio effects through audio editing software to distort raw data interpretations of image files. Some effects produce optical analogues: adding an echo filter duplicated elements of a photo, and inversion contributed to the flipping over of an image. The similarities result from the waveforms corresponding with the layers of pixels in a linear fashion, ordered from top to bottom. Another method, dubbed \"the WordPad effect\", uses the program WordPad to manipulate images through converting the raw data to the Rich Text Format.\n\nAccording to the artist Benjamin Berg, different techniques of the process can be grouped into three categories:\nThe \"WordPad effect\" would fall under \"incorrect editing\", while \"reinterpretation\" contains a subcategory called \"sonification\", in which data other than audio is introduced simultaneously with musical audio data. The last technique is the hardest of the three to accomplish, often yielding highly unpredictable results.\n\nDatabending is frequently employed in glitch art, and is considered a sub-category of the genre. The \"sonification\" technique is commonly used by glitch musicians such as Alva Noto. Ahuja and Lu summarized the process through a quote by Adam Clark Estes of \"Gizmodo\" as \"the internet's code-heavy version of graffiti.\" Various groups on Flickr explore the effects of databending on imagery; an Internet bot named \"GlitchBot\" was created to scrape Creative Commons-licensed imagery and apply the process and upload the results. Users on Vimeo who deal explicitly with databending and glitch art in general exist, and a Chicago-based digital art project named GLI.TC/H was funded using Kickstarter in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26619607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26619607", "title": "Early Theatre", "text": "Early Theatre\n\nEarly Theatre is a peer-reviewed academic journal specialising in the study of medieval and early modern theatre and drama, particularly in England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales. The journal originally evolved out of the \"REED Newsletter\", which was published biannually by the Records of Early English Drama, and the first issue was published in 1998. It is edited by Helen Ostovich.\n"}
{"id": "286636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286636", "title": "East Village, Manhattan", "text": "East Village, Manhattan\n\nThe East Village is a neighborhood in the New York City borough of Manhattan. It is roughly defined as the neighborhood east of the Bowery and Third Avenue, between 14th Street on the north and Houston Street on the south.\n\nThe area was once generally considered to be part of the Lower East Side with a large Russian, Ukrainian and Jewish population but gradually changed and by the late 1960s, many artists, musicians, students and hippies began to move into the area, attracted by cheap rents and the base of Beatniks who had lived there since the 1950s. The neighborhood has become a center of the counterculture in New York, and is known as the birthplace and historical home of many artistic movements, including punk rock and the Nuyorican literary movement. It has also been the site of protests and riots.\n\nEast Village is still known for its diverse community, vibrant nightlife and artistic sensibility, although in recent decades it has been argued that gentrification has changed the character of the neighborhood.\n\nThe area that is today known as the East Village was originally a farm owned by Dutch Governor-General Wouter van Twiller. Peter Stuyvesant received the deed to this farm in 1651, and his family held on to the land for over seven generations, until a descendant began selling off parcels of the property in the early 19th century. Wealthy townhouses dotted the dirt roads for a few decades until the great Irish and German immigration of the 1840s and 1850s.\n\nSpeculative land owners began building multi-unit dwellings on lots meant for single family homes, and began renting out rooms and apartments to the growing working class, including many immigrants from Germany. From roughly the 1850s to first decade of the 20th century, the neighborhood has the third largest urban population of Germans outside of Vienna and Berlin, known as \"Klein Deutschland\" (\"Little Germany\"). It was America's first foreign language neighborhood; hundreds of political, social, sports and recreational clubs were set up during this period, and some of these buildings still exist. However, the vitality of the community was sapped by the General Slocum disaster on June 15, 1904, in which over a thousand German-Americans died.\n\nLater waves of immigration also brought many Poles and, especially, Ukrainians to the area, creating a Ukrainian enclave in the city. Since the 1890s there has been a large concentration roughly from 10th Street to 5th Street, between 3rd Avenue and Avenue A. The post-World War II diaspora, consisting primarily of Western Ukrainian \"intelligentsia\", also settled down in the area. Several churches, including St. George's Catholic Church; Ukrainian restaurants and butcher shops; The Ukrainian Museum; the Shevchenko Scientific Society; and the Ukrainian Cultural Center are evidence of the impact of this culture on the area.\n\nThe area originally ended at the East River, to the east of where Avenue D is now located, until landfill – including World War II debris and rubble shipped from London – was used to extend the shoreline outward to provide foundation for the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive.\n\nUntil the mid-1960s, the area was simply the northern part of the Lower East Side, with a similar culture of immigrant, working class life. In the 1950s, the migration of Beatniks into the neighborhood later attracted hippies, musicians and artists well into the 1960s. The area was dubbed the \"East Village\", to dissociate it from the image of slums evoked by the Lower East Side. According to \"The New York Times\", a 1964 guide called \"Earl Wilson's New York\" wrote that \"artists, poets and promoters of coffeehouses from Greenwich Village are trying to remelt the neighborhood under the high-sounding name of 'East Village.'\"\n\nNewcomers and real estate brokers popularized the new name, and the term was adopted by the popular media by the mid-1960s. In 1966 a weekly newspaper, \"The East Village Other\", appeared and \"The New York Times\" declared that the neighborhood \"had come to be known\" as the East Village in the edition of June 5, 1967.\n\nIn 1966, Andy Warhol promoted a series of multimedia shows, entitled \"The Exploding Plastic Inevitable\", and featuring the music of the Velvet Underground, in a Polish ballroom on St. Marks Place. On June 27, 1967, the Electric Circus opened in the same space with a benefit for the Children's Recreation Foundation whose chairman was Bobby Kennedy. The Grateful Dead, The Chambers Brothers, Sly and the Family Stone, and the Allman Brothers Band were among the many rock bands that performed there before it closed in 1971.\n\nOn March 8, 1968, Bill Graham opened the Fillmore East in what had been a Yiddish Theatre on Second Avenue at East 6th Street in the Yiddish Theater District. The venue quickly became known as \"The Church of Rock and Roll\", with two-show concerts several nights a week. While booking many of the same bands that had played the Electric Circus, Graham particularly used the venue, as well as its West Coast counterpart, to establish in the US British bands such as The Who, Pink Floyd, The Jimi Hendrix Experience, Cream and Led Zeppelin. The Fillmore East closed in 1971.\n\nCBGB, the nightclub considered by some to be the birthplace of punk music, was located in the neighborhood, as was the early punk standby A7. No Wave and New York hardcore also emerged in the area's clubs. Among the many important bands and singers who got their start at these clubs and other venues in downtown Manhattan were Patti Smith, Arto Lindsay, the Ramones, Blondie, Richard Hell and the Voidoids, Madonna, Talking Heads, Television, the Plasmatics, Glenn Danzig, Sonic Youth, the Beastie Boys, Anthrax, and The Strokes.\n\nFew icons of the punk scene remain in the neighborhood as it changed. Richard Hell lives in the same apartment he has lived in since the 1970s, and Handsome Dick Manitoba of The Dictators owns Manitoba's bar on Avenue B.\n\nOver the last 100 years, the East Village and the Lower East Side have contributed significantly to American arts and culture in New York. The neighborhood has been the birthplace of cultural icons and movements from the American gangster to the Warhol Superstars, folk music to punk rock, anti-folk to hip-hop, advanced education to organized activism, experimental theater to the Beat Generation and the community of experimental musicians, composers and improvisers now loosely known as the Downtown Scene.\n\nClub 57, on St. Marks Place, was an important incubator for performance art and visual art in the late 1970s and early 1980s; followed by Now Gallery, 8BC and ABC No Rio.\n\nDuring the 1980s, the East Village art gallery scene helped to galvanize a new post-modern art in America; showing such artists as Kiki Smith, Peter Halley, Keith Haring, Kenny Scharf, Stephen Lack, Greer Lankton, Joseph Nechvatal, Jim Radakovich, Nan Goldin, Jean-Michel Basquiat, David Wojnarowicz, James Romberger, Jeff Koons, Kevin Larmee, and Dave Vulcan.\n\nThe East Village, specifically the area known as Alphabet City, is also the setting for Jonathan Larson's musical \"Rent\", which captures the neighborhood in the early 1990s; it opened at the New York Theatre Workshop in February 1996. \"Rent\" describes a city devastated by the AIDS epidemic, drugs and high crime, and follows several characters in their efforts to make livings as artists.\n\nThe East Village's performance and art scene has declined since its height in the 1970s and 1980s. One club that tried to resurrect the neighborhood's past artistic prominence was Mo Pitkins' House of Satisfaction, part-owned by Jimmy Fallon of the \"Tonight Show\" and formerly of \"Saturday Night Live\". The venue's past performers include figures such as Murray Hill, Rob Corddry, Rachel Dratch, Amy Poehler, Moby, and Debbie Harry. It closed its doors in 2007. A study done by Fordham University notes the decline of the East Village performance and art scene, and how \"the young, liberal culture that once found its place on the Manhattan side of the East River\" has shifted in part to new neighborhoods like Williamsburg in Brooklyn. Rapture Cafe also shut down in April 2008, and the neighborhood lost an important performance space and gathering ground for the gay community. There are still some performance spaces, such as Sidewalk Cafe on 6th Street and Avenue A, where downtown acts find space to exhibit their talent, and the poetry clubs Bowery Poetry Club and Nuyorican Poets Café.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2009, the art gallery American Painting, located on East 6th St., between 2nd and 3rd Avenues, exhibited the works of several New York and American artists, namely Andrei Kushnir, Michele Martin Taylor, Carol Spils, Barbara Nuss, Joachim Marx, Stevens Jay Carter and Michael Francis. One of their last exhibits, \"East Village Afternoon\", depicted local interiors, exteriors, and scenes of the changing neighborhood.\n\nAs has often been the pattern in Manhattan, a neighborhood that is \"discovered\" by artists and bohemians and then becomes \"hip\" will often begin to attract more affluent residents, which drives up the price of housing, and begins to drive out the residents who \"turned over\" the neighborhood. This is one theory of gentrification, and some argue that it has also occurred in the New York City neighborhoods SoHo and Tribeca in Manhattan, as well as Williamsburg in Brooklyn. Over the course of time, this demographic shift begins to change the essential character of the neighborhood: it becomes safer, more comfortable, less tolerant of noise, and less \"edgy\". Some gentrification opponents say that this process causes the neighborhood to lose its unique identity for the sake of money.\n\nThe term \"gentrification\" is often used to reflect this, and the gentrification of the neighborhood has resulted in people being pushed out and some buildings in the area being torn down and replaced by newer buildings. For instance, actor David Schwimmer bought an 1852 townhouse on East 6th Street in 2010 and got several notices of its possible landmark status the next year; however, he had the building torn down and rebuilt, which angered some of his neighbors.\n\nIn 2008 a rezoning modified much of the zoning in East Village. The area affected by the rezoning roughly bounded by East 13th Street on the north, Third Avenue on the west, Delancey Street on the south, and Avenue D on the east. It was the first time that a rezoning had occurred in the area since 1961.\n\nThe rezoning was done in response to concerns about the character and scale of some of the new buildings in the neighborhood. The previous zoning limited the area of floor space that a building could have, but there were no limits on building heights or on setbacks from the street. The new zoning established height limits for new development throughout the affected area, decreased allowable density in much of the midblock residential areas but increased it along wider thoroughfares, capped air rights transfers, eliminated the current zoning bonus for dorms and hotels, and created incentives for the creation and retention of affordable housing.\n\nThe city first released a draft rezoning in July 2006, after hearing input from neighborhood advocates including the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation (GVSHP), Community Board 3, the East Village Community Coalition, and City Councilmember Rosie Mendez. Concerned that the Third Avenue corridor, where much of the most out-of-scale development was occurring, was left out of that draft, advocates continued to push for an expansion of the rezoning, eventually securing the 3rd/4th Avenue Corridor Downzoning in 2010. The GVSHP report \"Keeping in Character\" summed up the changes this way:\nThe rezoning process and hearings were marked by protests and accusations of promoting gentrification and increased property values over the Lower East Side's historic status as a home to New York's low-income immigrant communities and their needs for affordable housing. Residents of Chinatown, which is adjacent to the southern boundary of the rezoning area, were worried that by blocking the construction of tall, slender towers in the East Village, developers wishing to build in that style would turn their sights to Chinatown. Most of Chinatown is zoned as commercial districts, which are relatively lax in terms of building character and land use regulations. This led the Community Boards in the area (Boards 1, 2, and 3) to create the Chinatown Working Group in order to address the concerns of residents and to work to preserve Chinatown's particular character, employment opportunities, and affordable housing.\n\nLocal community groups actively are working to gain individual and district landmark designations for the East Village to preserve and protect the architectural and cultural identity of the neighborhood. One such group is the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation (GVSHP). It has undertaken a complete survey of the East Village, documenting the history of every single building in the area. In the spring of 2011, the Landmarks Preservation Commission (LPC) proposed two East Village historic districts: one small district covering the block of East 10th Street known as Tompkins Square North, and one larger district focused around lower Second Avenue that would encompass 15 blocks and 330 buildings. The original proposal for the larger district excluded buildings such as the Pyramid Club and the Russian Orthodox Cathedral on East 2nd Street. As a result of the efforts made by local community groups such as GVSHP, the Lower East Side Preservation Initiative, East Village Community Coalition, and Historic Districts Council, however, the proposed district now includes these buildings.\n\nIn January 2012, the East 10th Street Historic District was designated by the LPC. Minutes before the designation, an out-of-scale rooftop addition on one of the included buildings was approved by the Department of Buildings. In October 2012 the East Village/Lower East Side Historic District – the larger district – was also designated by the LPC. Preservation and community groups of the East Village seek to have other buildings landmarked, including parts of St. Mark's Place, the blocks to the north, and more of the streets bordering Tompkins Square Park. Other successful efforts to retain the neighborhood's low-rise character by controlling development include the East Village downzoning of 2008 and the 3rd/4th Avenue Corridor downzoning, effective in 2010.\n\nGVSHP and allied groups have rallied to get some notable buildings designated as individual landmarks, while other structures have been demolished over community objections. Individual landmarks include Webster Hall, a Romanesque Revival concert hall and nightclub designed in 1886 with an \"extraordinary cultural history.\" According to GVSHP's 2007 request for evaluation for the building, \"Over the last 120 years, the space has hosted everything from debutante balls and society dinners to wrestling matches, political rallies, union meetings, and bohemian costume dances.\" Less than one year later, in 2007, the building was designated an individual landmark. A year earlier, the LPC designated P.S. 64, a French Renaissance Revival public school built in 1904-6 by architect and school superintendent C.B.J. Snyder. Supporters hoped the 2006 vote would serve the practical purpose of ending the owner's removal of architectural details; it was but one chapter in a heated, ongoing controversy over the building, which had been used as the CHARAS/El Bohio community center until New York City sold it to developer Gregg Singer. The year 2006 also saw GVSHP call for the Landmarks Preservation Commission to prevent the demolition of the former Van Tassell and Kearney Horse Auction Mart, a building described as both stately and humble, built for horse trade but eventually used as a factory for \"Rosie the Riveter\"-type women working during World War II, then a studio of the major abstract expressionist Frank Stella. The Commission did so by calendaring the building, and designated it a New York City landmark in 2012.\n\nOther individual landmarks in the neighborhood include the former Yiddish Art Theater, now in use as a movie theater, which also is an interior landmark (a relatively rare distinction), designated in 1993; the Stuyvesant Polyclinic, built in 1884 and designated in 1976; the Children's Aid Society's Elizabeth Home for Girls, designated in 2008; and the First Houses, the country's first public housing development, built in 1935, designated in 1974, and still used as low-income housing today.\n\nLandmark efforts have included a number of losses as well. Despite the request of GVSHP and allied groups in 2012 for landmarking of Mary Help of Christians school, church and rectory, with parts dating to 1850 and designed by Nicholas Serracino, by July 2013 demolition had begun. A new development including residences and ground-floor retail is slated to fill the site. In 2011, an early 19th-century Federal house at 35 Cooper Square — one of the oldest on the Bowery and in the East Village — was demolished to make way for a college dorm, over requests of community groups and elected officials.\n\nThe Landmarks Preservation Commission acts on no particular schedule, leaving some \"calendared\" requests for designation open indefinitely, such as the 1886 Tifereth Israel synagogue. Sometimes it simply declines requests for consideration, as it did regarding an unusually intact Italianate tenement at 143 E. 13th Street.\n\nOn March 26, 2015, a gas explosion occurred on Second Avenue. The explosion was caused by the leaky gas line, which might have been tapped.\n\nThe explosion and resulting fire destroyed three buildings at 119, 121 and 123 Second Avenue, between East 7th Street and St. Marks Place. At least twenty-two people were injured, four critically, and two people were initially listed as missing. One body, as yet unidentified, was found in the rubble several days later. Later, two men were found dead in the debris of the explosion; these men are presumed to be the ones listed as missing. Three restaurants were also destroyed in the explosion.\n\nAlong with gentrification, the East Village has seen an increase in the number of buildings owned and maintained by New York University, particularly dormitories for undergraduate students, and this influx has given rise to conflict between the community and the university.\n\nSt. Ann's Church, a rusticated-stone structure with a Romanesque Revival tower on East 12th Street that dated to 1847, was sold to NYU to make way for a 26-story, 700-bed dormitory. After community protest, the university promised to protect and maintain the church's original facade; and so it did, literally, by having the facade stand alone in front of the building, now the tallest structure in the area. According to many residents, NYU's alteration and demolition of historic buildings, such as the Peter Cooper Post Office, is spoiling the physical and socio-economic landscape that makes this neighborhood so interesting and attractive.\n\nNYU has often been at odds with residents of both the East and West Villages due to its expansive development plans; urban preservationist Jane Jacobs battled the school in the 1960s. \"She spoke of how universities and hospitals often had a special kind of hubris reflected in the fact that they often thought it was OK to destroy a neighborhood to suit their needs\", said Andrew Berman of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation.\n\nThe Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, founded in 1859 by entrepreneur and philanthropist Peter Cooper and located on Cooper Square, is one of the most selective colleges in the world, and formerly offered tuition-free programs in engineering, art and architecture. Its Great Hall is famous as a platform for historic speeches, notably Abraham Lincoln's Cooper Union speech, and its New Academic Building is the first in New York City to achieve LEED Platinum Status.\n\nNeighboring the East Village are the Lower East Side to the south, NoHo to the west, Stuyvesant Park to the northwest, and Stuyvesant Town to the northeast.\n\nThe East Village contains several smaller vibrant communities, each with its own character.\n\nAlphabet City, comprising nearly two-thirds of the East Village, was once the archetype of a dangerous New York City neighborhood. Its turn-around was cause for \"The New York Times\" to observe in 2005 that Alphabet City went \"from a drug-infested no man's land to the epicenter of downtown cool.\" Its name comes from Avenues A, B, C, and D, the only avenues in Manhattan to have single-letter names. It is bordered by Houston Street to the south and 14th Street to the north. Landmarks within Alphabet City include Tompkins Square Park and the Nuyorican Poets Café. This part of the neighborhood has long been an ethnic enclave for Manhattan's German, Polish, Hispanic, and Jewish populations. Crime went up in the area in the late 20th century but then declined in the 21st century, as the area became gentrifiied.\n\nLoisaida is a term derived from the Latino, and especially Nuyorican, pronunciation of \"Lower East Side\". The term was originally coined by poet/activist, Bittman \"Bimbo\" Rivas in his 1974 poem \"Loisaida\". Loisaida Avenue is now an alternative name for Avenue C in the Alphabet City neighborhood of New York City, whose population has largely been Hispanic (mainly Nuyorican) since the late 1960s. During the 1980s many of the old, vacant, tenement buildings in this area became inhabited by squatters.\n\nIn Alphabet City, Eighth Street becomes St. Marks Place east of Third Avenue. It once had the cachet of Sutton Place, and was known as a secluded rich enclave in Manhattan, but by the 1850s had become a place for boarding houses and a German immigrant community. It is named after St. Mark's Church in-the-Bowery, which was built on Stuyvesant Street but is now on 10th Street. St. Marks Place once began at the intersection of the Bowery and Stuyvesant Street, but today the street runs from Third Avenue to Avenue A. Japanese street culture and a Japanese expatriate scene forms in the noodle shops and bars that line the street, also home to an aged punk culture and CBGB's new store. It is home to one of the only Automats in New York City (it has since closed). St. Marks Place is along the \"Mosaic Trail\", a trail of 80 mosaic-encrusted lampposts that runs from Broadway down Eighth Street to Avenue A, to Fourth Street and then back to Eighth Street. The project was undertaken by East Village public artist Jim Power, known as the \"Mosaic Man\".\n\nThe Bowery, former home to the punk-rock nightclub CBGB that closed in 2006, was once known for its many homeless shelters, drug rehabilitation centers and bars. The phrase \"On the Bowery\", which has since fallen into disuse, was a generic way to say one was down-and-out.\n\nToday, the Bowery has become a boulevard of new luxury condominiums. It is the location of the Bowery Poetry Club, contributing to the neighborhood's reputation as a place for artistic pursuit; artists Amiri Baraka and Taylor Mead held regular readings and performances in the space.\n\nRedevelopment of the avenue from flophouses to luxury condominiums has met resistance from long-term residents, who agree the neighborhood has improved but its unique, gritty character is disappearing.\n\nLittle Ukraine is an ethnic enclave in the East Village, which has served as a spiritual, political and cultural epicenter for several waves of Ukrainian Americans in New York City as far back as the late 19th century. At the beginning of the 20th century, Ukrainian immigrants began moving into areas previously dominated by fellow Eastern European and Galician Jews, as well as the Lower East Side's German enclave. After World War II, the Ukrainian population of the neighborhood reached 60,000, but as with the city's Little Italy, today the neighborhood consists of only a few Ukrainian stores and restaurants. Today, the East Village between Houston and 14th Street, and Third Avenue and Avenue A still houses nearly a third of New York City's Ukrainian population.\n\nLittle Ukraine itself is traditionally defined as\n\nAs it did a century ago, St. George Ukrainian Catholic Church serves as the anchor of Little Ukraine, offering daily liturgies and penances, and operating the adjoining St. George Academy, a coeducational parochial school. Since 1976, the church has sponsored an annual Ukrainian Heritage Festival, regularly described as one of the few remaining authentic New York City street fairs.\nIn April 1978, the New York City Council renamed a small connecting street between East 7th Street and East 6th Street after Taras Shevchenko, Ukraine's national bard.\n\nTompkins Square Park is a public park in the Alphabet City section of the East Village neighborhood in the borough of Manhattan in New York City. Square in shape, it is bounded on the north by East 10th Street, on the east by Avenue B, on the south by East 7th Street, and on the west by Avenue A. St. Marks Place abuts the park to the west.\n\nIn July 1877, railroad workers received their second wage cut of the year by the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad. On July 14, railroad employees in Martinsburg, West Virginia, began what came to be known as the Great Railroad Strike of 1877. On July 25, 1877, twenty thousand people gathered in Tompkins Square Park to hear communist orators speak about revolution, the strike, and the policies of President Hayes. All speeches were repeated in German at a second stand, as the neighborhood had such a large German population at that time. David Conroy, Chairman of the Working Man's Organization in NYC and organizer of the rally, stated that the purpose of the meeting was to harmonize the differences between the strikers and the railroad companies, and to urge the citizen soldiery to refrain from acting against the strikers. Although the rally did not get out of hand, New York City police and National Guardsmen eventually charged the crowd with billy clubs, later claiming that the rally was not being held in a peaceful manner. In the wake of this \"riot,\" the City, in conjunction with the War Department, established an official city armory program led by the 7th Regiment.\n\nThe Tompkins Square Park Police Riot was a defining moment for the neighborhood. In the late hours of August 6 into the morning hours of August 7, 1988 a riot broke out in Alphabet City's Tompkins Square Park. Groups of \"drug pushers, homeless people and young people known as 'skinheads'\" had largely taken over the East Village park, but the neighborhood was divided about what, if anything, should be done about it. The local governing body, Manhattan Community Board 3, adopted a 1 am curfew for the previously 24-hour park, in an attempt to bring it under control. On July 31, a rally against the curfew resulted in several clashes between protesters and police.\n\nThe park is and runs between the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive and the East River from Montgomery Street to East 12th Street. It was designed in the 1930s by Robert Moses, who wanted to ensure there was parkland on the Lower East Side. In 2010, construction was completed on the East River Promenade, which now runs from East 12th Street to Grand Street and continues to be expanded south.\n\nThere are reportedly over 640 community gardens in New York City—gardens run by local collectives within the neighborhood who are responsible for the gardens' upkeep—and an estimated 10 percent of those are located on the Lower East Side and East Village alone.\n\nA former cemetery and bus depot, Open Road Park is a garden and a playground occupying the width of a city block.\n\nThe Avenue B and 6th Street Community Garden is one of the neighborhood's more notable for a now-removed outdoor sculpture, the Tower of Toys, designed by artist and long-time garden gate-keeper Eddie Boros. Boros died April 27, 2007. The Tower was controversial in the neighborhood; some viewed it as a masterpiece, others as an eyesore. It was a makeshift structure, 65 feet high, assembled of wooden planks. The \"toys\" suspended from it were an amalgamation of fanciful objects found on the street (Boros was a strong voice for reusing and recycling). The fantastical, childlike feeling of this installation was fitting, considering that the garden boasts a children's adventure playground and garden. The tower appeared in the opening credits for the television show \"NYPD Blue\" and also appears in the musical \"Rent\". In May 2008, it was dismantled. According to NYC Parks Commissioner Adrian Benepe, the tower was rotting and thus a safety hazard. Its removal was seen by some as a symbol of the neighborhood's fading past.\n\nLocated at 603 East 11th Street, the Toyota Children's Learning Garden is not technically a community garden, but it also fails to fit in the park category. Designed by landscape architect Michael Van Valkenburgh, the garden opened in May 2008 as part of the New York Restoration Project and is designed to teach children about plants.\n\nLa Plaza Cultural de Armando Perez (La Plaza Cultural) is a community garden, open-air theater and green space in the East Village\n\nThe New York City Marble Cemetery, located on 2nd Street between First Avenue and Second Avenue, is the second oldest nonsectarian cemetery in New York City. The cemetery opened in 1831. U.S. President James Monroe was interred there. Others interred there include Stephen Allen, mayor (1821–1824); James Lenox, whose personal library became part of the New York Public Library; Isaac Varian, mayor (1839–1841); Marinus Willet, Revolutionary War hero; and Preserved Fish, a well-known merchant.\n\nNearby, on Second Avenue between 2nd and 3rd Streets, is the oldest public cemetery in New York City not affiliated with any religion, the similarly named New York Marble Cemetery. It is open the fourth Sunday of every month.\n\nBased on data from the 2010 United States Census, the population of East Village was 44,136, a change of 2,390 (5.4%) from the 41746 counted in 2000. Covering an area of , the neighborhood had a population density of .\n\nThe racial makeup of the neighborhood was 65.5% (28,888) White, 3.9% (1,743) African American, 0.1% (64) Native American, 14.9% (6,560) Asian, 0% (22) Pacific Islander, 0.4% (182) from other races, and 2.8% (1,214) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 12.4% (5,463) of the population.\n\nOn October 9, 1966, A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, founder of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness, held the first recorded outdoor chanting session of the Hare Krishna mantra outside of the Indian subcontinent at Tompkins Square Park. This is considered the founding of the Hare Krishna religion in the United States, and the large tree close to the center of the Park is demarcated as a special religious site for Krishna adherents. The late poet Allen Ginsberg, who lived and died in the East Village, attended the ceremony.\n\nSeveral Roman Catholic churches in the East Village have fallen victim to financial hardship in the last decade. Unable or unwilling to maintain them, the Roman Catholic Church has shuttered St. Mary's Help of Christians on East 12th Street, as well as St. Ann's. There has recently been much controversy over St. Brigid's, the historic parish on Tompkins Square Park. One of the mainstays that remains active is St. Stanislaus, just steps from Tompkins Square Park.\n\nPreservation institution:\n\nGallery:\n\nLibraries:\n\nMuseums:\n\nMusic venues:\nPoetry venues:\n\nTheaters and performance spaces:\n\n\nThe nearest New York City Subway stations are Second Avenue (), Astor Place (), Eighth Street–New York University (), and First Avenue (). Bus routes serving the area include the . When the First Avenue station along the is closed during the 14th Street Tunnel shutdown in 2019–2020, the temporary buses would run directly between East Village and Brooklyn.\n\nLocal blogs\n\nLocal news\nMovie theaters\nRadio\n\nTelevision\n\n\n"}
{"id": "588308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=588308", "title": "Faxlore", "text": "Faxlore\n\nFaxlore is a sort of folklore: humorous texts, folk poetry, folk art, and urban legends that are circulated, not by word of mouth, but by fax machine. Xeroxlore or photocopylore is similar material circulated by photocopying; compare samizdat in Soviet-bloc countries.\n\nThe first use of the term xeroxlore was in Michael J. Preston's essay \"Xerox-lore\", 1974. \"Photocopylore\" is perhaps the most frequently encountered name for the phenomenon now, because of trademark concerns involving the Xerox Corporation. The first use of this term came in \"A Dictionary of English Folklore\" by Jacqueline Simpson and Steve Roud.\n\nSome faxlore is relatively harmless. Cartoons and jokes often circulate as faxlore, the poor graphic quality becoming worse with each new person who resends the joke to the next recipient. Because faxlore and xeroxlore is the (mis)appropriation of technology owned by the employer, much humorous faxlore is mildly subversive of the workplace and its values. Like email and chain letters, office technology has given new life to various forms of practical jokes, urban legends, and folklore. The items are often office-related, such as spoof agenda for meetings, spurious descriptions of ridiculous training programs that all staff will allegedly be required to attend, and so on. Names may be whited out and replaced with someone in the office, making it a joke on a particular person, or details may be altered making an item more topical.\n\nThe semi-traditional lists of reasons \"why a cucumber is better than a man\" or \"why a beer is better than a woman\" often circulate as faxlore, as has the well known mock German variations of the \"Blinkenlights\" poster. Another commonly circulated text contains ethnic humor; a typical version goes:\n\nMaterials of this sort have existed from the beginnings of duplicating technologies. World War II era blueprints exist of drawings of female nudes with their body parts labeled as if they were the parts of airplanes. With the widespread adoption of photocopying, amateur duplication of this sort of material became available to a much larger social base. Cartoons and other amateur materials were distributed in the workplace, usually in violation of managerial restrictions on the use of office supplies, and often in disregard of copyright law.\n\nLater, during the early 1990s, the widespread adoption of telecopiers made it possible to duplicate these materials remotely. The use of a fax machine to duplicate these materials also changed the emphases of their subjects; various alarms and urban legends were propagated to distant readers over the telephone lines. This use of fax has been somewhat supplanted by email as that technology became more widely used and embedded in the culture; the sort of urban legends that once circulated by fax are now likely to appear as email hoaxes. Specific computer related alarms are the subject of virus hoaxes; email makes forwarding of texts relatively easy, and the frightening nature of the revelation makes it seem important to pass along, despite any doubts the sender might have.\n\nOther sorts of faxlore have had more serious consequences. A number of more notorious urban legends have circulated in faxlore. The notorious \"Blue Star Acid\" hoax is one well known example.\n\nThe \"lights out\" hoax, which claimed that people who were driving in the dark with their headlights out might be gang members, and that those who flashed their headlights at these drivers might be marked for murder as part of a gang initiation, was another hoax that was widely circulated as faxlore. The poor graphic quality of the frequently re-sent faxes, which often were made out to appear to have originated with the police department of a distant city, only made these hoaxes seem more credible.\n\nIn the United States, collections of supposedly sinister symbols have been circulated among school administrators and police departments; in the 1980s these symbols were frequently alleged to be \"Satanic symbols\", and in the 1990s they were alleged to be \"gang symbols\". Political or religious symbols, like the peace symbol, the Star of David, the Rosary, the ankh, or the pentagram were mingled with other cryptic or fanciful symbols in these faxed and recirculated sheets, and the entire collection was condemned.\n\nOn the authority of these anonymous, hard to trace, and impossible to cross-examine sources, school administrators sometimes acted to ban the wearing of Stars of David and similar symbols of minority religions. Typically, no compiler or author is given for the collection of symbols, though frightening descriptions are often given about their \"secret meaning.\" A number of civil liberties lawsuits were filed over actions taken by school administrators who took these anonymous sources seriously.\n\nA similar claim that the Procter & Gamble logo was a \"satanic symbol\" was linked in the 1980s to the activity of several Amway distributors, Amway being one of Procter & Gamble's competitors; the hoax was spread by fax, photocopier, and later by voice mail and email. Another occasional hoax claims that clothing and memorabilia of various universities or sports teams are \"gang symbols\".\n\nWith the rise of the Internet, media such as World Wide Web, email, instant messaging, and social networking sites are now available to quickly and widely spread the sort of material that formerly circulated as faxlore. The hoax warnings of things such as dire and terrible computer viruses that still occasionally circulate, carry on one tradition of the bogus cautionary tale that used to circulate as faxlore.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "83932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83932", "title": "Fictional universe", "text": "Fictional universe\n\nA fictional universe is a self-consistent setting with events, and often other elements, that differ from the real world. It may also be called an imagined, constructed or fictional realm (or world). Fictional universes may appear in novels, comics, films, television shows, video games, and other creative works.\n\nA fictional universe can be almost indistinguishable from the real world, except for the presence of the invented characters and events that characterize a work of fiction; at the other extreme, it can bear little or no resemblance to the real world, with invented fundamental principles of time and space.\n\nThe subject is most commonly addressed in reference to fictional universes that differ markedly from the real world, such as those that introduce entire fictional cities, countries, or even planets, or those that contradict commonly known facts about the world and its history, or those that feature fantasy or science fiction concepts such as magic or faster than light travel—and especially those in which the deliberate development of the setting is a substantial focus of the work.\n\nWhat distinguishes a fictional universe from a simple setting is the level of detail and internal consistency. A fictional universe has an established continuity and internal logic that must be adhered to throughout the work and even across separate works. So, for instance, many books may be set in conflicting fictional versions of Victorian London, but all the stories of Sherlock Holmes are set in \"the same\" Victorian London. However, the various film series based on Sherlock Holmes follow their own separate continuities, thus not taking place in the same fictional universe.\n\nThe history and geography of a fictional universe are well defined, and maps and timelines are often included in works set within them. Even new languages may be constructed. When subsequent works are written within the same universe, care is usually taken to ensure that established facts of the canon are not violated. Even if the fictional universe involves concepts such as elements of magic that don't exist in the real world, these must adhere to a set of rules established by the author.\n\nA famous example of a detailed fictional universe is Arda (more popularly known as Middle-earth), of J. R. R. Tolkien's books \"The Lord of the Rings\" and \"The Silmarillion\". He created first its languages and then the world itself, which he states was \"primarily linguistic in inspiration and was begun in order to provide the necessary 'history' for the Elvish tongues.\"\n\nA modern example of a fictional universe is that of the \"Avatar\" film series, as James Cameron has invented an entire ecosystem, with a team of scientists to test whether it was viable. Additionally, he commissioned a linguistics expert to invent the \"Na'vi\" language.\n\nVirtually every successful fictional TV series or comic book develops its own \"universe\" to keep track of the various episodes or issues. Writers for that series must follow the \"story bible\", which often becomes the series canon.\n\nFrequently, when a series is perceived by its creators as too complicated or too self-inconsistent (because of, for example, too many writers), the producers or publishers may introduce retroactive continuity (retcon) to make future editions easier to write and more consistent. This creates an alternate universe that future authors can write about. These stories about the universe or universes that existed before the retcon are usually not canonical, unless the franchise-holder gives permission. \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" was an especially sweeping example.\n\nSome writers choose to introduce elements or characters from one work into another, to present the idea that both works are set in the same universe. For example, the character of Ursula Buffay from American sitcom \"Mad About You\" was also a recurring guest star in \"Friends\", despite the two series having little else in common. Fellow NBC series \"Seinfeld\" also contained crossover references to \"Mad About You\". L. Frank Baum introduced the characters of Cap'n Bill and Trot (from \"The Sea Fairies\") into the Oz series in \"The Scarecrow of Oz\", and they made a number of appearances in later Oz books. In science fiction, A. Bertram Chandler introduced into his future Galactic civilization the character Dominic Flandry from Poul Anderson's quite different Galactic future (he had Anderson's consent) – on the assumption that these were two alternate history timelines and that people could on some occasions cross from one to the other.\n\nSir Thomas More's \"Utopia\" is one of the earliest examples of a cohesive fictional world with its own rules and functional concepts, but it comprises only one small island. Later fictional universes, like Robert E. Howard's \"Conan the Cimmerian\" stories or Lev Grossman's Fillory, are global in scope and some, like \"Star Wars\", \"Honorverse\", \"BattleTech\", or the Lensman series, are galactic or even intergalactic.\n\nA fictional universe may even concern itself with more than one interconnected universe through fictional devices such as dreams, \"time travel\" or \"parallel worlds\". Such a series of interconnected universes is often called a multiverse. Such multiverses have been featured prominently in science fiction since at least the mid-20th century.\n\nThe classic \"\" episode \"\" introduced the Mirror Universe, in which the crew members of the Starship \"Enterprise\" were brutal rather than compassionate. The 2009 movie \"Star Trek\" created an \"alternate reality\" and freed the \"Star Trek\" franchise from continuity issues. In the mid-1980s, DC Comics \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" streamlined its fictional continuity by destroying most of its alternate universes.\n\nA fictional universe can be contained in a single work, as in George Orwell's \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" or Aldous Huxley's \"Brave New World\", or in serialized, series-based, open-ended or round robin-style fiction.\n\nIn most small-scale fictional universes, general properties and timeline events fit into a consistently organized continuity. However, in the case of universes that are rewritten or revised by different writers, editors, or producers, this continuity may be violated, by accident or by design.\n\nThe occasional publishing use of retroactive continuity (retcon) often occurs due to this kind of revision or oversight. Members of fandom often create a kind of fan-made canon (fanon) to patch up such errors; \"fanon\" that becomes generally accepted sometimes becomes actual canon. Other fan-made additions to a universe (fan fiction, alternate universe, pastiche, parody) are usually not considered canonical unless they get authorized.\n\nShared universes often come about when a fictional universe achieves great commercial success and attracts other media. For example, a successful movie may catch the attention of various book authors, who wish to write stories based on that movie. Under U.S. law, the copyright-holder retains control of all other derivative works, including those written by other authors, but they might not feel comfortable in those other mediums or may feel that other individuals will do a better job; therefore, they may open up the copyright on a shared-universe basis. The degree to which the copyright-holder or franchise retains control is often one of the points in the license agreement.\n\nFor example, the comic book \"Superman\" was so popular that it spawned over 30 different radio, television, and movie series and a similar number of video games, as well as theme park rides, books, and songs. In the other direction, both \"Star Trek\" and \"Star Wars\" are responsible for hundreds of books and games of varying levels of canonicity.\n\nFictional universes are sometimes shared by multiple prose authors, with each author's works in that universe being granted approximately equal canonical status. For example, Larry Niven's fictional universe Known Space has an approximately 135-year period in which Niven allows other authors to write stories about the Man-Kzin Wars. Other fictional universes, like the \"Ring of Fire\" series, actively court canonical stimulus from fans, but gate and control the changes through a formalized process and the final say of the editor and universe creator.\n\nOther universes are created by one or several authors but are intended to be used non-canonically by others, such as the fictional settings for games, particularly role-playing games and video games. Settings for the role-playing game \"Dungeons & Dragons\" are called campaign settings; other games have also incorporated this term on occasion. Virtual worlds are fictional worlds in which online computer games, notably MMORPGs and MUDs, take place. A fictional crossover occurs when two or more fictional characters, series or universes cross over with one another, usually in the context of a character created by one author or owned by one company meeting a character created or owned by another. In the case where two fictional universes covering entire \"actual\" universes cross over, physical travel from one universe to another may actually occur in the course of the story. Such crossovers are usually, but not always, considered non-canonical by their creators or by those in charge of the properties involved.\n\nFor lists of fictional universes see:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40352406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40352406", "title": "Fukinuki yatai", "text": "Fukinuki yatai\n\nFukinuki yatai (吹抜屋台) describes a feature of Japanese Art particularly associated with \"e-maki\"(絵巻) painted scrolls, famously for example, yamato-e.\n\nLiterally meaning 'blown off roof', \"fukinuki yatai\" relates to the depiction of both interior and exterior environments - including rooms, screens and architecture where the roof and walls are removed and the beams are preserved. The basic visual feature depicts the interior scene from an upper diagonal with the roof, ceiling and sometimes inner partitions removed. From an artistic perspective, it also importantly describes the composition by which character relations, or even feelings, are depicted in the layout.\n\nThis technique was used in early Japanese (Heian Period 平安時代) scrolls with very few exceptions until realism in Kamakura (鎌倉) art has flourished. The rudimentary function of fukinuki yatai is to portrait multiple narrative stories on the same painting using different spaces. The earliest usage of Fukinuki yatai was found in the biography of Prince Shōtoku (聖徳太子絵伝). Other typical examples are found in The Tale of Genji (源氏物語絵巻), Murasaki Shikibu Diary Emaki (紫式部日記絵巻), and Kasuga Gongen Genki E (春日権現験記絵巻) .\n"}
{"id": "446536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=446536", "title": "Guerrilla art", "text": "Guerrilla art\n\nGuerrilla art is a street art movement that first emerged in the UK, but has since spread across the world and is now established in most countries that already had developed graffiti scenes. In fact, it owes so much to the early graffiti movement, in the United States guerrilla art is still referred to as ‘post-graffiti art’.\nGuerrilla art differs from other art forms in it has no external boundary between the image and the environment. While a traditional painting can be moved from one gallery to another without the meaning or the artistic credibility of the piece being affected, street art is environmental, the surface to which it is applied to being as fundamental to the piece's meaning as that which is applied. Without the dynamics of modern life, guerrilla art is reduced to ‘art for arts sake’ and would be defined by \"what it is\" as opposed to \"what it does\".\n\nThe production of guerrilla art is focused on cause and effect, not the material piece itself. It aims to produce an effect within the minds of those people who live within the environment being altered. It does not necessarily aim to produce meaningful art in itself.\n\nGuerrilla artists increasingly seem to be moving towards a philosophy of painting a continuous work of art, adding to it over time as less developed elements of the piece are erased by graffiti cleaning efforts or in the battle for space. Art on canvas is not guerrilla art. Although many guerrilla artists regularly produce ‘trapped art’, they do not generally consider it to be the same thing. This has manifested itself in a wave of new canvas styles that have a guerrilla art style, but are more comprehensive and finished. Few traditional artists would create artwork intentionally meaning for it to be mass produced with little fidelity and put up with wheat paste. Many guerrilla artists hijack major branding for their own publicity and identity, often at odds with the brand itself. This can be seen with D*Face's hijacking of the Walt Disney signature.\n\nIt's not a movement that attempts to support or to oppose brand conditioning. It is the general public's artistic response to it.\n\n\nIn 1978 in downtown Wellington, New Zealand artist Barry Thomas, in collaboration with Chris Lipscombe, Hugh Walton and others, planted 180 cabbages \"on the demolished Duke of Edinburgh/Roxy Theatre site in the centre of Wellington. This cabbage patch, planted in such a way as to spell the word CABBAGE immediately captured the imagination of both the media and the public and engendered a flurry of other activities on the site, culminating in a week-long festival... when the cabbages were ceremonially harvested.\" While a work of conceptual sculpture, this intervention is also an early example of Guerrilla art and guerilla gardening in New Zealand. Thomas' work remained for six months, \"astonishingly unvandalised, as a living, breathing sculpture in the heart of the city.\" Christina Barton writes in the following months, \"it captured the hearts and minds of Wellingtonians, who followed the growth of the cabbages, adding their own embellishments to the site, and contributed to the week of festivities (with poetry readings, performances, and the distribution of free coleslaw) that celebrated their harvest\", describing the work as \"a provocation to the local council and the city's developers\". Thomas' documentation of the project was recently purchased by New Zealand's national gallery Te Papa, who described the work as an \"important moment in New Zealand’s art and social history\" with links to the \"Occupy movement, urban farming and guerrilla gardening\".\n\nArtistic movements are responsive. This movement is a response to the ever-increasing power and importance of the brand in everyday life. Developed, inner-city environments are where both branding and guerrilla art flourish. This is not coincidental.\n\nThe most important development in the street art movement and the reason for its 'guerrilla' tag is the adoption of guerrilla marketing techniques over traditional artistic methods. The use of guerrilla marketing methods to create ‘artistic publicity’ has seen the evolution away from artists as creative individuals and towards artists as brands.\n\nIt is this branding and the profound effect it has upon the minds of the general public that drives the guerrilla art movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34617070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34617070", "title": "Hozon Kagaku", "text": "Hozon Kagaku\n\n"}
{"id": "56620192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56620192", "title": "Hurufiyya movement", "text": "Hurufiyya movement\n\nThe Hurufiyya movement ( \"hurufiyya\", adjective form \"hurufi\" literal meaning \"letters\" [of the alphabet]) was an aesthetic movement that emerged in the late twentieth century amongst Arabian and North African artists, who used their understanding of traditional Islamic calligraphy, within the precepts of modern art. By combining tradition and modernity, these artists worked towards developing a Pan-Arab visual language, which instilled a sense of national identity in their respective nation states, at a time when many of these states where shaking off colonial rule and asserting their independence. They adopted the same name as the Hurufi, an approach of Sufism which emerged in the late 14th–early 15th century. Art historian, Dagher, has described hurufiyya as the most important movement to emerge in the Arab art world in the 20th-century. \n\nThe term, \"hurifiyya\" is derived from the Arabic term, \"harf\" which means letter (as in a letter of the alphabet). When the term is used to describe an contemporary art movement, it explicitly references a Medieval system of teaching involving political theology and lettrism. In this theology, letters were seen as primordial signifiers and manipulators of the cosmos. Thus, the term is charged with Sufi intellectual and esoteric meaning. \n\nThe hurufiyya art movement (also known as the \"Al-hurufiyyah movement\" or the \"Letrism movement\") refers to the use of calligraphy as a graphic element within an artwork, typically an abstract work. The pan-Arab hurufiyya art movement is distinct from the Letterist International which had an Algerian section founded in Chlef in 1953 by Hadj Mohamed Dahou. \n\nThe term, \"hurufiyya\" has become somewhat controversial and has been rejected by a number of scholars, including Wijdan Ali, Nada Shabout and Karen Dabrowska. An alternative term, \"al-Madrassa al-Khattiya Fil-Fann\" [Calligraphic School of Art] has been proposed to describe the experimental use of calligraphy in modern Arabic art.\n\nTraditional hurufi art was bound by strict rules, which amongst other things, confined calligraphy to devotional works and prohibited the representation of humans in manuscripts. Practising calligraphers trained with a master for many years in order to learn both the technique and the rules governing calligraphy. Contemporary hurufiyya artists broke free from these rules, allowing Arabic letters to be deconstructed, altered and included in abstract artworks. \n\nThe use of traditional Arabic elements, notably, calligraphy, in modern art arose independently in various Islamic states; few of these artists working in this area, had knowledge of each other, allowing for different manifestations of hurufiyya to develop in different regions. In Sudan, for instance, the movement was known as the \"Old Khartoum School\", and assumed a distinctive character in which both African motifs and calligraphy were combined, while media such as leather and wood replaced canvas to provide a distinct African style. In Morocco, the movement was accompanied by the replacement of traditional media for oils; artists favoured traditional dyes such as henna, and embraced weaving, jewellery and tattoo as well as including traditional Berber motifs. In Jordan, it was generally known as the \"al-hurufiyyah\" movement, while in Iran, the Saqqa-Khaneh movement.\n\nSome scholars have suggested that Madiha Omar, who was active in the US and Baghdad from the mid-1940s, was the pioneer of the movement, since she was the first to explore the use of Arabic script in a contemporary art context in the 1940s and exhibited hurufiyya-inspired works in Washington in 1949. However, other scholars have suggested that she was a \"precursor\" to Hurufiyya. Yet other scholars have suggested that the hurufiyya art movement probably began in North Africa, in the area around Sudan, with the work of Ibrahim el-Salahi, who initially explored Coptic manuscripts, a step that led him to experiment with Arabic calligraphy. It is clear that by the early 1950s, a number of artists in different countries were experimenting with works based on calligraphy, including the Iraqi painter and sculptor, Jamil Hamoudi who experimented with the graphic possibilities of using Arabic characters, as early as 1947; Iranian painters, Nasser Assar (b. 1928) () and Hossein Zenderoudi, who won a prize at the 1958 Paris Biennale. \nHurufiyya artists rejected Western art concepts, and instead grappled with a new artistic identity drawn from within their own culture and heritage. These artists successfully integrated Islamic visual traditions, especially calligraphy, into contemporary, indigenous compositions. The common theme amongst hurufiyya artists is that they all tapped into the beauty and mysticism of Arabic calligraphy, but used it in a modern, abstract sense. Although hurufiyya artists struggled to find their own individual dialogue with nationalism, they also worked towards a broader aesthetic that transcended national boundaries and represented an affiliation with an Arab identity in the post-colonial period.\n\nThe art historian, Christiane Treichl, explains how calligraphy is used in contemporary art: \n\nThe hurufiyya art movement was not confined to painters, but also included important ceramicists such as the Jordanian, Mahmoud Taha, who combined traditional aesthetics, including calligraphy, with skilled craftsmanship, and sculptors, such as the Qatari, Yousef Ahmad and the Iraqi sculptors, Jawad Saleem and Mohammed Ghani Hikmat. Nor, was the movement organised along formal lines across the Arab-speaking nations. In some Arab nations, hurufiyya artists formed formal groups or societies, such as Iraq's \"Al Bu'd al Wahad\" (or the One Dimension Group)\" which published a manifesto, while in other nations artists working independently in the same city had no knowledge of each other. \n\nArt historian, Dagher, has described hurufiyya as the most important movement to emerge in the Arab world in the 20th-century. However, the \"Cambridge Companion to Modern Arab Culture,\" while acknowledging its importance in terms of encouraging Arab nationalism, describes hurufiyya as neither \"a movement nor a school.\" \n\nArt historians have identified three generations of hurufiyya artists: \n\nHurufiyya art involved a very diverse range of \"explorations into the abstract, graphic, and aesthetic properties of Arabic letters.\" Art historians, including Wijdan Ali and Shirbil Daghir, have attempted to develop a way of classifying different types of hurufiyya art. Ali identifies the following, which she describes as \"schools\" within the \"movement\": \n\n\n\nIraqi painter, Madiha Omar, is recognised as a pioneer of the hurufiyaa art movement, having exhibited a number of hurufist-inspired works in Georgetown in Washington as early as 1949. and publishing \"Arabic Calligraphy: An Inspiring Element in Abstract Art\" in 1950. Jamil Hamoudi was also a pioneer, active from the 1950s. Both Omar and Hamoudi joined the One Dimension Group when it was founded by Shakir Hassan Al Said in 1971 since its principles were based on the importance of the Arabic letter. The artist and art historian, Princess Wijdan Ali, who developed the traditions of Arabic calligraphy in a modern, abstract format and is considered a pioneer of the movement in Jordan, has been able to bring hurufiyya to the attention of a broader audience through her writing and her work as a curator and patron of the arts. \n\nNotable exponents of hurufiyya art include: \n\nAlgeria\n\nEgypt\n\nIraq\n\nIran\n\nJordan\n\nLebanon\nMorocco\n\nPakistan\n\nPalestine\n\nSaudi Arabia\n\nSudan\n\nSyria\n\nTunisia\n\nUnited Arab Emirates\n\nIndividual hurufiyya artists began to stage exhibitions from the 1960s. In addition to solo exhibitions, several group exhibitions showcasing the variations in hurufiyya art, both geographically and temporally, have also been mounted by prestigious art museums. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "350381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=350381", "title": "Imagery", "text": "Imagery\n\nImagery, in a literary text, is an author's use of vivid and descriptive language to add depth to their work. It appeals to human senses to deepen the reader's understanding of the work. Powerful forms of imagery engage all of the senses.\n\nThere are seven major types of imagery, each corresponding to a sense, feeling, action, or reaction:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "148099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148099", "title": "Installation art", "text": "Installation art\n\nInstallation art is an artistic genre of three-dimensional works that often are site-specific and designed to transform the perception of a space. Generally, the term is applied to interior spaces, whereas exterior interventions are often called public art, land art or intervention art; however, the boundaries between these terms overlap.\n\nInstallation art can be either temporary or permanent. Installation artworks have been constructed in exhibition spaces such as museums and galleries, as well as public and private spaces. The genre incorporates a broad range of everyday and natural materials, which are often chosen for their \"evocative\" qualities, as well as new media such as video, sound, performance, immersive virtual reality and the internet. Many installations are site-specific in that they are designed to exist only in the space for which they were created, appealing to qualities evident in a three-dimensional immersive medium. Artistic collectives such as the Exhibition Lab at New York's American Museum of Natural History created environments to showcase the natural world in as realistic a medium as possible. Likewise, Walt Disney Imagineering employed a similar philosophy when designing the multiple immersive spaces for Disneyland in 1955. Since its acceptance as a separate discipline, a number of institutions focusing on Installation art were created. These included the Mattress Factory, Pittsburgh, the Museum of Installation in London, and the Fairy Doors of Ann Arbor, MI, among others.\n\nInstallation art came to prominence in the 1970s but its roots can be identified in earlier artists such as Marcel Duchamp and his use of the readymade and Kurt Schwitters' \"Merz\" art objects, rather than more traditional craft based sculpture. The \"intention\" of the artist is paramount in much later installation art whose roots lie in the conceptual art of the 1960s. This again is a departure from traditional sculpture which places its focus on form. Early non-Western installation art includes events staged by the Gutai group in Japan starting in 1954, which influenced American installation pioneers like Allan Kaprow.\nWolf Vostell shows his installation \"6 TV Dé-coll/age\" in 1963 at the Smolin Gallery in New York.\n\n\"Installation\" as nomenclature for a specific form of art came into use fairly recently; its first use as documented by the Oxford English Dictionary was in 1969. It was coined in this context, in reference to a form of art that had arguably existed since prehistory but was not regarded as a discrete category until the mid-twentieth century. Allan Kaprow used the term \"Environment\" in 1958 (Kaprow 6) to describe his transformed indoor spaces; this later joined such terms as \"project art\" and \"temporary art.\"\n\nEssentially, installation/environmental art takes into account a broader sensory experience, rather than floating framed points of focus on a \"neutral\" wall or displaying isolated objects (literally) on a pedestal. This may leave space and time as its only dimensional constants, implying dissolution of the line between \"art\" and \"life\"; Kaprow noted that \"if we bypass 'art' and take nature itself as a model or point of departure, we may be able to devise a different kind of art... out of the sensory stuff of ordinary life\".\n\nThe conscious act of artistically addressing all the senses with regard to a total experience made a resounding debut in 1849 when Richard Wagner conceived of a \"Gesamtkunstwerk\", or an operatic work for the stage that drew inspiration from ancient Greek theater in its inclusion of all the major art forms: painting, writing, music, etc. (Britannica). In devising operatic works to commandeer the audience's senses, Wagner left nothing unobserved: architecture, ambience, and even the audience itself were considered and manipulated in order to achieve a state of total artistic immersion. In the book \"Themes in Contemporary Art\", it is suggested that \"installations in the 1980s and 1990s were increasingly characterized by networks of operations involving the interaction among complex architectural settings, environmental sites and extensive use of everyday objects in ordinary contexts. With the advent of video in 1965, a concurrent strand of installation evolved through the use of new and ever-changing technologies, and what had been simple video installations expanded to include complex interactive, multimedia and virtual reality environments\".\n\nIn \"Art and Objecthood\", Michael Fried derisively labels art that acknowledges the viewer as \"theatrical\" (Fried 45). There is a strong parallel between installation and theater: both play to a viewer who is expected to be at once immersed in the sensory/narrative experience that surrounds him and maintain a degree of self-identity as a viewer. The traditional theater-goer does not forget that he has come in from outside to sit and take in a created experience; a trademark of installation art has been the curious and eager viewer, still aware that he is in an exhibition setting and tentatively exploring the novel universe of the installation.\n\nThe artist and critic Ilya Kabakov mentions this essential phenomenon in the introduction to his lectures \"On the \"Total\" Installation\": \"[One] is simultaneously both a 'victim' and a viewer, who on the one hand surveys and evaluates the installation, and on the other, follows those associations, recollections which arise in him[;] he is overcome by the intense atmosphere of the total illusion\". Here installation art bestows an unprecedented importance on the observer's inclusion in that which he observes. The expectations and social habits that the viewer takes with him into the space of the installation will remain with him as he enters, to be either applied or negated once he has taken in the new environment. What is common to nearly all installation art is a consideration of the experience in toto and the problems it may present, namely the constant conflict between disinterested criticism and sympathetic involvement. Television and video offer somewhat immersive experiences, but their unrelenting control over the rhythm of passing time and the arrangement of images precludes an intimately personal viewing experience. Ultimately, the only things a viewer can be assured of when experiencing the work are his own thoughts and preconceptions and the basic rules of space and time. All else may be molded by the artist's hands.\n\nThe central importance of the subjective point of view when experiencing installation art, points toward a disregard for traditional Platonic image theory. In effect, the entire installation adopts the character of the simulacrum or flawed statue: it neglects any ideal form in favor of optimizing its direct appearance to the observer. Installation art operates fully within the realm of sensory perception, in a sense \"installing\" the viewer into an artificial system with an appeal to his subjective perception as its ultimate goal.\n\nAn interactive installation frequently involves the audience acting on the work of art or the piece responding to users' activity. There are several kinds of interactive installations that artists produce, these include web-based installations (e.g., Telegarden), gallery-based installations, digital-based installations, electronic-based installations, mobile-based installations, etc. Interactive installations appeared mostly at end of the 1980s (\"Legible City\" by Jeffrey Shaw, \"La plume\" by Edmond Couchot, Michel Bret...) and became a genre during the 1990s, when artists became particularly interested in using the participation of the audiences to activate and reveal the meaning of the installation.\n\nWith the improvement of technology over the years, artists are more able to explore outside of the boundaries that were never able to be explored by artists in the past. The media used are more experimental and bold; they are also usually cross media and may involve sensors, which plays on the reaction to the audiences' movement when looking at the installations. By using virtual reality as a medium, immersive virtual reality art is probably the most deeply interactive form of art. By allowing the spectator to \"visit\" the representation, the artist creates \"situations to live\" vs \"spectacle to watch\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46899473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46899473", "title": "International Sculpture Day", "text": "International Sculpture Day\n\nInternational Sculpture Day, or IS Day, is a worldwide annual celebration of sculpture on the last Saturday of April every year. It was established by the International Sculpture Center and is meant to raise awareness, appreciation and enjoyment of sculpture in communities across the globe. During the inaugural 2015 IS Day, over 50 events were held in 12 countries including Switzerland, China, Germany,\nEngland, Australia, Austria, Canada, Spain, New Zealand, and the USA. In its second year, over 200 events were held in 20+ countries including Australia, Denmark, Poland, Nigeria, Canada, France, Burkina Faso, Bolivia, Croatia and Mexico.\n\nTypes of IS Day events include open studios, demonstrations, workshops, public art tours, open museums, brown bag lunches, sculpture scavenger hunts, book signings, foundry pours, pop up exhibitions, opening receptions, competitions, artist talks, and more.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34707843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34707843", "title": "Kitsch movement", "text": "Kitsch movement\n\nKitsch painting is an international movement of classical painters founded upon a 24 September 1998 speech and philosophy by the Norwegian artist, Odd Nerdrum, later clarified in his book \"On Kitsch\" with Jan-Ove Tuv and others. The movement incorporates the techniques of the Old Masters with narrative, romanticism, and emotionally charged imagery. The movement defines Kitsch as synonymous with the arts of ancient Rome or the techne of ancient Greece. Kitsch painters embrace kitsch as a positive term not in opposition to \"art\", but as its own independent superstructure. Kitsch painters assert that Kitsch is not an art movement, but a philosophical movement separate from art. The Kitsch movement has been considered an indirect criticism of the contemporary art world, but according to Nerdrum and many Kitsch painters, this is not their expressed intention.\n\nThe philosophy originated by Nerdrum first manifested into a group among Nerdrum's circle of students Jan-Ove Tuv, Helene Knoop, Hege Elizabeth Haugen, Monika Helgesen, Jeremy Caniglia, Kjetil Jul, Brad Silverstein, Carlos Madrid, Stefan Boulter, Brandon Kralik, Nanne Nyander, and soon expanded. Many kitsch painters were featured in and contributed essays to Nerdrum's book \"Kitsch: More than Art\"\n\nThe Kitsch Movement has collaborated with The Florence Academy in a 2009 biennale exhibition titled \"Immortal Works\". a traveling exhibition which includes painters from around the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39783343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39783343", "title": "Klecksography", "text": "Klecksography\n\nKlecksography is the art of making images from inkblots. The work was pioneered by Justinus Kerner, who included klecksographs in his books of poetry. Since the 1890s, psychologists have used it as a tool for studying the subconscious, most famously Hermann Rorschach in his Rorschach inkblot test.\n\nSpots of ink are dropped onto a piece of paper and the paper is folded in half, so that the ink will smudge and form a mirror reflection in the two halves. The piece of paper is then unfolded so that the ink can dry, after which someone can guess the resemblance of the print to other objects. The inkblots tend to resemble images because of apophenia, the human tendency to see patterns in nature.\n\nJustinus Kerner invented this technique when he started accidentally dropping blots of ink onto paper due to failing eyesight. Instead of throwing them away, he found that intriguing shapes appeared if he unfolded the papers. He elaborated these shapes into intricate cartoons and used them to illustrate his poems. Kerner began a collection of klecksographs and poetry in 1857 titled \"Klecksographien\". His collection was not published until 1890 because of his death in 1862.\n\nIn 1896, a similar game was described in the United States by Ruth McEnery Stuart and Albert Bigelow Paine in a book titled \"Gobolinks, or Shadow-Pictures for Young and Old\". The book explained how to make inkblot monsters (\"gobolinks\") and use them as prompts for writing imaginative verse.\n\nAs early as 1895, Alfred Binet and his associate Victor Henri first suggested that inkblots might be used in psychological research, arguing that the interpretation of inkblots could be used to study variations in ‘involuntary imagination’.\n\nAs a child in Switzerland, Hermann Rorschach enjoyed klecksography so much that his friends nicknamed him \"Klecks\", meaning \"inkblot\". As a medical student, Rorschach studied under psychiatrist Eugen Bleuler, who had taught Carl Jung. In studying Freud's work on dream symbolism, Rorschach was reminded of his youthful inkblot hobby. He then created his Rorschach test to see if people's reactions to inkblots could be used as a tool to uncover unconscious desires. The test is essentially a visual variation on Freud's verbal technique.\n\n"}
{"id": "25182319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25182319", "title": "MUNFLA", "text": "MUNFLA\n\nMUNFLA (Memorial University of Newfoundland Folklore and Language Archive) is the largest sound recording folklore archive in Canada. It is hosted at Memorial University of Newfoundland, located in the G.A. Hickman Building at the St. John’s campus in Newfoundland, Canada. It is a member of the Canadian Council of Archives and the Association of Newfoundland and Labrador Archives. MUNFLA was founded in 1968 by folklorist Herbert Halpert, head of the Folklore Department, as a joint-venture by the Folklore and English departments at Memorial University. The archive was created as a repository for recordings and material culture of Newfoundland and Labrador folk culture.\n\nThe archive contains a variety of items including oral histories, songs, poetry, childlore, folk narratives, personal experience narratives, folk beliefs as well as student research papers and graduate theses and dissertations from the Department of Folklore.\n\nMUNFLA operates an online catalogue. \n\nThe archive also contains The MacEdward Leach Collection of Songs of Atlantic Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "43853813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43853813", "title": "Macaroni art", "text": "Macaroni art\n\nMacaroni art, sometimes referred to as macaroni crafts or pasta art, is artwork that is made of dry macaroni or other pasta. The works commonly consist of individual pieces of macaroni glued to a surface to produce a mosaic. However, works may take the form of sculptures.\n\nThis type of art is produced during arts and crafts classes at pre-school. Today, it has evolved to become an artform practiced by adults.\n\nPasta art was used to advertise a Nancy Sinatra concert at the world famous Fillmore Auditorium in San Francisco. The art the poster was made from is composed entirely of \"Pasta e Fagioli\" (pasta and beans). Alphabet pasta spells out the lyrics for her hit \"These Boots Are Made For Walking\". \n\nAnother example of pasta art was featured in an episode of the television sitcom \"Seinfeld\". Cosmo Kramer produced a small sculpture made of fusilli called \"Fusili Jerry\".\n"}
{"id": "57393473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57393473", "title": "Maison Maquet", "text": "Maison Maquet\n\nMaquet is a French manufacturer of luxury stationery, leather goods, and art prints, established in Paris in 1841 by the Maquet brothers, Hector and Charles. One of the most renowned Parisian luxury houses, Maison Maquet became official purveyor to Empress Eugénie as well as to several royal courts, winning multiple awards and medals at various World's fairs over the course of its history.\n\nThe Maquet brothers, Hector and Charles, established Maison Maquet in 1841. The eldest Maquet sibling was Auguste Maquet, the novelist, playwright and famous ghost-writer of Alexandre Dumas, for whom he co-wrote several masterpieces such as \"The Three Musketeers\", \"Queen Margot\" and \"The Count of\" \"Monte-Cristo\".\n\nThe Maquet company was created to commercialize the patent for the first machine-made envelopes, the use of which was still little known. This patent, the application for which was filed in 1841 and granted by the French Patent Office on 17 January 1842, described how to manufacture and use the \"envelope-card-letter\" (\"enveloppe-carte-lettre\", in French), also called \"a word in the Mail\" (\"un mot à la Poste\"). The invention of the envelope was the culminating point of a variety of measures taken since the 17th century to preserve correspondence confidentiality.\n\nIn 1846, Hector and Charles Maquet separated their activities: Charles managed the envelopes factory, while Hector ran the boutique shop on Rue de la Paix. In 1864, Hector Maquet registered as a trademark an elegant monogram mixing his initials.\n\nOver time, Maison Maquet changed address numbers several times but remained on Rue de la Paix in Paris: the house was first located at No. 20 from 1841 to 1846, then at No. 24 from 1847 to 1867, and finally at No. 10 from 1868, where it remained for about a century. In the early 1970s, the house moved to 45 Rue Pierre Charron, where it kept a boutique shop until 1993. Though it did not have any commercial branch in the 19th century, Maquet eventually opened one in Nice at 16 Masséna Avenue (now Avenue de Verdun) in the early 20th century.\n\nMaison Maquet soon became one of the most fashionable personal stationery houses and enjoyed great fame during the French Second Empire. It even obtained the warrant of \"official purveyor to Her Majesty the Empress\". Empress Eugénie, wife of Napoleon III regularly visited the shop on Rue de la Paix, where she was served by Madame Maquet.\n\nMaquet was also favored by French aristocratic elites, and its clients included the Princess Pauline von Metternich, as well as the Rohan-Chabot and Costa de Beauregard families.\n\nMaison Maquet's products were particularly trendy among foreign royal courts. Maquet notably supplied the Russian court, including the Great Duchess and the Great Duke Konstantin of Russia. In fact, the French daily newspaper \"Le Figaro\" reported in 1875 that the \"stationary was adorned with the Great Duke's coat of arms, embellished with gold and colors enamel; of unparalleled richness and elegance.\" The Prince Axel of Denmark was also a faithful client of Maquet.\n\nLater on, with the change of political regime and the onset of the IIIrd Republic, Maquet renewed its clientele and started to supply Republican institutions, including the Presidential Palace known as Palais de l’Elysée, Paris City Hall – the Hôtel de Ville de Paris – and French embassies, as well as financial institutions such as the French National Bank.\n\nAnother prestigious customer was the Paris Opera, for which Maquet printed several leaflets and programs.\n\nIn 1908, Maquet changed hands: it became the property of businessman and architect Léon Tissier, who rejuvenated the company through multiple artistic collaborations. Tissier, the son of a travel items manufacturer, also extended Maquet's range of leather goods products. Intent on making his way into the world of printing, he invested in new buildings and printing machinery located rue de Langhouat in the Goutte d’Or neighborhood in Paris, which he eventually yielded to the Établissements Gérault-Fouqueray in 1936.\n\nIn 1990, Maison Maquet was acquired by stationery manufacturer and engraver Cassegrain, only to cease its operations in 1994.\n\nTwenty years later, in 2014, Maquet was taken over by Luvanis, a private investment company specializing in reviving sleeping beauty brands, which was notably behind the revival of trunk maker Moynat, and of couture house Paul Poiret.\n\nMaison Maquet was long regarded as the finest luxury personal stationery in Paris.\n\nAt first, the house specialized in envelopes and luxury stationery, creating custom-made papers with coats of arms and monograms, heraldic paintings on parchment, business cards, wedding invitations, birth announcements, dinner invitations, and dance cards. It then extended its expertise to manufacture luxury leather goods, metalwork, and watches, before branching out to engraving and art printing.\n\nMaquet advertized through witty commercial catalogs, theatre programs, and fashion magazines such as the luxury magazine \"Les Modes\".\n\nMaison Maquet originally produced envelopes and various items of fine stationery. Its most famous in-house paper was known as the \"empress paper\" (\"papier impératrice\"), in an elegant shade of pearly grey between white and azure paper.\n\nMaquet also manufactured travel diaries and notebooks. The French author Prosper Mérimée notably wrote the short novel \"La Chambre Bleue\" in 1866, dedicated to Empress Eugénie, on a Maquet notebook bound with dark green Morocco leather, discreetly hand-tooled in gold leaf.\n\nAt Maquet’s, one could find all manners of writing accessories, from inkpots to blotting paper, including notepads, pencils, dip pens, and even paper knives and letter openers made of chiselled silver.\n\nWhile still producing envelopes and stationery, Maison Maquet became a leading luxury leather goods manufacturer. In addition to her personal stationery, Empress Eugénie also purchased her leather goods at Maquet.\n\nMaquet's luxury leather goods department catered to a clientele of artists such as the French comedian Jane Sabrier, who matched one of her fashionable outfits with a Maquet bag in reindeer leather in 1909.\n\nMaison Maquet proposed a wide range of leather goods, including handbags and travel bags, as well as vanity cases, wallets, cardholders and purses. Maquet also sold lawyers’ satchels (\"serviettes d’avocats\") and garnished tourist blotters (\"buvards-touriste garnis\").\n\nThe house developed a whole line of travel items. Inkpots, paper trays, as well as small leather goods, both sturdy and beautiful, were featured in the house's commercial catalogs.\n\nIn 1938, Maquet was selected to contribute pieces to the trousseau of the two dolls gifted to Princess Elizabeth and Princess Margaret during the official visit of their parents, King George VI and Queen Elizabeth. The gift, intended to reinforce the \"Entente Cordiale\" between France and the United Kingdom, displayed French craftsmanship through a 360-piece trousseau in the tradition of Parisian haute couture. Maquet's contributions consisted in leather goods and accessories: two writing cases, one in blue, the other in red, each with its notepaper monogrammed to the dolls’ initials, and a miniature gold pen.\n\nIn the 1960s, Audrey Hepburn, Hubert de Givenchy's muse, shopped at Maquet's for her leather goods. She notably possessed five Maquet-branded wallets, all made of black leather.\n\nMaquet added watchmaking to its activities, selling bracelet watches and clocks for phaetons and automobiles.\n\nApplying the same craftsmanship to tobacco articles, the house commercialized lighters, cigar and cigarette boxes. In the early 20th century, it made many lighters from Chinese snuff boxes. Maquet became famous for combining old components into new objects in the orientalist fashion typical of decorative arts at the time.\n\nFurthermore, Maquet boxes, renowned for their refinement, were used to store letters as much as jewels.\n\nHector Maquet notably shot the portrait of his brother Auguste. Soon he sold works of other photographers in the Paris boutique, including those of Polish photographer Boleslaw Matuszewski. Frames and photo albums were now also on the shelves of Maison Maquet.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Maison Maquet diversified into engraving, and art printing.\n\nMaquet thus made artistic menus for:\n\n\nMaison Maquet printed, among others, a poster for the third French National Defense Loan, which was conceived by Albert Besnard in 1917, and that for the Peace Loan, illustrated by Henri Lebasque in 1920.\n\nMaquet created posters for Ocean liners, including for the Compagnie de Navigation Sud-Atlantique  and for the Compagnie Générale Transatlantique, commonly known as the \"French Line.”\n\nMaquet, with its experience in stationery, engraving, and printing, as well as its ties to literary men, quite naturally started to develop exclusive bookplates. The Prince of Hohenlohe, who was the Chancellor of the German Empire from 1894 to 1900, had his bookplate engraved by Maquet, as did André Kostolany, Raoul Warocqué (who ordered no less than 10,000 ex-libris from Maquet), and Thyra Seillière.\n\nMaison Maquet developed tight commercial links to other Parisian luxury houses for which it created commercial catalogues. Specifically, Maquet devised the commercial catalogues of perfumers Rigaud, L.T. Piver, and Guerlain.\n\nAdditionally, Maquet conceived ephemerals and various advertising materials for champagne houses such as Moët & Chandon. In 1910, it notably printed a commercial for Charles Heidsieck.\n\nThe house conceived and printed many commercial fans, some of which are kept in the collections of the Musée des Arts Décoratifs in Paris. In particular, Maquet printed many illustrations on advertising fans of Maison Duvelleroy.\n\nMore importantly, Maison Maquet built fruitful partnerships with Paris haute couture houses, such as Paul Poiret, for which it created heading paper, and Jeanne Paquin, for which it created a luxury commercial catalog for \"Fans and fur at Paquin\" in 1911.\n\nMaquet printed the volume \"Les Choses de Paul Poiret vues par George Lepape\" in 1911, whose enduring success mirrors its great influence on the renewal of fashion illustration. Poiret collaborated with drawing artists, including Paul Iribe and Georges Lepape. This 1911 volume broke away from traditional fashion plates and gives both a graphic and a stylized representation of fashion.\n\nFollowing the example set by \"Les Choses de Paul Poiret vues par George Lepape\" (1911), Maison Maquet began publishing an annual luxury magazine, \"Modes et manières d’aujourd’hui,\" each issue of which was beautifully illustrated by a different artist. The first issue, out in 1912, relied once again on Georges Lepape who created 12 colored plates printed on Japanese paper. In 1913, the magazine commissioned Martin, and in 1914 George Barbier.\n\nMaison Maquet collaborated with drawing artists, lithographers, poster makers, and engravers, including:\n\n\n1842 – Patent for a machine manufacturing envelopes (application filed on 16 August 1841, and granted on 17 January 1842).\n\n1849 – Patent for a machine folding envelopes (application filed on 30 August 1848, and granted on 27 October 1849).\n\n1850 – Patent for a machine allowing to simultaneously write and hide what one is writing so as to protect confidentiality (application filed on 9 September 1850, and granted on 2 November 1850).\n\n1853 – Patent for improving envelopes (application filed on 19 July 1853, and granted on 24 August 1853).\n\n1855 – Paris World's Fair: Bronze Medal. In December 1855, \"Le Magasin Pittoresque\" reviewed the Fair, and focused on the inkpot exhibited by Maquet, which was designed by Riester and sculpted in wood by Gayonnet. This inkpot, described as a \"charming luxury piece of furniture,\" combined medieval inspirations and fabulous creatures, fighting an imaginary struggle. This object reminds of Antoine-Louis Barye’s animal sculptures in the romantic style, especially through its expressiveness and violence.\n\n1867 – Paris World's Fair: Silver Medal.\n\n1913 – Ghent World's Fair: Great Prize (Class 92, Stationery).\n\n1925 – International Exhibition of Decorative and Modern Industrial Arts: exhibited (Class 23, Perfumery).\n\n"}
{"id": "15184165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15184165", "title": "Metaphor in philosophy", "text": "Metaphor in philosophy\n\nMetaphor, the description of one thing as something else, has become of interest in recent decades to both analytic philosophy and continental philosophy, but for different reasons.\n\nIn the Anglo-American tradition of analytic philosophy (in particular, in the philosophy of language), metaphor has attracted interest because it does not conform to accepted truth-conditional semantics, the conditions which determine whether or not a statement is true. Taken literally, the statement \"Juliet is the sun\" (from \"Romeo and Juliet\") is false, if not nonsensical, yet, taken metaphorically, it is meaningful and may be true, but in a sense which is far from clear. The comparison theory of metaphor asserts that one can express the truth value of a metaphor by listing all the respects in which the two terms are alike or similar; for example: Juliet is \"like\" the sun because she shares with it qualities such as radiance, brilliance, the fact that she makes the day and that she gets up every morning. However, this results in re-casting metaphor as simile. Because it can only explain the truth of metaphor by in effect losing metaphor, the comparison theory is rarely defended.\n\nIn contrast, two leading theorists emphasize the fact that truth conditions cannot be specified for a metaphor. Max Black maintains that metaphors are too open-ended to be able to function as referring expressions, and so cannot be expressions which have truth conditions . If metaphors are used in contexts where precise terminology is expected (for example, in a scientific theory), then their role, Black argues, is purely heuristic, that is, they are means to an end or ways of assisting understanding, rather than being terms which can be tested for truth or falsity . Donald Davidson also thinks it a mistake to look for the truth conditions of a metaphor, since, in his words, \"much of what we are caused to notice [in a metaphor] is not propositional in character\", that is to say, metaphor is a prompt to thought which cannot be reduced to or contained by a series of truth conditions . What metaphor does, Davidson maintains, is make us see one thing as something else by \"making [a] literal statement that inspires or prompts the insight\" . Seeing one thing as something else is not the recognition of some truth or fact, and so \"the attempt to give literal expression to the content of the metaphor is simply misguided\".\n\nMax Black develops the idea that metaphor actually creates insight or new meaning . His interactionist theory asserts that at the heart of a metaphor is the interaction between its two subject terms, where the interaction provides the condition for a meaning which neither of the subject terms possesses independently of the metaphorical context. The primary subject in a metaphor, he claims, is coloured by a set of \"associated implications\" normally predicated of the secondary subject . From the number of possible meanings which could result, the primary subject sieves the qualities predicable of the secondary subject, letting through only those that fit. The interaction, as a process, brings into being what Black terms an \"implication-complex\", a system of associated implications shared by the linguistic community as well as an impulse of free meaning, free in that it is meaning which was unavailable prior to the metaphor's introduction.\n\nIn a different, naturalist, approach, some English-speaking philosophers close to cognitive science, such as Lakoff, have made metaphor the central aspect of human rationality.\n\nWhereas analytic philosophy examines metaphor within the philosophy of language, continental philosophy assigns much wider significance to metaphor. This is because the climate within continental thought has been more favourable to the propagation of new branches of enquiry from nineteenth century German philosophy. Although Kant and Hegel sit quite happily on both analytic and continental curricula, it is only the latter which has seriously addressed the need to rethink how the world appears to us and how it is made manifest to us in the light of their metaphysics. Metaphor has proven to be extremely important for this rethinking because it is the process of conceptual borrowing or reassignment which revises our perception of the world.\n\nThe major shift which occurs in Kantian continental philosophy, according to Cazeaux, is the departure 'from dualistic thought, i.e. thinking which remains within the boundaries created by oppositions, such as mind—body and subjective—objective' . The turn away from dualistic thought is made by Kant on account of his representing experience as the subjective determination of an objective world, thereby placing in a relationship terms which normally stand as opposites in a dualism. As a result of this shift, without conventional dualisms to fall back upon, the process of conceptual borrowing and cross-referral presented by metaphor becomes central as the means by which the textures and complexities of experience can be articulated. Theses to this effect, but with significant differences, can be found in Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger, Merleau-Ponty, Bachelard, Paul Ricoeur, and Derrida.\n\nTo give two examples. According to Nietzsche, we are in metaphor or we are metaphor: our being is not derived from a Platonic, eternal essence or from a Cartesian thinking substance but (in as much as there is a way of being we can call ours) is emergent from tensional interactions between competing drives or perspectives . We customarily hold truth to be a relation of correspondence between knowledge and reality but, Nietzsche declares, it is in fact ‘a movable host of metaphors, metonymies, and anthropomorphisms’ due to the fundamentally metaphorical nature of concept-formation, a series of creative leaps from nerve stimulus to retinal image (first metaphor) to sound as signifier (second metaphor) . Our categories, and the judgments we form with them, can never correspond to things in themselves because they are formed through a series of transformations which ensures that ‘there is no causality, no correctness, and no expression’ connecting the first stage (the stimulus) with the last (the concept) .\n\nFor Ricoeur, metaphor is also ‘living’ – hence the title of his book, \"La Métaphore vive\" (translated into English as \"The Rule of Metaphor\" ) – but in a different sense from Nietzsche . Metaphor is living, Ricoeur claims, in that it is the principle which revives our perception of the world and through which we become aware of our creative capacity for seeing the world anew. This process, he thinks, is both paradoxical and Kantian in nature: paradoxical in that the creative combination of terms in a metaphor nevertheless produces meaning which has the character of a discovery (how can something be both a creation and a discovery?), and Kantian because the paradox mirrors Kant’s theory of experience in which the subjective application of concepts nevertheless yields perception of an objective world. The tension between the subjective, creative and the objective, discovery aspects of a metaphor, Ricoeur argues, proceeds ‘from the very structures of the mind, which it is the task of [Kant’s] transcendental philosophy to articulate’ . Unfortunately, the part of Kant’s philosophy which Ricoeur appeals to is highly problematic: the schema or schematism, the operation which Kant dismisses as ‘an art concealed in the depths of the human soul' . Ricoeur’s Kantianism is considered at length by Cazeaux and Stellardi , with the former providing an account of how the schematism might afford a coherent explanation of metaphor.\n\nAnother reason for the attention paid by continental philosophy to metaphor is the questioning of boundaries – between subject areas and between the wider concepts of ethics, epistemology and aesthetics – which has occurred within postmodernism. Principal concerns in these debates are the status of knowledge and the way in which the concepts of truth and objectivity are understood. Philosophy has been under attack on this score with its history of ‘universal truths’, e.g. Descartes’s cogito, Kant’s table of categories, and Hegel’s Absolute Consciousness. The main arguments against this universalism invoke metaphor on two related accounts: (1) the fact that key epistemological concepts have metaphors at their root, for example, “mirroring”, “correspondence”, “sense data”, is taken as evidence of the contingent, communal, subjective basis of knowledge, and (2) because metaphor (as a form of dislocated or dislocating predication) works by testing the appropriate with the inappropriate, it is seen as a means of challenging the boundaries whereby one subject defines itself in relation to another.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24796807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24796807", "title": "Modular art", "text": "Modular art\n\nModular art is art created by joining together standardized units (modules) to form larger, more complex compositions. In some works the units can be subsequently moved, removed and added to – that is, \"modulated\" – to create a new work of art, different from the original or ensuing configurations.\n\nHistorically, alterable objects of art have existed since the Renaissance, for example, in the Triptych \"The Garden of Earthly Delights\" by Hieronymus Bosch or in the so-called \"alterable altarpieces\", such as the Isenheim Altarpiece by Matthias Grünewald, or Albrecht Dürer's Paumgartner altarpiece, where changing motifs could be revised in accord with the changing themes of the ecclesiastical calendar.\n\nBeginning in the first half of the 20th century, a number of contemporary artists sought to incorporate kinetic techniques into their work in an attempt to overcome what they saw as the predominantly static nature of art. Alexander Calder's mobiles are among the most widely known demonstrations of physical dynamism in the visual arts, in which form has the potential to continually vary through perpetual motion, sometimes even without the agency of the human hand. Jean Tinguely's efforts to create a self-destructive art machine constitute perhaps the ultimate expression of art's mutability, in this case by taking the form of its total eradication. Victor Vasarely postulated in his \"Manifest Jaune\" in 1955 in Paris that works of art should feature the properties of being multiplicable and repeatable in series. More recently, the notion that visual art need not be conceived solely in terms of perpetually fixed objects is embodied in performance and installation art by virtue of their unfolding and temporary qualities. \n\nModularity enters the modern artistic repertory largely through the disciplines of industrial design and architecture. Belgian architect Louis Herman De Koninck led a team of countrymen in creating one of the first modular product systems in their Cubex kitchen series of 1932. The series consisted of standardized and industrially produced components that could be combined and arrayed in limitless combinations to accommodate almost any size kitchen. New York designer Gilbert Rohde crafted several lines of modular casework for the Herman Miller Corporation in the 1930s and 40s; like De Koninck, Rohde standardized the units in dimensions, materials and configurations to facilitate mass production and interchangeability. His Executive Office Group (EOG) line, launched in 1942, was a similarly ground-breaking systems approach to office furniture. Just a year before Eero Saarinen and Charles Eames had jointly produced a suite of modular domestic furniture for the Red Lion Company, a result of a competition held by the Museum of Modern Art in New York. In 1950 Herman Miller brought out the EAS Storage Unit series by Charles and Ray Eames, a very successful modular shelving and wall unit system that remains in production today.\n\nThe module enjoys a long history in the realm of architecture. In antiquity architects utilized the module primarily as a unit of measurement guiding the proportions of plan and elevation. The Roman author and architect Vitruvius deployed the modular method in his descriptions of the classical orders and the composition of buildings in his treatise \"Ten Books on Architecture\", the only complete text on architecture to survive from antiquity. Architects of the Renaissance perpetuated the Vitruvian system in their resurrection of the classical orders, a tradition which continues to the present day. Among modern architects, the module is frequently employed as a design and planning tool.\n\nArchitecture and modular sculpture intersected starting in the 1950s in the work of Norman Carlberg, Erwin Hauer and Malcolm Leland. All three received commissions to design perforated architectural screens built out of repetitive modular motives cast in concrete. Non-structural, the screens were used on building exteriors to divide space, filter light and create visual interest. Their work has come to be described as Modular Constructivism, reflecting both its compositional methodology and its architectural context. Each created stand-alone modular-themed sculptures into the 1960s and after as well.\n\nRobert Rauschenberg's \"White Painting\" of 1951; consisting of just four equal white squares, with its geometry of interlocking forms, is among the earliest statements of modularity as an autonomous subject of art. Rauschenberg explored this theme that same year in a three- and seven-panel format; the linear array of rectangular panels in these versions suggests their potentially infinite replication. The cool abstraction of these canvases presages the emergence of modularity as a full-fledged topic of Minimalist art in the 1960s. Tony Smith, Sol LeWitt, Dan Flavin and Donald Judd are among this school's most prolific exponents during the period. In particular, the work of Smith is key to understanding the transformation of modularity from a compositional and production tool into a broadly investigated artistic theme in its own right.\n\nSmith began his career as an architectural designer. To further his education he apprenticed himself on some projects by Frank Lloyd Wright for a couple of years starting in 1938. From Wright he learned to utilize modular systems in generating architectural designs in two-dimensional plans as well as in three-dimensional applications, such as the development of building sections and interior built-ins. As an architect, Wright himself was part of a centuries-old continuum stretching back through Vitruvius to Greco-Roman antiquity in which the module was utilized to proportion built and sculpted form. In the case of Wright, the interest in modular design also may have derived from his familiarity with modular practice in traditional Japanese architecture.\n\nWright's Hanna House of 1937 is a clear example of the master's facility with modern modular design in multiple dimensions. Its striking angled forms are built up from the individual hexagonal modules that define the floor plan and various vertical elements. Wright's use of the hexagon here is by no means an arbitrary aesthetic choice, but an example of how he rooted his architecture in nature by drawing from its forms and principles – the interlocking hexagonal cells of the bee's honeycomb being nature's most perfect representation of modular design. Not surprisingly, this project is sometimes referred to as the \"Honeycomb House\".\n\nSmith would employ the hexagon and other elemental geometries in his own architectural practice and again in the sculpture he began to fabricate in the early 1960s. Freed from the programmatic and extensive structural requirements of his architectural work, Smith's sculptures are three-dimensional extrusions of modular form with no ostensible pragmatic purpose beyond aesthetic contemplation.\n\nSignificantly, Smith himself did not manually fabricate the final version of his sculptures. Instead, he outsourced their production to skilled ironworkers in foundries and industrial facilities, who worked off his drawings and models to manufacture the designs. In part this reflects Smith's training as an architect, who customarily designs and documents but does not construct his art. It further reinforces the idea of modular art as a generative system in which the arrangement of pre-determined formal units – rather than wholesale imaginative invention – defines the creative act. Finally, it is consistent with the notion implicit in modularity that the supply of modules in a modular system must be infinite, that is, that they be industrially rather than artisanally produced, for the system to be realized. (Bees in a honeycomb are essentially operating as an industrial enterprise insofar as the production of cells is without end.)\n\nThe work of Smith and the minimalist school constitute the most far-ranging exploration of modularity in art before the millennium. However, neither it nor the explorations of movable and alterable art in the preceding centuries synthesized the two central features of modular art. Mobiles and other kinetic pieces were not modular, and the modular work of the mid-century Minimalist artists was, with a few exceptions, not changeable.\n\nA school of thought coming out of the United States emphasizes modular art's alignment with the post-industrial character of 21st century culture and its contrast with traditional notions of art. Core characteristics of post-industrialism, as largely defined by the theorist Daniel Bell in his 1973 book \"The Coming of Post-Industrial Society\", include the emergence of a service economy in place of a manufacturing one; the social and economic pre-eminence of the creative, professional and technical classes; the central place of theoretical knowledge as a font of innovation; the strong influence of technology on daily life; and high levels of urbanization.\n\nModular art appears to synchronize perfectly with several of these criteria. For example, its manual changeability opens up the possibility of co-creative art, in which the collector or user collaborates with the originating modular artist to jointly determine the appearance of the work of art. This presupposes the existence of creative people capable of and interested in serving such a role – a demographic evolution that was already underway in Bell's time and that has since been studied in works like Richard Florida's \"Rise of the Creative Class\" (2002).\n\nCo-creation is closely associated with mass customization, a production model that combines the opportunity for individual personalization with mass production. Modular art and mass customization share a commonality in their synthesis of two opposing qualities. On the one hand, as previously stated the very concept of modularity implies a limitless supply of identical modules such as only industrial production can provide; on the other hand, the ability of the individual to re-arrange these modules in the work of art based on aesthetic criteria re-injects a subjective and purely human dimension into the creative act.\n\nMass customization is itself only made possible with the advent of computers and a type of software known as a configurator. A configurator is a software tool used by the buyer to configure a product from the options made available by the vendor. Applied to the purpose of composing a work of modular art onscreen, it can greatly facilitate the design of a modular assembly by allowing the user to study multiple design options more quickly and in far greater depth than by using analog methods. Once the design is established a computer file is then sent over the air to a manufacturing facility where robotically controlled equipment produces the object according to its specifications. Not only does this computer-aided manufacturing (CAM) allow for the customization of mass-produced objects, it also enables a much higher level of precision and fit – qualities critical for modules to be physically joined together. Bell's identification of technology as a central axis of post-industrial life is underscored in the intertwining of the digital with the physical realization of modular art.\n\nIn Europe, where the 1960s Minimalist school of modular art was often seen as a principally American phenomenon, the discussion of modularity often focuses on its changeability. For example, the mutability of art is a core principle of Arte Povera, a contemporaneous movement that emerged in Italy which holds that works of art \"should not be seen as fixed entities\", but as objects of change and movement to \"include time and space in a new manner. At stake is the issue of transferring the phenomenology of human experience\" into the arts.\n\nMore recently, the artist Leda Luss Luyken has produced modular paintings, composed of movable painted panels set in steel frames. Luss Luyken has dubbed her work \"ModulArt\". In her work, changing the configuration of a modular painting constitutes a form of motion, offering the spectator alternative views and alternative interpretations, and thus aligning the work more closely than a static object to the dynamism of physical human experience. Art historian and theorist Denys Zacharopoulos called this \"a new way of motion in painting\". The concept of modular art allows the user to de-compose and to re-compose a work of art that is already completed by re-arranging its parts, thus providing numerous possibilities for ever newer pictures not yet imagined. The original painting can be re-contextualized ad libitum and ad infinitum.\n\nWorking in the 1950-60s in Manchester (UK), American artist Mitzi Cunliffe developed sculptures consisting of multiple blocks about twelve inches square which she put together in a variety of combinations to give a sculptured effect on a large scale. She referred to them as \"modular sculptures\". The University of Manchester and the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology (UMIST) acquired some of these works, although there are no references to them in published accounts of her work.\n\nSculptor and ceramicist Malcolm Leland designed in 1954 a similar modular sculpture system based on a single 23-inch tall module that could be stacked vertically by means of a centering pin; the module has a generally biomorphic, curvilinear outline that yields an undulating silhouette when multiple modules are placed on top of each other. The technique of stacking repetitive elements in the round recalls Brancusi's \"Endless Column\" of 1938.\n\nStarting in the 1970s, Leland's contemporary Norman Carlberg produced groups of square framed prints which he placed together on a wall in a tight grid, each print conceived as an independent module. The viewer is then invited to rotate or reposition them to generate new composite images. The abstract quality of the prints enhanced the creative possibilities of their re-orientation insofar as they are non-directional and geometrically inter-related.\n\nGreek-born conceptual artist Leda Luss Luyken, who was initially trained as an architect, has been exploring modularity in the medium of painting since the 1990s. In her work standardized canvas panels are mounted as modules onto a steel frame within which they can be moved and rotated.\n\nIn the U.S. Moshé Elimelech creates what he has called \"Cubic Constructions\". These are multiple groupings of approximately three-inch cubes set inside pockets in a framed shadow box. On each cube he applies paint in fields of bright color and abstract pattern with precise, controlled brush strokes. Like Carlsberg, Elimelech then invites the viewer to reposition any or all of the cubes to display one of their six sides, each of which is painted in a different pattern. Exhibiting since the 1980s, Elimelech shows primarily in California galleries, and has work represented in several museum design stores as well.\n\nAnother portfolio of interactive modular art comes out of Studio for A.R.T. and Architecture, a New York-based firm headed by Donald Rattner. Rattner has designed modular art in the media of wall sculpture, rotational paintings, tapestries, artist's wallpapers and artist's books. To bring his work and those of other \"modulartists\" to the marketplace, Rattner founded A.R.T. (art-rethought), an art storefront focused on co-creative and modular work. In his writings Rattner has emphasized the post-industrial aspect of the most recent trends in modular art, coining the term \"New Industrialism\" to denote mass customization, production on demand, open innovation, co-creative design, tele-fabrication, robotics and other computer-driven technologies that are re-defining how things are made in the global marketplace.\n\nModularity in music can be seen as bringing two key elements of musical composition and film into the world of painting: variation of a theme and movement of and within a picture. For this very reason the contemporary composer Minas Borboudakis has dedicated the third part of his trilogy ROAI III for piano and electronics to the modular methodology.\n\nItalian composer and arts theoretician Stefano Vagnini has developed a theory of open-source composition based on modular aggregation. The concept of a musical work of art being something closed, limited and immobile disappears in favor of a process of numerous aggregations that allow a composition to become infinite in principle. Several such compositions were performed in Europe, South America, Asia and in North America and discussed through conferences in Europe. The approach is being academically discussed at the University of West Georgia and the Carrollton Cultural Arts Centre in the USA. Writer, painter, and art theorist Gian Ruggero Manzoni described the modularity of Vagnini's compositions as “circular like the existence, his works are not finished, but merely stimulus for new voices”. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4312132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4312132", "title": "Oral poetry", "text": "Oral poetry\n\nOral poetry is poetry that is composed and transmitted without the aid of writing. The complex relationships between written and spoken literature in some societies can make this definition hard to maintain.\n\nOral poetry is sometimes considered to include any poetry which is performed live. In many cultures, oral poetry overlaps with, or is identical with, song. Meanwhile, although the term oral etymologically means 'to do with the mouth', in some cultures oral poetry is also performed by other means, such as talking drums in some African cultures. Oral poetry exists most clearly within oral cultures, but it can survive, and indeed flourish, in highly literate cultures.\n\nOral poetry differs from oral literature in general because oral literature encompasses linguistic registers which are not considered poetry. In most oral literature, poetry is defined by the fact that it conforms to metrical rules; examples of non-poetic oral literature in Western culture include some jokes, speeches and storytelling.\n\nAn influential movement in the study of oral poetry, both because it helped to bring oral poetry within the realms of academic literary study and because it illuminated the ways in which poetic form and orality interrelate, has been the oral-formulaic theory developed by Milman Parry and Albert Lord. This theory showed how stock phrases could enable poets to improvise verse. One consequence of Parry and Lord's work is that orally improvised poetry (as opposed to poetry which is composed without the use of writing but then memorised and performed later) is sometimes seen as the example \"par excellence\" of oral poetry. Examples of orally improvised poetry are the epics of the Serbo-Croatian \"guslar\"s studied by Parry and Lord, Basque \"bertsolaritza\", and freestyle rap.\n\nMuch oral poetry, however, is memorised verbatim – though the precise wording, particularly of words which are not essential to sense or metre, do tend to change from one performance to another, and one performer to another. Although the original composition of a memorised oral poem may have been undertaken without the use of writing, memorial traditions sometimes originate in a written text. Likewise, memorised oral poems can come to be written down, leading to a situation in which written versions in turn influence memorised versions. Prominent examples of memorised oral poetry are some nursery rhymes, ballads and medieval Scandinavian skaldic verse.\n\nPoetical improvisation is a living tradition in many parts of the world. Regional traditions may include but surely are not limited to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53692", "title": "Payola", "text": "Payola\n\nPayola, in the music industry, is the illegal practice of payment or other inducement by record companies for the broadcast of recordings on commercial radio in which the song is presented as being part of the normal day's broadcast, without announcing that there has been consideration paid in cash or in kind for its airplay adjacent to the recording's broadcast. Under US law, a radio station can play a specific song in exchange for money, but this must be disclosed on the air as being sponsored airtime.\n\nThe term has come to refer to any undisclosed payment made to cast a product in a favorable light (such as obtaining positive reviews). Some radio stations report spins of the newest and most popular songs to industry publications. The number of times the songs are played can influence the perceived popularity of a song.\n\nThe term \"payola\" is a combination of \"pay\" and \"ola\", a common suffix of product names in the early 20th century, such as Pianola, Victrola, Amberola, Crayola, Rock-Ola, Shinola, or brands such as the radio equipment manufacturer Motorola. Payola has come to mean the payment of a bribe in commerce and in law to say or do a certain thing against the rules of law, but more specifically a commercial bribe. The FCC defines \"payola\" as a violation of the sponsorship identification rule that in 2005-06 resulted in tens of millions of dollars in illegal fines to cable corporations in New York. \n\nIn earlier eras there was not much public scrutiny of the reasons songs became hits. The ad agencies which had sponsored NBC's radio/TV show \"Your Hit Parade\" for 20 years refused to reveal the specific methods that were used to determine top hits, only stating generally that they were based on \"readings of radio requests, sheet music sales, dance hall favorites and jukebox tabulations\". Attempts to create a code to stop payola were met with mainly lukewarm silence by publishers.\n\nProsecution for payola in the 1950s was in part a reaction of the traditional music establishment against newcomers. Hit radio was a threat to the wages of song-pluggers. Radio hits also threatened old revenue streams; for example, by the middle of the 1940s, three-quarters of the records produced in the USA went into jukeboxes. Still, in the 1950s, independent record companies or music publishers frequently used payola to promote rock and roll on American radio; it promoted cultural diversity and disc jockeys were less inclined to indulge their own personal and racial biases.\n\nAlan Freed, a disc jockey and early supporter of rock and roll (and also widely credited for actually coining the term), had his career and reputation greatly harmed by a payola scandal. Dick Clark's early career was nearly derailed by a payola scandal, but he avoided trouble by selling his stake in a record company and cooperating with authorities. Attempts were made to link all payola with rock and roll music. In 1976, inner-city urban soul DJ Frankie Crocker was indicted in a payola scandal, causing him to leave NY radio, where his influence was greatest. The charges were later dropped and he returned to NY, hosting MTV's video jukebox.\n\nThe amount of money involved is largely unpublished; however, one DJ, Phil Lind of Chicago's WAIT, disclosed in Congressional hearings that he had taken $22,000 to play a record.\n\nThe issue was featured in a 1978 episode of \"WKRP in Cincinnati\", where Johnny Fever's morning show replacement (when Johnny left to take a new job in Los Angeles) was caught taking cocaine as a bribe to play certain records from a label that he was associated.\n\nPayola to DJs is less of a concern today because they rarely are involved in choosing the songs. Modern radio is widely based on company-delivered playlists, often scheduling every song, commercial break, and DJ talk time, and most shows are pre-recorded well in advance of their broadcasts. Especially with shows that are voicetracked from elsewhere where an off-air assistant may choose the playlists rather than the DJs themselves, local radio staff have little to no input on a playlist outside of special but rare segments where a local artist might be spotlighted, or contests where local artists are offered the opportunity to open a station-sponsored concert or music festival for more well-known acts.\n\nThe Congressional Payola Investigations occurred in 1959, after the United States Senate began investigating the payola scandal. Among those thought to have been involved were DJ Alan Freed and television personality and host Dick Clark.\n\nThe term Congressional Payola Investigations refers to investigations by the House Subcommittee on Legislative Oversight into payola, the practice of record promoters paying DJs or radio programmers to play their labels' songs. Payola can refer to monetary rewards or other types of reimbursement, and is a tool record labels use to promote certain artists. Other forms of payola include making arrangements to purchase certain amounts of advertising in exchange for staying on a station's playlist, forcing bands to play station-sponsored concerts for little or no money in order to stay in a station's good graces, and paying for stations to hold \"meet the band\" contests, in exchange for air time for one of the label's newer, lesser-known bands.\n\nThe first major payola investigation occurred in the early 1960s. DJ Alan Freed, who was uncooperative in committee hearings, was fired as a result. Dick Clark also testified before the committee, but survived, partially due to the fact that he had divested himself of ownership interest in all of his music-industry holdings.\n\nAfter the initial investigation, radio DJs were stripped of the authority to make programming decisions, and payola became a misdemeanor offense. Programming decisions became the responsibility of station program directors. As a result, the process of persuading stations to play certain songs was simplified. Instead of reaching numerous DJs, record labels only had to connect with one station program director.\n\nLabels turned to independent promoters to circumvent allegations of payola. This practice grew more and more widespread until a 1986 NBC News investigation called \"The New Payola\" instigated another round of Congressional investigations.\n\nWith the creation of Napster and other now illegal music sharing websites, the power of the independent promoters began to decline. Labels once more began dealing with stations directly.\n\nIn 2002, investigations by the office of then-New York District Attorney Eliot Spitzer uncovered evidence that executives at Sony BMG music labels had made deals with several large commercial radio chains. In July 2005, the company acknowledged their improper promotional practices and agreed to pay a $10 million fine.\n\nA different form of payola has been used by the record industry through the loophole of being able to pay a third party or independent record promoters (\"indies\"; not to be confused with independent record labels), who will then go and \"promote\" those songs to radio stations. Offering the radio stations \"promotion payments\", the independents get the songs that their clients, record companies, want on the playlists of radio stations around the country.\n\nThis newer type of payola was an attempt to sidestep FCC regulations. Since the independent intermediaries were the ones actually paying the stations, it was thought that their inducements did not fall under the \"payola\" rules, so a radio station need not report them as paid promotions.\n\nFormer New York State Attorney General Eliot Spitzer prosecuted payola-related crimes in his jurisdiction. His office settled out of court with Sony BMG Music Entertainment in July 2005, Warner Music Group in November 2005 and Universal Music Group in May 2006. The three conglomerates agreed to pay $10 million, $5 million, and $12 million respectively to New York State non-profit organizations that will fund music education and appreciation programs. EMI remains under investigation.\n\nConcern about contemporary forms of payola prompted an investigation during which the FCC established firmly that the \"loophole\" was still a violation of the law. In 2007, four companies (CBS Radio, Citadel, Clear Channel, and Entercom) settled on paying $12.5 million in fines and accepting tougher restrictions than the legal requirements for three years, although no company admitted any wrongdoing. Because of the increased legal scrutiny, some larger radio companies (including industry giant Clear Channel) now flatly refuse to have any contact with independent promoters.\n\nClear Channel Radio through iHeartRadio launched a program called \"On the Verge\" that required the stations to play a given song at least 150 times in order to give a new artist exposure. Brand managers at the top of the Clear Channel chain, after listening to hundreds of songs and filtering them down to about five or six favorites from various formats, send those selections to program directors across the country. These program directors vote on which ones they think radio listeners will like the most. One of the songs that benefited with the exposure was Iggy Azalea's \"Fancy\". Tinashe's \"2 On\", Anthony Lewis' \"Candy Rain\", and Jhené Aiko's \"The Worst\", among others, have been featured on the program, however, those failed to duplicate Azalea's chart hit. Tom Poleman, president of national programming platforms for the company, stated that the acts selected are based solely on the quality of their music and not on label pressure.\n\nOn Spotify, labels can pay for tracks to appear in user play-lists as \"Sponsored Songs\". It is possible to opt out of it using a setting.\n\nIn Mexico, South America and some regions of the U.S. southern border, it is common to hear the sudden appearance of \"new artists\", mainly in folk radio stations, who are not known in the music industry, have no previous career and with no explanation of where they come from. These music groups and singers start to appear consistently on radio, television and public broadcasts with a strong promotion of their concerts. This happens for a fixed amount of time, and in the same sudden way they appear, they stop their promotion and disappear from the music scene, or change their stage name. Such artists are commonly manufactured by producers of dubious origin, who pay payola and do events in order to launder money from drug trafficking, prostitution or other illegal operations.\n\nThe Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the Communications Act of 1934 both have strict requirements and rules regarding the issue of payola. Both the FCC and the Act demand that \"employees of broadcast stations, program producers, program suppliers and others who, in exchange for airing material, have accepted or agreed to receive payments, services or other valuable consideration must disclose this fact. Disclosure of compensation provides broadcasters the information they need to let their audiences know if material was paid for, and by whom.\" But even with these requirements in place, big-time record companies have found loopholes to continue the practice legally.\n\nThe reason why record companies have managed to find relatively big loopholes in an otherwise complex and strict document is because of the wording. According to the current regulations in place, it is still considered legal to pay to play a particular song on the radio. The only hitch is that the broadcaster has to reveal who paid. In addition, the disclosures must be from DJ to station manager to program director and upwards. The loose wording has created a loophole that makes it easier for wealthy record company officials to pay the DJs large sums of money to play certain songs a certain number of times at a given time during the day. The loophole has created a \"grey market, one in which shady, quasi-legal deals take place, and independent artists lose out more often than not.\"\n\nThe loophole has made it sure that independent artists will be isolated from mainstream media. And a current example of this is the lengths Macklemore and Ryan Lewis went to get their music heard. Because Lewis and Macklemore belonged to an independent label, they feared payola laws would interfere with their airtime. So they “hired an independent arm of Warner Music Group, the Alternative Distribution Alliance, which helps independent acts get their stuff on radio. Zach Quillen, manager of Macklemore and Ryan Lewis, discussed how \"they paid the alliance a flat monthly fee to help promote the album.\"\n\nOne side effect of the vagueness of the law and the creation of the loophole is the expansion of the concept at the hands of online music sharing websites. In 2009, the website Jango created a plan to do payola legally by saying they have been paid to play the songs. \"For as little as $30, a band can buy 1,000 plays on the music-streaming service, slotted in between established artists The artists themselves choose what other music they'd like to be played next to.\"\n\nAnother side effect with payola is that it is not just limited to the music industry anymore. The TV industry has engaged in a form of payola with interviews. Networks deny paying for interviews, but are willing to pay large sums of money in cases that garner a lot of attention. An example is the Casey Anthony case in 2011. It was reported that ABC News paid Anthony around $200,000 for personal photographs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25330949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25330949", "title": "Pecong", "text": "Pecong\n\nAccording to playwright Steve Carter, who wrote an award-winning play of the same name, a pecong is a \"verbal battle of insults hurled in rhymed verse.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "45437338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45437338", "title": "Pertti Kurikan Nimipäivät", "text": "Pertti Kurikan Nimipäivät\n\nPertti Kurikan Nimipäivät (PKN, ) were a Finnish punk rock band, formed in 2009 in a charity workshop for adults with developmental disabilities. They are the main focus of the Finnish documentary film \"The Punk Syndrome\". In 2015, they qualified for the finals of Uuden Musiikin Kilpailu, which they later won; they represented Finland in the Eurovision Song Contest 2015 but got knocked out in the semi-final. The band disbanded in December 2016 when guitarist Pertti Kurikka turned 60 years old and retired from playing punk rock.\n\nPertti Kurikan Nimipäivät began in a workshop run by Lyhty, a charity for adults with developmental disabilities. In 2004, Pertti Kurikka, the future guitarist of the band, met organizer Kalle Pajamaa of Lyhty. Pajamaa, who remains manager of the band today, noticed Kurikka's potential and sought to establish a band based upon him. They worked on the band's formation over the next five years, and in 2009 the band made its debut.\n\nIn 2009, Finnish director Pekka Karjalainen sought music performed by people with disabilities for the film \"Vähän kunnioitusta\", which tells the story of a young girl with a learning disability aspiring to live an independent and normal life. Pertti Kurikan Nimipäivät is featured in the film with their first-ever demo: \"Kallioon!\". The song became a hit, and the band soon discovered that they had a following outside the circle of disabled people.\n\nIn 2012, their fame grew as they were the main subject of \"The Punk Syndrome\", a Finnish documentary film. The documentary, depicting the band's story from its outset to their first European tour, earned them a following in Scandinavia and Germany.\n\nIn 2014, the band performed in a charity concert with Mr. Lordi of the Finnish rock band, Lordi. The charity concert was held in Rovaniemi on 23 May 2014 for benefit of the mentally-disabled community of Mozambique and the Lapland Metkat Association. Pertti Kurikan Nimipäivät's bold and unusual take on Eurovision has been compared to that of Lordi, Finland's 2006 Eurovision entry and the winner of that year's contest.\n\nThe band entered Uuden Musiikin Kilpailu, Finland's national selection for Eurovision Song Contest 2015 with the song \"Aina mun pitää\". They entered the contest in order to raise awareness for people with Down's Syndrome. On 7 February 2015, the band was one of the three acts from the first-semi finals to advance to the finals. On 28 February 2015, the band won Uuden Musiikin Kilpailu 2015, thereby becoming Finland's representative for the Eurovision Song Contest in Vienna, Austria in May 2015. PKN was the first punk band to compete in Eurovision.\n\nPKN's Eurovision bid was noticed by the international media and covered, for instance, by the BBC, \"The Guardian\", VICE and the Associated Press.\n\nPosti issued a PKN stamp on 11 May 2015, eight days before the first Eurovision semi-final in Vienna.\n\nThe band has four members: guitarist Pertti Kurikka, vocalist Kari Aalto, bassist Sami Helle and Toni Välitalo on drums.\n\nPertti Kurikka (born 26. December 1956 in Vihti) is the band's guitarist. He writes the music for the band and also some of the lyrics. He has released a spoken word cassette and a book of horror stories under the pseudonym Kalevi Helvetti. He also edits a zine called \"Kotipäivä\" (\"Home Day\").\n\nKurikka has been listening to punk for 30 years, but also listens to many other music genres ranging from classical to schlager and disco to children's music. He visits church regularly and plans to retire and stop playing music when he turns 60. He can also play the street organ.\n\nKari Aalto (born 25. May 1976 in Tampere) is the singer of the band and also writes most of their lyrics. He is a school friend of Kurikka. He has his own talk show on Finnish local radio station Bassoradio. He can play drums, bass and keyboards. He loves motorcycles, American cars, women and alcohol. He listens to 1950s and 1960s rock, psychobilly, rockabilly, surf, doowop and also rap, heavy metal and folk. He does not listen to punk in his spare time, as nowadays it is his profession.\n\nSami Helle (born 1973) plays bass in the band and also sings background vocals. As a child he lived in Boston, New York City, Paris and Antibes, so he can speak fluent English. He is politically active as a member of the Finnish Central Party and also as activist of \"Me itse\", an organization of disabled people. He wishes to become a municipal councillor of Helsinki and later a member of the parliament.\n\nToni Välitalo (born 1982 or 1983) is the drummer and also the youngest member of the band. He started playing drums at the age of six. In addition to punk, he plays other genres such as jenkka, blues and mazurka. His favourite music is Finnish schlager.\n\nDisability director Kalle Pajamaa (born 1979) is the band's concert manager and arranges the songs for the band. He is affectionately called the fifth member of the band.\n\n"}
{"id": "8676811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8676811", "title": "Poshlost", "text": "Poshlost\n\nPoshlost or Poshlost' () is a Russian word for a particular negative human character trait or man-made thing or idea. It has been cited as an example of an untranslatable word, as there is no single exact English equivalent. It carries much cultural baggage in Russia and has been discussed at length by various writers.\n\nIt is derived from the adjective \nпошлый.\n\nIt has been defined as \"petty evil or self-satisfied vulgarity\", while Svetlana Boym defines it briefly as \"obscenity and bad taste\".\n\nBoym goes on to describe it at more length:\nEarly examinations of \"poshlost\" in literature are in the work of Nikolai Gogol. Gogol wrote (of Pushkin),\nIn his novels, Turgenev \"tried to develop a heroic figure who could, with the verve and abandon of a Don Quixote, grapple with the problems of Russian society, who could once and for all overcome 'poshlost’, the complacent mediocrity and moral degeneration of his environment\". Dostoyevsky applied the word to the Devil; Solzhenitsyn, to Western-influenced young people.\n\nD. S. Mirsky was an early user of the word in English in writing about Gogol; he defined it as \"'self-satisfied inferiority,' moral and spiritual\". Vladimir Nabokov made it more widely known in his book on Gogol, where he romanized it as \"poshlust\" (punningly: \"posh\" + \"lust\"). Poshlust, Nabokov explained, \"is not only the obviously trashy but mainly the falsely important, the falsely beautiful, the falsely clever, the falsely attractive. A list of literary characters personifying \"poshlust\" will include... Polonius and the royal pair in \"Hamlet\", Rodolphe and Homais from \"Madame Bovary\", Laevsky in Chekhov's 'The Duel', Joyce's Marion [Molly] Bloom, young Bloch in \"Search of Lost Time\", Maupassant's 'Bel Ami', Anna Karenina's husband, and Berg in \"War and Peace\"\". also listed\nAzar Nafisi mentions it and quotes the \"falsely\" definition in \"Reading Lolita in Tehran\".\n\nNabokov often targeted \"poshlost\" in his own work; the Alexandrov definition above refers to the character of M'sieur Pierre in \"Invitation to a Beheading\".\n\nAnother notable literary treatment is Fyodor Sologub's novel \"The Petty Demon\". It tells the story of a provincial schoolteacher, Peredonov, notable for his complete lack of redeeming human qualities. James H. Billington said of it:\nRichard Taruskin summarized poshlost as \"highfalutin bad taste,\" applying the term to a performance of the Cantata for the 20th Anniversary of the October Revolution (Prokofiev).\n\n"}
{"id": "16761905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16761905", "title": "Prešeren Award", "text": "Prešeren Award\n\nThe Prešeren Award (), also called the Grand Prešeren Award (), is the highest decoration in the field of artistic and in the past also scientific creation in Slovenia. It is awarded each year by the Prešeren Fund () to two eminent Slovene artists, with the provision that their work was presented to the public at least two years ago. In general, it may be given to an artist only once, and can also be given to a group of artists. It is given on the eve of the Prešeren Day, the Slovenian cultural holiday celebrated on the anniversary of the death of France Prešeren, the Slovene national poet. On the same occasion, the Prešeren Fund Awards () or Small Prešeren Awards () are given to up to six artists. The awardees also receive a financial award, with the Prešeren Award three times as high as the Prešeren Fund Award. In recent years, the awards have been increasingly given for lifetime work.\n\nThe Prešeren Award was for the first time bestowed in 1947, on the basis of a decree from 1946. It was originally given on 8 February, Prešeren Day, the holiday commemorating the anniversary of the death of the Slovene national poet France Prešeren. In 1955, the first act on the Prešeren awards was passed. By it, the award gained its current name and the Prešeren Fund was established, which by the amendments of the act in 1956 became a legal personality. Since 1961, the awards were conferred also for the lifetime work. In addition, the Prešeren Fund Award was introduced. Since that year, these awards have been conferred only for exceptional achievements in the field of arts. In 1982, the Prešeren Fund came under the auspice of the Cultural Community of Slovenia. At most three Prešeren Awards and ten Prešeren Fund Awards were given. Since 1991, when the \"Prešeren Award Act\" () was passed, the Fund works under the auspice of the Slovenian administrative body in charge of culture. According to the act, at most two awards may be given.\n\nThe Prešeren Award and the Prešeren Fund Award are bestowed by the Prešeren Fund Management Board (). Its 15 members are artists or other cultural workers, like critics, historians, and theoreticians. They are nominated by the Slovenian Government and elected for a four-year term by the National Assembly of Slovenia. The board, which was last elected in May 2008, elected Jaroslav Skrušny as its chair in July 2008. The Prešeren Fund now operates under the auspice of the Slovenian Ministry of Culture. In an interview in February 2012, Skrušny described the work by the Board as independent and denied any political pressure in the past few years.\n\nOn 10 February, the Prešeren Fund announces a public tender, which lasts until 15 September. Any physical or legal person may nominate authors for the award, but have to provide appropriate rationale and references. About 100 proposals are put forward each year, the majority of proposals from the performing arts. The selection is based on artistic value of the works by the proposed artists as well as other criteria, such as the equal representation of gender, regions, generations, and world views, trying to achieve a balanced and plural choice. Both the established artists and debitants have won the award. The nominees are then selected by the four field committees of the Prešeren Fund, each comprising seven members named by the Prešeren Fund Management Board. Each committee proposes two names for the Prešeren Award and six names for the Prešeren Fund Award, altogether eight for the great award and 24 for the little award. The board then makes the final selection with a secret vote in November after a long discussion and proclaims the awardees after they are elected by two thirds of members. If necessary, more voting rounds may take place. Although in the past, the names of the awardees were announced already on 3 December, the date of the anniversary of Prešeren's births, in the last years they have remained secret until the award ceremony.\n\nSince Slovenian declaration of independence in 1991, the majority of the Prešeren Award winners have been literary artists, among them the only woman being Makarovič, who declined the award in 2000 but accepted the money. From the field of performing arts, only two artists won the award. From the field of music, the awardees have been mainly composers and conductors, with the only instrumentalist being the flautist Irena Grafenauer. A general trend of older men active in institutionalised arts is recognisable among the awardees. The group of the Prešeren Fund Award winners is more diverse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17141740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17141740", "title": "Radio art", "text": "Radio art\n\nRadio art, refers to the use of radio for art.\n\nThe artist who works in radio art is not necessarily a trained DJ, programmer, producer, or engineer, but one who uses sound to make art. The radio medium can be used in ways which are different from what it was intended for. In that sense, the way the message is transmitted and received by an audience is as important as the message itself. \"As an aural art form it reaffirms that it's not just what we say, but the way we say it.\" In Victoria Fenner's words, \"Radio art is art which is specifically composed for the medium of radio and is uniquely suited to be transmitted via the airwaves.\" \n\nArtists use (i.e. radio transmission, airwaves...) to communicate artistic compositions for interpretation – exposing their audience to alternate means to experiencing their art through sound verses visualization. Radio Art contributes to new media art - a digitally driven art movement growing in response to the informative technological revolution we live in. “From the artist's point of view radio is an environment to be entered into and acted upon, a site for various cultural voices to meet, converse, and merge in. These artists cross disciplines, raid all genres and recontextualize them into hybrids.” \n\nRadio art projects can be collaborative including various professional sources, unifying an audio broadcast with science, experimentation, geography, entertainment, etc.\" Some have approached radio as an architectural space to be constructed sonically and linguistically; or as the site of an event, an arena, or stage. Some used it as a gathering place, or a conduit, a means to create community. Other artists have employed the media landscape itself as the narrative, while others looked into the body as the site and the source; the voicebox, the larynx become medium and metaphor.\" \n\nradio documentary, radio drama, soundscape, sound art, electroacoustic music, sound poetry, performance, open source, translation, interviews, audio galleries, soundscape, sound art, electroacoustic music, sound poetry intended for the radio, spoken word, concerts, experimental narratives, sonic geographies, pseudo documentaries, radio cinema, conceptual and multimedia performances intended for the radio.\n\nAn art radio is a radio station that would dedicate every second of its transmission time to radio art. Although this kind of project can seem utopian in the traditional state of radio, there are few lasting experiences in the underground or community side such as London's ResonanceFM which intend to make radio with art and promote the \"art of listening\".\n\nAlso, radio had renewed itself through the Internet. The audio streaming technique had replaced the analogue transmitting system and artists can experiment on radio outside the legal constraints of an FM license for example. \nAmong the webradios which are dedicated to radio art, some broadcast pieces like traditional radios. Some others directly experiment with the medium in the more concrete sense. Radio Astronomy broadcast sounds taken from outer space in real time. Le Poulpe is a networking experimental radio that mix several \"spaces\" processed and streamed through the Internet.\n\n"}
{"id": "21014293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21014293", "title": "Santa Fe Railyard", "text": "Santa Fe Railyard\n\nThe Railyard is a 50-acre arts district in Santa Fe, New Mexico.\nIt contains:\n\n"}
{"id": "6587771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6587771", "title": "Scandinavian design", "text": "Scandinavian design\n\nScandinavian design is a design movement characterized by simplicity, minimalism and functionality that emerged in the early 20th century, and which flourished in the 1950s, in the five Nordic countries of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden.\n\nIn 1914, the Danish \"Selskabet for Dekorativ Kunst\" (Company for Decorative Arts) launched its \"\" (literally \"Graceful Work\") magazine. Its title became the name of a new Danish style of arts and crafts, to rival Art Nouveau and Jugendstil.\n\nFrom the 1930s, designers such as Alvar Aalto (furniture, textiles), Arne Jacobsen (chairs), Borge Mogensen (furniture), Hans J. Wegner (chairs), Verner Panton (plastic chairs), Poul Henningsen (lamps), and Maija Isola (printed textiles) helped to create a \"golden age of Scandinavian design\".\n\nThe Lunning Prize, awarded to outstanding Scandinavian designers between 1951 and 1970, was instrumental in making Scandinavian design a recognized commodity, and in defining its profile.\n\nIn 1954, the Brooklyn Museum held its \"Design in Scandinavia\" exhibition, and a fashion for \"Scandinavian Modern\" furniture began in America. Scandinavian design is by no means limited to furniture and household goods. It has been applied to industrial design, such as of consumer electronics, mobile phones, and cars.\n\nThe concept of Scandinavian design has been the subject of scholarly debate, exhibitions and marketing agendas since the 1950s. Many emphasize the democratic design ideals that were a central theme of the movement and are reflected in the rhetoric surrounding contemporary Scandinavian and international design. Others, however, have analyzed the reception of Scandinavian design abroad, seeing in it a form of myth-making and racial politics.\n\nDanish Design is a style of functionalistic design and architecture that was developed in mid-20th century. Influenced by the German Bauhaus school, many Danish designers used the new industrial technologies, combined with ideas of simplicity and functionalism to design buildings, furniture and household objects, many of which have become iconic and are still in use and production, such as Arne Jacobsen's 1958 Egg chair and Poul Henningsen's 1926 PH-lamps. After the Second World War, conditions in Denmark were ideally suited to success in design. The emphasis was on furniture but architecture, silver, ceramics, glass and textiles also benefitted from the trend. Denmark's late industrialisation combined with a tradition of high-quality craftsmanship formed the basis of gradual progress towards industrial production.\nFinnish design spans clothing, engineering design, furniture, glass, lighting, textiles, and household products. The \"Design from Finland\" mark was created in 2011. Finland's Design Museum (formerly called the Museum of Art and Design) has a collection founded in 1873, while Helsinki's University of Art and Design, established in 1871, now forms part of Aalto University.\n\nProminent Finnish designers include Alvar Aalto (vases, furniture), Aino Aalto (glassware), Kaj Frank (glass, tableware), Klaus Haapaniemi (fabric prints), Simo Heikkilä (furniture), Kristina Isola (textiles), Maija Isola (Marimekko prints), Harri Koskinen (glass, homeware), Mika Piirainen (clothing, accessories), Timo Sarpaneva (glass, homeware), Oiva Toikka (glass art), Tapio Wirkkala (glass art, glassware), Eero Aarnio (plastic furniture), Sanna Annukka (screenprints), Anu Penttinen (glass), Aino-Maija Metsola (textiles, homeware), and Maija Louekari (tableware, homeware).\n\nDesign in Iceland is a relatively young tradition, starting in the 1950s but now growing rapidly. The country's limited options for manufacturing and its constrained choice of materials have both forced designers to be innovative, though wool remains a staple material, whether felted or knitted. Iceland's Museum of Design and Applied Art, aiming to record Icelandic design from 1900 onwards, opened in 1998. The Iceland Academy of the Arts was also founded in 1998, soon followed by its Faculty of Architecture and Design, which has promoted a distinctively Icelandic character in the nation's design.\nNorwegian design has a strong minimalist aesthetic. Designed items include lamps and furniture. Qualities emphasised include durability, beauty, functionality, simplicity, and natural forms.\n\nThe Norwegian Centre for Design and Architecture, \"DogA\", is housed in a former transformer station in Oslo. Norway holds an annual design exhibition called \"100% Norway\" at the London Design Fair.\n\nProminent Norwegian designers include Hans Brattrud (\"Scandia Jr.\", \"Grorudstolen\", the table \"Fagott\", and the armchair \"Comet\"), Sven Ivar Dysthe (armchair \"1001\" from 1960, and the chair \"Laminette\" from 1964), Olav Eldøy (chair Peel, the chair Date & the chair Eight), Olav Haug, Fredrik A. Kayser (Chair “711”) and Ingmar Relling (Orbit and Siesta).\n\nSwedish design is considered minimalist, with an emphasis on functionality and simple clean lines. This has applied especially to furniture. Sweden is known for traditional crafts including glass and Sami handicrafts. Swedish design was pioneered by Anders Beckman (graphics), Bruno Mathsson (furniture), Märta Måås-Fjetterström and Astrid Sampe (textile), and Sixten Sason (industrial). Organisations that promote design in Sweden are Svensk Form, the Swedish society of crafts and design, founded in 1845; the Swedish Industrial Design Foundation, known as SVID; the Swedish Arts Council; and the Swedish Centre for Architecture and Design (known as ArkDes) on the island of Skeppsholmen in Stockholm, beside the modern art museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "182607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=182607", "title": "Site-specific art", "text": "Site-specific art\n\nSite-specific art is artwork created to exist in a certain place. Typically, the artist takes the location into account while planning and creating the artwork. Site-specific art is produced both by commercial artists, and independently, and can include some instances of work such as sculpture, stencil graffiti, rock balancing, and other art forms. Installations can be in urban areas, remote natural settings, or underwater.\n\nThe term \"site-specific art\" was promoted and refined by Californian artist Robert Irwin but it was actually first used in the mid-1970s by young sculptors, such as Patricia Johanson, Dennis Oppenheim, and Athena Tacha, who had started executing public commissions for large urban sites. For \"Two Jumps for Dead Dog Creek\" (1970), Oppenheim attempted a series of standing jumps at a selected site in Idaho, where \"the width of the creek became a specific goal to which I geared a bodily activity,\" with his two successful jumps being \"dictated by a land form.\" Site specific environmental art was first described as a movement by architectural critic Catherine Howett and art critic Lucy Lippard. Emerging out of minimalism, site-specific art opposed the Modernist program of subtracting from the artwork all cues that interfere with the fact that it is \"art\",\n\nModernist art objects were transportable, nomadic, could only exist in the museum space and were the objects of the market and commodification. Since 1960 the artists were trying to find a way out of this situation, and thus drew attention to the site and the context around this site. The work of art was created in the site and could only exist and in such circumstances - it can not be moved or changed. Site is a current location, which comprises a unique combination of physical elements: depth, length, weight, height, shape, walls, temperature. Works of art began to emerge from the walls of the museum and galleries (Daniel Buren, Within and Beyond the Frame, John Weber Gallery, New York, 1973), were created specifically for the museum and galleries (Michael Asher, untitled installation at Claire Copley Gallery, Los Angeles, 1974, Hans Haacke, Condensation Cube, 1963–65, Mierle Laderman Ukeles, Hartford Wash: Washing Tracks, Maintenance Outside, Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford, 1973), thus criticizing the museum as an institution that sets the rules for artists and viewers.\n\nJean-Max Albert, created Sculptures Bachelard in Parc de la Villette related to the site, or \"Carlotta’s Smile\", a trellis construction related to Ar. Co,’s architecture Lisbon, and to a choreography in collaboration with Michala Marcus and Carlos Zingaro, 1979.\n\nWhen the public debate over \"Tilted Arc\" (1981) resulted in its removal in 1989, its author Richard Serra reacted with what can be considered a definition of site-specific art: \"To move the work is to destroy the work.\"\n\nOutdoor site-specific artworks often include landscaping combined with permanently sited sculptural elements; it is sometimes linked with environmental art. Outdoor site-specific artworks can also include dance performances created especially for the site. More broadly, the term is sometimes used for any work that is more or less permanently attached to a particular location. In this sense, a building with interesting architecture could also be considered a piece of site-specific art.\n\nIn Geneva, Switzerland, two Contemporary Art Funds of the city have been looking to integrate art into the architecture and the public space since 1980. The Neons Parallax project initiated in 2007 was conceived specifically for the Plaine de Plainpalais, located in the heart of the city. The challenge of the artists invited was to transpose commercial advertising signs of the harbour into artistic messages. The project has received the Swiss Prix Visarte 2017.\n\nSite-specific performance art, site-specific visual art and interventions are commissioned for the annual Infecting the City Festival in Cape Town, South Africa. The site-specific nature of the work allows artists to interrogate the contemporary and historic reality of the Central Business District and create work that allows the city's users to engage and interact with public spaces in new and memorable ways.\n"}
{"id": "5134465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5134465", "title": "Social practice", "text": "Social practice\n\nSocial practice is a theory within psychology that seeks to determine the link between practice and context within social situations. Emphasized as a commitment to change, social practice occurs in two forms: activity and inquiry. Most often applied within the context of human development, social practice involves knowledge production and the theorization and analysis of both institutional and intervention practices.\n\nThrough research, Sylvia Scribner sought to understand and create a decent life for all people regardless of geographical position, race, gender, and social class. Using anthropological field research and psychological experimentation, Scribner tried to dig deeper into human mental functioning and its creation through social practice in different societal and cultural settings. She therefore aimed to enact social reform and community development through an ethical orientation that accounts for the interaction of historical and societal conditions of different institutional settings with human social and mental functioning and development.\n\nSocial practice involves engagement with communities of interest by creating a practitioner-community relationship wherein there remains a focus on the skills, knowledge, and understanding of people in their private, family, community, and working lives. In this approach to social practice, activity is used for social change without the agenda of research. Activity theory suggests the use of a system of participants that work toward an object or goal that brings about some form of change or transformation in the community.\n\nWithin research, social practice aims to integrate the individual with his or her surrounding environment while assessing how context and culture relate to common actions and practices of the individual. Just as social practice is an activity itself, inquiry focuses on how social activity occurs and identifies its main causes and outcomes. It has been argued that research be developed as a specific theory of social practice through which research purposes are defined not by philosophical paradigms but by researchers' commitments to specific forms of social action.\n\nIn education, social practice refers to the use of adult-child interaction for observation in order to propose intentions and gauge the reactions of others. Under social practice, literacy is seen as a key dimension of community regeneration and a part of the wider lifelong learning agenda. In particular, literacy is considered to be an area of instruction for the introduction of social practice through social language and social identity. According to social practice in education, literacy and numeracy are complex capabilities rather than a simple set of basic skills. Furthermore, adult learners are more likely to develop and retain knowledge, skills, and understanding if they see them as relevant to their own problems and challenges. Social practice perspectives focus on local literacies and how literacy practices are affected by settings and groups interacting around print.\n\nAs literature is repeatedly studied in education and critiqued in discourse, many believe that it should be a field of social practice as it evokes emotion and discussion of social interactions and social conditions. Those that believe literature may be construed as a form of social practice believe that literature and society are essentially related to each other. As such, they attempt to define specific sociological practices of literature and share expressions of literature as works comprising text, institution, and individual. Overall, literature becomes a realm of social exchange through fiction, poetry, politics, and history.\n\nSocial practice is also considered a medium for making art. Social practice art came about in response to increasing pressure within art education to work collaboratively through social and participatory formats from artists' desires and art viewers' increasing media sophistication. \"Social practice art\" is a term for artwork that uses social engagement as a primary medium, and is also referred to by a range of different names: socially engaged art, community art, new-genre public art, participatory art, interventionist art, and collaborative art.\n\nArtists working in the medium of social practice develop projects by inviting collaboration with individuals, communities, institutions, or a combination of these, creating participatory art that exists both within and outside of the traditional gallery and museum system. Artists working in social practice art co-create their work with a specific audience or propose critical interventions within existing social systems that inspire debate or catalyze social exchange. Social practice art work focuses on the interaction between the audience, social systems, and the artist through topics such as aesthetics, ethics, collaboration, persona, media strategies, and social activism. The social interaction component inspires, drives, or, in some instances, completes the project. Although projects may incorporate traditional studio media, they are realized in a variety of visual or social forms (depending on variable contexts and participant demographics) such as performance, social activism, or mobilizing communities towards a common goal.\n"}
{"id": "32839108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32839108", "title": "Superficiality", "text": "Superficiality\n\nThe discourses in philosophy regarding social relation. What social psychologists call \"the principle of superficiality versus depth\" has pervaded Western culture since at least the time of Plato.\n\nSocrates sought to convince his debaters to turn from the superficiality of a worldview based on the acceptance of convention to the examined life of philosophy, founded (as Plato at least considered) upon the underlying Ideas. For more than two millennia, there was in the Platonic wake a general valorisation of critical thought over the superficial subjectivity that refused deep analysis. The salon style of the Précieuses might for a time affect superficiality, and play with the possibility of treating serious topics in a light-hearted fashion; but the prevailing western consensus firmly rejected elements such as everyday chatter or the changing vagaries of fashion as superficial distractions from a deeper reality.\n\nBy contrast, Nietzsche opened the modernist era with a self-conscious praise of superficiality: \"What is required is to stop courageously at the surface, the fold, the skin, to adore appearance, to believe in forms, tones, words, in the whole Olympus of appearance! Those Greeks were superficial – \"out of profundity\"!\".\n\nHis (still) preference for superficiality was however over-shadowed for most of the 20th century by modernism's full subscription to the depth/surface model, and to the privileging of the former over the latter. Frederic Jameson has highlighted four main modernist versions of the belief in a \"deeper\" reality - Marxist, psychoanalytic, existential, and semiotic - in each of which reality is understood to be concealed behind an inauthentic surface or façade. Jameson contrast these models sharply with the lack of depth, the ahistoricity, the surface-focus and flatness of the postmodern consciousness, with its new cult of the image and the simulacrum.\n\nIn the last third of the 20th century, Lyotard began challenging the Platonic view of a true meaning hidden behind surface as a \"theatrical\" world-view, insisting instead that sense manifestations had their own reality which necessarily impacted upon the purely verbal order of intelligibility. Similarly, deconstruction has increasingly sought to undo the depth/surface hierarchy, proposing in ironic style that superficiality is as deep as depth. The result has been the call to abandon the idea that behind appearances there is any ultimate truth to be found; and in consequence the growing postmodern replacement of depth by surface, or by multiple surfaces. \n\nThat process of substitution was well under way by the 1990s, when notoriously \"surface was depth\", and in the new millennium has led to a state of what has been called hypervisibility: everything is on view. In this new era of exposure we are all submerged in what the psychoanalyst Michael Parsons has called \"the totalist world where there is a horror of inwardness; everything must be revealed\".\n\nIf postmodernism's proponents welcomed the way a new transcendence of the surface /depth dichotomy allowed a fuller appreciation of the possibilities of the superficial - the surface consciousness of the now, as opposed to the depths of historical time - critics like J. G. Ballard object that the end-product is a world of \"laws without penalties, events without significance, a sun without shadows\": of surface without depth. They see postmodern superficiality as a by-product of the false consciousness of global capitalism, where surface distractions, news, and entertainment supersaturate the zapping mind in such a way as to foreclose the possibility of envisioning any critical alternative.\n\nAlmost all depth psychologies defy the postmodern to value depth over surface - to aim, in David Cooper's words, for \"change from the depths of oneself upwards into the \"superficies\" of one's social appearance\". Debates may rage over whether to \"begin\" analysis at the surface or by way of deep interpretations, but this is essentially a question of timing. Thus for example Jungians would highlight at the start of therapy what they call the \"persona-restoring\" phase as an effort to preserve superficiality, but would later optimally see the client moving from the surface to deeper emotion and creativity.\n\nFritz Perls by contrast maintained that \"the simplicity of the Gestalt approach is that we pay attention to the obvious, to the utmost surface. We don't delve into a region which we don't know anything about, into the so-called 'unconscious. A similar focus on the superficial has fuelled much of the Freud Wars of late modernity, in which, according to Jonathan Lear, \"the real object of attack - for which Freud is only a stalking-horse - is the very idea that humans have unconscious motivation\". Given a choice of surface or depth—\"are we to see humans as having depth, layers of meaning which lie beneath the surface of their own understanding?\"—he asks: \"Or are we to take ourselves as transparent to ourselves...to ignore the complexity, depth and darkness of human life\"; the postmodern bias remains towards superficiality.\n\nSocial psychology considers that in everyday life social processing veers between superficiality, where we rely on first impressions and immediate judgements, and a deeper form of processing in which we seek to understand the other person more fully. In the ordinary course of life, we necessarily take others at face-value, and use ideal types/stereotypes to guide our daily activities; while institutions too can rely on the superficial consensus of groupthink to preclude deeper investigation.\n\nSome circumstances however necessitate a shift from superficial to extensive processing. When things become serious, we must put more and deeper thought into understanding, leaving superficial judgements to cases where the stakes are low, not high.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15587594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15587594", "title": "Sustainable art", "text": "Sustainable art\n\nSustainable art is art in harmony with the key principles of sustainability, which include ecology, social justice, non-violence and grassroots democracy.\n\nSustainable art may also be understood as art that is produced with consideration for the wider impact of the work and its reception in relationship to its environments (social, economic, biophysical, historical and cultural).\n\nAccording to the contemporary art historians and curators Maja and Reuben Fowkes, the origins of sustainable art can be traced to the conceptual art of the late 1960s and early 1970s, with its stress on dematerialisation and questioning of the functioning of the art system. They also connect the rise of the concept of sustainability to the ending of the Cold War in 1989 and the emergence of a new awareness of the global character of ecological and social problems. Sustainable art adopts, according to these authors, a critical position towards some key practitioners in the land art movement of the 1960s, who showed little concern for the environmental consequences of e.g. treating the landscape like a giant canvas with a bulldozer for a brush. They have questioned the polemical division between 'autonomous' and 'instrumental' art originating with modernism, arguing that it is 'autonomy that gives art, as well as artists as social actors, the potential to be free and able to offer alternatives to dominant ideological paradigms.'\n\nSince 2005 there is a Sustainable Arts Biennale running at Ihlienworth near Hamburg, Germany, curated by the German conceptional artist and curator Samuel J. Fleiner.\nThere are a range of interpretations over the relations between art and sustainability, besides the term 'sustainable art' promoted by Maja and Reuben Fowkes: Other authors prefer the broader notions of 'sustainability arts' or 'art and sustainability' (e.g. Kagan and Kirchberg). Still others explicitly rejected the use of the term 'sustainable art', referring instead to 'artistic work that inspires us to think about sustainability\" (Margot Käßmann).\n\nProfessional discussion of the relationship of contemporary art to notions of sustainability blossomed across Europe in the early years 2000, with e.g. the conference of the German Society for Political Culture (Instituts für Kulturpolitik der Kulturpolitischen Gesellschaft e.V.), in January 2002 at the Art Academy of Berlin, and the 'Tutzinger Manifest'. An International Symposium on Sustainability and Contemporary Art took place at Central European University, in Budapest (Hungary) in March 2006. This was the first in a series of international symposia organised by Maja and Reuben Fowkes bringing together contemporary artists, philosophers, environmental sciences and acvitists to explore common ground around issues such as 'Exit or Activism' (2008), 'Hard Realities and the New Materiality' (2009) and 'Art, Post-Fordism and Eco-Critique' (2010).. In March–April 2007 at the Leuphana University Lüneburg, the Arts Research Network of the European Sociological Association focused its attention on the recent movements and approaches to 'arts and sustainability' at its biennial conference.\n\nKey texts in the emerging field of sustainable art include 'Kultur - Kunst - Nachhaltigkeit' (2002) by Hildegard Kurt and Bernd Wagner, ‘The Principles of Sustainability in Contemporary Art’ (2006) by Maja and Reuben Fowkes and 'Art and Sustainability' (2011) by Sacha Kagan. A collection of interdisciplinary analyses of the arts and cultures with relationship to sustainability is available in 'Sustainability: a new frontier for the arts and cultures' (2008) edited by Sacha Kagan and Volker Kirchberg.\n\nExhibitions devoted explicitly to \"sustainable art\" include e.g. ‘Beyond Green: Towards a Sustainable Art’ at the Smart Museum in Chicago in November 2005. For an analysis of the conflictual politics of sustainability and the ambiguity of the term sustainability (which oscillates between \"ecological sustainability\" and \"economic sustainable development,\" see TJ Demos, “The Politics of Sustainability: Art and Ecology” (2009). For a recent account of the multi-faceted role of contemporary art in highlighting environmental issues, expressing criticism towards unsustainable factors in society, and offering imaginative solutions for the achievement of sustainability, see Maja and Reuben Fowkes's essay on 'Art and Sustainability' in Enough for All Forever (2012).\n\nModern sustainable artists include artists who are using non-toxic, sustainable materials in their art practices as well as integrating conceptual ideas of sustainability into their work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50613718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50613718", "title": "Tile art", "text": "Tile art\n\nTile art is a small arrangement of tiles, or in some cases a single tile, with a painted pattern or image on top. It is often used as an umbrella term that includes other forms of tile-based art, such as mosaics, micromosaics, and stained glass.\n\nUnlike mosaics, tile art can include larger pieces of tiles that are pre-decorated. While mosaics use pieces of tesserae or another material to construct a pattern from small components, other methods, such as engraving, carving, and molding may be used in tile art. While mosaics are considered a type of tile art, there are many other forms that are also considered tile art.\n\nMany types of art can be considered tile art. Different types of tile art have different features and can be created in different mediums, such as ceramic, porcelain, glass tiles, and other tiled mediums.\n\nListed below are some of the different types of artwork considered tile art:\n\nMany modern tile art designs are based on abstract and pattern-based designs. These are non-representational, unlike than older tile art formats, such as mosaics, which were often portraits or other representational forms of artwork. The design on a piece of tile art may be used as decoration, but may also represent an idea, philosophy or pose a historical, religious or social significance.\n\nAn example of such non-representational art is a set of tiles integrated into an interior or exterior design. The design of the tile art is often based on the theme of the surrounding design. As tiles are built into the surrounding, they can be installed seamlessly integrated into the surrounding area.\n\nModern tile art serves many purposes. The general definition of tile art includes many mediums and many different designs achieved by various techniques and media. For example, tile art may be used to decorate one's home, but must also be practical as a wall or flooring element, as the tiles in an interior design could be replaced by tile art.\n\nTile art can also be used in the garden to compliment the colors in the plants and foliage.\n\nUsing modern printing technology, images can be digitally printed onto a set of tiles or a tile. This can be used in lieu of hanging paintings or using wallpaper.\n\nThe many different types of tile artwork mean that there are many different methods of creating a piece of tile artwork. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "22711940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22711940", "title": "Van Thanh Rudd", "text": "Van Thanh Rudd\n\nVan Thanh Rudd (born 1973) is an award winning and controversial Australian street artist, sculptor, children's book illustrator, former musician and unionist. He has balanced his twenty year artistic career with labouring jobs in hospitality, warehousing and construction. His political views have drifted toward the revolutionary left since the early 2000s, away from the centrist Australian Labor Party, the party of choice for the Rudd side of the family. He knows very little about his mother's Vietnamese side of the family, most of whom still live in Vietnam. A member of Socialist Alternative and electoral party, the Victorian Socialists his artworks contain radical left-wing commentary and positions. He is also a member of construction and maritime union, the CFMMEU and the newly forming Workers Art Collective with visual artists Sam Wallman, Tia Kass, Niki Minus, Mary Leunig, Sam Davis, SlimOne, with more members to join in the near future. He often uses the name Van T Rudd or Van as a signature on his art as a visual mockery of the popular Vans clothing company. He is influenced by the theories of Karl Marx, and many other revolutionary activists and artists who have been struggling against the forces of capitalism. \n\nRudd has been producing art for over twenty years. He was a musician, mostly as a drummer, bass guitarist and keyboardist in bands Cheezlekane (1993 to 2002), Seconds (2001 to 2007) and Granma (2005 to 2006). One of the first protest marches he attended was for Melbourne's public transport workers in 1997 with his younger brother, Rad. Also with his younger brother, he attended the large S11 anti-capitalism protests in 2000 in Melbourne at Crown Casino. In early 2008, preceding the Global Financial Crisis, he joined the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), which merged into Socialist Alternative in 2013, and contested the seat of Lalor in the 2010 federal election against Prime Minister Julia Gillard, generating 0.50% of the vote. Rudd began drawing cartoons at a young age and was largely self-taught. He nearly failed a humanities course in the early 1990s at Griffith University. After several art exhibitions and playing gigs in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne, he eventually went on to study art at the RMIT University and Victorian College of the Arts, where he was elected student union representative with socialists Left Action. He was meant to complete a PhD in fine art at the Victorian College of the Arts but ran out of funding and also became fed up with the post-marxist saturation of theory and practise in art.\n\nRudd was born in Nambour, Queensland, to Vietnam veteran Malcolm Rudd (the brother of Kevin Rudd) and Tuoi, and now resides in Footscray, Melbourne. He has an older brother Dat and younger brother Rad. For many of his younger years, he was involved in numerous creative projects with Rad including film making and acting. As a drummer, Rudd joined a Brisbane-based indie pop-rock band called Cheezlekane in the early 1990s with members Patrick Devery (lead vocals), Cameron Peterson (bass guitar) and Nick Stamford (guitar). They played many pub gigs in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne and gained interest from Geffen Records in 1998 due to their first 4-track produced album called Knee High Fidelity. With musician friends Iain Wilson, Ritchie Giliberto and Mark Buggy, Rudd formed the band Seconds with his brother Rad as lead singer. He also was a keyboardist in a band called Stalis Vetch with Rad. He has a partner and experienced youth worker of Chilean heritage, Tania; daughter, Loyola; and son, Manolo. Rudd says that his deeper, leftist political awakening came after meeting his partner, whose family fled Chile after General Augusto Pinochet deposed the elected socialist Salvador Allende and began violently targeting leftists.Tania was an active member of the radical left DSP and campaigned for refugee rights. They formed a band called Granma in 2005 with Tania on drums and her brothers Ricardo on keyboards, Nicolas on Vocals, Simon on guitar and Rudd on Bass and vocals. Rudd decided to leave music in 2007 to focus more upon his visual art.\n\nIn 2004 Rudd was selected as a finalist in the 2004 Metro Art Competition with a realist-style artwork depicting a combined version of paintings by Albert Tucker and Jeffery Smart .\n\nIn 2004, as Rudd's paintings became more politicized, he decided that exhibiting his large paintings inside galleries wasn't going to reach large audiences, so he began carrying them in public. He was to call this The Carriers Project. He entered the project in various festivals based in Melbourne including Fringe and later the Big West Festival, and it later culminated in a national tour of Australia through kultour. Some of his paintings depicting 'exploding terrorists' created unease with authorities in Brisbane and Perth. He claims he was adding valuable commentary about the anti-terror laws in Australia. It was a coincidence that, in 2007, while Rudd was in Perth completing his national tour, that his uncle Kevin Rudd was elected Prime Minister of Australia. \n\nIn 2006, Rudd created an artwork called 'Portrait of an Exploding Terrorist'. It was a combined painting and billboard piece in one. He carried the painting around the streets of Melbourne, while exhibiting a large piece on the public billboard at Trocadero Art Space, Footscray.It wasn't long before the local council demanded the billboard piece be removed, claiming it constituted litter. Gallery director Michael Brennan and Rudd were forced to remove the piece to avoid paying a large fine. The piece was critical of the State of Israel and argued that it inflicted terror upon the Palestinian people. \n\nIn 2007 Rudd created an artwork depicting a large mural on a gallery wall at Trocadero Art Space in Footscray with signatories of Australians who supported a visit to the country by Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez. It was titled \"Smells Like Sulphur: A Tribute to Venezuela and the Art of Telling Bush to Piss Off\", referencing Chavez' UN General Assembly speech the previous year, when he called former US President George W. Bush \"the devil\".\n\nIn 2007, Rudd submitted an oil painting titled '100 000 to 400 000' to the Sunshine Coast Art Prize. The painting was awarded a second prize and artist Tony Albert won the main prize. The local media tried to whip up controversy around Rudd's painting because it showed a U.S flag burning. \n\nIn 2008 the City of Melbourne rejected a painting by Rudd depicting Ronald McDonald setting fire to Thích Quảng Đức with the Olympic torch. According to Rudd, the artwork was a homage to British street artist Banksy and a comment on human rights abuses in the run-up to the 2008 Olympic Games. Rudd accused the City of Melbourne of political censorship which they denied, claiming he was solely picked to feature in the Ho Chi Minh City exhibition for his Vietnamese heritage.\n\nIn 2009 Rudd made an artwork critical of Connex's parent company Veolia Environnement's light rail contract which is to link Israeli settlements in the West Bank with Jerusalem. The artwork was displayed at Platform Artists Group's public gallery, adjacent to Flinders Street Station, a major train station in Melbourne. Connex threatened Rudd with legal action over his use of a similar font and colour-scheme to the company's logo and the Anti-Defamation League accused the gallery of racism. The Electronic Intifada claimed that Rudd's artwork was a boost to the campaign against Connex and Veolia – a part of the general Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign against Israel – whose contract to run Melbourne trains expired in November 2009.\n\nIN 2009 Rudd exhibited in Melbourne a used part from an Afghan civilian car, purportedly destroyed by an International Security Assistance Force missile in Southern Afghanistan. It accompanied a price tag of $1.2 billion. Rudd estimated the value based on what he believed was \"the astronomical price paid by victims of war\". He broke down the multi-trillion dollar US war budget for the Middle East since 2001 and included other variables such as the cost of wounded civilians and soldiers.\n\nIn 2009, Rudd was again selected as a finalist in the Sunshine Coast Art Prize for the collage called 'Freedom Furniture' which was critical of the U.S.A's Operation Enduring Freedom by contrasting an image of a U.S marine placing a wounded child of Afghanistan into the sofa of a luxury home in a western lounge room setting from a home wares catalogue. \n\nOn Australia Day 2010, Rudd and RSP member, Sam King, dressed in Ku Klux Klan outfits with the signs \"Racism – Made in Australia\" in front of the outfits, outside the Rod Laver Arena during the Australian Open to protest the refusal of the Victorian Government to treat the attacks on Indians in Victoria as racially motivated and also the federal government's policies towards asylum seekers. Rudd and King were arrested within 10 minutes and charged with inciting a riot. Rudd also told the Indian weekly newsmagazine \"Outlook\" that the \"dominant culture in Australia is a racist culture.\"\n\nIn a 2010 interview on 3AW, Kevin Rudd expressed to Neil Mitchell that he was not a fan of his nephew's political views but supported the notion of free speech in Australia, adding, \"[you] can choose your friends but...\". According to a member of the RSP, the PM and his nephew are not in regular contact. In a later 2010 Fairfax radio interview, on the same subject Kevin Rudd stated: \"Do I agree in any way with what he's done? No I don't, absolutely.\" Rudd was the subject of an episode of ABC program \"Australian Story\", broadcast in August 2010, which reported his uncle had been invited to appear, but declined.\n\nRudd contested the seat of Lalor for the House of Representatives in the 2010 federal election against Labor Prime Minister Julia Gillard for the unregistered RSP. This signals the RSP's failure to generate the 500-member minimum required by the Victorian Electoral Commission to register as an official political party. He garnered a total of 516 votes, scoring 0.50% of the overall vote, with a +0.50% swing. This placed him as the second least preferred candidate, ahead of regional tourism developer, Marc Aussie-Stone, compared to Gillard as first preference, who garnered 66,060 votes, scoring 64.26% of the overall vote, with a +4.37% swing. The artist claimed on an ABC radio interview his reason for running in the election was that the appointment of Gillard as PM marked \"a more conservative path for Labor\" and that she was \"influenced by the mining magnates... [and] the conservative unions\".\n\nIn 2011, Rudd was asked to submit an artwork for an art exhibition as part of the 2011 Human Rights Arts and Film Festival. He submitted a large canvas that was a celebration of the Arab Spring (2011) on one side, and also a contribution to the BDS campaign on the other. The Arab Spring side showed a cartoon-like body exploding with the words 'I'm not a terrorist, I'm just exploding with joy', and the BDS side showed in cartoon style, pop icon Justine Bieber spray painting graffiti on Israel's separation wall. The graffiti depicted Max Brenner Chocolates as Bieber announced that he wished he didn't play in Israel because he would be complicit in Israel's occupation of Palestine. Max Brenner was targeted by BDS campaigners for its complicity in Israel's occupation of Palestine at around the same period of this art exhibition at No Vacancy Gallery, QV Shopping Centre, Melbourne. But Rudd's artwork was censored before it got installed in the gallery. Rudd claimed the gallery directors confronted him in the gallery saying the artwork was violent. Rudd also took part in the anti-Max Brenner protests in the QV building but avoided being arrested. Several other protesters were arrested but later freed from charges in a landmark victory.\n\nOne of Rudd's more obscure, mysterious, yet incisive art projects is called the #RichForks. It made news at various outlets around the world. It began over fifteen years ago when Rudd began collecting luxury dinner forks that had just been used by the political and business elites of the world. As a waiter, he was able to get access to the soiled forks and is alleged to have made networks with other hospitality workers internationally in order to appropriate forks from some of the richest people on earth. Rudd claims the whole project is commentary on the massive class divide between struggling workers and wealthy capitalists. There has only been two exhibitions of the #RichForks - one in Footscray and one in Newcastle, Australia. It is not known whether Rudd will continue with this project into the near future.\n\nIn 2016, fifty-five Carlton & United Breweries maintenance workers in Abbottsford, Victoria, were sacked then re-employed on individual contracts with an overall 65% wage cut. When one of the organisers from the Electrical Trades Union made a call-out on social media for a street artist to paint a mural on a shipping container. Rudd jumped at the chance and painted an iconic murals at the site of their nine month protest. One of the murals, painted on the side of a shipping container, shows a large unionist's arm pulling aside the shipping container wall revealing the CUB boss stealing bags of money. Another shipping container at the Abbottsford site depicted horses appropriated from the CUB logo, only this time they were dying of thirst in drought conditions (i.e. Carlton Drought).The protest and boycott by the unionists and workers eventually achieved an important victory. After the #CUB55 protests, the murals were transported to the CFMMEU training centre in Port Melbourne. It wasn't long before they were used again, and transported to the striking workers at the Longford Gas Plant, Gippsland. Similar to the CUB55, about 200 workers were threatened with the sack if they didn't sign up to a different contract on significantly lower wages and conditions. Rudd also created a new mural for the protest site which showed an Exxon boss atop a gas platform, sinking workers deeper into the water while smoking a cigar from the gas flare. Rudd has since created a series of murals for the car park of the Electrical Trades Union office in North Melbourne with fellow artist and radical left unionist Azlan McLennan. In 2017, he also created a large mural commemorating the CUB55 victory in the car park at Victorian Trades Hall. In early 2018, Rudd created a mural for the striking waterside workers at Cube\n\n\n"}
{"id": "248309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248309", "title": "Visionary art", "text": "Visionary art\n\nVisionary art is art that purports to transcend the physical world and portray a wider vision of awareness including spiritual or mystical themes, or is based in such experiences.\n\nThe Vienna School of Fantastic Realism, first established in 1946, is considered to be an important technical and philosophical catalyst in its strong influence upon contemporary visionary art. Its artists included Ernst Fuchs, Rudolf Hausner and Arik Brauer among others. Several artists who would later work in visionary art trained under Fuchs, including Mati Klarwein, Robert Venosa, Philip Rubinov Jacobson and De Es Schwertberger.\n\nVisionary art often carries themes of spiritual, mystical or inner awareness. Despite this broad definition, there does seem to be emerging some definition to what constitutes the contemporary visionary art 'scene' and which artists can be considered especially influential. Symbolism, Cubism, Surrealism and Psychedelic art are also direct precursors to contemporary visionary art. Notable visionary artists count Hilma af Klint, Hieronymous Bosch, William Blake, Morris Graves (of the Pacific Northwest School of Visionary Art), Emil Bisttram, and Gustave Moreau amongst their antecedents.\n\nThe Vienna School of Fantastic Realism, which includes Ernst Fuchs and Arik Brauer, is also a strong influence on visionary culture. It may also be considered the European version, with the names being interchangeable.\n\nThe Society for the Art of Imagination, founded by Brigid Marlin serves as an important portal for visionary art events. More recently, a new wave of visionary artists collaborate to function as modern cooperatives involved in self-publishing and promotion of visionary artists through the internet and via festivals such as Burning Man and Boom Festival, and exhibition/ritual spaces such as Temple of Visions, Tribe 13, Psychedelic Dream Temple, Synergenesis and the Interdimensional Art Movement.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33734529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33734529", "title": "Visual arts", "text": "Visual arts\n\nThe visual arts are art forms such as ceramics, drawing, painting, sculpture, printmaking, design, crafts, photography, video, filmmaking, and architecture. Many artistic disciplines (performing arts, conceptual art, textile arts) involve aspects of the visual arts as well as arts of other types. Also included within the visual arts are the applied arts such as industrial design, graphic design, fashion design, interior design and decorative art.\n\nCurrent usage of the term \"visual arts\" includes fine art as well as the applied, decorative arts and crafts, but this was not always the case. Before the Arts and Crafts Movement in Britain and elsewhere at the turn of the 20th century, the term 'artist' was often restricted to a person working in the fine arts (such as painting, sculpture, or printmaking) and not the handicraft, craft, or applied art media. The distinction was emphasized by artists of the Arts and Crafts Movement, who valued vernacular art forms as much as high forms. Art schools made a distinction between the fine arts and the crafts, maintaining that a craftsperson could not be considered a practitioner of the arts.\n\nThe increasing tendency to privilege painting, and to a lesser degree sculpture, above other arts has been a feature of Western art as well as East Asian art. In both regions painting has been seen as relying to the highest degree on the imagination of the artist, and the furthest removed from manual labour – in Chinese painting the most highly valued styles were those of \"scholar-painting\", at least in theory practiced by gentleman amateurs. The Western hierarchy of genres reflected similar attitudes.\n\nTraining in the visual arts has generally been through variations of the apprentice and workshop systems. In Europe the Renaissance movement to increase the prestige of the artist led to the academy system for training artists, and today most of the people who are pursuing a career in arts train in art schools at tertiary levels. Visual arts have now become an elective subject in most education systems.\n\nDrawing is a means of making an image, using any of a wide variety of tools and techniques. It generally involves making marks on a surface by applying pressure from a tool, or moving a tool across a surface using dry media such as graphite pencils, pen and ink, inked brushes, wax color pencils, crayons, charcoals, pastels, and markers. Digital tools that simulate the effects of these are also used. The main techniques used in drawing are: line drawing, hatching, crosshatching, random hatching, scribbling, stippling, and blending. An artist who excels in drawing is referred to as a \"draftsman\" or \"draughtsman\".\n\nDrawing goes back at least 16,000 years to Paleolithic cave representations of animals such as those at Lascaux in France and Altamira in Spain. In ancient Egypt, ink drawings on papyrus, often depicting people, were used as models for painting or sculpture. Drawings on Greek vases, initially geometric, later developed to the human form with black-figure pottery during the 7th century BC.\n\nWith paper becoming common in Europe by the 15th century, drawing was adopted by masters such as Sandro Botticelli, Raphael, Michelangelo, and Leonardo da Vinci who sometimes treated drawing as an art in its own right rather than a preparatory stage for painting or sculpture.\n\nPainting taken literally is the practice of applying pigment suspended in a carrier (or medium) and a binding agent (a glue) to a surface (support) such as paper, canvas or a wall. However, when used in an artistic sense it means the use of this activity in combination with drawing, composition, or other aesthetic considerations in order to manifest the expressive and conceptual intention of the practitioner. Painting is also used to express spiritual motifs and ideas; sites of this kind of painting range from artwork depicting mythological figures on pottery to The Sistine Chapel to the human body itself.\n\nLike drawing, painting has its documented origins in caves and on rock faces. The finest examples, believed by some to be 32,000 years old, are in the Chauvet and Lascaux caves in southern France. In shades of red, brown, yellow and black, the paintings on the walls and ceilings are of bison, cattle, horses and deer.\nPaintings of human figures can be found in the tombs of ancient Egypt. In the great temple of Ramses II, Nefertari, his queen, is depicted being led by Isis. The Greeks contributed to painting but much of their work has been lost. One of the best remaining representations are the Hellenistic Fayum mummy portraits. Another example is mosaic of the Battle of Issus at Pompeii, which was probably based on a Greek painting. Greek and Roman art contributed to Byzantine art in the 4th century BC, which initiated a tradition in icon painting.\n\nApart from the illuminated manuscripts produced by monks during the Middle Ages, the next significant contribution to European art was from Italy's renaissance painters. From Giotto in the 13th century to Leonardo da Vinci and Raphael at the beginning of the 16th century, this was the richest period in Italian art as the \"chiaroscuro\" techniques were used to create the illusion of 3-D space.\nPainters in northern Europe too were influenced by the Italian school. Jan van Eyck from Belgium, Pieter Bruegel the Elder from the Netherlands and Hans Holbein the Younger from Germany are among the most successful painters of the times. They used the glazing technique with oils to achieve depth and luminosity.\n\nThe 17th century witnessed the emergence of the great Dutch masters such as the versatile Rembrandt who was especially remembered for his portraits and Bible scenes, and Vermeer who specialized in interior scenes of Dutch life.\n\nThe Baroque started after the Renaissance, from the late 16th century to the late 17th century. Main artists of the Baroque included Caravaggio, who made heavy use of tenebrism. Peter Paul Rubens was a flemish painter who studied in Italy, worked for local churches in Antwerp and also painted a series for Marie de' Medici. Annibale Carracci took influences from the Sistine Chapel and created the genre of illusionistic ceiling painting. Much of the development that happened in the Baroque was because of the Protestant Reformation and the resulting Counter Reformation. Much of what defines the Baroque is dramatic lighting and overall visuals.\n\nImpressionism began in France in the 19th century with a loose association of artists including Claude Monet, Pierre-Auguste Renoir and Paul Cézanne who brought a new freely brushed style to painting, often choosing to paint realistic scenes of modern life outside rather than in the studio. This was achieved through a new expression of aesthetic features demonstrated by brush strokes and the impression of reality. They achieved intense colour vibration by using pure, unmixed colours and short brush strokes. The movement influenced art as a dynamic, moving through time and adjusting to new found techniques and perception of art. Attention to detail became less of a priority in achieving, whilst exploring a biased view of landscapes and nature to the artists eye.\n\nTowards the end of the 19th century, several young painters took impressionism a stage further, using geometric forms and unnatural colour to depict emotions while striving for deeper symbolism. Of particular note are Paul Gauguin, who was strongly influenced by Asian, African and Japanese art, Vincent van Gogh, a Dutchman who moved to France where he drew on the strong sunlight of the south, and Toulouse-Lautrec, remembered for his vivid paintings of night life in the Paris district of Montmartre.\n\nEdvard Munch, a Norwegian artist, developed his symbolistic approach at the end of the 19th century, inspired by the French impressionist Manet. \"The Scream\" (1893), his most famous work, is widely interpreted as representing the universal anxiety of modern man. Partly as a result of Munch's influence, the German expressionist movement originated in Germany at the beginning of the 20th century as artists such as Ernst Kirschner and Erich Heckel began to distort reality for an emotional effect.\nIn parallel, the style known as cubism developed in France as artists focused on the volume and space of sharp structures within a composition. Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque were the leading proponents of the movement. Objects are broken up, analyzed, and re-assembled in an abstracted form. By the 1920s, the style had developed into surrealism with Dali and Magritte.\n\nPrintmaking is creating, for artistic purposes, an image on a matrix that is then transferred to a two-dimensional (flat) surface by means of ink (or another form of pigmentation). Except in the case of a monotype, the same matrix can be used to produce many examples of the print.\n\nHistorically, the major techniques (also called media) involved are woodcut, line engraving, etching, lithography, and screenprinting (serigraphy, silkscreening) but there are many others, including modern digital techniques. Normally, the print is printed on paper, but other mediums range from cloth and vellum to more modern materials. Major printmaking traditions include that of Japan (\"ukiyo-e\").\n\nPrints in the Western tradition produced before about 1830 are known as old master prints. In Europe, from around 1400 AD woodcut, was used for master prints on paper by using printing techniques developed in the Byzantine and Islamic worlds. Michael Wolgemut improved German woodcut from about 1475, and Erhard Reuwich, a Dutchman, was the first to use cross-hatching. At the end of the century Albrecht Dürer brought the Western woodcut to a stage that has never been surpassed, increasing the status of the single-leaf woodcut.\n\nIn China, the art of printmaking developed some 1,100 years ago as illustrations alongside text cut in woodblocks for printing on paper. Initially images were mainly religious but in the Song Dynasty, artists began to cut landscapes. During the Ming (1368–1644) and Qing (1616–1911) dynasties, the technique was perfected for both religious and artistic engravings.\n\nWoodblock printing in Japan (Japanese: 木版画, moku hanga) is a technique best known for its use in the ukiyo-e artistic genre; however, it was also used very widely for printing books in the same period. Woodblock printing had been used in China for centuries to print books, long before the advent of movable type, but was only widely adopted in Japan surprisingly late, during the Edo period (1603–1867). Although similar to woodcut in western printmaking in some regards, moku hanga differs greatly in that water-based inks are used (as opposed to western woodcut, which uses oil-based inks), allowing for a wide range of vivid color, glazes and color transparency.\n\nPhotography is the process of making pictures by means of the action of light. Light patterns reflected or emitted from objects are recorded onto a sensitive medium or storage chip through a timed exposure. The process is done through mechanical shutters or electronically timed exposure of photons into chemical processing or digitizing devices known as cameras.\n\nThe word comes from the Greek words φως \"phos\" (\"light\"), and γραφις \"graphis\" (\"stylus\", \"paintbrush\") or γραφη \"graphê\", together meaning \"drawing with light\" or \"representation by means of lines\" or \"drawing.\" Traditionally, the product of photography has been called a photograph. The term \"photo\" is an abbreviation; many people also call them \"pictures.\" In digital photography, the term \"image\" has begun to replace \"photograph.\" (The term \"image\" is traditional in geometric optics.)\n\nFilmmaking is the process of making a motion-picture, from an initial conception and research, through scriptwriting, shooting and recording, animation or other special effects, editing, sound and music work and finally distribution to an audience; it refers broadly to the creation of all types of films, embracing documentary, strains of theatre and literature in film, and poetic or experimental practices, and is often used to refer to video-based processes as well\n\nVisual artists are no longer limited to traditional art media. Computers have been used as an ever more common tool in the visual arts since the 1960s. Uses include the capturing or creating of images and forms, the editing of those images and forms (including exploring multiple compositions) and the final rendering or printing (including 3D printing).\n\nComputer art is any in which computers played a role in production or display. Such art can be an image, sound, animation, video, CD-ROM, DVD, video game, website, algorithm, performance or gallery installation. Many traditional disciplines are now integrating digital technologies and, as a result, the lines between traditional works of art and new media works created using computers have been blurred. For instance, an artist may combine traditional painting with algorithmic art and other digital techniques. As a result, defining computer art by its end product can be difficult. Nevertheless, this type of art is beginning to appear in art museum exhibits, though it has yet to prove its legitimacy as a form unto itself and this technology is widely seen in contemporary art more as a tool rather than a form as with painting.\n\nComputer usage has blurred the distinctions between illustrators, photographers, photo editors, 3-D modelers, and handicraft artists. Sophisticated rendering and editing software has led to multi-skilled image developers. Photographers may become digital artists. Illustrators may become animators. Handicraft may be computer-aided or use computer-generated imagery as a template. Computer clip art usage has also made the clear distinction between visual arts and page layout less obvious due to the easy access and editing of clip art in the process of paginating a document, especially to the unskilled observer.\n\nPlastic arts is a term for art forms that involve physical manipulation of a plastic medium by moulding or modeling such as sculpture or ceramics. The term has also been applied to \"all the visual (non-literary, non-musical) arts\".\n\nMaterials that can be carved or shaped, such as stone or wood, concrete or steel, have also been included in the narrower definition, since, with appropriate tools, such materials are also capable of modulation. This use of the term \"plastic\" in the arts should not be confused with Piet Mondrian's use, nor with the movement he termed, in French and English, \"Neoplasticism.\"\n\nSculpture is three-dimensional artwork created by shaping or combining hard or plastic material, sound, or text and or light, commonly stone (either rock or marble), clay, metal, glass, or wood. Some sculptures are created directly by finding or ; others are assembled, built together and fired, welded, molded, or cast. Sculptures are often painted.\nA person who creates sculptures is called a sculptor.\n\nBecause sculpture involves the use of materials that can be moulded or modulated, it is considered one of the plastic arts. The majority of public art is sculpture. Many sculptures together in a garden setting may be referred to as a sculpture garden.\n\nSculptors do not always make sculptures by hand. With increasing technology in the 20th century and the popularity of conceptual art over technical mastery, more sculptors turned to art fabricators to produce their artworks. With fabrication, the artist creates a design and pays a fabricator to produce it. This allows sculptors to create larger and more complex sculptures out of material like cement, metal and plastic, that they would not be able to create by hand. Sculptures can also be made with 3-d printing technology.\n\nIn the United States, the law protecting the copyright over a piece of visual art gives a more restrictive definition of \"visual art\".\n\nA “work of visual art” is —\n(1) a painting, drawing, print or sculpture, existing in a single copy, in a limited edition of 200 copies or fewer that are signed and consecutively numbered by the author, or, in the case of a sculpture, in multiple cast, carved, or fabricated sculptures of 200 or fewer that are consecutively numbered by the author and bear the signature or other identifying mark of the author; or\n(2) a still photographic image produced for exhibition purposes only, existing in a single copy that is signed by the author, or in a limited edition of 200 copies or fewer that are signed and consecutively numbered by the author.\nA work of visual art does not include —\n(A)(i) any poster, map, globe, chart, technical drawing, diagram, model, applied art, motion picture or other audiovisual work, book, magazine, newspaper, periodical, data base, electronic information service, electronic publication, or similar publication;\n  (ii) any merchandising item or advertising, promotional, descriptive, covering, or packaging material or container;\n  (iii) any portion or part of any item described in clause (i) or (ii);\n(B) any work made for hire; or\n(C) any work not subject to copyright protection under this title.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24885165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24885165", "title": "Women warriors in literature and culture", "text": "Women warriors in literature and culture\n\nThe portrayal of women warriors in literature and popular culture is a subject of study in history, literary studies, film studies, folklore history, and mythology. The archetypal figure of the woman warrior is an example of a normal thing that happens in some cultures, while also being a counter stereotype, opposing the normal construction of war, violence and aggression as masculine. This convention-defying position makes the female warrior a prominent site of investigation for discourses surrounding female power and gender roles in society.\n\nIn Hindu mythology, Chitrāngadā, wife of Arjuna, was the commander of her father's armies.\n\nThe Amazons were an entire tribe of woman warriors in Greek legend. \"Amazon\" has become an eponym for woman warriors and athletes in both modern and ancient society.\n\nIn British mythology, Queen Cordelia fought off several contenders for her throne by personally leading the army in its battles as well as defending her home from her own warring family members, until she eventually commits suicide due to grief. Another example in ancient British history is Queen Boudica, who lead a rebellion against the Roman Empire.\n\nIn his \"On the Bravery of Women\" the Greco-Roman historian Plutarch describes how the women of Argos fought against King Cleomenes and the Spartans under the command of Telesilla in the fifth century BCE.\n\nLiterary women warriors include \"Gordafarid\" (Persian: گردآفريد) in the ancient Persian epic poem The Shāhnāmeh, Delhemma in Arabic epic literature, Mulan, Camilla in the \"Aeneid\", Belphoebe and Britomart in Edmund Spenser's \"The Faerie Queene\", Bradamante and Marfisa in \"Orlando Furioso\", Clorinda and (reluctantly) Erminia in \"La Gerusalemme liberata\", and Grendel's mother.\n\nThe woman warrior is part of a long tradition in many different cultures including Chinese and Japanese martial arts films, but their reach and appeal to Western audiences is possibly much more recent, coinciding with the greatly increased number of female heroes in American media since 1990.\n\nWomen warriors have been taken up as a symbol for feminist empowerment, emphasizing women's agency and capacity for power instead of the common pattern of female victim-hood. Professor Sherrie Inness in \"Tough Girls: Women Warriors and Wonder Women in Popular Culture\" and Frances Early and Kathleen Kennedy in \"Athena's Daughters: Television's New Women Warriors\", for example, focus on figures such as Xena, from the television series \"\" or Buffy Summers from \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\". In the introduction to their text, Early and Kennedy discuss what they describe as a link between the image of women warriors and girl power. \n\nAlthough there is a distinction between positive aggression and violence, fictional representations of female violence like \"Kill Bill\" still have the power to function positively, equipping women for real-life situations that require outward aggression. Beyond the individual level, fictional depictions of violence by women can be a political tool to draw attention to real-world issues of violence, such as the ongoing violence against Indigenous women. Others say that a violent heroine undermines the feminist ethics against male violence, even when she is posited as a defender of women, for example in films such as \"Hard Candy\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
