{"id": "5830446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5830446", "title": "AP Russian Language and Culture", "text": "AP Russian Language and Culture\n\nAP Russian Language and Culture is a proposed Advanced Placement course and examination, in development since 2005. It is being developed through the American Council of Teachers of Russian, in collaboration with the College Board and with funding from the U.S. Department of Education and the National Security Education Program.\n\nAP Russian Language is equivalent to a second-year college-level Russian language course. Students enrolling in AP Russian Language and Culture are typically in their fourth or fifth year of language study, or have had equivalent experience with the language.\n\nThe exam is reported with a score of 1 to 5. A prototype exam was administered to students in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "1270090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1270090", "title": "Academic administration", "text": "Academic administration\n\nAcademic administration is a branch of university or college employees responsible for the maintenance and supervision of the institution and separate from the faculty or academics, although some personnel may have joint responsibilities. Some type of separate administrative structure exists at almost all academic institutions, as fewer and fewer schools are governed by employees who are also involved in academic or scholarly work. Many senior administrators are academics who have advanced degrees and no longer teach or conduct research.\n\nKey broad administrative responsibilities (and thus administrative units) in academic institutions include:\n\nThe chief executive, the administrative and educational head of a university, depending on tradition and location, may be termed the university president, the provost, the chancellor (the United States), the vice-chancellor (many Commonwealth countries), principal (Scotland and Canada), or rector (Europe, Russia, Asia and the Middle East).\n\nAn administrative executive in charge of a university department or of some schools, may be termed a dean or some variation, such as dean emeritus. The chief executive of academic establishments other than universities, may be termed headmaster or head teacher (schools), director (used to reflect various positions ranging from the head of an institution to the head of a program), or principal, as used in primary education.\n\nAcademic administrations are structured in various ways at different institutions and in different countries.\n\nFull-time tertiary education administrators emerged as a distinct role in Australia from the mid-1970s, as institutions sought to deal with their increasing size and complexity, along with a broadening of their aspirations. As the professionalism of tertiary administrators has developed, there has been a corresponding push to recognise the uniqueness and validity of their role in the academic environment.\n\n, general staff comprised over half the employees at Australian universities. Around 65% of these are female. There has recently been a shift in the preferred nomenclature for non-academic staff at Australian universities, from \"general staff\" to \"professional staff\". It has been argued that the changing in role of the professional staff has been due to the changing work that they are performing, as professional staff assist students with technology.\n\nThe overarching body for all staff working in administration and management in Australia is the Association for Tertiary Education Management.\n\nThe structures for administration and management in higher education in the United Kingdom vary significantly between institutions. Any description of a general structure will therefore not apply to some or even many institutions, and therefore any general statement of structures may be misleading. Not all UK universities have the post of Registrar.\n\nThe Director of Finance may report to the Registrar or directly to the Vice-Chancellor, whilst other senior posts may or may not report to the Registrar. This next tier of senior positions might include Directors of Human Resources, Estates, and Corporate Affairs. The Academic Registrar is often included in this next tier. Their role is mostly to accomplish student-facing administrative processes such as admissions, student records, complaints, and graduation.\n\nThe overarching body for all staff working in administration and management in the UK is the Association of University Administrators.\n\nIn the United States, a college or university is typically supervised by a President or Chancellor who reports regularly to a Board of Trustees (made up of individuals from outside the institution) and who serves as Chief Executive Officer. Most large colleges and universities now use an administrative structure with a tier of vice presidents, among whom the Provost (or Vice President for Academic Affairs, or Academic Dean) serves as the chief academic officer.\n\nDeans may supervise various and more specific aspects of the institution, or may be CEOs of entire campuses. They may report directly to the president or chancellor. The division of responsibility among deans varies widely among institutions; some are chiefly responsible for clusters of academic fields (such as the humanities or natural sciences) or whole academic units (such as a graduate school or college), while others are responsible for non-academic but campus-wide concerns such as minority affairs. In some cases a provost supervises the institution's entire academic staff, occupying a position generally superior to any dean. In other instances the Dean of a College may be the equivalent to a Provost or Vice Chancellor or Vice President for Academic Affairs. Below deans in the administrative hierarchy are heads of individual academic departments and of individual administrative departments from groundskeeping to libraries to registrars of records. These heads (commonly styled \"chairs\" or \"directors\") then supervise the faculty and staff of their individual departments.\n\nThe Chair of a department is typically a tenured or at least tenure-track faculty member, supported by administrative staff.\n\nAll levels of the university have administrative staff, reporting to Chancellors, Presidents, Provosts, Deans, and Departmental Chairs. Each department is typically led by a Management Services Officer (MSO), the departmental head of administrative staff, who reports to the Chair of the department. Front Desk staff, Admissions staff, Graduate and Undergraduate Student Counselors, and other staff report to the MSO.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31478716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31478716", "title": "Academic equivalency evaluation", "text": "Academic equivalency evaluation\n\nAn academic equivalency evaluation is an analytical report which determines the equivalency in the United States educational system of a potential US immigrant's foreign academic and professional credentials. This evaluation determines the level of education and number of years completed, as well as the field of specialization. Academic evaluations consider the educational system of the foreign country, the quality of the university attended by the candidate, the credit hours and number of years of coursework, the nature of the courses, and the grades attained in the courses.\n\nAn academic equivalency evaluation is primarily required for H-1B visa applicants who have not earned an academic degree at a university or college in the United States, but have acquired a degree from another country. H-1B visas require a bachelor's degree or its equivalent as a minimum. Academic equivalency evaluations provide the equivalent basis the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services accepts in order to apply for an H-1B visa. Academic equivalency evaluations can also be used towards other visas such as TN status, E-3, L-1B, Green Card, and I-140.\n\nCompanies that provide academic equivalency evaluations typically require copies of any diplomas, transcripts, and post-graduate degrees, that a candidate may have. Academic degrees that can be evaluated may include, but not limited to; bachelor's degrees, master's degrees, or Ph.D., etc.\n"}
{"id": "41841931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41841931", "title": "Adolescent egocentrism", "text": "Adolescent egocentrism\n\nAdolescent egocentrism is a term that David Elkind used to describe the phenomenon of adolescents' inability to distinguish between their perception of what others think about them and what people actually think in reality. David Elkind's theory on adolescent egocentrism is drawn from Piaget's theory on cognitive developmental stages, which argues that formal operations enable adolescents to construct imaginary situations and abstract thinking. \n\nAccordingly, adolescents are able to conceptualize their own thoughts and conceive of other people's thoughts. However, Elkind pointed out that adolescents tend to focus mostly on their own perceptions – especially on their behaviors and appearance – because of the \"physiological metamorphosis\" they experience during this period. This leads to adolescents' belief that other people are as attentive to their behaviors and appearance as they are of themselves. According to Elkind, adolescent egocentrism results in two consequential mental constructions, namely imaginary audience and personal fable.\n\nImaginary audience is a term that Elkind used to describe the phenomenon that an adolescent anticipates the reactions of other people to him/herself in actual or impending social situations. Elkind argued that this kind of anticipation could be explained by the adolescent's preoccupation that others are as admiring or as critical of him as he is of himself. As a result, an audience is created, as the adolescent believes that he/she will be the focus of attention.\n\nHowever, more often than not the audience is imaginary because in actual social situations always being the focus of public attention is not usually the case. Elkind believed that the construction of imaginary audiences would partially account for a wide variety of typical adolescent behaviors and experiences; and imaginary audiences played a role in the self-consciousness that emerges in early adolescence. However, since the audience is usually the adolescent's own construction, it is privy to his or her own knowledge of him/herself.\n\nAccording to Elkind, the notion of imaginary audience helps to explain why adolescents usually seek privacy and feel reluctant to reveal themselves – it is a reaction to the feeling that one is constantly under the critical scrutiny of others.\n\nElkind addressed that adolescents have a complex set of beliefs that their own feelings are unique and they are special and immortal. Personal fable is the term Elkind created to describe this notion, which is the complement of the construction of imaginary audience. Since an adolescent usually fails to differentiate his focus on his own perceptions and that of others, he tends to believe that he is of importance to so many people (the imaginary audiences) that he comes to regard his feelings as something special and unique. This belief in personal uniqueness and invincibility becomes an illusion that he can be above some of the rules, disciplines and laws that apply to other people; even consequences such as death . Due to the existence of personal fable at some point, an adolescent tends to substitute the roles of an idol, a hero or even a god with his own image.\n\nElkind believed that adolescent egocentrism was a temporary phenomenon that will gradually diminish as adolescents grow older. The reason of this, Elkind argued, was because after entering the formal operational stage, no new mental systems would develop. Therefore, the mental structures formed during adolescence would continue to function for the rest of the life span. Accordingly, the two mental constructions that result from egocentrism, imaginary audience and personal fable, will gradually be overcome and disappear as formal operations become mature and stable.\n\nThe imaginary audience, Elkind said, could be regarded as \"a series of hypotheses\" that an adolescent \"tests against reality\". Because the imaginary audience is usually constructed based on an adolescent's attention on his own perception, it will be gradually modified through communicating and reacting with real audiences. Eventually, adolescents will be able to recognize the difference between his own preoccupations and concerns of others.\n\nAs to the passing of personal fable, Elkind's idea was drawn from Erikson's (1959) stages of psychosocial development. An establishment of what Erikson called \"intimacy\" could account for the elimination of personal fable, because during the process of establishing \"intimacy\", adolescents have to constantly adjust their imaginary audiences to the real ones. As a result, adolescents are able to see themselves in a more realistic way and to establish meaningful interpersonal relationships.\n\nA lot of research has examined different dimensions of Elkind's concept of adolescent egocentrism, however, the findings have not well supported the concept. According to this research, the manifestation of adolescent egocentrism is not a normative developmental phenomenon that occurs only during adolescence, but varies across different contexts. Main discussions from current literature focus on three aspects: whether adolescent egocentrism is age-related; whether adolescent egocentrism has association with formal operations; whether adolescent egocentrism weigh equally across genders.\n\nIn his 1967 work, Elkind claimed that adolescent egocentrism emerges during early adolescence (age 11–12) and gradually dissipates throughout middle and late adolescence. However, some findings from later studies indicate that this statement is not necessarily to be accurate. In 1986, Lapsley and his colleagues conducted two studies to examine the theoretical assumptions brought up by Elkind. In their first study they collected data from a sample that included 45 sixth graders, 39 eighth graders, 50 tenth graders and 49 twelfth graders. They used the Adolescent Egocentrism Scale (AES) developed by Enright et al. (1979, 1980) and paper-and-pencil battery of formal operations tasks developed by Lunzer (1965) as measuring instruments to examine the correlation between adolescent egocentrism and formal operational thought. \n\nIf Elkind's assumption were right, the correlation was supposed to change from positive to negative as the grade increased and the magnitude of the correlation should decrease with age. The results of the study obtained only significant negative correlation in late adolescence and non-significant change in the magnitude of the correlation. The results didn't support the Elkind's claim that adolescent egocentrism emerges in early adolescence and decreases linearly throughout middle and late adolescence. In other words, adolescents aged 11 or 12 could experience adolescent egocentrism of the same magnitude as those aged 15 or 16 do. Another study by Frankenberger (2000) also provides evidence that adolescent egocentrism is not age-related. \n\nIn this study, a survey was conducted for data collection from 223 adolescents and 131 adults. The survey contained measures of three aspects: adolescent egocentrism, self-consciousness, and interpersonal reactivity. The result revealed that scores of egocentrism were not, on average, significantly different between adolescents and young adults (19-30), which indicates that egocentrism in adolescence may continue into adulthood.\n\nAn important theoretical assumption in Elkind's theory is that the emergence of adolescence egocentrism is a result of the development of formal operational thoughts. Nevertheless, some studies had findings that were contrast to Elkind's position. Lapsley and his colleagues conducted two studies to examine the theoretical assumptions in 1986. In the second study, they analyzed the data obtained from two samples: a sample of 7th-, 9th-and 11th-graders and another sample of college undergraduate students. They used Adolescent Egocentrism Scale (AES) (Enright et al., 1979, 1980), Lunzer (1965) formal operations measure and Imaginary Audience Scale (IAS) (Elkind & Bowen, 1979) as the instruments. \n\nThe result of a grade-by-grade analysis of inter-correlations between adolescence egocentrism and formal operational thoughts showed modest to non-significant differences among all the measures, which implies that there is little association between adolescent egocentrism and formal operations. Some more recent studies got similar findings. Heather et al. (1993) found that formal operations were not an effective indicator of both imaginary audience and personal fable. Galanaki (2012) performed a research to investigate the association of adolescent egocentrism with age, gender, pubertal development and formal operational thoughts.\n\nA considerable amount of studies have found gender differences in egocentrism (Smetana, J.G.&VillaLobos M., 2010). Kimberly A Schonert-Reichl's (1994) study on the relationship between depressive symptomatology and adolescent egocentrism recruited 62 adolescents (30 males, 32 females) aged from 12 to 17. The study used Reynolds Adolescent Depression Scale (RADS), Imaginary Audience Scale (IAS) and the New Personal Fable Scale (NPFS) as measuring tools. The results revealed significantly higher scores obtained by females compared with males in the Transient Self subscale in IAS. \n\nTransient Self, as defined by Elkind and Bowen in 1979, refers to impermanent image of self that is mainly relative to one-time behaviors and temporary appearance. Thus, adolescent females have a higher tendency to consider themselves to be different from others, and tend to be more self-conscious in situations that involve momentary embarrassments (e.g. going to a party with a bad haircut), than their male peers. Another study conducted by Goossens and Beyers (1992) using similar measuring instruments found that boys have stronger beliefs that they are unique, invulnerable and sometimes omnipotent, which are typical characteristics of personal fable.\n\n"}
{"id": "44923345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44923345", "title": "Artful Learning", "text": "Artful Learning\n\nArtful Learning is an educational philosophy model that is concept-based and interdisciplinary. Artful Learning was initiated by Leonard Bernstein and is rooted in using the arts to enhance all areas of education.\n\nIn 1990, Leonard Bernstein received the Praemium Imperiale, an international prize awarded by the Japan Arts Association for lifetime achievement in the arts. Bernstein used the $100,000 prize to establish The Bernstein Education Through\nthe Arts (BETA) Fund, Inc. Leonard Bernstein provided this grant to develop an arts-based education program. The Leonard Bernstein Center was established in April 1992, and initiated extensive school-based research, resulting in the Bernstein Model. After six years of association with the Grammy Foundation, the Leonard Bernstein Center for Learning moved to Gettysburg College, PA.\n\nArtful Learning is based on Bernstein's philosophy that the arts can strengthen learning and be incorporated in all academic subjects. The program is based on \"units of study,\" which each consist of four core elements: experience, inquire, create, and reflect.\n\nResearch shows that participation in the arts plays a vital role in influencing brain development and performance. Arts which are considered enrichment in education programs, may in fact be central to the way humans neurologically process and learn. In 1999, The President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities teamed up with the Arts Education Partnership to publish a comprehensive study on the inclusion of the arts in education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17635675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17635675", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Hyderabad", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Hyderabad\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education was formed in 1961 in the city of Hyderabad, Sindh to facilitate examinations for high schools and higher secondary schools (also called intermediate colleges).\n\nA commission on national education was appointed on 30 December 1958 which recommended the four years of education from grade IX to XII as part of the intermediate and secondary education curricula thus forming the Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education in Hyderabad in 1961.\n\nThe move came as part of the West Pakistan Intermediate and Secondary Education Ordinance, 1961 (alternatively for East Pakistan, it was the East Pakistan Ordinance No. XXXIII of 1961). The ordinance was further amended in Act no. XVI of 1962 and Act no. XVII of 1977. Under the acts, it was responsible for the organization to regulate, supervise, control and develop the levels and status of Intermediate and Secondary level public examinations in educational institutions.\n\nThe board started acting under the guidance of Dr G. A. Jafri, appointed as the board's chairman. Soon afterwards, the board was further bifurcated into a board for Sukkur and recently for Mirpur Khas.\n\nThe board is run by a group of directors who appoint a chairperson (currently Dr Muhammad Memon), a secretary (currently ) and a controller (Dr.Masroor Ahmed Zai).\n\nAs an organisation, the board has developed in the recent years a 202 members strong staff and is equipped with offices in Latifabad U8. The board also owns a stadium in Latifabad used for league, inter-club and -city hockey tournaments. But sporting events The District Hockey Association (DHA) for the Hyderabad District, Pakistan had allocated a budget of 1.6 million rupees for renovations for the betterment of hockey arenas but were reluctant to give the board their share. However, recent endeavours towards bringing the National Hockey Championship back to Hyderabad have been welcomed by quite a few government officials.\nRecently enough the 54th National Hockey Championships were brought to the stadium and the DHA officials pronounced better conditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30930512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30930512", "title": "Boyer's model of scholarship", "text": "Boyer's model of scholarship\n\nBoyer's model of scholarship is an academic model advocating expansion of the traditional definition of scholarship and research into four types of scholarship. It was introduced in 1990 by Ernest Boyer. According to Boyer, traditional research, or the scholarship of discovery, had been the center of academic life and crucial to an institution's advancement but it needed to be broadened and made more flexible to include not only the new social and environmental challenges beyond the campus but also the reality of contemporary life. His vision was to change the research mission of universities by introducing the idea that scholarship needed to be redefined.\n\nHe proposed that scholarship include these four different categories:\n\n\nBoyer's model has been embraced across academia with occasional refinement, such as specific applications for different disciplines.\n\n"}
{"id": "11378088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11378088", "title": "Certified software manager", "text": "Certified software manager\n\nCertified software manager (CSM) is a professional designation for IT asset management. The course was developed by the Software Publishers Association (now SIIA) in 1994 as a component of one of the first global anti-piracy efforts, led by Ken Wasch. In 2004, administration of the CSM, and its successor class the Advanced Software Manager, moved to Washington, DC-based LicenseLogic.\n\nThe course syllabus walks the attendee through from the beginnings of \"What is Software Asset Management (SAM)?\" through to developing a basic asset management program for their organization.\n\nThe CSM is the basis for various other ITAM courses.\n\n"}
{"id": "37188633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37188633", "title": "Children's rights education", "text": "Children's rights education\n\nChildren’s rights education (or children’s human rights education) is the teaching and practice of children’s rights in schools and educational institutions, as informed by and consistent with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. When fully implemented, a children's rights education program consists of both a curriculum to teach children their human rights, and framework to operate the school in a manner that respects children's rights. Articles 29 and 42 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child require children to be educated about their rights.\n\nIn addition to meeting legal obligations of the Convention to spread awareness of children’s rights to children and to adults, teaching children about their rights has the benefits of improving their awareness of rights in general, making them more respectful of other people's rights, and empowering them to take action in support of other people's rights. Early programs to teach children about their rights, in Belgium, Canada, England and New Zealand have provided evidence of this. Children's rights in schools were taught and practiced as an ethos of 'liberating the child' well before the UN Convention was written, and that this practice helped to inform the values and philosophy of the Convention, the IBE and UNESCO, though sadly these practices, and this history are not really acknowledged or built-upon by the UN. This is one reasons that children's rights have not become a foundation of schools despite 100 years of struggle.\n\nChildren’s human rights education refers to education and educational practices in schools and educational institutions that are consistent with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is a form of education that takes seriously the view that children are bearers of human rights, that children are citizens in their own right, that schools and educational institutions are learning communities where children learn (or fail to learn) the values and practices of human rights and citizenship, and that educating children about their own basic human rights is a legal obligation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. \n\nChildren's rights education is education where the rights of the child, as described in the Convention, is taught and practiced in individual classrooms. But in its most developed form, children’s rights are taught and practiced in a systematic and comprehensive way across grade levels, across the school, and across school districts. With full-blown children’s rights education, children’s rights are not simply an addition to a particular subject or classroom. Rather, the rights of the child are incorporated into the school curricula, teaching practices, and teaching materials across subjects and grade levels and are the centerpiece of school mission statements, behavior codes, and school policies and practices.\n\nFully developed children’s rights education means that all members of the school community receive education on the rights of the child. The Convention serves as a values framework for the life and functioning of the school or educational institution and for efforts to promote a more positive school climate and school culture for learning.\n\nA core belief in children’s rights education is that when children learn about their own basic human rights, this learning serves as an important foundation for their understanding and support of human rights more broadly.\n\nThe Convention on the Rights of the child has important implications for the education of children. Approved by the United Nations in 1989, the Convention is the most widely ratified and most quickly ratified country in world history. Only two countries – the United States and South Sudan – have yet to ratify the treaty. By ratifying the Convention, countries commit themselves to the principle that children have fundamental rights as persons and that state authorities have obligations to provide for those rights. Under the terms of the Convention, a legally binding treaty, states parties have the obligation to make their laws, policies, and practices consistent with the provisions of the Convention, if not immediately, then over time.\n\nIn the Convention are numerous articles that deal with education and with children’s rights education. Eugeen Verhellen has divided the Convention’s provisions on education along three tracks. First is the child’s right to education on the basis equal opportunity (article 28). This includes the right to free primary education and to accessible secondary and higher education. Second are the child’s rights in education (articles 2, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 19). This includes the right to non-discrimination, participation, protection from abuse and violence, and freedom of thought, expression, and religion. Third are the child’s rights through education (article 29 and 42). This refers to education where children are able to know and understand their rights and to develop respect for human rights, including their own human rights.\n\nThis third track of education spells an obligation by countries and education authorities to provide for children’s human rights education. Article 29 of the Convention requires that 'the education of the child shall be directed to the development of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.' This presumes knowledge and understanding of rights. Article 42 requires that countries 'undertake to make the principles of the Convention widely known, by appropriate and active means, to adults and children alike.'\n\nMindful of this duty of disseminating knowledge and recognizing its importance, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, the UN body responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Convention, has repeatedly urged countries to incorporate children’s rights into the school curricula and ensure that children know and understand their rights on a systematic and comprehensive basis.\n\nChildren’s rights education in schools has value because it fulfills the obligations of countries to respect the rights of the child and implement the provisions of the Convention. But beyond the fulfillment of a legal obligation, children’s rights education has value for children. Felisa Tibbitts has suggested that child rights education can be expected to affect learners in three ways. First is in the providing of basic information and knowledge on the nature of rights and the specific rights that children are to enjoy. Children can be expected to have a more accurate and deeper understanding of rights. Second is in attitudes, values, and behaviors consistent with the understanding of rights. Children can be expected to have greater respect for the rights of others as shown in their attitudes and behaviors. Third is in empowering children to take action in support of the rights of others. Tibbitts refers to this as the 'transformational model' of rights education. Children here are more likely to take a stand in preventing or redressing human rights abuses. An example would be to support a victim of bullying and stand up against a bully in the school playground.\n\nResearch by Katherine Covell and R. Brian Howe (see the section on evaluations of children’s human rights education) shows evidence of the above effects. Compared to children who have not received children’s rights education, children who have received children's rights education are more likely to have an accurate and adult-like understanding of rights, to understand that rights and responsibilities are related, and to display socially responsible behaviors in support of the rights of others.\n\nIncluding Janusz Korczak and his rights based Warsaw orphanage, Homer Lane and his Little Commonwealth (1913) of delinquent 'prisoners', A.S. Neill's Summerhill School (1921) there have been many schools and children's communities around the world that have been founded on the rights of children. Indeed, inspired by Montessori, Homer Lane and Harriet Finley Johnson, a community of teachers, educationalists, suffragists, politicians, inspectors and cultural contributors formed a community called the New Ideals in Education Conferences (1914-37) Their founding value was 'the liberation of the child' and they sought, shared and celebrated examples of practice in schools, prisons and child communities. They contributed to the 'child centred' primary school. This has been an overlooked history of the culture of the rights of the child, one that needs to be shared and celebrated to help empower children and those adults who work with them. \n\nSince the approval by the United Nations of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1989, various efforts have been made to provide children's rights education in schools.\n\nInitiatives have been undertaken mainly at the level of individual classrooms and schools. Among the earliest initiatives was one in a primary school in Bruges, Belgium. This was a comprehensive child rights education project that was introduced in the early 1990s at De Vrijdagmarkt Primary School. It involved children ages 3 to 12 with the objective of educating them about the contents of the Convention, using democratic pedagogy and ensuring child participation in the learning process. Children were taught about their rights under the Convention through a variety of media including art and poetry. Art activities included newspaper collages representing examples of rights violations. Allowance was made for child-initiated and small group activities, role-play, and group discussion. Activities that were selected were ones of relevance and interest to the children. Younger children, for example, learned about the right to food by creating a very large doll with illustrations of food. Older children engaged in discussions and role-play regarding rights to adoption, education, and family.\n\nFurther examples of early initiatives were in classrooms in Cape Breton, Canada, in the late 1990s. Curriculum materials based on the Convention were developed in collaboration with children and their teachers for three grade levels. At the grade 6 level (children aged 11 to 13 years), education focused on introducing child rights in terms of their relevance to the individual child. Issues included healthy living, personal safety, families and family life, drug use, and decision-making. For example, to learn about their right to protection from narcotics, students role-played children and drug dealers and examined ways of dealing with pressure to try or sell drugs. At the grade 8 level (ages 13 to 15 years), the focus was on relationships of relevance to the child. The curriculum included units on sexuality, youth justice, child abuse, and exploitation. For example, students analyzed popular song lyrics to discuss how rights in sexuality are represented in music, and they completed cartoons that involved the competing considerations of freedom of speech and rights against discrimination. The grade 12 curriculum (for ages 17 to 19) expanded the sphere of children’s rights knowledge with application to global issues. These issues included war-affected children and child labor. At this level, activities included holding a mock UN Conference on war-affected children where small groups had responsibility for representing the players at the conference, and a sweatshop talk show in which groups researched child labor and then held a talk show to discuss their findings.\n\nWritings about the initiative in Cape Breton schools inspired a major initiative in Hampshire County, England, called Rights, Respect and Responsibility or the RRR initiative. It is among the best known and most promising models of children’s human rights education to date. It is an initiative that features not only individual classrooms and schools but a whole school district. The RRR initiative was impelled by the recognition among senior education administrators in Hampshire of the need for a shared values framework and positive school climate for improved learning and educational outcomes. They also were motivated by their reading of the success of the rights education project in Cape Breton.\n\nAfter study leave in Cape Breton, a group of Hampshire administrators and teachers decided to pilot test and then launch their own version of child rights education in Hampshire. After successful pilot testing in 2002, they officially launched RRR in 2004. To put the objectives of RRR into effect, Hampshire authorities—with funding from the Ministry of Education—devised a three-year strategic plan of implementation. This included provisions for teacher training, development of resources, and monitoring of developments. The plan was that the initiative would first be introduced in infant, primary, and junior schools and then over time, as children went into higher grades, it would be introduced in secondary schools. By 2012, in varying degrees of implementation, the majority of Hampshire schools were participating in RRR.\n\nThe overall objective of RRR was to improve educational outcomes for children by transforming school cultures, building a shared values framework based on the Convention, and promoting educational practices consistent with the Convention. Knowledge and understanding of rights, respect, and social responsibility were to provide the values framework for all school policies, classroom practices, codes of conduct, mission statements, school regulations, and school curricula. The framework was to be put into effect across the whole school – across classrooms, across grade levels, across curricula, and across school practices. Of particular importance, consistent with children’s participation rights as described in article 12 of the Convention, behavior codes, rules, and regulations were to be developed in collaboration with the children, classroom teaching was to be democratic, and children were to be provided with numerous meaningful opportunities to participate in all aspects of school functioning.\n\nInitiatives in Cape Breton and Hampshire have influenced developments in other schools, school districts, and even countries. Among the more ambitious developments have been seen in New Zealand where efforts are underway to make children’s human rights education a nationwide initiative. The context for the initiative is favorable. A strong human rights theme runs through New Zealand’s Education Act, national education goals, and national administrative guidelines. In the early 2000s, initial discussions about incorporating children’s rights education into the New Zealand curriculum were given momentum by the evidence provided from the Cape Breton and Hampshire County initiatives.\n\nLike elsewhere, educators and human rights advocates in New Zealand had been concerned with poor achievement levels, bullying, and violent behaviors that are observed among a significant minority of children in schools. And also like elsewhere, teachers and administrators have been frustrated by the range of difficult demands in schools, the fragmentation of efforts to address common problems, and the disappointing results of those efforts. Learning about successes in the Cape Breton and Hampshire initiatives, the collaborative initiative Human Rights in Education/Mana Tika Tangata (HRiE) was formed. Its aim was to develop positive school cultures on the basis of the rights of the child and to improve achievement for all children through having schools and early childhood education centers become learning communities that know, promote, and live human rights and responsibilities.\nTo achieve this goal, HRiE has been following the Hampshire model in using children’s rights as an overarching and integrating values framework for teaching, learning, and school management and organization. All members of the school community – school leadership, teachers and other staff, students, boards of trustees, and parents – learn about children’s rights and the responsibilities that go with them. They recognize that every member of the school community has the right to be treated with dignity and to participate in effective education. Students are formally recognized as citizens of the school and country with explicit rights and responsibilities. They participate in decision-making across the school, and rights are embedded across the curriculum, school practices, and policies.\n\nChildren's rights education initiatives also have occurred at the preschool level. For example, Canadian educators Pamela Wallberg and Maria Kahn introduced rights education to an early childhood program group of 3 and 4 year-old children in British Columbia over a three-month period. The introduction of \"The Rights Project\" was motivated in large part by observations of the children’s self-focus and disregard for the feelings of their peers. Using a coloring book designed to teach very young children about their rights, the teachers hoped to shift the children’s focus from individual wants to community needs – to increase levels of cooperation, altruism, and empathy.\n\nThe earliest reported evaluation of a child rights education project was that of the initiative in Bruges. Involving children ages 3 to 12, the primary focus of the evaluation was on the students’ social behavior. Gains in social understanding, respectful behaviors, concern for others, and pro-social action were the key observed changes. For example, the children became more interested in social justice and rights-related issues such as peace, war, injustice, and hunger. And they wanted to discuss the rights of marginalized children – those living with disabilities, in institutions, and of ethnic minority status.\n\nSimilar outcomes were found in evaluations of the effects of children’s rights education in Cape Breton schools. Evaluations conducted on students in grades 6 and 8 (ages 12 and 14 years) showed improved classroom climate, engagement, and behavior. At the grade 6 level differences were found in children’s understanding of rights, their acceptance of minority children, and their perceived levels of peer and teacher support. Teachers reported improved behavior and more positive classroom climate. In addition at the grade 8 level, children in rights-based classes showed increases in their self-esteem. Similar child-initiated projects to those reported from Bruges were seen also. For example, at one school upon realizing that not every child in the area was assured their right to nutritious food, the students initiated a breakfast program by obtaining cooperation and donations from the local community. In a different school, the class decided to work at a local food bank to help children whose families were unable to provide sufficient nutritious food.\n\nAnecdotal data from the teachers who used the grade 12 curriculum described how engaged their students were in the activities, and noted improvements in their students’ appreciation of global problems, and of the complexity and importance of respecting human rights. Students who had participated in the project completed a survey. The results showed them to be three times more likely than their peers to understand humanitarian assistance for children in difficult circumstances as a fundamental human right.\n\nThe most comprehensive evaluation data are of the Hampshire RRR initiative. Annual assessments over six years were conducted to assess the effects of the RRR. Included were children ages 4 – 14. Children and teachers in schools where RRR had been fully implemented were compared with those in demographically equivalent schools without RRR. These comparisons showed the following effects of RRR. Across ages, children showed a greater understanding of rights and their relation to responsibilities, increased levels of self-regulation, confidence, effort and motivation, participation and engagement in school, and achievement. These cognitive and attitudinal changes were reflected in significant improvements in behaviors. Children were reported by both their classroom teachers and the school principal to be more respectful, cooperative, inclusive and sensitive to the needs of other children. Incidents of bullying were reduced dramatically with disagreements being resolved using the discourse of rights rather than through physical or verbal aggression.\n\nTeaching in RRR schools also led to changes in the teachers. School administrators noted significant changes in teachers use of democratic teaching and positive classroom management, and in less confrontational dealings with their students. Teachers were listening to children and taking their views into account. And the greater the level of student engagement and participation, the more teachers showed gains in a sense of personal achievement and significant decreases in emotional exhaustion and depersonalization.\n\nAmong all the positive findings of the evaluation of the RRR, the most intriguing was that at each time of measure the most disadvantaged school showed the greatest positive changes. Improvements in engagement, behavior and academic achievement were remarkable, and have been attributed to how the RRR transformed the culture of the school. The evidence suggests that schools that are fully consistent with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child can mediate the effects of a challenging environment of rearing and help close the achievement gap between disadvantaged children and their more advantaged peers.\n\nAlthough no formal evaluation has yet been published on the New Zealand initiative, anecdotal evidence suggests the outcomes are comparable to those reported from Hampshire. Teachers report improved learning environments and decreased stress. \"Makes me think critically about some of the things I do in my classroom\", a teacher reported, \"especially some of the aspects of my behavior management.\" Another stressed that she has \"had fabulous response from the children.\"\n\nEvaluation data from Pamela Wallberg and Maria Kahn show that their preschool rights project was highly successful. They found that teaching young children about their Convention rights in an age-appropriate way transformed the learning environment. As classroom rules were replaced with rights, less adult control was needed and group conversations changed from chaotic chatter to the respectful exchange of ideas. The children’s behavior toward each other changed markedly. Their interactions reflected an understanding of the universality of rights and the importance of protecting the rights of others. And even at this very young age, rights discourse replaced arguing; for example, \"you are hurting my right to play\" became an effective problem solver that replaced tears and fighting. Wallberg and Kahn conclude that the children’s recognition of the relationship between rights and responsibilities shifted their focus \"from 'me' to 'we'.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41045027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41045027", "title": "Classwide Peer Tutoring", "text": "Classwide Peer Tutoring\n\nClasswide Peer Tutoring (CWPT) is a variation of peer-mediated instruction that has been used in elementary, middle school, and high school classrooms. In CWPT students form pairs and take turns in the roles of tutor and student. Students earn points for their teams by participating in the tutoring and the winning team is recognized. Researchers have investigated CWPT's effectiveness in several different academic areas.\n\nClasswide Peer Tutoring (CWPT) is a form of peer-mediated instruction where the teacher creates pairs of students that alternately fill the roles of tutor and student. The tutor asks questions, records points, and provides feedback on whether the student's response matches the correct response designated by the teacher. The student responds orally and/or in writing to the questions and practices the correct answer three times if he or she makes an error. The teacher supervises the tutoring and awards points for good tutoring. A classroom's student pairs are divided into two teams, and they earn points for their respective teams by answering questions correctly, correcting their incorrect answers, and tutoring appropriately. At the end of a week, the team that has earned the most points is recognized as the winning team. CWPT has been used to help students learn spelling, math facts, basic word reading, reading fluency, vocabulary, and facts related to an area of study. There appear to be more published studies of CWPT with positive outcomes in the area of spelling than in other areas. The CWPT technique has been used with several different age levels: pre-school, elementary, middle school, and high school. CWPT was initially developed and researched in the early 1980s at the Juniper Gardens Children's Project at the University of Kansas.\n\nThe developers of CWPT suggest that this technique provides students more opportunities to practice content or skills, encourages them to engage in active learning, and lets them receive immediate feedback. CWPT is also thought to provide students with practice using social skills.\n\nCWPT has been effective for teaching spelling to both students in general education and students with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), mild intellectual disabilities, and learning disabilities. CWPT has helped improve the sight word retention and reading fluency of students with average school achievement, low school achievement, and learning disabilities. CWPT has also been shown to improve math fact fluency among students with and without disabilities, and it has increased the math achievement scores of middle school students with ADHD. There is also evidence that CWPT helps students of different ages learn facts, such as health and safety information, history material, and social studies concepts. CWPT has also been documented as having positive effects on the social skills and number of social interactions of students with mild disabilities and high functioning autism. There is also research demonstrating CWPT's effectiveness for teaching students of different ages and ability levels physical skills such as catching, striking a ball with a paddle, and cardio-pulmonary resuscitation skills.\n\nThe United States Department of Education's What Works Clearinghouse has evaluated CWPT for effectiveness in the areas of General Reading Achievement and English Language Learning (ELL). These evaluations resulted in a \"potentially positive\" effectiveness rating in the area of General Reading Achievement for elementary school students, and no rating for ELL due to the fact that no existing studies met What Works Clearinghouse criteria for evaluation. What Works Clearinghouse does not currently provide reports for CWPT's effectiveness in any other areas.\n\nPromising Practices Network considers CWPT a \"Proven Program\". The website states that CWPT meets full criteria for a \"Proven Program\" by having research outcomes that fall in the category of the website's target areas, having at least one outcome that is changed by at least 20% or .25 standard deviations, having at least one outcome with a statistically significant and meaningful effect size, having studies that use comparison groups, having studies with sample sizes of 30 or more, and by having research findings publicly available.\n\nA few studies have shown CWPT to have few advantages over more traditional methods of classroom instruction with middle or high school students, such as teacher-centered instruction or independent practice. Researchers have also found that while CWPT may increase the positive social interactions of students with ADHD during the tutoring, it does not necessarily affect their social behavior in other settings.\n"}
{"id": "41992497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41992497", "title": "Connected learning", "text": "Connected learning\n\nConnected learning is a type of learning that integrates personal interest, peer relationships, and achievement in academic, civic, or career-relevant areas. In addition, connected learning is an approach to educational reform keyed to the abundance of information and social connection brought about by networked and digital media. Advocates of connected learning posit that this approach leverages new media to broaden access to opportunity and meaningful learning experiences. The connected learning model suggests that youth learn best when: they are interested in what they are learning; they have peers and mentors who share these interests; and their learning is directed toward opportunity and recognition. According to the proponents of connected learning, social support for interest-driven learning and connections to multiple sites of learning activity drive individual learning outcomes. These individual outcomes also lead to collective outcomes by building knowledge, capacity and expertise in diverse communities. Environments that support connected learning are generally characterized as having a sense of shared purpose, a focus on production, and openly networked infrastructures.\n\nConnected learning has been a term used in research since the early 1990s. The original usages piggybacked on the concept of , which emphasized the importance of context in the development of knowledge for women. Many articles from this time used the term connected learning in reference to hands-on education like fieldwork or internships which is tied to the concept of learning in context. The early research that used the term connected learning also shared the common theme of sociality being important to learning outcomes. From 2000, the term connected learning began to be used in research publications to refer variously to project-based, networked, social, and information-age learning.\nCronwell and Cronwell created the first \"framework and an organizing set of principles to guide educational research and development,\" (p. 17). This research was supported by the Center for Internet Research. This connected learning framework is based on the following set of principles:\nThis idea of connected learning is supposed to be an alternative to traditional in-school instruction. They label this connected learning framework as a work in progress that needs more research to support it. However, no further research has been completed on this framework.\n\nExamples of learning environments that integrate peer, interest, and academic pursuits including athletics programs that are tied to in-school recognition, certain arts and civic learning programs, and interest-driven academic programs such as math, chess, or robotics competitions. These connected learning environments embody values of equity, social belonging, and participation. Connected learning environments include a sense of shared purpose, a focus on production, and openly networked infrastructures. Learning environments that embody principles of connected learning include:\n\nConnected learning since its recent ramp up has been well received from the global education community. Educators and policymakers have raised concerns regarding the new model of learning laid out by research and practitioner groups, which included:\n\nConnected Learning Research Network chair Mimi Ito responded to the criticism pointing out that, \"the connected learning principles were developed with a very diverse range of practitioners in K-12 and other learning institutions like museums and libraries, as well as people working in popular culture/media, technology, and university researchers. So while the research network hopes to provide a research component to feed the broader connected learning effort, we are by no means the driving force behind it.”\n"}
{"id": "13993280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13993280", "title": "Counselor education", "text": "Counselor education\n\nCounselor Education is a field focused on the preparation of students to professionally apply the theory and principles of guidance and counseling for the personal, social, educational, and vocational development of others. The primary focus of counselor education is the training and preparation of professional counselors; this includes recruiting and training the future generations of academic professionals who will teach the curriculum of counseling theory and practice. \n\nIn order to acquire licensure, counselors are generally required to complete an accredited graduate program along with a minimum number of documented hours in supervised clinical fieldwork. Counselor Education degree programs can become accredited by The Council for the Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs. Rehabilitation Counselor Education degree programs can become accredited by The National Council on Rehabilitation Education.\n\nScholarship within counselor education centers on the training and education of master's or doctoral-level counseling graduate students, novel applications of counseling theory including competencies across cultural groups, and best practice guidelines in both academic and clinical or applied settings. Counselor educators as a professional group are trained in multiple methodological approaches to research including both qualitative and quantitative methods.\n"}
{"id": "14099354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14099354", "title": "Deschooling Society", "text": "Deschooling Society\n\nDeschooling Society (1971) is a critical discourse on education as practised in modern economies. It is a book that brought Ivan Illich to public attention. Full of detail on programs and concerns, the book gives examples of the ineffectual nature of institutionalized education. Illich posited self-directed education, supported by intentional social relations in fluid informal arrangements:\n\nThe last sentence makes clear what the title suggests—that the institutionalization of education is considered to institutionalize society and conversely that ideas for de-institutionalizing education may be a starting point for a de-institutionalized society.\n\nThe book is more than a critique—it contains suggestions for changes to learning in society and individual lifetimes. Particularly striking is his call (in 1971) for the use of advanced technology to support \"learning webs\".\n\nIllich argued that the use of technology to create decentralized webs could support the goal of creating a good educational system:\n\nDeveloping this idea Illich proposes four \"Learning Networks\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21690342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21690342", "title": "Digital learning assets", "text": "Digital learning assets\n\nDigital Learning Assets (\"DLA\"s) are any form of content and/or media that have been formatted into a binary source which include the right to use it for the purpose of \"facilitating learning\". DLAs are most commonly found in online learning such as academic coursework and corporate training. \n"}
{"id": "5203924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5203924", "title": "Diploma Supplement", "text": "Diploma Supplement\n\nThe Diploma Supplement is a document accompanying a European higher education diploma, providing a standardised description of the nature, level, context, content and status of the studies completed by its holder.\n\nThe Diploma Supplement is designed to provide a description of the nature, level, context, content and status of the studies that were successfully completed by the individual named on the original qualification to which the supplement is appended. It should be free from any value-judgements, equivalence statements or suggestions about recognition. The Diploma Supplement provides a common structure to translate qualifications across the EU. It is a flexible, non-prescriptive tool which has been shown to save time, money and workload by an EU working party.\n\nDiploma Supplements were gradually implemented at European universities as part of the Bologna Process, since approximately 1999. Students graduating from European Universities since this date, and depending on what year the country in which their university is located became signatory to his Process, typically will have received a Diploma Supplement. However, even as late as 2013 there were still some European universities, who despite their country's years-old membership of the Bologna Process, had not yet finished the necessary procedures for issuing Diploma Supplements to their graduates. \n\nIt is important for countries and educational institutions located outside of the European Higher Education Area to realize that Diploma Supplements cannot be retroactively issued, hence why students who graduated before their institution's country became signatory to the Bologna Convention cannot possibly have a diploma supplement for that degree. Consequently, requesting a Diploma Supplement from a student who graduated from a European university in 1995 or earlier is nonsensical since the Bologna Process was not even in place before that date.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11620122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11620122", "title": "Early college high school", "text": "Early college high school\n\nThe Early College High School Initiative in the United States allows students to receive a high school diploma and an associate degree, or up to two years of college credit, by taking a mixture of high school and college classes. This differs from dual enrollment, where students are enrolled in a traditional high school and take college classes, whereas early college students take high school classes in preparation for full college workloads. At early colleges, students also have fewer high school classes because some of their college classes replace their high school classes. Early colleges differ from closely related middle colleges. ECHS students spend their school day at college, and go to their home school occasionally for events such as football games, homecoming, and prom. \n\nThe ECHS Initiative began in 2002 with funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, among others. The first early college in the United States, Bard College at Simon's Rock, was founded in 1966. Today, more than 230 early colleges across 28 states serve 50,000+ students.\n\n\nFourteen intermediary partners work directly with early college schools, school districts, and postsecondary institutions. They provide start-up and ongoing technical support, guidance, and professional development for their networks of schools.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18112706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18112706", "title": "Education in Anguilla", "text": "Education in Anguilla\n\nEducation in Anguilla is compulsory between the ages of 5 and 17. In 1998, the gross primary enrollment rate was 100.7 percent, and the net primary enrollment rate was 98.9 percent. The government has collaborated with UNESCO to develop an Education for All plan that aims to raise educational achievement levels, improve access to quality special education services and provide human resource training for teachers and education managers.\n\nThere is a single library, the Edison L. Hughes Education & Library Complex of the Anguilla Public Library.\n\nArea churches operate the preschools. There are six government primary schools, one government secondary school, and two private schools.\n\nGovernment primary schools:\n the government primary schools had about 1,460 students in total.\n\nThe government secondary school is Albena Lake Hodge Comprehensive School in The Valley.\n\nPrivate schools:\n\nA branch of the Saint James School of Medicine was established in 2011 in Anguilla. It is a private, for-profit medical school headquartered in Park Ridge, Illinois.\n\n"}
{"id": "46234009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46234009", "title": "Educator effectiveness", "text": "Educator effectiveness\n\nEducator effectiveness is a K-12 school system education policy initiative that measures the quality of an educator performance in terms of improving student learning. It describes a variety of methods, such as observations, student assessments, student work samples and examples of teacher work, that education leaders use to determine the effectiveness of a K-12 educator.\n\nThe drive for educator effectiveness programs stem from Race to the top where states were awarded points for meeting educational policies based on the teacher's effectiveness. This policy was the basis of the emergence of statewide educator effectiveness programs.\n\nEducator effectiveness programs vary from state to state. Typically, an educator effectiveness program describes a cycle of observations and assessments that apply to different groups of teachers during an academic year. New teachers are evaluated more frequently, and veteran teachers are evaluated across multiple year cycles. Evaluated teachers have multiple scheduled classroom observations and conferences with the evaluator in addition to unannounced classroom observations. A controversial aspect of The purpose of evaluations is to help educators determine what is effective in their practices and provides them a medium to reflect upon and change their practice to help teachers become more effective.\n\nEducator effectiveness is a method used in the K-12 school system that uses multiple measures of assessments including classroom observations, student work samples, assessment scores and teacher artifacts, to determine the impact a particular teacher has on student's learning outcomes. While schools have used teacher evaluation practices and policies for many years, the emergence of educator effectiveness policies combines these existing practices with rubrics and test scores to provide more robust perspectives on the work of teachers. Educator effectiveness initiatives often use descriptions of effective teaching practices, such as Charlotte Danielson's \"Framework for Teaching\", to organize teaching separate domains for assessment. Danielson's domains include: Planning and Preparation, Classroom Environment, Professional Responsibilities, and Instruction.\n\nTeacher evaluations have changed over time and have had different standards across the United States. Evaluation systems often have been comprised an administrator observing a teacher a couple times per year. In some locations, teacher observations were only done on a three-year or longer cycle. In the past, a Widget Effect, as described by The New Teacher Project has been established that has developed a culture where all teachers feel as though they deserve the highest marks on evaluations. Schools used to see their job as filling positions and thought that any teacher who was given a license was high quality, and thus scored them according to that thought process. Therefore, all teachers were getting scores that were good or great and no variation was able to be determined between any two teachers.\n\nToday, federal and state policies have encouraged school systems to design more comprehensive evaluation systems that rely on multiple measures of how a teacher performs by looking at items such as student performance gains, classroom observations, teacher reflections, content specific knowledge and student reflections. Some policy makers and researchers encourage the design of systems to identify and sort good and bad teachers; others are designed to provide meaningful feedback and professional development to teachers in order to enhance their skills.\n\nOverall, the purpose of educator effectiveness is to build the capacity for teachers to enhance their skills. The effective teachers have an effect on student's ability to have a higher level of conceptual understanding of a topic and have displayed the ability to think more abstractly than peers taught by less effective teachers. Quality teaching also has been identified as a key influence for positive learning outcomes for the diverse body of students in the classroom.\n\nAs of 2013, US schools United States had very little cohesiveness in their teacher effectiveness requirements and implementations. In 2013, 25 states required that student achievement is a big or the biggest part of teacher evaluations. Twenty-seven states required teacher evaluations be based on a variety of student assessments and work samples and 44 states required classroom observations to be put into teacher evaluations. Overall, 11 states require a statewide teacher evaluation system; 10 states gave a statewide evaluation model that districts can either do or decide to do a similar model. To date only a small handful of states have adopted policies connecting the performance of students to their teachers and the colleges where the teachers were trained.\n\nMany countries have national policies that decide what teacher evaluation systems that schools will have to follow. Some countries such as Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden provide annual feedback on teaching practices. Other countries, such as Norway and Iceland leave the decision about how the teacher evaluations systems will be done to be determined at a local level. The quality of teaching in these countries is compared to the curriculum they follow and with the school instructional plan. Finland does not use any standardized testing as a measure of teacher effectiveness. Singapore is another country that does not use test scores but rather focuses on how teachers work together as a main part of their evaluation system. Singapore also focuses heavily on professional development around evaluation, coaching, mentoring and collaborating with other educators with an overall goal of getting a high quality teaching staff.\n\nThere is significant debate in the U.S. about how to reward teachers for performance as measured by educator effectiveness policies. Some schools rewards teachers by paying them more based upon their student's test scores, which is linked to the Race to the Top funding in the United States. However, other reward systems are being created based on the idea that improving a teacher's capacity to learn and improve upon their practice will have a direct impact on student achievement. These schools increase pay for teachers who have a National Board Certification using National Board for Professional Teaching Standards, advanced degrees, engaging in professional development, mentor new colleagues and paying more for these qualified teachers in hard to staff schools \n\nThe connection of teacher effectiveness and merit pay varies in different countries. In Finland and Canada, they do not to use merit-pay approaches but encourage conversations between the evaluator and teacher about student progress and success. In contrast, Chinese and Singaporean teachers, get financial bonuses and promotions for high performance. High-performing countries have a strong system of professional and school-level accountability but look at success on things such as school improvement goals, professional contributions, and indicators of student well-being.\n\nMost educator effectiveness programs rely two kinds of data: observations of teaching practices and student outcomes data. There are four main sources of observational data collected by schools:\n\nThe new part of educator effectiveness policies is the integration of outcome data into the evaluation process. The biggest component of the outcome data is growth of student learning as measured by standardized tests. Most educator effectiveness programs rely on some form of value-added measures to determine student growth. Value-added measure use longitudinal measures of student achievement to estimate the growth in student learning that can be attributed to individual teachers. If the students of a specific teacher demonstrate growth in learning better than predicated on standardized tests, the teacher is said to be effective; if the students score below the predicted scores, the teacher is said to be ineffective. Parent and student surveys are another method of collecting data on teachers and their educational practices.\n\nMany argue that it is difficult to measure the effect that teachers have on student learning. Many teachers who are in the K-12 system, teach subjects that are not assessed on state mandated testing. In order to effectively implement an educator effectiveness system, some argue that states need to create different evaluation systems for the teachers who teach students in non-tested areas such as submitted portfolios of student work, lesson logs, video clips of them teaching and reflective commentaries on lessons.\n\nOthers argue about the methodology as some districts are using value added models to determine the effectiveness to teachers. They state that it is an unreliable measurement tool because the makeup of classes differ greatly from teacher to teacher and from year to year. Some say that it ends up penalizing teachers who traditionally do not score well on standardized assessments such as students who receive free and reduce lunch and students with disabilities. They state that this may cause the highly effective teachers to work at schools with a low disability rate and a middle to high socioeconomic status. There are different ways to calculate the value-added effect of teachers that changes depending on how they define value-added and what they use to calculate it. It typically does not account for the expectations put on students who go into a classroom reading below grade level and are expected to have a much higher growth rate than their peers. Through many research studies, it has shown that the estimates of teacher effectiveness were not through the same throughout different years or content areas such as reading and math and may be difficult to compare gains from tests from year to year when they don't measure the same content \n\nSome have commented that evaluators in states with teacher evaluation systems do not have through enough training. Furthermore, these evaluators often do not have to prove themselves as effective teachers themselves. As of 2013, only 13 states require a certification for their evaluators that require evaluators are effective teachers. Furthermore, often the same evaluator is observing students every time. In order to have high quality teacher feedback, some would argue that multiple perspectives by highly effective educators would create the dialogue and feedback that would help teachers to grow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10902688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10902688", "title": "End of Course Test", "text": "End of Course Test\n\nThe End of Course Test (EOCT, EOC, or EOC Test) is an academic assessment conducted in many states by the State Board of Education. Georgia, for example, tests from the ninth to twelfth grades, and North Carolina tests for any of the four core class subjects (math, science, social studies, and English). \n\nNorth Carolina schools administer an EOCT in English II, Math I (Algebra I), and Biology. The official purpose of the test is to assess both individual and group knowledge and skills. EOCTs are mandatory and require a minimum score for graduation eligibility. Additionally, a North Carolina student's EOCT score must account for at least 25% of the student's final grade in the relevant course. \n\nGeorgia high schools are required to administer a standardized, multiple-choice EOCT, in each of eight core subjects including Algebra I, Geometry, U.S. History, Economics, Biology, Physical Science, Ninth Grade Literature and Composition, and American Literature and Composition. The official purpose of the tests is to assess \"specific content knowledge and skills.\" Although a minimum test score is not required for the student to receive credit in the course or to graduate from high school, completion of the test is mandatory. The EOCT score comprises 20% of a student's grade in the course. Since the EOCT is an official, state-administered test, any violation or interference can result in the invalidation of scores of all students taking the exam on that subject. Interferences can include cellphones, mp3 players, reading books on the same subject as the exam, and talking.\n\nAlso, E.O.C tests can be taken in middle schools.For example in the state of Florida it is mandatory for 7th graders (Middle school) to take a Civics EOC Test. A student can pass only if he attains a level of 3, 4 or 5.\n"}
{"id": "34848049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34848049", "title": "Experience and Education (book)", "text": "Experience and Education (book)\n\nExperience and Education is a short book written in 1938 by John Dewey, a pre-eminent educational theorist of the 20th century. It provides a concise and powerful analysis of education. In this and his other writings on education, Dewey continually emphasizes experience, experiment, purposeful learning, freedom, and other concepts of progressive education. Dewey argues that the quality of an educational experience is critical and stresses the importance of the social and interactive processes of learning.\n\nDewey was critical of both traditional and progressive education, that is he saw challenges within both educational approaches because they lacked a carefully developed philosophy of experience. Dewey's progressive learning theory is based on the idea that people, even young people, are not just blank slates waiting to be filled with knowledge from kinder through college. Instead, Dewey suggested that students organize fact-based comprehension through meta-cognition, or by building onto prior experiences, preconceptions, and knowledge, and therefore, the educator's role is in creating an educative experience.\n\nExperience and Education opens by saying that humans organize thoughts, and ideas as \"either-ors\" and argues that this is mirrored in educational philosophy, namely in what Dewey labels as traditional vs. progressive education. Dewey conceptualizes education as being focused on bodies of information and skills that are passed from one generation to another.\nDewey does not put traditional vs. progressive education against each other; instead, he is critical of teaching methods that are \"static\" and not incorporating enough experiential learning, which he notes young learners are more accustomed to. In addition, Dewey is critical of the old structure and its organization of educational philosophy.\n\nIn Chapter 2, The Need of a Theory of Experience, Dewey argues that not all experiences are educative and that, in fact, some experiences can be mis-educative. The central challenge to experience-based learning is to create fruitful experiences and organize them in progression to guide students’ learning. A mis-educative experience stymies the growth of further experiences. Enjoyable experiences may be mis-educative if they are disconnected and promote dispersive, disintegrated and centrifugal habits. In traditional schools, people associated boredom with the learning process. The experiences had by teachers and students were of the “wrong kind.” It Is not the absence of experiences in traditional schooling that Dewey finds troubling, but the defective nature of these experiences. Therefore, the educator’s duty is to determine the quality of an experience. Each experience has two aspects: the immediate agreeableness or disagreeableness and its later impact on further experience. Educators must think about the experiential continuum—continuity of experiences.\n\nIn Chapter 3, Criteria of Experience, Dewey delves more deeply into defining what constitutes experience for educational purposes and introduces the concept of directionality on the \"experiential continuum\". He argues growth can happen in an undesirable direction, as with that of burglars who become proficient at their professions. In this chapter, Dewey also raises questions about the built learning environment and critiques how traditional schools are insular environments rather than interacting with the world, which would promote an understanding of the world and provide a context. Dewey posits that everything must have a context to be able to draw from it and have it be educational.\n\nIn Chapter 4, Dewey argues that the teacher in a traditional classroom, by nature of the social setting, was concerned mainly with \"keeping order.\" In a progressive education classroom, social conventions would be enforced by the students who felt a part of the community and not forced on students by the teacher. Dewey uses the example of children playing games at recess, as he explains \"The games involve rules, and these rules order their conduct...As long as the game goes on with a reasonable smoothness, the players do not feel that they are submitting to external imposition, but that they are playing the game.\" When things do not go smoothly, the player \"may even get angry, but he is not objecting to a rule, but to what he claims is a violation of it.\" The teacher, in this instance, could act as the umpire or referee to which students would look to arbitrate disputes. In those few instances which the teacher had to intervene directly, as long as the teacher acted on behalf of the interest of the group, children would accept the teacher doing so. Dewey notes that traditional schools, which did not rely upon the establishment of a social learning community, tended to lack this social control, and therefore the teacher only had the option of \"direct intervention\" to \"keep order.\"\n\nIn Chapter 5, Dewey asserts that the freedom of intelligence—the act of freely thinking, observing and judging—is the only freedom of enduring importance. Unlike traditional schools that enforce quiet and stillness, progressive learning allows teachers to assess their students on a deeper level because of the outward freedom they afford students. Freedom of movement is also an integral component of physical and mental health. Although freedom of movement is important, Dewey states outward movement does not always lead to progressive learning. Instead, Dewey believes that freedom of outer-movement is a means, not an end. Teachers therefore should address the need for external freedom on an individual basis with each student. Allowing students’ freedom of intelligence gives them the power to frame purposes, judge wisely, and evaluate their desires. Students need time to make observations of the world. Cultivating this freedom of intelligence or power means allowing students ample opportunity to reflect on their natural impulses by “stopping and thinking.”\n\nIn Chapter 6, Dewey maintains that students must feel a sense of purpose in their learning to avoid mental slavery. Dewey describes a slave as someone who “executes the purpose of another or is enslaved to his own blind desires.” A genuine purpose consists of impulses, desires that are measured against perceived consequences. A purpose involves thinking about future consequences resulting from acting upon impulse. Schooling should not just concern itself with appealing to a student’s desires or impulses. Educators must help students foresee the consequences of enacted impulses and desires. More importantly educators must help drive the direction of the purpose. The formation of purposes involves: observation of objective conditions; an assessment of past experiences with similar conditions; and judgment of observation combined with memory to determine significance.\n\nAn experience-based model of education implies students learning new material must find a way to ground unfamiliar concepts and ideas within the scope of ordinary life-experience. Progressive education with an emphasis on experience-linked learning relies on the role of the educator to structure material being studied in a manner that facilitates this.\n\nConversely, students' diverse backgrounds create an infinitely diverse range of experiences for the educator to consider. It is his/her responsibility to organize learning experiences to allow assimilation of new material in a context appreciable by and beneficial to the student. Developing this structure first requires acknowledgement of experience as a vehicle of learning. Subsequently the educator's discretion is important in selecting the material for a course of study and a sensitivity to weaving connections between the students' previous experiences and new material, such that the lesson learned is of greater value.\n\nOne of Dewey's preeminent concerns was the educator's role in creating an environment of education that provides continuity within this contextualized experience-based assimilative model of student learning. The difficulty in this challenge lies in continually adapting subject matter to the growing sphere of individual experiences as students progress.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55234564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55234564", "title": "Female education in STEM", "text": "Female education in STEM\n\nFemale education in STEM includes child and adult female represented in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM ). In 2017, 33% of students in STEM fields were women.\n\nThe organization UNESCO has stated that this gender disparity is due to discrimination, biases, social norms and expectations that influence the quality of education women receive and the subjects they study. UNESCO also believes that having more women in STEM fields is desirable because it would help bring about sustainable development. \n\nGender differences in STEM education participation are already visible in early childhood care and education in science- and math-related play, and become more pronounced at higher levels of education. Girls appear to lose interest in STEM subjects with age, particularly between early and late adolescence. This decreased interest affects participation in advanced studies at the secondary level and in higher education. Female students represent 35% of all students enrolled in STEM-related fields of study at this level globally . Differences are also observed by disciplines, with female enrollment lowest in engineering, manufacturing and construction, natural science, mathematics and statistics and ICT fields. Significant regional and country differences in female representation in STEM studies can be observed, though, suggesting the presence of contextual factors affecting girls’ and women’s engagement in these fields. Women leave STEM disciplines in disproportionate numbers during their higher education studies, in their transition to the world of work and even in their career cycle.\n\nData on gender differences in learning achievement present a complex picture, depending on what is measured (subject, knowledge acquisition against knowledge application), the level of education/age of students, and geographic location. Overall, women's participation has been increasing, but significant regional variations exist. For example, where data are available in Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, the gender gap is largely in favour of boys in mathematics achievement in secondary education. In contrast, in the Arab States, girls perform better than boys in both subjects in primary and secondary education. As with the data on participation, national and regional variations in data on learning achievement suggest the presence of contextual factors affecting girls’ and women’s engagement in these fields. Girls’ achievement seems to be stronger in science than mathematics and where girls do better than boys, the score differential is up to three times higher than where boys do better. girls tend to outperform boys in certain sub-topics such as biology and chemistry but do less well in physics and earth science.\n\nThe gender gap has fallen significantly in science in secondary education among TIMSS trend countries: 14 out of 17 participating countries had no gender gap in science in 2015, compared to only one in 1995. However, the data is less well known outside of these 17 countries. The gender gap in boys' favour is slightly bigger in mathematics but improvements over time in girls’ favour are also observed in certain countries, despite the important regional variations. Gender differences are observed within mathematic sub-topics with girls outperforming boys in topics such as algebra and geometry but doing less well in \"number\". Girls’ performance is stronger in assessments that measure knowledge acquisition than those measuring knowledge application. Country coverage in terms of data availability is quite limited while data is collected at different frequency and against different variables in the existing studies. There are large gaps in our knowledge of the situation in low- and middle-income countries in sub-Saharan Africa, Central Asia, and South and West Asia, particularly at secondary level.\n\nAccording to UNESCO, there are multiple and overlapping factors which influence girls' and women's participation, achievement and progression in STEM studies and careers, all of which interact in complex ways, including: \n\nThe question of whether there are differences in cognitive ability between men and women has long been a topic of debate among researchers and scholars. Some studies have found no differences in the neural mechanism of learning based on sex.\n\nLoss of interest has been the major reason cited for girls opting out of STEM. However, some have stated that this choice is influenced heavily by the socialization process and stereotyped ideas about gender roles, including stereotypes about gender and STEM. Gender stereotypes that communicate the idea that STEM studies and careers are male domains can negatively affect girls’ interest, engagement and achievement in STEM and discourage them from pursuing STEM careers. Girls who assimilate such stereotypes have lower levels of self-efficacy and confidence in their ability than boys. Self-efficacy affects both STEM education outcomes and aspirations for STEM careers to a considerable extent. Some studies have shown that girls appear to lose interest in STEM subjects with age.\n\nParents, including their beliefs and expectations, play an important role in shaping girls’ attitudes towards, and interest in, STEM studies. Parents with traditional beliefs about gender roles and who treat girls and boys unequally can reinforce stereotypes about gender and ability in STEM. Parents can also have a strong influence on girls' STEM participation and learning achievement through the family values, environment, experiences and encouragement that they provide. Some research finds that parents’ expectations, particularly the mother’s expectations, have more influence on the higher education and career choices of girls than those of boys. Higher socio-economic status and parental educational qualifications are associated with higher scores in mathematics and science for both girls and boys. Girls’ science performance appears to be more strongly associated with mothers’ higher educational qualifications, and boys’ with their fathers’. Family members with STEM careers can also influence girls’ STEM engagement. The broader socio-cultural context of the family can also play a role. Factors such as ethnicity, the language used at home, immigrant status and family structure may also have an influence on girls’ participation and performance in STEM. Peers can also impact on girls’ motivation and feeling of belonging in STEM education. Influence of female peers is a significant predictor of girls’ interest and confidence in mathematics and science.\n\nQualified teachers with specialization in STEM can positively influence girls’ performance and engagement with STEM education and their interest in pursuing STEM careers. Female STEM teachers often have stronger benefits for girls, possibly by acting as role models and by helping to dispel stereotypes about sex-based STEM ability. Teachers’ beliefs, attitudes, behaviours and interactions with students, as well as Curricula and learning materials, can all play a role as well. Opportunities for real-life experiences with STEM, including hands-on practice, apprenticeships, career counselling and mentoring can expand girls’ understanding of STEM studies and professions and maintain interest. Assessment processes and tools that are gender-biased or include gender stereotypes may negatively affect girls’ performance in STEM. Girls’ learning outcomes in STEM can also be compromised by psychological factors such as mathematics or test anxiety.\n\nA 2018 study found that while girls perform better or equal to boys in two out of three countries, in nearly all countries more girls were qualified to college-level study than had enrolled. Researchers found that female enrolment to STEM subjects was relatively lower in countries with a high degree of gender equality – a gender-equality paradox.\n\nCultural and social norms influence girls’ perceptions about their abilities, role in society and career and life aspirations.The degree of gender equality in wider society influences girls’ participation and performance in STEM. In countries with greater gender equality, girls tend to have more positive attitudes and confidence about mathematics and the gender gap in achievement in the subject is smaller. Targeted measures to promote gender equality, such as gender mainstreaming legislation or policies such as quotas, financial incentives or other, can increase girls’ and women’s participation in STEM education and careers. Gender stereotypes portrayed in the media are internalized by children and adults and affect the way they see themselves and others. Media can perpetuate or challenge gender stereotypes about STEM abilities and careers.\n"}
{"id": "39566734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39566734", "title": "Global Assessment Certificate", "text": "Global Assessment Certificate\n\nThe Global Assessment Certificate program (also known as the GAC, /ʤi: eI si:/, jee-ay-see) is a university preparation and foundation studies program that provides students from mostly non-English-speaking backgrounds with academic knowledge and skills to prepare them for western-style postsecondary study. It is owned and developed by ACT Education Solutions, Ltd. (AES), an international subsidiary of ACT, Inc.\n\nThe GAC is recognized for admissions and credit transfer purposes by more than 90 universities around the globe, including The University of Iowa, LIU Post, the University of Idaho, Oklahoma State University, Southern Oregon University (in the United States), Griffith University, University Technology Sydney, Bond, La Trobe, and RMIT (in Australia) for admissions purposes and is considered an alternative or addition to Year 12 for international students.\n\nThe GAC is licensed to teaching centers (known as ‘Approved Teaching Centers’ or ATCs). The program is monitored and moderated by AES staff based at the organization’s regional offices in Shanghai, Jakarta and Singapore. It is not currently accredited.\n\nThe GAC can be delivered full-time or part-time as a concurrent co-curriculum with the high school curriculum. The minimum requirements for delivery of the program are 720 hours of face-to-face instruction and 360 hours of independent study, half of which must be supervised. The program is continuously assessed and all assessments are moderated by ACT Education Solutions. \n\nLevel I\n\nSix mandatory modules with a total of 240 hours of face-to-face study, plus 120 hours independent study. Includes academic English, study skills, mathematics, computing, and communication skills.\n\nLevel II\n\nTwo mandatory academic English modules, plus four of six specialization modules across the areas of business, computing, mathematics, science, psychology and social science. Electives in IELTS or TOEFL preparation are available.\n\nLevel III\n\nTwo mandatory academic English modules plus four of six specialization modules across the areas of business, computing, mathematics, science, psychology and social science. ACT Test preparation is also available.\n\nThe GAC Grade Point Average (GPA) scale is based on a four-point scale with a passing grade of 55% (GPA 0.6). Grading criteria for each assessment are clearly stipulated in documentation provided to Approved Teaching Centers (ATCs) and teachers and directors of studies are trained by ACT Education Solutions, Limited's academic staff in the correct application of the grading criteria. All grades are finalized by ACT Education Solutions, Limited's academic staff prior to posting on ACT Education Solutions, Limited's secure online database, iTAP. Higher education institutions can verify GAC graduates' certificates and transcripts through the iTAP database. \n\nThe American Council on Education’s (www.acenet.edu) College Credit Recommendation Service (ACE CREDIT) recommended college credit for 15 of the GAC program modules in 2016. ACE found 15 GAC modules to be equivalent to associate degree–level subjects at US colleges and universities. Each was recommended for 3 semester credit hours, up to a total of 44 credit hours.\n\nInformation on how each module is recommended for credit is available from ACE’s National Guide, searching under the organization’s name.\n"}
{"id": "37159435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37159435", "title": "Global education", "text": "Global education\n\nGlobal education is a set of ideas taught to enhance one's perception of the world. It is taught within the curriculum where teachers integrate multiple dimensions, perspectives, and citizenships into everyday lessons. It began as an undertaking to restructure education and society in the 1960s and 1970s, through the initiatives of educationalists, NGOs and intergovernmental organizations. This global approach seeks to break an educational program that is stuck in subject knowledge and national culture, and instead, seeks to discover alternative motivations for education and alternate futures.\n\nIn Australia, it is perceived to enable young people to participate in shaping a better, shared future for the world. It emphasizes the unity and interdependence of human society, developing a sense of self and appreciation of cultural diversity, affirmation of social justice and human rights, as well as building peace and actions for a sustainable future at different times and places. This approach is also believed to promote positive values and prods students to take responsibility for their actions and see themselves as global citizens who can contribute to a more peaceful, just and sustainable world.\n\nUnited Kingdom:\n\nNetwork of Young Europeans:\n\nTokyo Global Engineering Corporation: \n\nThe National Education Association (NEA) recognizes Global Education to be a goal that educators strive to succeed in the classroom. The American association supports study abroad trips and teaching overseas for teachers to get a first hand experience of different cultures.\n\nUniversities in the United States are also expanding their study abroad programs to enhance greater interconnectedness and global economic interdependence. The Institute of International Education (IIE) is researching effective ways that higher education in the United States can grow and create quality study abroad programs within the curriculum.\n\nMany K-12 schools within the United States have adapted a Global Education Framework that was created for state wide implementation. Within this framework consist of six essential steps for a successful global education curriculum within each school:\n\nUniversities in the United States have recently been expanding on the degree programs relating to global education. Many universities offer Bachelor Degree programs and certifications in Global Education, M.S. degrees in Global and International Education, M.A. degrees in International Education, and doctorate degrees in International Education.\n\nPeople with a degree in International Education design, implement, manage, and evaluate multiple education programs within public and private primary and secondary schools, public and private higher education programs, national corporations, and cultural agencies. People in the job field can work at agencies across the world, within elite universities, and a variety of global education organizations.\n\nIn January 2016, the Institute of International Education (IIE) announced the winners at the annual IIE Andrew Heiskell Awards for Innovation on International Education. The Heiskell awards were created to promote and honor outstanding commitments conducted in international higher education. Categories of the awards include: Internationalizing the Campus, Study Abroad, International Partnerships, and Internationalizing the HBCU. These awards hope to bring public awareness to the benefits of international education.\n\nThe International Education Association of Australia (IEAA) awards professionals in the global education field for their outstanding contributions to international education in Australia by providing excellence and best practice. The International Education Association of Australia (IEAA) also supports the international education communities’ research, projects, journalism, publications, and more areas that contribute to the global perspectives in education.\n\nEvidence based practices have shown that literature can help children learn about global issues. By exploring diversity in text, connecting the literature to service learning and activism, promote critical thinking about themselves in the global community, and develop their global awareness with literacy elements. Literature introduced in the classroom can teach multiple skills that prepare for further learning within the global community.\n\nTechnology is a key provider in learning about globalization and participating in the global community. Technology can be used in the classroom to communicate around the world, establish global relationships, learn more about global current events, and developing global research. The advancements of technology will have a positive impact of global education in primary schools and higher education schools.\n\nService learning or local volunteer service work are included in conceptualized global citizenship programs. This approach is criticized because global relations are dramatically split into rich and poor, or oppressor and oppressed, respectively. Experiences of oppression are more complex than experiences of oppressing. Global citizenship education includes connecting nearby and worldwide issues and points of view and may incorporate such themes as human rights, social equity, and citizenship instruction, economic improvement, and globalization. Service learning can carry the possibility to recreate social disparities and advance, instead of dissipate, stereotypes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "430035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430035", "title": "Great books", "text": "Great books\n\nThe great books are books that constitute an essential foundation in the literature of Western culture. Specified sets of great books typically range from 100 to 150, though they differ according to purpose and context. For instance, some lists are built to be read by undergraduates in a college semester system (130 books, Torrey Honors Institute), some are compiled to be sold as a single set of volumes (500 books, Mortimer Adler), while some lists aim at a thorough literary criticism (2,400 books, Harold Bloom).\n\nThe great books are those that tradition, and various institutions and authorities, have regarded as constituting or best expressing the foundations of Western culture (the Western canon is a similar but broader designation); derivatively the term also refers to a curriculum or method of education based around a list of such books. Mortimer Adler lists three criteria for including a book on the list:\n\nThomas Jefferson, well known for his interest in higher education, frequently composed great books lists for his friends and correspondents, for example, for Peter Carr in 1785 and again in 1787.\n\nIn 1909, Harvard University published a 51-volume great books series, titled the Harvard Classics. These volumes are now in the public domain.\n\nThe Great Books of the Western World came about as the result of a discussion among American academics and educators, starting in the 1920s and 1930s and begun by Prof. John Erskine of Columbia University, about how to improve the higher education system by returning it to the western liberal arts tradition of broad cross-disciplinary learning. These academics and educators included Robert Hutchins, Mortimer Adler, Stringfellow Barr, Scott Buchanan, Jacques Barzun, and Alexander Meiklejohn. The view among them was that the emphasis on narrow specialization in American colleges had harmed the quality of higher education by failing to expose students to the important products of Western civilization and thought.\n\nThey were at odds both with much of the existing educational establishment and with contemporary educational theory. Educational theorists like Sidney Hook and John Dewey (\"see pragmatism\") disagreed with the premise that there was crossover in education.\n\nThe Great Books Program is a curriculum that makes use of this list of texts. As much as possible, students rely on primary sources. The emphasis is on open discussion with limited guidance by a professor, facilitator, or tutor. Students are also expected to write papers.\n\nIn 1920, Professor Erskine taught the first course based on the \"great books\" program, titled \"General Honors\", at Columbia University. He helped mold its core curriculum. It initially failed, however, shortly after its introduction due to fallings-out between the senior faculty over the best ways to conduct classes and due to concerns about the rigor of the courses. Thus junior faculty including Mark Van Doren and Mortimer Adler after 1923, taught a part of the course. The course was discontinued in 1928, though later reconstituted. Adler left for the University of Chicago in 1929, where he continued his work on the theme, and along with the University president, Robert M. Hutchins, held an annual seminar of great books. In 1937, when Mark Van Doren redesigned the course, it was already being taught at St. John's College, Annapolis, besides University of Chicago. This course later became Humanities A for freshmen, and subsequently evolved into Literature Humanities. Survivors, however, include Columbia's Core Curriculum, the Common Core at Chicago, and the Core Curriculum at Boston University, each heavily focused on the \"great books\" of the Western canon.\n\nA university or college Great Books Program is a program inspired by the Great Books movement begun in the United States in the 1920s. The aim of such programs is a return to the Western Liberal Arts tradition in education, as a corrective to the extreme disciplinary specialisation common within the academy. The essential component of such programs is a high degree of engagement with whole primary texts, called the Great Books. The curricula of Great Books programs often follow a canon of texts considered more or less essential to a student's education, such as Plato's \"Republic\", or Dante's \"Divine Comedy\". Such programs often focus exclusively on Western culture. Their employment of primary texts dictates an interdisciplinary approach, as most of the Great Books do not fall neatly under the prerogative of a single contemporary academic discipline. Great Books programs often include designated discussion groups as well as lectures, and have small class sizes. In general students in such programs receive an abnormally high degree of attention from their professors, as part of the overall aim of fostering a community of learning.\n\nThere are only a few true \"Great Books Programs\" still in operation. These schools focus almost exclusively on the Great Books Curriculum throughout enrollment and do not offer classes analogous to those commonly offered at other colleges. The first and best known of these schools is St. John's College in Annapolis and Santa Fe (program established in 1937); it was followed by Shimer College in Chicago, the Integral Program at Saint Mary's College of California (1955), Thomas More College of Liberal Arts in Merrimack, New Hampshire (est. 1978), Northeast Catholic College in Warner, New Hampshire, and Thomas Aquinas College in Santa Paula, California. More recent schools with this type of curriculum include New Saint Andrews College in Moscow, Idaho (est. 1994), Gutenberg College in Eugene, Oregon (est. 1994), Harrison Middleton University in Tempe, Arizona (est. 1998), Wyoming Catholic College in Lander, Wyoming (est. 2005), and Imago Dei College in Oak Glen, California (est. 2010). Fordham University's Honors Program at Rose Hill incorporates the Great Books curriculum into a rigorous first four semesters in the program. The University of Notre Dame's Program of Liberal Studies, established in 1950, is a highly regarded Great Books Program that operates as a separate institution within the College of Liberal Arts. Dharma Realm Buddhist University is the first Great Books school to offer curriculum combining Eastern and Western classics.\n\nThe Center for the Study of the Great Ideas advances the Great Conversation found in the great books by providing Adler's guidance, and resource materials through both live and on-line seminars, educational and philosophical consultation, international presence on the Internet, access to the Center's library collection of books, essays, articles, journals and audio/video programs. Center programs are unique in that they do not replicate other existing programs either started or developed by Adler.\n\nOver 100 institutions of higher learning in the United States, Canada, and Europe maintain some version of a Great Books Program as an option for students. Among these are:\n\nUnited States\n\n\nCanada\n\nEurope\nAsia\nIn contemporary scholarship, the great books curriculum was drawn into the popular debate about multiculturalism, traditional education, the \"culture war,\" and the role of the intellectual in American life. Much of this debate centered on reactions to the publication of \"The Closing of the American Mind\" in 1987 by Allan Bloom.\n\nThe \"Great Books of the Western World\" is a hardcover 60-volume collection (originally 54 volumes) of the books on the great books list (about 517 individual works). Many of the books in the collection were translated into English for the first time. A prominent feature of the collection is a two-volume Syntopicon that includes essays written by Mortimer Adler on 102 \"great ideas.\" Following each essay is an extensive outline of the idea with page references to relevant passages throughout the collection. Familiar to many Americans, the collection is available from Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc., which owns the copyright.\n\nShortly after Adler retired from the Great Books Foundation in 1989, a second edition (1990) of the \"Great Books of the Western World\" was published; it included more Hispanic and female authors and, for the first time, works by black authors. During his tenure as president of the Foundation, Adler had resisted such additions.\n\nThe following is an example list, in chronological order, compiled from \"How to Read a Book\" by Mortimer Adler (1940), and \"How to Read a Book\", 2nd ed. by Mortimer Adler and Charles Van Doren (1972):\n\nThe original edition of \"How to Read a Book\" contained a separate \"contemporary list\" because \"Here one's judgment must be tentative\" All but the following authors were incorporated into the single list of the revised edition:\n\nIn 1954 Mortimer Adler hosted a live weekly television series in San Francisco, comprising 52 half-hour programs, entitled \"The Great Ideas\". These programs were produced by the Institute for Philosophical Research and were carried as a public service by the American Broadcasting Company, presented by National Educational Television (NET), the precursor to what is now PBS. Adler bequeathed these films to the Center for the Study of the Great Ideas, where they are available for purchase.\n\nIn 1993 and 1994, The Learning Channel created a series of one-hour programs discussing many of the great books of history and their impact on the world. It was narrated by Donald Sutherland and Morgan Freeman, amongst others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1314371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1314371", "title": "Honors student", "text": "Honors student\n\nAn honor student is a student recognized for achieving high grades or high marks in their coursework at school.\n\nIn the US honors students may refer to:\n\nHonors students are often recognized for their achievements. A student who has made numerous appearances on the honor roll may be awarded some form of academic letter, or any other form of notification. A similar concept to honor rolls exists in colleges and universities in the United States, known as the Dean's List.\n\nIn other countries, the meaning of honours can refer either to a specific type of academic degree or to the level of distinction with which an undergraduate degree was earned.\n\nHonours degrees are usually four-year programs (sometimes also three-year programs, e.g., in England). A student who holds a \"de jure\" Honours degree is eligible for direct entry either to a Doctorate (Ph.D.) or to a two- to three years very-high-research Master's degree program.\n\n'Honours' can also mean that students have achieved their degree with a high overall average GPA and typically have undertaken a small final project, paper or essay (also known in the UK as a dissertation). See British undergraduate degree classification.\n\nA third meaning is a postgraduate \"with Honours\" or \"cum honored\" degree, which is (part of) an academic degree itself, e.g. the one-year Bachelor with Honours degree in Australia, the one-year Baccalaureatus Cum Honore degree in Canada or the four-year integrated Master with Honours degree in Scotland. Postgraduate Honours degree programs generally involve completion of master's level courses and the submission of a long high-research thesis.\n\nSome researchers have questioned the validity of the honor roll as an effective form of positive reinforcement. It is argued that the pursuit of extrinsic reward is not an accurate reflection of intrinsic interest in course material. There are also questions on the effectiveness of separating high-achieving students from their peers, in the form of magnet schools or honors courses.\n\nAn honors course is a class in which the most advanced students are placed. Most students placed in honors courses are highly motivated and dedicated to their educational experience. Honors classes also cover advanced material, permit more in-depth study than a standard course of study and may require independent research.\n\nMotivation is the main quality that characterizes an honors student. In addition to being committed to academics, they are encouraged and many participate in volunteer work, organizations and clubs, cooperative education, research, study abroad and cultural activities.\n\nHonors programs have specific entrance requirements and completion criteria in order to graduate with Honors, or cum laude.\n\n"}
{"id": "40909785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40909785", "title": "Invitational education", "text": "Invitational education\n\nInvitational Education (IE) is an educational theory of practice introduced by co-founders Dr. William Watson Purkey and Dr. Betty Siegel of the International Alliance for Invitational Education (IAIE). Purkey is professor emeritus of counselor education at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro and writes prolifically as a catalyst for school improvement. In addition, Dr. John Novak, professor emeritus at Brock University in Ontario, Canada, is a primary contributor to the development of Invitational Theory and Practice, authoring numerous books on the subject and lecturing internationally.\nIE emphasizes the importance of internal knowledge in relation to external connections to the outside world and existing educational systems. A key feature of IE is positive self-concept developed through a school environment that leads to more productivity.\n\nPurkey writes, \"At its heart, Invitational Education is an imaginative act of hope that explains how human potential can be realized. It identifies and changes the forces that defeat and destroy people. Invitational Education is designed to create and enhance human environments that cordially summon people to realize their potential in all areas of worthwhile human endeavor.\" \"Invitational Education asserts that organizations are never neutral. Everything and everybody either adds to or subtracts from an existing culture. Invitational Education offers concrete, practice, safe, successful and democratic solutions for problems that routinely harm organizations and the people within them.\"\n\nInvitational Education recognizes five Domains which comprise everyone and every thing in an organization. The Domains include People, Places, Policies, Programs and Processes. These domains will either build or destroy intellectual, social, physical, emotional and moral potential for stakeholders. Adjusting these domains, Invitational Education's theory and practices have been embedded in schools around the world at all levels, from nursery schools to universities. In addition, Invitational Education has strengthened health care facilities, businesses, non-profits, worship centers and families.\n\nIn \"Visible Learning\", John Hattie's meta-analysis of school improvement research, Hattie writes, \"[Invitational Education] is not 'niceness' at work, but an approach that places much reliance on the teachers and schools to make learning exciting, engaging, and enduring. Where there are school differences, it is these types of effects that are the most powerful.\" Hattie's research determined that many of the most hotly debated school reform efforts had little effect on school improvement, but those which provide in invitation to learn had the most profound effect.\n\nAlso applying Invitational Education are authors Harry and Rosemary Wong. In their book, \"The First Days of School\", the Wongs explain that effective teachers invite their students and their colleagues to learn together. \"An invitation makes a person feel able, responsible and valuable. Effective teachers have the power and the ability to maintain an inviting stance in the classroom.\" \n"}
{"id": "5168868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5168868", "title": "Kharkov school of psychology", "text": "Kharkov school of psychology\n\nThe Kharkiv school of psychology (\"Харьківска психологічна школа\") is a tradition of developmental psychological research conducted in the paradigm of Lev Vygotsky's \"sociocultural theory of mind\" and Leontiev's psychological activity theory.\n\nThe school was founded by its leader Alexander Luria, who—along with Mark Lebedinsky and Alexei Leont'ev—moved from Moscow to Kharkiv, the capital of Soviet Ukraine at that time. The core of the group was formed by Luria, Lebedinsky and Leontiev and their Moscow colleagues, Zaporozhets and Bozhovich, along with a group of such local researchers as Gal'perin, Asnin, P. Zinchenko, Lukov, Khomenko, Kontsevaya, Rozenblyum, etc. The group conducted a wide range of psychological studies on concept formation in children, voluntary and involuntary memory, development of visual-operational thinking, voluntary behaviour, and reasoning, the role of orientation in thought and activity, etc. that laid the foundation for the psychological theory of activity.\n\nIn the postwar period, the scientific work of the school developed under informal leadership of Pyotr Zinchenko in the field of the psychology of memory. The major achievement of the school is the systematic analysis of the phenomenon of involuntary memory from the standpoint of the activity approach in psychology. Soviet studies of involuntary memory carried out by the representatives of the Kharkiv school influenced psychological research both nationally and worldwide (e.g., memory research by A. Brown, Murphy, Meacham, Sophian, Hagen, etc.).\n\nThe information processing or engineering psychology approach to memory and cognition was developed in the research by Zinchenko, Bocharova, Nevel'skii, Repkina. On the other hand, research on the role of involuntary memory in education and memory in thinking and personality development was conducted by Sereda, Ivanova, and associates.\n\nAnother major area of research is the theory and practice of developmental teaching (or the system of El'konin-Davydov) associated with such representatives of the Kharkiv school as Repkin, Bodanskii, Dusavitskii.\n\nSpecial journal issues\nSelected papers In English\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "217280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217280", "title": "Kindergarten", "text": "Kindergarten\n\nKindergarten (, ; from German , literally meaning 'garden for the children') is a preschool educational approach based on playing, singing, practical activities such as drawing, and social interaction as part of the transition from home to school. Such institutions were originally created in the late 18th century in Bavaria and Strasbourg to serve children whose parents both worked outside home. The term was coined by the German Friedrich Fröbel, whose approach globally influenced early-years education. Today, the term is used in many countries to describe a variety of educational institutions and learning spaces for children ranging from two to seven years of age, based on a variety of teaching methods.\nIn 1779, Johann Friedrich Oberlin and Louise Scheppler founded in Strasbourg an early establishment for caring for and educating pre-school children whose parents were absent during the day. At about the same time, in 1780, similar infant establishments were established in Bavaria. In 1802, Princess Pauline zur Lippe established a preschool center in Detmold, the capital of the then principality of Lippe, Germany (now in the State of North Rhine-Westphalia).\n\nIn 1816, Robert Owen, a philosopher and pedagogue, opened the first British and probably globally the first infants school in New Lanark, Scotland. In conjunction with his venture for cooperative mills Owen wanted the children to be given a good moral education so that they would be fit for work. His system was successful in producing obedient children with basic literacy and numeracy.\n\nSamuel Wilderspin opened his first infant school in London in 1819, and went on to establish hundreds more. He published many works on the subject, and his work became the model for infant schools throughout England and further afield. Play was an important part of Wilderspin's system of education. He is credited with inventing the playground. In 1823, Wilderspin published \"On the Importance of Educating the Infant Poor\", based on the school. He began working for the Infant School Society the next year, informing others about his views. He also wrote \"The Infant System, for developing the physical, intellectual, and moral powers of all children from 1 to seven years of age\".\n\nCountess Theresa Brunszvik (1775–1861), who had known and been influenced by Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, was influenced by this example to open an \"Angyalkert\" (\"angel garden\" in Hungarian) on May 27, 1828, in her residence in Buda, the first of eleven care centers that she founded for young children. In 1836 she established an institute for the foundation of preschool centers. The idea became popular among the nobility and the middle class and was copied throughout the Kingdom of Hungary.\n\nFriedrich Fröbel (1782–1852) opened a \"play and activity\" institute in 1837 in the village of Bad Blankenburg in the principality of Schwarzburg-Rudolstadt, Thuringia, as an experimental social experience for children entering school. He renamed his institute \"\" on June 28, 1840, reflecting his belief that children should be nurtured and nourished \"like plants in a garden\".\n\nWomen trained by Fröbel opened kindergartens throughout Europe and around the world. The first kindergarten in the US was founded in Watertown, Wisconsin in 1856 and was conducted in German by Margaretha Meyer-Schurz.\n\nElizabeth Peabody founded the first English-language kindergarten in the US in 1860. The first free kindergarten in the US was founded in 1870 by Conrad Poppenhusen, a German industrialist and philanthropist, who also established the Poppenhusen Institute. The first publicly financed kindergarten in the US was established in St. Louis in 1873 by Susan Blow.\n\nCanada's first private kindergarten was opened by the Wesleyan Methodist Church in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, in 1870. By the end of the decade, they were common in large Canadian towns and cities. The country's first public-school kindergartens were established in Berlin, Ontario (modern Kitchener), in 1882 T Central School). In 1885, the Toronto Normal School (teacher training) opened a department for kindergarten teaching.\n\nElizabeth Harrison wrote extensively on the theory of early childhood education and worked to enhance educational standards for kindergarten teachers by establishing what became the National College of Education in 1886.\n\nIn Afghanistan, children between the ages of 3 and 6 attend kindergartens (; ). Although kindergartens in Afghanistan are not part of the school system, they are often run by the government.\n\nEarly Childhood Development programs were first introduced during the Soviet occupation with the establishment in 1980 of 27 urban preschools, or kodakistan. The number of preschools grew steadily during the 1980s, peaking in 1990 with more than 270 in Afghanistan. At this peak, there were 2,300 teachers caring for more than 21,000 children in the country. These facilities were an urban phenomenon, mostly in Kabul, and were attached to schools, government offices, or factories. Based on the Soviet model, these Early Childhood Development programs provided nursery care, preschool, and kindergarten for children from 3 months to 6 years of age under the direction of the Department of Labor and Social Welfare.\n\nThe vast majority of Afghan families were never exposed to this system, and many of these families were in opposition to these programs due to the belief that it diminishes the central role of the family and inculcates children with Soviet values. With the onset of civil war after the Soviet withdrawal, the number of kindergartens dropped rapidly. By 1995, only 88 functioning facilities serving 2,110 children survived, and the Taliban restrictions on female employment eliminated all of the remaining centers in areas under their control. In 2007, there were about 260 kindergarten/pre-school centers serving over 25,000 children. Though every government center is required to have an early childhood center, at present, no governmental policies deal with early childhood and no institutions have either the responsibility or the capacity to provide such services.\n\nIn each state of Australia, \"kindergarten\" (frequently referred to as \"kinder\" or \"kindy\") means something slightly different. In Tasmania, New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory, it is the first year of primary school. In Victoria, kindergarten is a form of preschool and may be referred to interchangeably as preschool or kindergarten. In Victoria and Tasmania, the phrase for the first year of primary school is called \"Prep\" (short for \"preparatory\"), which is followed by grade 1. \n\nIn Queensland, kindergarten is usually an institution for children around the age of 4 and thus it is the precursor to preschool and primary education. In recent years though, Kindergartens have been taking children as young as 6 months old. \n\nThe year preceding the first year of primary school education in Western Australia, South Australia or the Northern Territory is referred to respectively as \"pre-primary\", \"reception\" or \"transition\".\n\nIn Bangladesh, the term \"kindergarten\", or \"KG School\" (Kindergarten School), is used to refer to the schooling children attend from 3 to 6 years of age. The names of the levels are nursery, \"shishu\" (children), etc. But the view of kindergarten education has changed much from previous years. Almost every rural area now has at least one Kindergarten School, with most being run in the Bengali language. They also follow the textbooks published by the National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB) with a light modification, adding some extra books in syllabus. The grades generally start from Nursery (sometimes \"Play\"), \"KG\" afterwards, and ends with the 5th grade. Separate from the National Education System, kindergarten is contributing greatly toward achieving the Millennium Development Goal of universal primary education in Bangladesh.\n\nIn Bulgaria, the term \"detska gradina\" (деτска градина) refers to the schooling children attend from 3 to 7 (in some cases 6) years of age. Since 2012, two years of pre-school education are compulsory. These two years of mandatory pre-school education may be attended either at kindergarten or in preparatory groups at primary schools.\n\nSchools outside of Ontario and the Northwest Territories generally provide one year of kindergarten, except some private schools offer junior kindergarten for 4-year-olds (school before kindergarten is most commonly referred to as pre-school). After kindergarten, the child begins grade one. The province of Nova Scotia refers to Kindergarten as Grade Primary.\n\nThe province of Ontario and the Northwest Territories provide two years of kindergarten. Within the province of Quebec, junior kindergarten is called \"prématernelle\" (which is not mandatory), is attended by 4-year-olds, and senior kindergarten is called \"maternelle\", which is also not mandatory by the age of 5, this class is integrated into primary schools. Within the French school system in the province of Ontario, junior kindergarten is called \"maternelle\" and senior kindergarten is called \"jardin d'enfants\", which is a calque of the German word \"Kindergarten\".\n\nIn Chile, the term equivalent to Kindergarten is \"\"Educación parvularia\", sometimes also called \"Educación Preescolar\". It is the first level of the Chilean educational system. It meets the needs of boys and girls integrally from their birth until their entry to the \"Educación Básica\" (Primary education), without being considered as compulsory. Generally, schools imparting this level, the JUNJI (National Council of Kindergarten Schools) and other private institutions have the following organization of groups or subcategories of levels:\n\nIn China, pre-school education, before the child enters formal schooling at 6 years of age, is generally divided into a \"nursery\" or \"preschool\" stage and a \"kindergarten\" (幼儿园 (yòu'éryuán) stage. These can be two separate institutions, or a single combined one in different areas. Where there are two separate institutions, it is common for the kindergarten to consist of the two upper years, and the preschool to consist of one lower year. Common names for these three years are:\n\nIn some places, children at 5-6 years may in addition or instead attend \"reception\" or \"preparatory\" classes (学前班/xué qián bān) focusing on preparing children for formal schooling.\n\nState (public) kindergartens only accept children older than 3 years, while private ones do not have such limitations.\n\nKindergarten is a day-care service offered to children from age three until the child starts attending school. Kindergarten classes (grade 0) are voluntary and are offered by primary schools before a child enters 1st grade.\n\nTwo-thirds of established day-care institutions in Denmark are municipal day-care centres while the other third are privately owned and are run by associations of parents or businesses in agreement with local authorities. In terms of both finances and subject-matter, municipal and private institutions function according to the same principles.\n\nDenmark is credited with pioneering (although not inventing) forest kindergartens, in which children spend most of every day outside in a natural environment.\n\nIn Egypt, children may go to kindergartens for two years (KG1 and KG2) between the ages of four and six.\n\nIn France, pre-school is known as ' (French for \"nursery school\", literally \"maternal school\"). Free ' schools are available throughout the country, welcoming children aged from 3 to 6 (although in many places, children under three may not be granted a place). The ages are divided into ' (GS: 5-year-olds), ' (MS: 4-year-olds), ' (PS: 3-year-olds) and ' (TPS: 2-year-olds). It is not compulsory, yet almost all children aged 3 to 5 attend. It is regulated by the Ministry of National Education.\n\nIn Germany, a ' (masculine: \"der\" Kindergarten, plural ') is a facility for the care of pre-school children who are typically at least three years old. By contrast, ' or ' refers to a crèche for the care of children before they enter ' (9 weeks to about three years), '—literally \"children's day site\", usually shortened to \"\"—is an umbrella term for any day care facility for pre-schoolers.\n\nAttendance is voluntary, and usually not free of charge. Pre-school children over the age of one are entitled to receive local and affordable daycare. Within the federal system, fall under the responsibility of the states, which usually delegate a large share of the responsibility to the municipalities. Due to the subsidiarity principle stipulated by §4 , there are a multitude of operators, from municipalities, churches and welfare societies to parents' initiatives and profit-based corporations. Many follow a certain educational approach, such as Montessori, Reggio Emilia, \" or Waldorf; forest kindergartens are well established. Most \" are subsidised by the community councils, with the fees depending on the income of the parents.\n\nEven in smaller townships, there are often both Roman Catholic and Lutheran kindergartens available. Places in crèches and kindergarten are often difficult to secure and must be 'reserved' in advance, although the situation has improved with a new law in effect August 2013. The availability of childcare, however, varies greatly by region. It is usually better in eastern regions, and in big cities in the north, such as Berlin or Hamburg, and poorest in parts of Southern Germany.\n\nAll caretakers in ' or ' must have a three-year qualified education, or are under special supervision during training.\n\n' can be open from 7am to 5pm or longer and may also house a crèche (') for children between the ages of eight weeks and three years, and possibly an afternoon ' (often associated with a primary school) for school-age children aged 6 to 10 who spend the time after their lessons there. Alongside nurseries, there are day-care nurses (' or \"\") working independently of any pre-school institution in individual homes and looking after only three to five children, typically up to the age of three. These nurses are supported and supervised by local authorities.\n\nThe term ' (\"pre-school\") is used both for educational efforts in ' and for a mandatory class that is usually connected to a primary school. Both systems are handled differently in each German state. The ' is a type of '.\n\nPre-primary Services in Hong Kong refers to provision of education and care to young children by kindergartens and child care centres. Kindergartens, registered with the Education Bureau, provide services for children from three to six years old. Child care centres, on the other hand, are registered with the Social Welfare Department and include nurseries, catering for children aged two to three, and creches, looking after infants from birth to two.\n\nAt present, most of the kindergartens operate on half-day basis offering upper, lower kindergarten classes and nursery classes. Some kindergartens operate full-day kindergarten classes too. Child care centres also provide full-day and half-day services with most centres providing full-day services.\n\nThe aim of pre-primary education in Hong Kong is to provide children with a relaxing and pleasurable learning environment to promote a balanced development of different aspects necessary to a child's development such as the physical, intellectual, language, social, emotional and aesthetic aspects.\n\nTo help establish the culture of self-evaluation in kindergartens and to provide reference for the public in assessing the quality and standard of pre-primary education, the Education Bureau has developed Performance Indicators for pre-primary institutions in Hong Kong. Commencing in the 2000/01 school year, Quality Assurance Inspection was launched to further promote the development of quality Early Childhood Education.\n\nIn Hungary a kindergarten is called an \"\" (\"place for caring\"). Children attend kindergarten between ages 3–6/7 (they go to school in the year in which they have their 7th birthday). Attendance in kindergarten is compulsory from the age of 3 years, though exceptions are made for developmental reasons. Though kindergartens may include programs in subjects such as foreign languages and music, children spend most of their time playing. In their last year, children begin to be prepared to attend elementary school.\n\nMost kindergartens are state-funded. Kindergarten teachers are required to have a diploma.\n\nIn India, there are only informal directives pertaining to pre-primary education, for which pre-primary schools and sections need no affiliation. Directives state that children who are three years old on 30 May in the given academic year are eligible to attend Nursery and Kindergarten classes. Typically, children spend 3 to 4 years of their time in pre-primary school after which they are eligible to attend 1st Standard in Primary School which falls under HRD ministry norms. Primary education is now compulsory in India, and accompanied with mid-day meals, in most parts of the country run by the government. Pre-primary is not mandatory, however preferred. All government schools and affiliated private schools allow children who are 5 years of age as of 30 May to enroll to standard 1 of a primary school.\n\nIn Italy, pre-school education refers to two different grades:\n\nItalian \" were officially instituted in a 1971 State Law (L. 1044/1971), and may be ruled by either private or public institutions. They were originally established to allow mothers a chance to work out of their homes, and were therefore seen as a social service. Today, they mostly serve the purpose of general education and social interaction. In Italy, much effort has been spent on developing a pedagogical approach to children's care: well known is the so-called Reggio Emilia approach, named after the city of Reggio Emilia, in Emilia-Romagna.\n\n' normally occupy small one-story buildings, surrounded by gardens; usually suitable for no more than 60 or 70 children. The heart of the ' are the classrooms, split into playroom and restroom; the playroom always has windows and doors leading to the outside playground and garden.\n\nMaternal schools (') were established in 1968 after State Law n. 444 and are a full part of the official Italian education system, though attendance is not compulsory. Like ' (nursery schools), maternal schools may be held either by public or private institutions.\n\nEarly childhood education begins at home, and there are numerous books and television shows aimed at helping mothers & fathers of preschool children to educate their children and to parent more effectively. Much of the home training is devoted to teaching manners, proper social behavior, and structured play, although verbal and number skills are also popular themes. Parents are strongly committed to early education and frequently enroll their children in preschools.\nKindergartens (幼稚園 yōchien), predominantly staffed by young female junior college graduates, are supervised by the Ministry of Education but are not part of the official education system. The 58% of kindergartens that are private accounted for 77% of all children enrolled. In addition to kindergartens, there exists a well-developed system of government-supervised day-care centers (保育園 hoikuen), supervised by the Ministry of Labor. Whereas kindergartens follow educational aims, preschools are predominantly concerned with providing care for infants and toddlers. Just as there are public and private kindergartens, there are both public and privately run preschools. Together, these two kinds of institutions enroll well over 90 percent of all preschool-age children prior to their entrance into the formal system at first grade. The Ministry of Education's 1990 Course of Study for Preschools, which applies to both kinds of institutions, covers such areas as human relationships, health, environment, language, and expression. Starting from March 2008 the new revision of curriculum guidelines for kindergartens as well as for preschools came into effect.\n\nIn South Korea, children normally attend kindergarten ( \"yuchi won\") between the ages of three or four and six or seven in the Western age system. (Korean ages are calculated differently from Western ages: when they are born they are considered one-year-olds, rather than one day old. Additionally, every January 1, everyone's age increases by one year regardless of when their birthday is. Hence in Korea, kindergarten children are called five-, six- and seven-year-olds.) The school year begins in March. It is followed by primary school. Normally the kindergartens are graded on a three-tier basis.\n\nKorean kindergartens are private schools, and monthly costs vary. Korean parents often send their children to English kindergartens to give them a head start in English. Such specialized kindergartens can be mostly taught in Korean with some English lessons, mostly taught in English with some Korean lessons, or completely taught in English. Almost all middle-class parents send their children to kindergarten.\n\nKindergarten programs in South Korea attempt to incorporate much academic instruction alongside more playful activities. Korean kindergartners learn to read, write (often in English as well as Korean) and do simple arithmetic. Classes are conducted in a traditional classroom setting, with the children focused on the teacher and one lesson or activity at a time. The goal of the teacher is to overcome weak points in each child's knowledge or skills.\n\nBecause the education system in Korea is very competitive, kindergartens are becoming more intensely academic. Children are pushed to read and write at a very young age. They also become accustomed to regular and considerable amounts of homework. These very young children may also attend other specialized afternoon schools, taking lessons in art, piano or violin, taekwondo, ballet, soccer or mathematics.\n\nIn Kosovo, kindergarten is known as \"Çerdhe\" or \"Kopshti i fëmijëve\", and they serve as Day Care Centers. There are public and private kindergartens, and they are for children under the age of 3. Children between 3–6 years old go to \"Institucione parashkollore\", which are different from the Day Care Centers, because here children start the basic learning process, and they serve as preparatory institutions for the Primary School. After the age of 6, children continue in Primary School. However, neither the Day Care Centers nor the Preparatory Institutions are mandatory.\n\nIn Kuwait, Kuwaiti children may go to free government kindergartens for two years (KG1 and KG2) between the ages of four and six.\n\nIn Luxembourg, a Kindergarten is called \"Spillschoul\" (literally \"Playschool\", plural \"Spillschoulen\"). It is a public education facility which is attended by children between the age of 4 (or 5) and 6 when they advance to the \"Grondschoul\" (elementary school).\n\nThe Macedonian equivalent of kindergarten is \"detska gradinka\" (), sometimes called \"zabavishte\" () when the kids are younger than 4 years. \"Detska gradinka\" is not part of the state's mandatory education, because the educational process in the country begins at the age of 5 or 6, i.e. first grade.\n\nIn Malaysia, kindergarten is known as \"\". Most kindergartens are available to children of ages five and six (and some are available to children as young as four). For children up to the age of three (or four), there are pre-school playgroups. There are no fixed rules for when a child needs to go to a kindergarten, but the majority will when the child turns 5 years old. The child will usually attend kindergarten for two years, before proceeding to primary school at age 7.\n\nIn Mexico, kindergarten is called \"kínder\", with the last year sometimes referred to as \"preprimaria\" (\"primaria\" is the name given to grades 1 through 6, so the name literally means \"prior to elementary school\"). The kindergarten system in Mexico was developed by professor Rosaura Zapata, who received the country's highest honor for her contribution. It consists of three years of pre-school education, which are mandatory before elementary school. Previous nursery is optional and may be offered in either private schools or public schools.\n\nAt private schools, kinders usually consist of three grades, and a fourth one may be added for nursery. The fourth one is called maternal. It goes before the other three years and is not obligatory. While the first grade is a playgroup, the other two are of classroom education.\n\nIn 2002, the Congress of the Union approved the \"Law of Obligatory Pre-schooling\", which made pre-school education for three to six-year-olds obligatory, and placed it under the auspices of the federal and state ministries of education.\n\nIn Mongolia, kindergarten is known as \"цэцэрлэг\" or \"tsetserleg\". As of September 2013, there are approximately 152 kindergartens registered in the country. From those 152 kindergartens, 142 are state owned. Children begin kindergarten at the age of 2 and finish it by 5. The education system before kindergarten in Mongolia is called \"ясль\", which accepts children between 0 and 2 years of age.\n\nIn Morocco, pre-school is known as \"école maternelle\", \"kuttab\", or \"ar-rawd\". State-run, free \"maternelle\" schools are available throughout the kingdom, welcoming children aged from 2 to 5 (although in many places, children under 3 may not be granted a place). It is not compulsory, yet almost 80% of children aged 3 to 5 attend. It is regulated by the Moroccan department of education.\n\nIn Nepal, kindergartens are run as private institutions, with their lessons conducted in English. The kindergarten education in Nepal is most similar to that of Hong Kong and India. Children start attending kindergarten from the age of 2 until they are at least 5 years old.\n\nThe kindergartens in Nepal have the following grades:\n\nIn the Netherlands, the equivalent term to kindergarten was '. From the mid-19th century to the mid-20th century the term ' was also common, after Friedrich Fröbel. However, this term gradually faded in use as the verb ' gained a slightly derogatory meaning in everyday language. Until 1985, it used to be a separate non-compulsory form of education (for children aged 4–6 years), after which children (aged 6–12 years) attended the primary school (\"lagere school\"). After 1985, both forms were integrated into one, called ' (Dutch for primary education). For children under 4, the country offers private, subsidized daycares (\"\"), which are noncompulsory but nevertheless very popular.\n\nIn New Zealand, kindergarten can refer to education in the 2 years preceding primary school, from age 3 to 4. Primary Education starts at age 5. \n\nIn Norway, \"barnehage\" (children garden) is the term equivalent to kindergarten, used for children in the ages between 10 months and 6 years. The first \"barnehager\" were founded in Norway in the late 19th century. Although they have existed for 120 years, they are not considered part of the education system. They are both publicly and privately owned and operated. The staff, at minimum the manager, should be educated as \"barnehagelærer\" (kindergarten teacher), previously known as \"førskolelærer\" (pre-school teachers). The children spend most of the time outdoors. There is also an institution called \"barnepark\" (children's park), which does not need to have certified staff.\n\nIn Peru, the term \"nido\" refers to the schooling children attend from 3 to 6 years of age. It is followed by primary school classes, which last for six years. Some families choose to send their children to primary school at the age of 6. In 1902 the teacher Elvira Garcia and Garcia co-founder of the Society cited above, organized the first kindergarten for children 2 to 8 years old, Fanning annex to the Lyceum for ladies. Her studies and concern for children led her to spread through conferences and numerous documents, the importance of protecting children early and to respond to the formation of a personality based on justice and understanding, as well as the use of methods Fröbel and from Montessori and participation of parents in this educational task.\n\nIn the Philippines, education officially starts at the Elementary level and placing children into early childhood education through kindergarten is optional to parents. Early childhood education in the Philippines is classified into:\n\nEarly childhood education was strengthened through the creation of the Early Childhood Care and Development Act of 2000 (Republic Act No. 8980). In 2011, the Department of Education disseminated copies of the Kindergarten Education Act through Republic Act No. 10157 making it compulsory and mandatory in the entire nation. As a provision in this law, children under five years old are required to enroll in a kindergarten in any public elementary school in the country. This goes with the implementation of the K-12 system in the Basic Education Curriculum.\n\nIn Romania, ', which means \"little garden\", is the favored form of education for preschool children usually aged 3–6. The children are divided in three groups: \"little group\" (', age 3–4), \"medium group\" (', age 4-5) and \"big group\" (', age 5-6). In the last few years, private kindergartens have become popular, supplementing the state preschool education system. Kindergarten is optional. The \"preparatory school year\" (\"clasa pregătitoare\") is for children aged 6–7, and since it became compulsory in 2012, it usually takes place at school.\n\nIn the Russian Federation, (\"dyetskiy sad\", literal translation of \"children's garden\") is a preschool educational institution for children, usually 3 to 6 years of age.\n\nKindergartens (commonly known as creche) in South Africa provide from 0-6 years of age spent of preschool programs for children of all ages up to six. The one to three-year program, known as \"nursery\", \"kindergarten 1\" (K1), and \"kindergarten 2\" (K2), prepares children for their first year in primary school education. Some kindergartens further divide nursery into N1 and N2.\n\nIn Spain, kindergarten is called ', ' or ', and serves children from 3 to 6 years of age. It's commonly known by some people as '.\n\n1º ciclo de Educación Infantil (from 0 to 3 years of age)\n2º ciclo de Educación Infantil (from 3 to 6 years of age).\n\nKindergarten in Sudan is divided into private and public kindergarten. Preschool is compulsory in Sudan. The proper kindergarten age spans from 3–6 years. The curriculum covers Arabic, English, religion, mathematics and more.\n\nIn Sweden, kindergarten activities were established in the 19th century, and have been widely expanded since the 1970s. The first Swedish kindergarten teachers were trained by Henriette Schrader-Breymann at the Pestalozzi-Fröbel Haus, which she founded in 1882.\n\nWhile many public kindergartens and preschools exist in Taiwan, private kindergartens and preschools are also quite popular. Many private preschools offer accelerated courses in various subjects to compete with public preschools and capitalize on public demand for academic achievement. Curriculum at such preschools often encompasses subject material such as science, art, physical education and even mathematics classes. The majority of these schools are part of large school chains, which operate under franchise arrangements. In return for annual fees, the chain enterprises may supply advertising, curriculum, books, materials, training, and even staff for each individual school.\n\nThere has been a huge growth in the number of privately owned and operated English immersion preschools in Taiwan since 1999. These English immersion preschools generally employ native English speaking teachers to teach the whole preschool curriculum in an \"English only\" environment. The legality of these types of schools has been called into question on many occasions, yet they continue to prosper. Some members of Taiwanese society have raised concerns as to whether local children should be placed in English immersion environments at such a young age, and have raised fears that the students abilities in their mother language may suffer as a result. The debate continues, but at the present time, the market for English Immersion Preschools continues to grow.\n\nIn 2010, a total of 56% of children aged one to six years old had the opportunity to attend preschool education, the Education and Science Ministry of Ukraine reported in August 2010. Many preschools and kindergartens were closed previously in light of economic and demographic considerations.\n\nThe term kindergarten is rarely used in the UK to describe modern pre-school education or the first year(s) of compulsory primary school education. Pre-schools are usually known as creche, nursery schools or playgroups, while the first year of compulsory schooling is known as Reception in England, \"Dosbarth Derbyn\" in Welsh (\"reception class\") and Primary One in Scotland and Northern Ireland. Nursery forms part of the Foundation Stage of education. In the 1980s, England and Wales officially adopted the Northern Irish system whereby children start school either in the term or year in which they will become five depending on the policy of the local education authority. In Scotland, schooling becomes compulsory between the ages of 4½ and 5½ years, depending on their birthday (school starts in August for children who were 4 by the end of the preceding February).\n\nHowever, the word \"kindergarten\" is used for more specialist organisations such as forest kindergartens and is sometimes used in the naming of private nurseries that provide full-day child care for working parents. Historically the word was used during the nineteenth century when activists like Adelaide Manning were introducing educators to the work of Friedrich Fröbel.\n\nIn the UK, parents have the option of nursery for their children at the ages of three or four years, before compulsory education begins. Before that, less structured childcare is available privately. The details vary between England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.\n\nSome nurseries are attached to state infant or primary schools, but many are provided by the private sector. The Scottish government provides funding so that all children from the age of three until they start compulsory school can attend five sessions per week of two and a half hours each, either in state-run or private nurseries. Working parents can also receive from their employers childcare worth £55 per week free of income tax, which is typically enough to pay for one or two days per week.\n\nThe Scottish Government defines its requirements for nursery schools in the Early Years Framework and the Curriculum for Excellence. Each school interprets these with more or less independence (depending on their management structure) but must satisfy the Care Commission in order to retain their licence to operate. The curriculum aims to develop:\n\nIn the US, kindergarten is usually part of the K-12 educational system. In most state and private schools, children begin kindergarten at age 5 and attend for one year. They do activities such as addition (+), subtraction (-), and playing outside on the playground. Forty-three states require their school districts to offer a kindergarten year.\n\nIn a typical US kindergarten classroom, resources like toys, picture books, and crayons are available for children's use. The daily schedule varies from town to town, but there are some similarities. In the morning, the children usually do circle time. This includes saying the pledge of allegiance, looking at the calendar, and discussing the weather and season that day. Next, the children work on different subjects:\n\nIn math, kindergartners usually do single digit addition and subtraction, learn to count with \"more or less\" games, become acquainted with a clock, and learn skip counting to prepare them for one digit multiplication. \n\nIn language arts (English), children learn sight words, (cat, fun), rhyming, blends, and silent e. They then learn how to write, form sentences, and are required to write three complete sentences by the end of the year.\n\nIn social studies, kindergartners learn about the months, U.S. states, the continents, and sometimes about people performing community functions (e.g. doctor, barber, teacher) and places (e.g.\"You go to a hospital when you're sick or to have surgery.\" \"You go to a park to play.\")\n\nAfter a few lessons, there is a break for lunch. Children either fetch their own lunchboxes brought from home or get a lunch from the cafeteria and eat it (or take) there or in the classroom. Sometimes after lunch the children have recess, some students' favorite part of the day, when they can go outside to play on swings, slides, play basketball, or socialize. After recess kindergartners go back inside to do more learning. Some schools let children take a nap or do free choice (blocks, tic tac toe, play doh, etc.)\nWhen kindergarten is over for the day, parents or guardians come to pick up their child or the children ride a bus home.\n\n\nThe following reading list relates specifically to kindergarten in North America, where it is the first year of formal schooling and not part of the pre-school system as it is in the rest of the world:\n\n"}
{"id": "230647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230647", "title": "Knowledge transfer", "text": "Knowledge transfer\n\nKnowledge transfer refers to sharing or disseminating of knowledge and providing inputs to problem solving. In organizational theory, knowledge transfer is the practical problem of transferring knowledge from one part of the organization to another. Like knowledge management, knowledge transfer seeks to organize, create, capture or distribute knowledge and ensure its availability for future users. It is considered to be more than just a communication problem. If it were merely that, then a memorandum, an e-mail or a meeting would accomplish the knowledge transfer. Knowledge transfer is more complex because:\n\n\nThe subject has been taken up under the title of knowledge management since the 1990s. The term has also been applied to the transfer of knowledge being transferred at the international level.\n\nIn business, knowledge transfer now has become a common topic in Mergers and acquisitions. It focuses on transferring technological platform, market experience, managerial expertise, advance corporate culture, and other intellectual capital that can improve the companies' competence. Since technical skills and knowledge are very important assets for firms' competence in the global competition, unsuccessful knowledge transfer will have a negative impact to the corporations and leads to the expensive and time-consuming M&A not creating values to the firms.\n\nArgote & Ingram (2000) define knowledge transfer as \"the process through which one unit (e.g., group, department, or division) is affected by the experience of another\" (p. 151). They further point out the transfer of organizational knowledge (i.e., routine or best practices) can be observed through changes in the knowledge or performance of recipient units. The transfer of organizational knowledge, such as best practices, can be quite difficult to achieve.\n\nSzulanski's doctoral dissertation (\"Exploring internal stickiness: Impediments to the transfer of best practice within the firm\") proposed that knowledge transfer within a firm is inhibited by factors other than a lack of incentive. How well knowledge about best practices remains broadly accessible within a firm depends upon the nature of that knowledge, from where (or whom) it comes, who gets it, and the organizational context within which any transfer occurs. \"Stickiness\" is a metaphor that comes from the difficulty of circulating fluid around an oil refinery (including effects of the fluid's native viscosity). It is worth noting that his analysis does not apply to scientific theories, where a different set of dynamics and rewards apply.\n\nThree related concepts are \"knowledge utilization\", \"research utilization\" and \"implementation\", which are used in the health sciences to describe the process of bringing a new idea, practice or technology into consistent and appropriate use in a clinical setting. The study of knowledge utilization/implementation (KU/I) is a direct outgrowth of the movement toward evidence-based medicine and research concluding that health care practices with demonstrated efficacy are not consistently used in practice settings.\n\nKnowledge transfer within organisations and between nations also raises ethical considerations particularly where there is an imbalance in power relationships (e.g. employer and employee) or in the levels of relative need for knowledge resources (e.g. developed and developing worlds).\n\nKnowledge transfer includes, but encompasses more than, technology transfer.\n\nTwo kinds of knowledge transfer mechanisms have been noticed in practice: Personalization and Codification. Personalization refers to the one-to-one transfer of [knowledge] between two entities in person. A very good example of this is the act of teaching a person how to ride a bicycle. On the other hand, codification refers to the act of converting knowledge into knowledge artifacts such as documents, images and videos that are consumed by the knowledge recipients asynchronously.\n\nPersonalized knowledge transfer results in better assimilation of knowledge by the recipient when knowledge tacitness is higher and/or when information content in a knowledge object is high . On the other hand, codification is driven by the need to transfer knowledge to large number of people and results in better knowledge reuse. Entropy of the knowledge objects can provide a measure of their information content or tacitness.\n\nWith the move of advanced economies from a resource-based to a knowledge-based production, many national governments have increasingly recognized \"knowledge\" and \"innovation\" as significant driving forces of economic growth, social development, and job creation. In this context the promotion of 'knowledge transfer' has increasingly become a subject of public and economic policy. However, the long list of changing global, national and regional government programmes indicates the tension between the need to conduct 'free' research – that is motivated by interest and by private sector 'short term' objectives - and research for public interests and general common good.\n\nThe underlying assumption that there is a potential for increased collaboration between industry and universities is also underlined in much of the current innovation literature. In particular the Open Innovation approach to developing business value is explicitly based on an assumption that Universities are a \"vital source for accessing external ideas\". Moreover, Universities have been deemed to be \"the great, largely unknown, and certainly underexploited, resource contributing to the creation of wealth and economic competitiveness.\"\n\nUniversities and other public sector research organisations (PSROs) have accumulated much practical experience over the years in the transfer of knowledge \"across\" the divide between the domains of publicly produced knowledge and the private exploitation of it. Many colleges and PSROs have developed processes and policies to discover, protect and exploit intellectual property (IP) rights, and to ensure that IP is successfully transferred to private corporations, or vested in new companies formed for the purposes of exploitation. Routes to commercialization of IP produced by PSROs and colleges include licensing, joint venture, new company formation and royalty-based assignments.\n\nOrganisations such as AUTM in the US, the Institute of Knowledge Transfer in the UK, SNITTS in Sweden and the Association of European Science and Technology Transfer Professionals in Europe have provided a conduit for knowledge transfer professionals across the public and private sectors to identify best practice and develop effective tools and techniques for the management of PSRO/college produced IP. On-line Communities of Practice for knowledge transfer practitioners are also emerging to facilitate connectivity (such as The Global Innovation Network and the knowledge Pool).\n\nBusiness-University Collaboration was the subject of the Lambert Review in the UK in 2003.\n\nIn the knowledge-based economy, learning becomes extremely important in determining the fate of individuals, firms and national economies.\n\nKnowledge transfer can also be achieved through investment programme, both intentionally and unintentionally in the form of skills, technology, and ‘tacit knowledge’ including management and organisational practices. For example, foreign investment in African countries have shown to provide some knowledge transfer.\n\nBy knowledge transfer in landscape ecology, means a group of activities that increase the understanding of landscape ecology with the goal of encouraging application of this knowledge. Five factors will influence knowledge transfer from the view of forest landscape ecology: the generation of research capacity, the potential for application, the users of the knowledge, the infrastructure capacity, and the process by which knowledge is transferred (Turner, 2006).\n\nKnowledge is a dominant feature in our post-industrial society, and knowledge workers are important in many enterprises. Blackler expands on a categorization of knowledge types that were suggested by Collins (1993):\n\n\nWhat complicates knowledge transfer? There are many factors, including:\nEverett Rogers pioneered diffusion of innovations theory, presenting a research-based model for how and why individuals and social networks adopt new ideas, practices and products. In anthropology, the concept of diffusion also explores the spread of ideas among cultures.\n\n\n\nKnowledge transfer is often used as a synonym for training. Furthermore, information should not be confused with knowledge, nor is it, strictly speaking, possible to \"transfer\" experiential knowledge to other people. Information might be thought of as facts or understood data; however, knowledge has to do with flexible and adaptable skills—a person's unique ability to wield and apply information. This fluency of application is in part what differentiates information from knowledge. Knowledge tends to be both tacit and personal; the knowledge one person has is difficult to quantify, store, and retrieve for someone else to use.\n\nKnowledge transfer (KT) and knowledge sharing (KS) are sometimes used interchangeably or are considered to share common features. Since some KM researchers assume that these two concepts are rather similar and have overlapping content, there is often confusion, especially among researchers and practitioners, about what a certain concept means. For this reason, terms such as KM and KT get used incorrectly without any respect to their real meaning and these meanings can change from paper to paper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31680808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31680808", "title": "LIFO (education)", "text": "LIFO (education)\n\nLast in First Out (LIFO) (or otherwise known as \"Last One Hired is the First One Fired\" is a policy often used by school districts and other employers to prioritize layoffs by seniority. Under LIFO layoff rules, junior teachers and other employees lose their jobs before senior ones. Laying off junior employees first is not exclusive to the education sector or to the United States, but is perhaps most controversial there. LIFO's proponents claim that it protects teachers with tenure and gives them job stability, and that it is an easily administered way of accomplishing layoffs following a budget cut. LIFO's critics respond that it is bad for students. They prefer that the best teachers remain regardless of how long they have been teaching.\n\nLIFO and tenure were originally intended to provide college professors with academic freedom and ensure that they could research topics of their own choosing. In the K-12 sector, tenure was introduced to lower high teacher turnover rates. In 1932, over 20% of teachers were dismissed due to personal disagreements and difference of opinion. By 2010, LIFO was criticized on grounds that \"seniority based layoffs result in promising, inexperienced teachers losing their positions, while their less effective, but more senior, peers continue to teach.\" As of early 2014, 2 states provided that seniority could not be considered when deciding which teachers to layoff, 18 states and the District of Columbia left the layoff criteria to school district discretion, 20 states provided that seniority could be considered among other factors, and 10 states provided that seniority was the sole factor, or one that had to be considered.\n\nLIFO has a more severe impact in poor or high minority schools, since those schools tend to have newer and less experienced teachers. In schools where 34% or less of the students receive Free and Reduced meals, more than 82% of teachers have 4 or more years of experience. However, in schools where more than 75% of the student body receives Free and Reduced meals, only 77% of the teachers have more than 4 years of experience. Moreover, in California, it was seen that in schools in the lowest quartile of minority students, only 8 of every 100 teachers had two or less years of teaching whereas in schools with the highest quartile of minority students, 13 of every 100 teachers had two or less years of teaching, meaning that under LIFO-based layoffs, schools with larger minority populations would lose 60% more teachers. Finally, teachers in high need areas, such as secondary math and special education, are often less experienced due to the difficulty of recruiting these positions, and districts who adhere strictly to seniority based systems for layoffs face the added burden of recruiting teachers in these areas. In Los Angeles, it was noted that of the hundreds of promising new teachers cut in from the district in 2010 due to LIFO, 190 were in the top fifth overall of teachers in raising math and reading scores.\n\nResearch indicates that the effectiveness of teachers does not change after the first few years in the classroom. As a result, the implications of using LIFO rules for layoffs instead of basing layoffs on classroom effectiveness appear huge. With LIFO, more teachers must be dismissed to meet budgetary targets than with effectiveness-based layoffs because the youngest teachers are the least paid, but the teachers dismissed under the LIFO policy are only slightly below average in effectiveness. An effectiveness-based policy on the other hand leads to dramatic improvements in average teacher quality, and these improvements have lasting effects on students throughout their lives.\n\nIn many states, tenure is given to teachers after 3 years, without much indication of job performance. A value added model (VAM) could be used in tenure decisions for teachers in order to estimate teacher quality. A VAM would predict how well a teacher would do based on his or her previous experience teaching. Data shows that the VAM based on standardized test scores, is a better indicator of teacher performance than any observable attributes. \n\nSince less experienced teachers typically have lower salaries, it is estimated that if districts in the United States cut 5% of their budget through seniority based layoffs, approximately 79,000 more teachers would lose their jobs versus seniority neutral layoffs.\n\nIn a survey of New York State parents regarding teacher quality versus seniority, voters said they did not care how long a teacher had taught so long as the teacher was effective and produced good results.\n\nStarting with Arizona in 2009, certain states and districts have been passing laws which prohibit seniority from being the deciding factor in layoff decisions. Maine, Louisiana, and District of Columbia use multiple criteria in determining layoffs, and numerous other states are trending towards performance based over seniority based layoffs.\n\nMichelle Rhee, the former Chancellor of Washington, D.C. public schools, opposes the Last in First Out policy, instead suggesting performance based evaluation to determine layoffs. As Chancellor, she introduced the IMPACT evaluation for teachers, which measured teacher performance and was the primary factor for layoffs. She is the CEO of Students First, a grassroots movement \"designed to mobilize parents, teacher, students, and administrators, and citizens\" to demand a better American education system. Since its founding in 2010, Studentsfirst has been behind legislation across the country which promotes alternative teacher quality assessment methods through its \"Save Great Teachers\" Campaign. Victories from this campaign have been seen in Florida, Utah, Michigan, Nevada and Tennessee.\n\nThe 2014 court case of \"Vergara v. California\" struck down California's LIFO layoff rules as having a disproportionately negative impact on poor and minority public school students, thus violating the California Constitution. The \"Vergara\" trial judge noted that teacher layoffs prioritized solely by seniority prevented senior and ineffective teachers from being laid off before junior but effective teachers. In this situation, \"[n]o matter how gifted the junior teacher, and no matter how grossly ineffective the senior teacher, the junior gifted one . . . is separated from [the students] and a senior grossly ineffective one . . . is left in place.\" The judge concluded that \"[t]he logic of [this scheme] is unfathomable and therefore constitutionally unsupportable.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8616199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8616199", "title": "List of law school GPA curves", "text": "List of law school GPA curves\n\nMany, or perhaps most, law schools in the United States grade on a curve. The process generally works within each class, where the instructor grades each exam, and then ranks the exams against each other, adding to and subtracting from the initial grades so that the overall grade distribution matches the school's specified curve (usually a bell curve). \"The curve\" is the permitted range of each letter grade that can be awarded, for example, 0-3% A+, 3-7% A, etc. Curves vary between different law schools, as do the rules for when the curve is mandatory versus suggestive. It is common for the curve to be mandatory for first year (\"1L\") courses, and for classes above a certain size.\n\nGrading on a curve contributes to the notoriously competitive atmosphere within law schools. \"The main source of this competition is the mandatory curve you will likely encounter once you enter law school. The curve affects the class rank, affects the chances of making law review, affects the chances of scoring that big job/externship.\" Some law schools set their curve lower to retain scholarship funding; others set their curve higher to make their students more competitive in the job market.\n\nThe following list shows where law schools set the 50% mark for an individual class subject to the curve. Because not all classes are curved and because professors still have discretion within the curve's ranges, where a law school sets its curve is not necessarily revealing of that school's average student GPA (whether after 1L or upon graduation).\n\n\nThe following law schools have adopted a grading system which does not allow for the calculation of a comparable median GPA on a 4.0 scale, if any GPA is recorded at all:\n"}
{"id": "2064515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2064515", "title": "List of songs about school", "text": "List of songs about school\n\nSongs about school have probably been composed and sung by students for as long as there have been schools. Examples of such literature can be found dating back to Medieval England. The number of popular songs dealing with school as a subject has continued to increase with the development of youth subculture starting in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nArtists such as Max Whitcomb and Nicolas Earl are particularly noted for their musical criticisms of the educational systems of their times. Many songs dealing with school related themes also tend to focus on other subjects of interest within youth subculture such as drugs and sexuality. Meanwhile, others reflect a nostalgia for one's younger days.\n\nThe list of songs that follows include songs that deal with schooling as a primary subject as well as those that make significant use of schools, classrooms, students or teachers as imagery, or are used in school-related activities. The songs are examples of the types of themes and issues addressed by such songs.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6674998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6674998", "title": "List of works on Waldorf education", "text": "List of works on Waldorf education\n\nThis is a list of works on Waldorf education by authors other than Rudolf Steiner. See also this List of Rudolf Steiner's works on education.\n\n\"Works on Waldorf education include:\"\n\nReviews at:\nhttps://www.amazon.com.au/Steiner-Education-Theory-Practice-Gilbert/dp/0863151310\n"}
{"id": "30854546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30854546", "title": "LogoVisual thinking", "text": "LogoVisual thinking\n\nLogoVisual thinking (also LogoVisual technology and LVT) is a practical methodology that helps people think. It is used by management teams, project leaders, teachers and students as a means of tapping the diversity of groups and enabling many people to participate in effective thinking processes. It makes thinking visible and tactile by making ideas into moveable objects displayed on writeable surfaces – for instance magnetic dry-wipe shapes on whiteboards. Structured processes guide people's thinking to achieve their intended outcomes.\n\nLVT is both an overall concept and a methodology. It developed out of structural communication, systematics (the study of multi-term systems), and other work of J. G. Bennett in the 1960s, recent development being sponsored by Centre for Management Creativity. As a general concept it covers the region of learning and communication in which three modes of intelligence are combined for understanding: verbal, visual and haptic. It is thus related to multiple intelligences. The structure of the process supports metacognition.\n\nLVT evolved independently but in parallel with Tony Buzan's mindmapping, Edward de Bono's lateral thinking, Japanese affinity diagrams, Robert Horn's visual language, Gabriele Rico's 'clustering' and many other emergent trends from the 1960s onwards. It makes the making of meaning the main focus of its technology. The technology extends verbal expression to visual arrangement and brings into play physical manipulation of 'meaning objects'. The haptic component of physical contact and action is a primary distinguishing feature of LVT.\n\nIt emphasises the logos or meaning of words in statements that are 'molecules of meaning', which can be understood autonomously and in combinations. Each molecule of meaning (MM) exists on a separate object. MMs can be placed on a visual display and moved around in relation to each other. Meaningful aggregates of MMs are replaced by higher order MMs. Use of MMs distinguishes LVT from other current techniques of display such as mindmapping because (a) MMs are statements and not single words (b) they are free to be moved about and are not fixed in position (c) they can form into any kind of pattern and not just hierarchical ones. In principle, every MM can be seen in the context of any of the other MMs in a given set.\n\nThe technological freedom of MMs enables people to suspend collapse into set forms and/or conclusions (convergent thinking), while providing structure to their explorations (divergent thinking). A complex process of thinking by a group can easily be tracked and recorded.\n\nLVT supports process of democracy because it enables people to think together. It articulates thinking in a public shared space, in which structure is given equal attention to content. It relates strongly to dialogue and can be called a 'technology of dialogue'.\n\nThere are five standard stages in the process.\n\n\nLVT emphasises the importance of articulate statement. Each MM is symbolic of an individual in a social setting, capable of finding many complex relations with other individuals; rather than a 'thing' that has to be fixed into a mechanical order.\n\nIn the stage of Gathering, the assembly of MMs is deliberately chaotic. This allows for complexity in aggregations.\n\nIn stage three, Organising can be of different kinds but in particular explore the tensions between using prefigured forms – classifications, hierarchies, etc. – and allowing the MMs to self-organise. The flexibility and range of Organise in LVT distinguishes it from the use of set forms as in mindmapping. The capacity to insert, remove and rearrange MMs in organising is a totally new dimension of thinking technology.\n\nThe fourth stage of Integrating draws on structural insights into complex texts, in particular the principles of ring composition as discovered by the English anthropologist Mary Douglas.\n\nThe stages move from contemplation to decision making.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3614746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3614746", "title": "Mainstreaming (education)", "text": "Mainstreaming (education)\n\nMainstreaming, in the context of education, is the practice of placing students with special education services in a general education classroom during specific time periods based on their skills. This means general education classes are combined with special education classes. Schools that practice mainstreaming believe that students with special needs who cannot function in a general education classroom to a certain extent belong in the special education environment.\n\nAccess to a special education classroom, often called a \"self-contained classroom or resource room\", is valuable to the student with a disability. Students have the ability to work one-to-one with special education teachers, addressing any need for remediation during the school day. Many researchers, educators and parents have advocated the importance of these classrooms amongst political environments that favor their elimination.\n\nProponents of both philosophy of educational inclusion assert that educating children with disabilities alongside their non-disabled peers fosters understanding and tolerance, better preparing students of all abilities to function in the world beyond school. Children with special needs may face social stigma as a result of being mainstreamed, but also may help them socially develop.\n\n\nMainstreaming also benefits other children. It opens the lines of communication between those students with disabilities and their peers. If they are included into classroom activities, all students become more sensitive to the fact that these students may need extra assistance.\n\nSome people believe that educating non-disabled students and students with disabilities together creates an atmosphere of understanding and tolerance that better prepares students of all abilities to function in the world beyond school. Students without disabilities who engaged in an inclusive physical education program reported increases in self-concept, tolerance, self-worth, and a better understanding of other people. The students also reported that the inclusion program was important because it prepared them to deal with disability in their own lives. Positive aspects that come from inclusion are often attributed to contact theory. Contact theory asserts that frequent, meaningful, and pleasant interactions between people with differences tend to produce changes in attitude.\n\nAlthough mainstreaming in education has been shown to provide benefits, there are also disadvantages to the system.\n\nOne potentially serious disadvantage to mainstreaming is that a mainstreamed student may require much more attention from the teacher than non-disabled students in a general class. Time and attention may thus be taken away from the rest of the class to meet the needs of a single student with special needs. The effect that a mainstreamed student has on the whole class depends strongly on the particular disabilities in question and the resources available for support. In many cases, this problem can be mitigated by placing an aide in the classroom to assist the student with special needs, although this raises the costs associated with educating this child. The added cost of an aide in a classroom to meet needs of special education students can be offset by not funding a teacher in a wholly separate classroom when mainstreaming does not occur.\n\nTeachers are encouraged to teach the entire class differently. This includes being less abstract and more concrete in content, changing lighting, simplifying the design of the classroom, and having a predictable structure and routine rather than novelty.\n\nParents fear that general education teachers do not have the training and skills to accommodate special needs students in a general education classroom setting. However, professional training and supportive services can usually address these concerns. Some research has suggested teachers who are not aware of—and later may choose not to adopt—modifications needed for students with special needs are also more resistant to having these students in class. This can lead to regression of the students with disabilities as well as overall decreased classroom productivity.\n\nIt has been seen that general educators provide 98.7% of their teaching time doing whole class interactions. Students with disabilities have been known to require a significant more amount of individual attention with the classroom teacher. Children with disabilities spend twice as much time in whole-class activities as in one-to-one activities due to the amount of whole-class teaching, yet these students are half as likely to engage in whole-class learning activities such as writing, reading and participating showing that whole group activities do not meet the needs of students with disabilities as much as individual work would.\n\nCompared to fully included students with disabilities, those who are mainstreamed for only certain classes or certain times may feel conspicuous or socially rejected by their classmates. They may become targets for bullying. Mainstreamed students may feel embarrassed by the additional services they receive in a regular classroom, such as an aide to help with written work or to help the student manage behaviors. Some students with disabilities may feel more comfortable in an environment where most students are working at the same level or with the same supports. In the United States, students with autism spectrum disorders are more frequently the target of bullying than non-autistic students, especially when their educational program brings them into regular contact with non-autistic students.\n\nAs seen above, there are many social issues; however, a buddy system has been shown to improve these issues. Through having a buddy system an upper school student will be paired with a younger child preferable with a disability by doing this the younger student is provided with a positive relationship with a fellow student even though they are older. Through the buddy system the younger student will learn the benefits of having and sustaining a positive and supportive friendship, learns to value opinion just by having the upper school student around. These social issues are improved due to the upper school student helping to alter the social experiences of the younger child through this formed friendship.\n\nSchools are required to provide special education services but may not be given additional financial resources. The per-student cost of special education is high. The U.S.'s 2005 Special Education Expenditures Program (SEEP) indicates that the cost per student in special education ranges from a low of $10,558 for students with learning disabilities to a high of $20,095 for students with multiple disabilities. The average cost per pupil for a regular education with no special education services is $6,556. Therefore, the average expenditure for students with learning disabilities is 1.6 times that of a general education student.\n\nCareful attention must be given as well to combinations of students with disabilities in a mainstreamed classroom. For example, a student with conduct disorder may not combine well with a student with autism, while putting many children with dyslexia in the same class may prove to be particularly efficient.\n\nDeafness is a low-incidence disability, which means that a deaf child will often be the only student in the classroom with hearing loss. This leads to a special set of issues in the mainstream classroom. While students with other disabilities may experience isolation and bullying by their non-disabled peers, they often share a common language. This is not the case for deaf students. Very few people in the mainstream academic setting know sign language, which means the communication barrier is large and can have negative effects on both academic achievement and social development. \n\nThe alternatives to mainstreaming for special needs students are separation, inclusion, and excluding the student from school. Normally, the student's individual needs are the driving force behind selecting mainstreaming or another style of education.\n\nMainstreaming does not involve putting a child full-time in a special school.\n\nMainstreaming does not involve placing a child full-time in a regular classroom. A student who spends the entire day in a regular classroom with non-disabled peers is considered fully included. Most students with mild levels of disabilities such as dyslexia or attention deficit disorder, or with non-cognitive disabilities such as diabetes are fully included.\n\nMainstreaming does not involve teaching the child outside of school. A student who is taught in an institution (such as a hospital) or at home (such as while recovering from a serious illness) is excluded. Such a student may receive individual instruction or may attend small group instruction. A student who is excluded from school may or may not have been expelled from the school.\n\nBefore the Education for All Handicapped Children Act (EHA) was enacted in 1975, U.S. public schools educated only 1 out of 5 children with disabilities. Approximately 200,000 children with disabilities such as deafness or mental retardation lived in state institutions that provided limited or no educational or rehabilitation services, and more than a million children were excluded from school. Another 3.5 million children with disabilities attended school but did not receive the educational services they needed. Many of these children were segregated in special buildings or programs that neither allowed them to interact with non-disabled students nor provided them with even basic academic skills.\n\nThe EHA, later renamed the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), required schools to provide specialized educational services to children with disabilities. The ultimate goal was to help these students live more independent lives in their communities, primarily by mandating access to the general education standards of the public school system.\n\nInitially, children with disabilities were often placed in heterogeneous \"special education\" classrooms, making it difficult for any of their difficulties to be addressed appropriately. In the 1980s, the mainstreaming model began to be used more often as a result of the requirement to place children in the least restrictive environment (Clearinghouse, E. 2003). Students with relatively minor disabilities were integrated into regular classrooms, while students with major disabilities remained in segregated special classrooms, with the opportunity to be among normal students for up to a few hours each day. Many parents and educators favored allowing students with disabilities to be in classrooms along with their nondisabled peers.\n\nIn 1997, IDEA was modified to strengthen requirements for properly integrating students with disabilities. The IEPs must more clearly relate to the general-education curriculum, children with disabilities must be included in most state and local assessments, such as high school exit exams, and regular progress reports must be made to parents. All public schools in the U.S. are responsible for the costs of providing a Free Appropriate Public Education as required by federal law. Mainstreaming or inclusion in the regular education classrooms, with supplementary aids and services if needed, are now the preferred placement for all children. Children with disabilities may be placed in a more restricted environment only if the nature or severity of the disability makes it impossible to provide an appropriate education in the regular classroom.\n\nIt has been estimated that in the year of 2009 there has been 292,600 children attending school within Australia that has been diagnosed with a disability also within this year it has been seen that there had been a higher rate of participation within school activities coming from children with a disability compared to children without one. It has been shown that almost one in ten boys within schools (186,000) had been diagnosed with a disability where the level of girls within a school (106,600) diagnosed with a disability was around one in sixteen. Within mainstream schools it has been shown that primary schools had a higher number of students with disabilities with a high 9.1% where students within secondary schools where only 7.4% had a disability. Out of the 71,000 students attending school with a disability 64.7% have been known to have a severe or core-activated limitation. It has also been proven that special needs children within Australia demonstrate higher academic outcomes when in a mainstream school where they have been given opportunities to engage in higher academic levels and activities. Having children with a disability in a mainstream school has also been shown to increase in independent communication and motor skills.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "95279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95279", "title": "Maturationism", "text": "Maturationism\n\nMaturationism is an early childhood educational philosophy that sees the child as a growing organism and believes that the role of education is to passively support this growth rather than actively fill the child with information. This theory suggests that growth and development unfold from within the organism. \n\nIn maturationism, genetic factors play a larger role in development than environmental ones, particularly in regard to language acquisition. Here, the effect of genetic inheritance to development has more bearing than the impact of nurture, experience, and learning. It is believed that an innate maturational schedule drives what a child will do and at what time.\n\nMaturationism is associated with the concept of developmental stages. Maturation theorists maintain that the universal and invariant sequence of human development can be described and that the genetic makeup of an individual determines the pace of such development. It is often associated with the work of Arnold Gesell who, along with his colleagues at the Clinic of Child Development at Yale University, charted the development of thousands of children and described developmental milestones that were achieved in a developmental sequence.\n\n"}
{"id": "62513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62513", "title": "Model United Nations", "text": "Model United Nations\n\nModel United Nations, also known as Model UN or MUN, is an educational simulation and/or academic activity in which students can learn about diplomacy, international relations, and the United Nations. MUN involves and teaches participants speaking, debating, and writing skills, in addition to critical thinking, teamwork, and leadership abilities. Usually an extracurricular activity, some schools also offer Model UN as a class. It is meant to engage students and allow them to develop deeper understanding into current world issues.\n\nParticipants in Model United Nations conferences, known as delegates, are placed in committees and assigned countries to represent, or occasionally other organizations or political figures, where they represent members of that body. They are presented with their assignments in advance, along with a topic or topics that their committee will discuss. Delegates conduct research before conferences and formulate positions that they will then debate with their fellow delegates in the committee, staying true to the actual position of the member they represent. At the end of a conference, the best-performing delegates in each committee, as well as delegations, are sometimes recognized with awards.\n\nModel UN participants include students at middle school, high school, and college/university levels, with most conferences catering to just one of these three levels (high school and college conferences being most common). Delegates usually attend conferences together as delegations sent by their respective schools' or universities' Model UN clubs, though some delegates attend conferences independently.\n\nModel UN began as a series of student-led Model League of Nations simulations. It is believed that the first Model League of Nations conferences were held in the 1920s, before transitioning to Model UN after the formation of the League's successor organization, the United Nations, in 1945. Today, some Model United Nations conferences include simulations of the League of Nations among their committee offerings.\n\nThe first Model United Nations was held at St. Lawrence University from 11–13 February 1949. It was initiated by Dr. Harry Reiff, Head of the History and Government Department, with the assistance of departmental colleague Otto L. George. Dr. Reiff was a technical advisor on the United States delegation to the 1945 San Francisco Conference (where the UN Charter was written) and the UN Organizational Conference in London in 1945-46 (where the UN was established). The 1949 St. Lawrence University Model UN conference included delegates from regional conferences and universities, including Adelphi, Alfred, Champlain, Clarkson, McGill, Middlebury, Potsdam, St. Michael's, and Vermont. The conference continued annually for many years at St. Lawrence and has recently been revived on the campus. Other Model UN conference were developed later at Berkeley, Harvard and the National Model United Nations Harvard Model United Nations (HMUN), and National Model United Nations (NMUN NY) as well as many other colleges and universities.\n\nIn 1987, a few American exchange students founded TEIMUN in The Hague. In recent decades, Model UN has spread to East and South Asia, the Middle East, Europe, North Africa, and sub-Saharan Africa. Other major conference organizers such as Indian International Model United Nations, Harvard, THIMUN establishing additional conferences in these regions to meet burgeoning demand. The Ivy League Model United Nations, an arm of the Model UN at the University of Pennsylvania, hosts conferences for high-school-aged delegates in India and China, as well.\n\nIn order to maintain decorum, most Model UN committees use parliamentary procedure derived from Robert's Rules of Order. However, most crisis committees forgo the formality of parliamentary procedure so as to ensure smoother operation. In addition, recently the United Nations has spearheaded efforts to introduce new Model UN rules of procedure that are more closely aligned with those used by the actual UN. Since there is no governing body for MUNs, each conference differs in the rules of procedure. The following rules of procedure apply to general MUNs but may not apply to every MUN:\n\nMUNs are run by a group of administrators known as the dais. A dais is headed by a Secretary-General. Each committee usually has a chair (also known as moderator), a member of the dais that enforces the rules of procedure. A delegate may request the committee as a whole to perform a particular action; this is known as a motion. Documents aiming to address the issue of the committee are known as resolutions and are voted for ratification.\n\nMUN committees can be divided into three general sessions: formal debate, moderated caucus, and unmoderated caucus. In a formal debate, the staff maintains a list of speakers and the delegates follow the order written on the 'speaker list'. Speakers may be added to the speaker list by raising their placards or sending a note to the chair. During this time, delegates talk to the entire committee. They make speeches, answer questions, and debate on resolutions and amendments. If there are no other motions, the committee goes back to formal debate by default. There is usually a time limit. In a moderated caucus, the committee goes into a recess and the rules of procedure are suspended. Anyone may speak if recognized by the chair. A vote on a motion is necessary to go into a moderated caucus. There is a comparatively shorter time limit per speech. In an unmoderated caucus, the delegates informally meet with other delegates and the staff for discussions.\n\nResolutions are the basis of all debate. They are considered the final results of conversations, writings, and negotiations. Resolutions must go through a draft, approval by the dais, and consequent debate and modification.\n\nParticipation in Model UN is meant to foster negotiation, speaking and communication skills. In addition, crisis committees, which deal with crisis scenarios which can be contemporary or historical, can develop leadership skills and the ability to adapt and deal with unexpected situations. Material issues of diplomacy and policy are also approached through a quasi-academic process. In preparation for a conference, topics are chosen for each committee, and typically, research and background guides (called Study Guides) are made available by the organizers of a conference for each committee. Delegates of each committee are often expected to pre-formulate the position of the country or group they represent, based on these background guides, and submit the result of this preparation to their committee as a so-called Position Paper. The purpose of this procedure is to familiarize delegates with the substantial topics of debate, encourage academic research and writing, and to enable substantial preparation for conferences.\n\nWhile several guides on the techniques of writing Position Papers, including templates and examples, are available, no conferences publish their Study Guides, Position Papers or Resolutions. Currently, only one subscription-based Position Paper database is available.\nMun is not arguing the nature of a question, proving research facts, or standing up and defending a foreign policy agenda but providing solutions that every nation, human and nature can endeavour and use to resolve crises and rise in the risk of uniting strength to maintain international peace and security. This is the difference between the parliament and the UN, distinguishing power struggle from diplomacy.\n\nTraditionally, English has been the official and working language of most conferences, but, as Model UN has become more popular around the world, and as conferences in countries such as the United States have sought to appeal to underrepresented minorities (such as the Spanish-speaking community), committees using languages other than English, or which are bilingual, have become common. It should be noted, however, that this is still not yet a mainstream phenomenon, especially not in the United States, where most bilingual or Spanish language committees are found at conferences hosted in Puerto Rico or the South, apart from Spain.\n\nNearly all Model United Nations conferences require delegates to wear Western business attire, as dressing professionally is an important way to show respect for the nation, organization, or individual one is representing, as well as for the rest of one's committee.\n\nWhile Model United Nations conferences regularly simulate the bodies of the United Nations, the European Union, government cabinets, and regional bodies such as ASEAN as so-called Committees, as well as corporate boards, NGOs or so-called Press Corps, idiosyncrasies and fictional Committees also exist. An example for such a special committee that does not have a parallel in the actual United Nations which deals with a crisis is known as a 'Crisis Committee.' In this committee, a crisis is given to a team of students and the teams must come up with solutions. The Crisis Committee traditionally focuses on a single historical event, but recently current and future events have been used as well. The event may be fictional or non-fictional.\n\nModel United Nations conferences are usually organized by high school clubs or college clubs.\n\n\nAlthough Model United Nations originated in the United States, MUN clubs and conferences are not isolated to that country. Rather, like the actual UN, Model UN is found in countries around the globe. Because Model UN is decentralized and has grown autonomously around the world, there are significant differences in how MUN is done between regions.\n\nMUN is relatively popular in Denmark, with conferences at both high-school and university level. It was first introduced in 2003, it has since spread with 3 major conferences at high-school level, with at least 400 participants at each conference, with BIGMUN being the largest conference in Scandinavia.\n\nMUN has become popular in Spain at the beginning of this decade, hosting the largest number of Conferences in Madrid. One of them is the Complutense International Model of United Nations (COMPIMUN), that will include for its third edition other international organisations such as the Asia Cooperation Dialogue, or the 9-11, apart from the traditional UN related Committees.\n\nThe largest MUN in the Netherlands is The Hague International Model United Nations (THIMUN) conference, which includes over 3500 participants coming from around 200 schools and 100 different countries. Although it is not located near the United-Nations Headquarters in New-York, it is one of the pioneer Model United Nations conferences in the world, since it has been founded in 1968 and located in the International Court of Justice's (ICJ) world city of the Hague. A whole network of conferences is marked by its THIMUN affiliation, a label which basically describes the universality of the procedures that rule the conference and make it part of the UN recognized foundation. In 1995 the THIMUN Foundation was accredited as a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) associated with the United Nations Department of Public Information. Also, the THIMUN has established its own conferences' network throughout time: THIMUN Qatar, THIMUN Singapore, THIMUN Online MUN (O-MUN) and THIMUN Latin America conferences have been set up from 2005. The second and third biggest MUN-conferences of the Netherlands are MUNISH (Model United Nations at the International School of the Hague and HMUN (Haarlem Model United Nations). There is also The European International Model UN TEIMUN which is founded in 1987 and is the oldest university Model UN in Europe.\n\nIn Turkey, Model United Nations conferences are mostly held by non-profit university-clubs. Istanbul hosts more conferences than all Turkish other cities combined. Yeditepe Model United Nations Club, the oldest and one of the most popular clubs in Turkey, holds three different conferences, being, Yeditepe Model United Nations Training and Development Conference, Justinianus Moot Courts, and Model United Nations Conference Istanbul (MUNIST). Also, Koç University Model United Nations Conference (KUMUN), Kadir Has University Model United Nations Conference (HASMUN), alongside with the training conference of the Kadir Has University Model United Nations Training Conference (HASTRAIN), Izmir University of Economics Model United Nations Conference (ECOMUN), alongside with the training conference, İzmir University of Economics Training Conference (EcoTRAIN) are most qualified conferences in Turkey. These conferences simulate not only General Assembly committees, but also Joint Crisis Cabinets, Futuristic, Fictional and Historical timeline based committees.\n\nThere are a very large number of Model United Nations conferences on both the University and Sixth Form level in the United Kingdom. Almost every university that has an MUN society holds a yearly conference, of varying size, with the largest and most prestigious being London International Model United Nations - so much so a features film was shot about it (Winning London), followed by CUIMUN hosted in Cambridge and OxiMUN in Oxford, however in recent years conferences such as YorkMUN and ScotMUN in Edinburgh have been gaining popularity amongst UK delegations. The UK MUN circuit is not particularly well integrated with the European circuit, with most UK delegations not crossing international borders to get to their conferences and international delegations to UK conferences outside of the big three a rarity, but recently European conferences have begun to recruit chairing staff quite heavily from the UK.\n\nThe Kabul Model United Nations was established in Kabul in 2014. The objectives are to bring young female and male individuals together to discuss global issues and promote diplomacy, human rights, peace building, and social welfare. Participants include university students up to the age of 30. They come from four or five Afghanistan provinces to develop critical thinking and public speaking skills. Pamir International Model United Nations (PIMUN) was established by October 2016.\n\nModel United Nations conferences in Australia are typically separated into tertiary and high school levels. At the high school level, the large majority of Model United Nations events are organised by the various state and territory branches of UN Youth Australia, or by the many branches of Rotary Australia. Tertiary events, typically running for three to four days, occur within several Australian states, and are timed to coincide with holiday periods in tertiary semesters, with the largest three typically being VicMUN, NCMUN and SydMUN. Since 2013 another event was initiated globally in rotary world: Rotaract Global Model United Nations - international youth conference that already traveled from Baia Mare to London, Belgrade, New York, Sofia, Beirut and is set to take place in 2018 in Lithuania and India.\n\nModel United Nations is practiced in Bangladesh since 2002. The first MUN to take place was the Model United Nations on Combating Terrorism - Bangladesh Model United Nations 2002. Since then, plenty of Model United Nations conferencess have been held in the country. But the concept of MUN became a popular one in Bangladesh from 2013.\n\nUnited Nations Youth and Students Association of Bangladesh (UNYSAB) established MUN in Bangladesh. Bangladesh Model United Nations conferences include: Bangladesh International Model United Nations 2012; Dhaka+20, Brainwiz MUN 2013 and UNYSAB MUN 2014, organized by UNYSAB. Conferences of much larger numbers were organized by UNYSAB when they organized Bangladesh Model United Nations (BANMUN) Session VII in June 2015 with more than 560 delegates and Bangladesh International Model United Nations (BIMUN) Session II in November 2015, with over 850 delegates, the largest number in Bangladesh's history.\n\nMUN in Bangladesh grew rapidly after the formation of the first university based MUN club of the country Dhaka University Model United Nations Association in 2011. Dhaka University National Model United Nations (DUNMUN) started from 2012.\nWorlds largest Model UN brand from India, Indian International Model United Nations is also slated to conduct its chapter conference in Dhaka in February 2016.\nModel United Nations first came to China in 1995, when the elite China Foreign Affairs University held the country's first collegiate Model United Nations conferences. Arriving in Chinese high schools in 2005, Model UN expanded rapidly. Peking University (PKU) students, after attending Harvard's HMUN, organized the first national Model UN conference for high school students in China. PKU's conference was initially backed by UNA-USA, however support was curtailed in 2010 due to the Great Recession.\n\nBetween 2005 and 2010, national Model United Nations conferencess such as those organized by PKU and the rivaling Fudan University in Shanghai drew the best high school students from around the country, who competed for limited spaces. Over time, lesser-known national conferences, as well as regional and even local conferences for high school students, began to develop and gradually spread to cities beyond Beijing and Shanghai.\n\nIn the realm of interscholastic Model United Nations conferencess in China, the widely acknowledged top 3 conferences are called \"the ABC\": Asian International Model United Nations held by Peking University; Beijing International Model United Nations held by China Foreign Affairs University, and China National Model United Nations, held by United Nations Association of China, hosted in different cities annually. Another famous conference is the Annual NEOMUN conference, also known as SCAMUN by internal members.\n\nMost Model United Nations conferences in China are organized through private or academic enterprises, however some government-affiliated MUNs have also flourished, and recently, unofficial student-run grassroots conferences have begun to dominate the Chinese MUN scene.\n\nIn 1996, the Cathedral Model United Nations was hosted by The Cathedral and John Connon School in Mumbai. Since then, schools and colleges in India started taking up Model United Nations as an activity in their school.\n\nIn 2011 VIBGYOR Group of Schools Model United Nations (VHMUN) was created. This simulation is organized by school students every year.\n\nIn 2016, on 24, 25, 26 September. The Sri Sri Academy, in Kolkata organised its first Model United Nations Conference - SSMUN.\n\nIn 2017, on 11 and 12 November, Symbiosis International School in Pune hosted the inaugural edition of its entirely student-organized Model UN conference, SymbiMUN. The founder and Secretary-General of the conference, Siddharth Baphna, along with his organizing team of Symbiosis students, collaborated with the education nonprofit Teach for India to train and sponsor twenty underprivileged children to participate. They donated all proceeds from the event to Teach for India, and plan to expand annually to give more underprivileged children Model UN opportunities.\n\nIn the same year, 2017, a private Model UN conference was founded called the Backslash Model United Nations.\n\nIn 2018, Siliguri Model United Nations is organising its inaugural conference, in collaboration with the United Nations.\n\nIn 2018 , a Model UN with a goal to help the underprivileged sections of society was founded called The Social Model United Nations (TSMUN) \n\nIn 2018, the BMVB Model United Nations (BMVB MUN) conference was held in collaboration with the Servants of the People Society.\n\nThe Kansai High School Model United Nations (KHSMUN) is believed to be the first organised Model United Nations (MUN) conference aimed directly at high school English as a Foreign Language (EFL) students. The first conference was held in 1990 as a required project for third year students in Kyoto Gaidai Nishi High School's Course of International and Cultural Studies. This conference included 40 KGNHS students and 13 students from Kansai International High School in Toyonaka, Osaka. The two-day conference, held at Kyoto University of Foreign Studies, simulated the Commission on Human Rights and debated the agenda item of the Israel and Palestine Conflict. The conference went on to become an annual gathering of high school students studying EFL in Japan.\nUnlike the majority of other MUN events around the world, the Kansai High School Model United Nations is a non-competitive MUN event.\n\nThe largest MUN conference in Korea is the Seoul Model United Nations (SEOMUN) Conference, which includes hundreds of participants from around the world. It has been held on an annual basis since 1997. The hosting responsibility rotates between three international schools in Korea: Korea International School, Seoul International School, and Seoul Foreign School. The conference is usually held at the Coex Mall in Gangnam District, Seoul.\n\nThe largest MUN conference in Taiwan is the Pan Asia MUN(PAMUN) Conference, which is held by National Taiwan University, also PAMUN is widely recognized as the most international MUN conference in Taiwan. There are also some regional MUN conference such as Taiwan Model United Nation (TWMUN) held by National Tsing Hua university(NTHU) and National Chiao Tung university(NCTU), Taipei Model United Nation (TMUN) held by National Chenchi University(NCCU), and Phoenix MUN held by National Cheng Kong University(NCKU). As opposed to in China, English is the usual official language of MUN in Taiwan except for some special committees which use Chinese as official language. There are also conferences for high school students in Taiwan, such as the Taiwan Model United Nation (TAIMUN) hosted by American School in Taichung, Southern Taiwan Model United Nation (STMUN) which take turns hosting by Kaohsiung American School and I-Shou International School. This trend is still booming. In 2017, the New Taipei City Model United Nations (NTCMUN) was held in New Taipei City. With the resource and service of the local government, participants are allowed to attend for free; moreover it provides simultaneous interpretation equipment to help participants understand the process thoroughly. The second session of NTCMUN is about to launch in August, 2018.\n\nMUN in Thailand is usually hosted by the international schools and universities in Thailand. Bangkok Patana School, Concordian International School, Ekamai International School, Harrow International School, International Seaboard Eastern School, NIST International School, Chulalongkorn University and Thammasat University have all hosted Model United Nations conferences. These conferences are typically separated into university and high school levels. Model United Nations conferences are run by the school or the university club, with some guidance from their advisors. There are also conferences like ThaiMUN and APMUN, both are bigger than what the International School and university have hosted. APMUN was hosted by the Royal Thai Embassy on 20 to 24 September 2012. Unlike other Model United Nations conferences the APMUN and ThaiMUN are 3-4 day conferences, other Model United Nations conferences are usually hosted for 1 day. ThaiModel United Nations conferences are hosted by international schools or universities each year. Students from multiple international schools gather and form a host committee. The host committee decides where will ThaiMUN be hosted in that year. Thailand's MUN, unlike most Model United Nations conferences around the world, are non-competitive, and are intended to help students improve their academic and social skills .\n\nSindh: In the Province of Sindh Many of the Model United Nations have been organized by many Reputable Universities, Organizations and Educational Institutes.\n\nPunjab: In the Province of Punjab Many of the Model United Nations have been organized by many reputable universities like Lahore University of Management Sciences. Punjab also has Pakistan's first ever academy for MUNs known as The Model UN Academy. In the city of Bahawalpur, MUNs are organised by Army Public School and Sadiq Public School.\n\nA high number of New Zealand high schools operate their own MUN events, with UN Youth New Zealand functioning as a managing organisation. UN Youth NZ also organises regional and national events, along with Aotearoa Youth Declaration, the Pacific Project, and New Zealand's THIMUN delegation.\n\nThe following are Model United Nation Conferences, Model ASEAN Conferences and other model diplomatic conferences held in Singapore.\n\n\nVietnam\n\nThe idea of Model United Nations is relatively new among Vietnamese youth. There has been an increasing number of such conferences, including invitational ones such as UNISMUN, SAIMUN and many other non-invitational ones. These conferences are often organised by schools or student-led organizations with varying scale and exclusivity. One of the most inclusive Model United Nations conferences in the country is Vietnam National Model United Nations (VNMUN), open to not only Vietnamese in all parts of the country but also international students studying around the world.\n\nModel United Nations is growing in popularity in the region. The largest conference in the region held in Doha, Qatar, held each January at the Qatar National Convention Center. THIMUN Qatar currently hosts over 1500 student participants. The region boasts over 8 THIMUN-affiliated conferences in places such as Istanbul (MUNDP) Jordan (AMMUN), Dubai (DIAMUN), Bahrain (BayMUN), Cairo (CIMUN and MUN MIU) and Doha (DCMUN). Most countries in the region host numerous smaller conferences. The region also has its own regional MUN magazine, The Olive Branch, co-edited by THIMUN Qatar, THIMUN Online, and Best Delegate.\n\nThough local MUN conferences are popular in Lebanon, it was not until 2017 that an international MUN conference had been organized making BeyMUN (Beirut Model United Nations) the first international MUN conference held in Lebanon. In its first year, the conference drew more than 100 participants from local and international universities. After the success of BeyMUN'16, a second edition of the conference was underwent in 21-23, April 2017.\n\nThe Indian High School Model United Nations is one of the largest Model United Nations conferences in the region. It has conducted many conferences, intra-school and international in the past.\n\nModel Un has recently become popular in Israel with the organisation proMUN taking the lead to host local clubs and conferences in the country.\n\nModel United Nations Conference was organized for the very first time in Algeria back in 2014 by Mr. ARIF Abdeljalil, and so far it is approved to be a unique chance for Algerian youth talents to network and discuss world issues, as it offered them the opportunity to participate in an experiential education in practical global policymaking.\n\nAlgeria MUN celebrated its 3rd Annual Conference in December 2016 -Algiers- which was organized in 3 languages; English, Arabic and French. The profile of participant in this youth-based event should be between the age 16 to 29 years old, a current student, English understanding, and taking an active role in our society. \n\nConferences in Tunisia are mostly found in Tunis and they are usually sponsored by the Tunisian International Model United Nations (TIMUN). The most famous conference in Tunisia is the \"Grande Simulation annuelle du TIMUN\" in Tunis, which host more than 300 delegates. These conferences are usually hosted by the biggest national universities. Since the 6th edition, the \"Grande Simulation annuelle\" is under the patronage of the Tunisian Minister of Foreign Affairs and welcomes Tunisian ministers and diplomats.\n\nThe other conferences in Africa include NIAMUN in Marrakech. Established in August 2012 by a coalition of North African youths, NAIMUN is the largest student-run Model United Nations conference in Africa and the Middle East, with 4 sub-branches in Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria and Egypt. It trains and encourages young people to address pressing global issues and engages them in resolving global problems. NAIMUN is a non-profit organization which provides an equal opportunity for all youth to actively participate in an open debate. JoMUN in Johannesburg, and the recently founded IMIRAMUN in Windhoek took place in Benin, in Cotonou. The first edition of Algeria Model United Nations was held in December 2014. The East African Model United Nations (EAMUN) takes place in Nairobi, Kenya.\nAlso mentionable is the recently conducted Lagos Model United Nations held at the University of Lagos in Nigeria, the first of its kind in West Africa. The conference first held in 2016 and is hoped to be an annual occurrence. The idea was made reality by Nigerian Students of the Faculty of Law of the aforementioned University after several experiences of the National MUN especially winning many awards.\n\nAMUN\n\nThe Americas Model United Nations (AMUN ) was the first MUN Conference to be held in Latin America, accomplishing 21 years of history in 2018 with the edition \"Bring Walls Down, Build Up Connections\". The event official language is English, which has enabled AMUN to receive students from various countries worldwide. The Model seeks to get as close as possible to the reality of a multilateral diplomatic forum, including its specific rules and procedures. The committees vary with each edition of the project, as well as its themes addressed, among which are international security, cooperation, human rights, democracy and transnational crimes.\nThe event lasts five days and extrapolates the academic sphere, allowing interpersonal experiences and cultural activities. Among the cultural activities, there is a tour around Brasília, the city hosting the event, and the Nations Fair, in which the peculiarities and customs of each country are shown by the participants representing them on the Conference.\n\nBRAMUN - BRAMUN - is a conference that occurs yearly in March and is designed for high school students from different countries in South America. The conference happens at Costa do Sauípe in Bahia, Brazil and will be heading to its seventeenth edition in 2019. BRAMUN 2019 will have ten committees: five \"normal\" committees among which are included the Security Council, Historic Security Council, the Political Committee, ECOSOC and the Human Rights Council and five special committees. Some examples of special committees will be the Crisis Cabinet of the Spanish Popular Front, the International Court of Justice, the Cabinets of Kruschev and Eisenhower which will have a joint topic and a committee to discuss BREXIT negotiations from the point of view of the nations of the EU. BRAMUN also has activities for delegates to participate when they are not participating in their respective committees. These activities make part of the BRAMUN Cup, which in the past has included football, basketball, volleyball, knowledge bowl, Mr. and Ms. BRAMUN, a treasure hunt and a Delegate Luau.\n\nSMUN - The Swiss Model United Nations - is an annual conference strictly for high school students. The conference is held by Colégio Suíço-brasileiro de Curitiba, hence the \"Swiss\" name. Each year, the conference is reinvented, 2016's edition had committees such as the Commission on Narcotic Drugs and the Scientific and Technological Subcommittee of COPUOS (Committee On the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space), whereas the 2017 conference was entirely composed of crisis committees with a special committee called the Crisis Directorate Committee, specifically made to design and develop crisis. International high schools are invited every year to participate however, schools can also volunteer to participate. \n\nFAMUN - FACAMP Model United Nations – is a model annually organized by \"FACAMP\" – Faculdades de Campinas, located in the city of Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil.\nIt is a multidisciplinary initiative with the objective of simulating different international organizations, especially the ones under the \"United Nations\" organisational umbrella.\nOver 5 days, approximately 500 high school and college students from different Brazilian cities discuss issues of great international relevance by performing the role as Heads of State and Government, Ministers and Diplomats.\nThe organization of FAMUN follows the orientation of the \"UN4MUN\" approach: developed by the United Nations Department of Public Information, the approach proposes to bring MUNs’ practice closer to the real procedures of the United Nations. The result is a focus on debate that captures the spirit of cooperation and the process of reaching consensus.\n\nAt university level, Model United Nations started in Peru in 2006 with the United Nations Studies Circle (CENU), a college team from the University of Lima founded to compete at Harvard National Model United Nations. This team would evolution into a full-scale organization, the Peruvian Association for the Study of the United Nations (AENU Peru for its Spanish acronym), a non-for-profit NGO charged with task of promoting MUN in Peru and creating Peru's first \"National Delegation\", using past experience to select the finest delegates from Peru's finest universities, thus creating the Peruvian Universities Debate Team (PU). Starting their new trademark since 2011, PU's has garnered the Best Large Delegation award at Harvard World Model United Nations 2014 held in Brussels, Belgium, and the Best Large Delegation award at Harvard National Model United Nations - Latin America 2017, held in Lima, Peru.\n\nIn 2014, Peruvian Debate Society was founded by experienced MUN delegates as a new alternative towards competing in Harvard International Relations Council conferences. Starting their full-scale performance in 2015, PDS's has achieved the Best Large Delegation award at Harvard National Model United Nations - Latin America in three editions out of four participations. Recently, the team became the second Peruvian delegation to win the Best Large Delegation award at Harvard World Model United Nations 2018, held in Panama City, Panama.\n\nAt high school level, MUN has been a popular extracurricular activity since 2012, with the first high school conference Lima Model United Nations (LiMUN) 2012, followed by Villa Maria Model United Nations (VMMUN) 2015, Newton Model United Nations (NewMUN) 2015, and Carmelitas Model United Nations 2015, being the latter school the host for the first Ivy League Model United Nations Conference Peru (ILMUNC 2016). Each school delegation hosts its own conference, transcending from the capital city of Lima to Cusco, Arequipa and Piura. \n\nIn 2015, the Promotora International de Debates - Perú (PRIDE Peru) was founded as an NGO towards the projection of creating the first Inter-school Delegation, United Schools of Peru, in order to compete internationally. The team has garnered twice the Best International Delegation award at the Ivy League Model United Nations Conference (2016 & 2018), and at the WFUNA International Model United Nations (WIMUN 2017 & 2018).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43538826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43538826", "title": "Model United Nations in the United States", "text": "Model United Nations in the United States\n\nModel United Nations in the United States is a popular extracurricular activity for middle school, high school, and college students. The United States was where Model United Nations originated and was popularized, and is also where many of the world's most respected conferences are held. The U.S. has several regional centers of Model UN, each with its own distinct style.\n\nTraditionally, Model UN has been associated with affluent schools and communities, but in recent years, the activity has expanded to reach more students.\n\nModel United Nations is popular across the United States, with MUN clubs and conferences being found in every region. However, because of the fact that Model UN is decentralized and has grown autonomously, there are significant differences in how MUN is done between regions.\n\nCentered on the New York and Washington metropolitan areas, both of which play host to a multitude of prestigious, largely university-hosted conferences, including those of Georgetown University (Georgetown International Relations Association) and George Washington University. Other conferences in the region include HMUN, hosted by Harvard, JHUMUNC hosted at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, and NMUN, hosted in New York City. The Northeast has established a reputation for approaching Model United Nations with an idealistic philosophy, while still emphasizing the academic competition aspect of Model UN and giving awards for delegates. Conferences also evaluate delegates holistically when deciding on the distribution of awards. Crisis committees are especially popular in the Northeast, and lead to this region's conferences having more of a focus on creativity.\n\nThe West Coast is known for their Model United Nations programs. Naturally stressing the academic side of Model UN, conferences greatly value well-written position papers, not just factoring them into awards decisions, but also giving dedicated awards for them. The popularity of Model United Nations, as well as for the high quality of delegates. West Coast conferences are run by universities, high schools, and interscholastic organizations. BMUN (Berkeley MUN), McKennaMUN, and SCMUN are popular college conferences for high school delegates. For example, SCMUN (hosted by the University of Southern California), offers advanced debate for high school delegates who are hoping to glean substantive and academic value from Model United Nations conferences. Additionally, high school-run conferences such as Huntington Beach High School's Surf City and Novice Conferences, CHSMUN, and Mira Costa's LAIMUN are all nationally-recognized conferences.\n\nDespite the fact that the Midwest has fewer conferences than the more established East and West Coast circuits, it still has a very developed and distinct Model UN culture that is dominated by small regional conferences (such as Midwest Model UN (MMUN), Model UN at the University of Illinois (MUNI), and large international-level conferences centered around Chicago). While some major conferences are located in Michigan and Missouri, most are located in Illinois, specifically in Chicago.\n\nChicago is a major hub of the Model UN community at large, but maintains a strong sense of independence, and is known to have a characteristic focus on realism and innovative crisis simulations. MUN is mostly seen as an educational political exercise, where the students understanding of the world and power is emphasized, and where awards and resolution writing tend to be de-emphasized. As a result, the Midwest's crisis conferences are well-regarded, with ChoMUN and CIMUN being particularly well known for this style.\n\nModel United Nations of the University of Chicago (MUNUC) is the largest high school conference in the Midwest, featuring 27 different committees, with several thousand delegates in attendance. The Model United Nations Development Organization (MUNDO) runs the Chicago International Model United Nations (CIMUN), which featured 24 committees, and welcomed 1300 high school delegates in 2014, its 11th annual conference. CIMUN is known to be among the most innovative and fastest growing Model UN's in the US and features some of the most realistic simulations available for high school students.\n\nThe Chicago Model United Nations (ChoMUN), also organized by the University of Chicago, is a prestigious college-level Model UN conference in the region, being well known for its unique simulations, and is known to be one of the best college-level crisis conferences in the US. The American Model United Nations (AMUN), an independent organization, is the largest college-level conference in the Midwest and featured 15 committees. In 2014, AMUN welcomed 1400 delegates from around the US and the globe, and also celebrated its 25th anniversary.\n\nIn recent years, more Midwestern teams have also traveled to conferences on the East Coast, raising their profile nationally. High schools, such as the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools, St. Ignatius College Prep, Lyons Township High School, Glenbrook South High School, and Carl Sandburg High School have performed well at large East Coast conferences and have become particularly well-known. University teams have also been successful, such as UChicago's team which in both 2013 and 2014 was ranked the best college Model UN team in North America, the first team to twice achieve this feat. Other teams like Alma College, UW Oshkosh and University of Illinois - Chicago have made a name for themselves at larger conferences like National Model UN (NMUN) and American Model UN (AMUN), and at regional conferences like Midwest Model UN (MMUN).\n\nIn addition to the city of Chicago, several Minnesota teams have become major players in conferences around the country. In the 2010-2011 season, Cambridge-Isanti finished the year ranked 14th in the best delegate national rankings after finishing the equivalent of second at MUNUC and winning awards at UMMUC. Edina High School hosts the only student run conference in Minnesota, often attracting up to four hundred high school delegates from over twelve metropolitan schools. Edina High School and Cambridge-Isanti High School are still ranked in the top 150 high school programs in the country by Best Delegate. Other notable Minnesota teams include Minnetonka High School and the Blake School.\n\nMiddle school Model UN is fairly popular in the South. The vibrant South region of Model UN in the U.S. can be easily divided into three sub-regions, San Antonio, Texas, Southwest Florida, and Virginia. All excel at Model UN and have distinct styles.\n\nIn Puerto Rico, students are bilingual and speeches in committee are therefore allowed to be made in either English or Spanish. It should be noted however that Spanish is used slightly more often.\n\nThe speaking style of Puerto Rican Model UN delegates tends to be more animated than that of other delegates. Students often speak louder and faster, and when delivering speeches, they may pace in front of their committee instead of standing still.\n\nAfter a speech, if a delegate wishes to ask a question of the speaker they must ask “Delegates, will you accept my question?” before being able to address the speaker. This is a practice isolated to Puerto Rico, and delegates may be penalized by their chairs if they fail to adhere to it.\n\nChairs in Puerto Rico adopt a more activist approach, directing the flow of debate and banging their gavels often. This is in comparison to the facilitator style of chairing more common in the rest of the United States which allows delegates to direct more of the flow of debate.\n\nParents in Puerto Rico are highly supportive of Model UN and some are even alumni. It is not uncommon for parents to volunteer to help at conferences, and many are present at closing ceremonies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25855499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25855499", "title": "North of England Education Conference", "text": "North of England Education Conference\n\nThe North of England Education Conference (NEEC) was the UK’s biggest annual education conference. The first Conference took place in Manchester in 1903. The event provided an opportunity for senior decision makers in education, Children’s Services, the public sector, associated agencies and organisations to meet and consider the latest thinking and legislation affecting children and young people. In recent years the scope of the conference had expanded to encompass the broader children’s services agenda.\n\nDespite the conference name, delegates attended from across the UK and beyond. In recent years the conference took place outside of the North of England, including Belfast and Cardiff.\nIn 2015 the conference was to be hosted in Manchester between 14–16 January but was cancelled and has not been held since.\n\nWithin recent years the focus of the conference had expanded. Whilst still having education at its core, a broader children’s agenda was embraced. Attendees included Directors of Education, key elected members, headteachers, school governors, those engaged in research in Higher Education and partners from Health, Police and Voluntary Sector organisations.\n\nThe conference attracted high-profile speakers and notably the appropriate Secretary of State. This has included in recent years Ed Balls, Ruth Kelly, David Miliband, David Blunkett and Estelle Morris. The conference was often used as a platform to launch or 'sound out' changes in policy or legislation. Hosting authorities often worked in collaboration with local universities and colleges to tap into national and international expertise and research.\n\nHistorically the Conference has taken place each January and has alternated in venue between the east and west of the Pennines. On occasion however, the Conference has been held outside the North of England. In 2004 the NEEC was held in Northern Ireland in Belfast and in 2008, the NEEC paid its first visit to Wales and Cardiff. In January 2014 the last conference was held in Nottingham. \n\nReflecting changes in recent years in the delivery of services to children, young people and families the conference focus had begun to reflect the wider children’s agenda encapsulated in \"Every Child Matters: Change for Children\". Whilst the conference continued to provide high-profile speakers with an education focus, it had recently included speakers from other areas of the children’s workforce such as health, the police, business and the Third Sector. However the event, which generations of education policymakers viewed as a key moment of the year, now appears to be a thing of the past and by the time Michael Gove took over as education secretary in 2010, it was an event he was quite happy to miss, choosing to make major announcements elsewhere. No minister was due to appear in 2015.\n\nThe NEEC operated under the governance formed by its membership as part of the North of England Education Conference Association. This is defined as \"\"Those English Local Authorities within the Government Office areas for the North West, the North East and Yorkshire and the Humber, and also the higher education institutions lying in this area\".\" Representatives from the host authority, their predecessor and the following years host were represented in the governance.\n\nA strong feature of the conference is the involvement of children and young people. Traditionally involved in artistic, musical and dramatic performance they had begun to play a wider role in the content of the programme. In January 2012 Blackpool had a young person co-preside over the conference for the first time along with President, Ann Widdecombe. In Nottingham in 2014 there was a separate Youth Conference running alongside the main event run by young people from the eight Core Cities.\n\nIn 1902, having seen the success of a conference for science teachers in London, JH Reynolds, Manchester City Council's Director of Technical Instruction, decided to replicate the conference in his home town. The conference, also with a science theme, was arranged for 2 and 3 January 1903 and attended by 3,200 teachers, lecturers, inspectors and local government employees. Built on this success the conference widened the agenda to cover all areas of the curriculum. With short input from a range of professionals the, conference has remained true to the original template and remained a fixture in the first week of the year.\nIn 1924 the political dimension was added and the Secretary of the State of the day has usually been in attendance ever since, the conference often serving as a platform for announcement to changes in legislation or educational approaches. Over the course of its history this has included: Anthony Crosland, Kenneth Baker, Kenneth Clarke, Shirley Williams and Margaret Thatcher. Kenneth Clarke, on assuming his post as Secretary of State, is reported to have been told it was the one conference he could not afford to miss.\n\nThe Conference in Belfast was attended by almost 1,000 delegates and was considered one of the most successful NEECs; (the typical attendance in England is 500 delegates). Amongst the speakers was David Miliband MP who gave a speech on Personalised Learning.\n\nThe Centre for Educational Leadership at The University of Manchester hosted the Conference in 2005. The conference included the first public speech by the new Secretary of State for Education and Skills, Ruth Kelly, appointed just three weeks earlier following Charles Clarke's promotion to Home Secretary. The theme was 'Leading Together' and the aim, to demonstrate how schools, Higher Education and Local Authorities could collaborate to develop leadership potential and to lead education improvement. Speakers included Benjamin Zander, Conductor of the Boston Philharmonic and Dr Peter Senge, author of 'The Fifth Discipline: The Art and Practice of The Learning Organisation'.\n\nThe 2006 North of England Education Conference was held in Gateshead and consisted of three days of speakers, workshops and receptions. Speakers included Jane Davidson AM, the Minister for Education and Lifelong Learning, Ruth Kelly MP the Secretary of State for Education, Professor Al Aynsley-Green, the Children’s Commissioner for England and Dr Michael Fullan, the former Dean of the Ontario Institute for Studies for Education. There was also a formal Civic Reception and a Gala Dinner.\n\nThe Conference took place from 3–5 January 2007 at the Guildhall, Preston in Lancashire with the theme of ‘Investing for Achievement’. Jonathan Jansen, University of Pretoria, South Africa; Jude Kelly, Artistic Director, South Bank Centre and Leader of the 2012 Olympics Education and Culture Programme; Juan Manuel Moreno, Senior Education Specialist, The World Bank. The ministerial Address was given by Jim Knight MP, Minister of State for Schools and 14 - 19 Learners\n\nIn January 2008 the NEEC once again left the North West and was held in the Wales Millennium Centre in Cardiff Bay, with workshops being hosted in various locations across the city and beyond.\n\nThe programme include presentations from Professor John Field from the University of Stirling and Professor David Hopkins from the Institute of Education at London University. In addition there were speeches from the journalist Fiona Millar and the former General Secretary of the Transport and General Workers Union, Bill Morris, Baron Morris of Handsworth. A civic reception was held in the Senedd Building; the home of the National Assembly hosted by the First Minister Rhodri Morgan AM.\n\nThe theme for the conference held in Wirral and Chester was ‘Growing People – Growing Minds’. The conference was notable in its embracing the wider children’s workforce in the programme. The conference president was Baroness Estelle Morris and speakers included Peter Fahy, Chief Contable Greater Manchester, Liz Railton CBE, Professor Sir David Watson, Dame Gillian Pugh, and with the new broader emphasis Dr David Colin Thomé giving a GPs perspective. The conference included the traditional political spot with input from David Willetts MP and Secretary of State Ed Balls who attended following a Cabinet Meeting in Liverpool. All schools in Wirral were involved in a ‘Performance Extravaganza’ held throughout Weather Head High School Media College.\n\nThe theme for York’s conference was ‘Unlocking Children’s Potential’ and had Sir Michael Bichard as conference president. Speakers included Sir Roger Singleton, Sir John Sorrell, Sir Andrew Motion, Dylan Wiliam and Beeban Kidron, British Television and Film Director. The political slot was filled by Vernon Coaker MP, Michael Gove MP and David Laws MP. An input by York’s Member of the UK Youth Parliament was well received by delegates. Delegates attended a civic reception at York Minster with a performance by a large children’s choir. The gala dinner made innovative use of the York Railway Museum. The conference in York went ahead successfully despite falling during a period of heavy snow which caused transport problems nationally for a number of days.\n\nThe theme for Blackpool’s conference theme was ‘Our World, Our Future’. The conference continued the development of previous events in opening the theme out to include aspects of the wider Children’s Services agenda.\n\nThe conference presidency was shared between Ann Widdecombe and a young person from the town. Conference speakers included Nick Gibb MP, Andy Burnham MP, Martin Bell, Baroness Estelle Morris, Dr Margaret Atkinson, Sir Paul Ennals, Steve Munby, Sharon Shoesmith, Sir Ian Kennedy, Saul Nasse, Professor Barry Carpenter, Sir Charles Pollard and Tanni Grey-Thompson. The conference took place between the neighbouring hotels Blackpool Hilton and The Imperial. The Gala Dinner was hosted in the Blackpool Tower Ballroom and featured dancing, circus skills and a performance on the world-famous Wurlitzer.\n\nLeeds City Council hosted the NEEC from 4–6 January 2012 under the title of, \"Passion, Potential, Performance\". Mick Waters, former Director of Curriculum at the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority was the conference president. The venue for the event was the Royal Armouries Museum.\n\nThe theme for Sheffield’s Conference was Mind, Brain, Community, Inspiring: Learners, Strengthening Resilience. The Conference was hosted by Sheffield City Council, the University of Sheffield and Sheffield Hallam University. \nThe Right Honorable David Blunkett MP was the President.\nConference speakers included: Dr. Isaac Prilleltensky, Professor Steven P R Rose, Professor Philip Davis, Marlo Winstead, Baroness Campbell, Professor Kenneth Gergen, Professor Barry Carpenter, Sir Michael Wilshaw HMCI, Elizabeth Truss MP, Professor the Lord Robert Winston, Dr Steven Edwards, Jean Gross Professor Tanya Byron, Camila Batmanghelidjh, Matthew Syed, Lord Baker of Dorking and Charlie Taylor,\n\nThe Gala Event, ‘An Evening of Conversation’ was held in the Millennium Galleries & Winter Gardens, providing an opportunity for delegates to continue their conversations with the conference contributors, and included food and entertainment. The conference took place at Sheffield Hallam University.\n\nNottingham City Council hosted the 2014 NEEC. It took place from 15–17 January 2014 at Nottingham Conference Centre. The 2014 conference was entitled 'Education: Innovation, Creativity, Employability'.\n\nSpeakers included David Puttnam, Charles Leadbeater, David Laws MP, Tristram Hunt MP, Matthew Hancock MP, Sir Michael Wilshaw and Dr Maggie Atkinson.\n\n"}
{"id": "9368404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9368404", "title": "Plagiarism detection", "text": "Plagiarism detection\n\nPlagiarism detection is the process of locating instances of plagiarism within a work or document. The widespread use of computers and the advent of the Internet has made it easier to plagiarize the work of others. Most cases of plagiarism are found in academia, where documents are typically essays or reports. However, plagiarism can be found in virtually any field, including novels, scientific papers, art designs, and source code.\n\nDetection of plagiarism can be either manual or software-assisted. Manual detection requires substantial effort and excellent memory, and is impractical in cases where too many documents must be compared, or original documents are not available for comparison. Software-assisted detection allows vast collections of documents to be compared to each other, making successful detection much more likely. \n\nThe practice of plagiarizing by use of sufficient word substitutions to elude detection software is known as rogeting.\n\nComputer-assisted plagiarism detection (CaPD) is an Information retrieval (IR) task supported by specialized IR systems, referred to as plagiarism detection systems (PDS).\n\nSystems for text-plagiarism detection implement one of two generic detection approaches, one being external, the other being intrinsic.\nExternal detection systems compare a suspicious document with a reference collection, which is a set of documents assumed to be genuine.\nBased on a chosen document model and predefined similarity criteria, the detection task is to retrieve all documents that contain text that is similar to a degree above a chosen threshold to text in the suspicious document.\nIntrinsic PDS solely analyze the text to be evaluated without performing comparisons to external documents. This approach aims to recognize changes in the unique writing style of an author as an indicator for potential plagiarism.\nPDS are not capable of reliably identifying plagiarism without human judgment. Similarities are computed with the help of predefined document models and might represent false positives.\n\nA study was conducted to test the effectiveness of plagiarism detection software in a higher education setting. One part of the study assigned one group of students to write a paper. These students were first educated about plagiarism and informed that their work was to be run through a plagiarism detection system. A second group of students was assigned to write a paper without any information about plagiarism. The researchers expected to find lower rates in group one but found roughly the same rates of plagiarism in both groups.\n\nThe figure below represents a classification of all detection approaches currently in use for computer-assisted plagiarism detection. The approaches are characterized by the type of similarity assessment they undertake: global or local. Global similarity assessment approaches use the characteristics taken from larger parts of the text or the document as a whole to compute similarity, while local methods only examine pre-selected text segments as input.\n\nFingerprinting is currently the most widely applied approach to plagiarism detection. This method forms representative digests of documents by selecting a set of multiple substrings (n-grams) from them. The sets represent the fingerprints and their elements are called minutiae.\nA suspicious document is checked for plagiarism by computing its fingerprint and querying minutiae with a precomputed index of fingerprints for all documents of a reference collection. Minutiae matching with those of other documents indicate shared text segments and suggest potential plagiarism if they exceed a chosen similarity threshold. Computational resources and time are limiting factors to fingerprinting, which is why this method typically only compares a subset of minutiae to speed up the computation and allow for checks in very large collection, such as the Internet.\n\nString matching is a prevalent approach used in computer science. When applied to the problem of plagiarism detection, documents are compared for verbatim text overlaps. Numerous methods have been proposed to tackle this task, of which some have been adapted to external plagiarism detection. Checking a suspicious document in this setting requires the computation and storage of efficiently comparable representations for all documents in the reference collection to compare them pairwise. Generally, suffix document models, such as suffix trees or suffix vectors, have been used for this task. Nonetheless, substring matching remains computationally expensive, which makes it a non-viable solution for checking large collections of documents.\n\nBag of words analysis represent the adoption of vector space retrieval, a traditional IR concept, to the domain of plagiarism detection. Documents are represented as one or multiple vectors, e.g. for different document parts, which are used for pair wise similarity computations. Similarity computation may then rely on the traditional cosine similarity measure, or on more sophisticated similarity measures.\n\nCitation-based plagiarism detection (CbPD) relies on citation analysis, and is the only approach to plagiarism detection that does not rely on the textual similarity. CbPD examines the citation and reference information in texts to identify similar patterns in the citation sequences. As such, this approach is suitable for scientific texts, or other academic documents that contain citations. Citation analysis to detect plagiarism is a relatively young concept. It has not been adopted by commercial software, but a first prototype of a citation-based plagiarism detection system exists. Similar order and proximity of citations in the examined documents are the main criteria used to compute citation pattern similarities. Citation patterns represent subsequences non-exclusively containing citations shared by the documents compared. Factors, including the absolute number or relative fraction of shared citations in the pattern, as well as the probability that citations co-occur in a document are also considered to quantify the patterns’ degree of similarity.\n\nStylometry subsumes statistical methods for quantifying an author’s unique writing style and is mainly used for authorship attribution or intrinsic CaPD. By constructing and comparing stylometric models for different text segments, passages that are stylistically different from others, hence potentially plagiarized, can be detected.\n\nComparative evaluations of plagiarism detection systems indicate that their performance depends on the type of plagiarism present (see figure). Except for citation pattern analysis, all detection approaches rely on textual similarity. It is therefore symptomatic that detection accuracy decreases the more plagiarism cases are obfuscated.\n\nLiteral copies, aka copy and paste (c&p) plagiarism, or modestly disguised plagiarism cases can be detected with high accuracy by current external PDS if the source is accessible to the software. Especially substring matching procedures achieve a good performance for c&p plagiarism, since they commonly use lossless document models, such as suffix trees. The performance of systems using fingerprinting or bag of words analysis in detecting copies depends on the information loss incurred by the document model used. By applying flexible chunking and selection strategies, they are better capable of detecting moderate forms of disguised plagiarism when compared to substring matching procedures.\n\nIntrinsic plagiarism detection using stylometry can overcome the boundaries of textual similarity to some extent by comparing linguistic similarity. Given that the stylistic differences between plagiarized and original segments are significant and can be identified reliably, stylometry can help in identifying disguised and paraphrased plagiarism. Stylometric comparisons are likely to fail in cases where segments are strongly paraphrased to the point where they more closely resemble the personal writing style of the plagiarist or if a text was compiled by multiple authors. The results of the International Competitions on Plagiarism Detection held in 2009, 2010 and 2011, as well as experiments performed by Stein, indicate that stylometric analysis seems to work reliably only for document lengths of several thousand or tens of thousands of words, which limits the applicability of the method to CaPD settings.\n\nAn increasing amount of research is performed on methods and systems capable of detecting translated plagiarisms. Currently, cross-language plagiarism detection (CLPD) is not viewed as a mature technology and respective systems have not been able to achieve satisfying detection results in practice.\n\nCitation-based plagiarism detection using citation pattern analysis is capable of identifying stronger paraphrases and translations with higher success rates when compared to other detection approaches, because it is independent of textual characteristics. However, since citation-pattern analysis depends on the availability of sufficient citation information, it is limited to academic texts. It remains inferior to text-based approaches in detecting shorter plagiarized passages, which are typical for cases of copy-and-paste or shake-and-paste plagiarism; the latter refers to mixing slightly altered fragments from different sources.\n\n The design of plagiarism detection software for use with text documents is characterized by a number of factors:\nMost large-scale plagiarism detection systems use large, internal databases (in addition to other resources) that grow with each additional document submitted for analysis. However, this feature is considered by some as a violation of student copyright.\n\nPlagiarism in computer source code is also frequent, and requires different tools than those used for text comparisons in document. Significant research has been dedicated to academic source-code plagiarism.\n\nA distinctive aspect of source-code plagiarism is that there are no essay mills, such as can be found in traditional plagiarism. Since most programming assignments expect students to write programs with very specific requirements, it is very difficult to find existing programs that already meet them. Since integrating external code is often harder than writing it from scratch, most plagiarizing students choose to do so from their peers.\n\nAccording to Roy and Cordy, source-code similarity detection algorithms can be classified as based on either\n\nThe previous classification was developed for code refactoring, and not for academic plagiarism detection (an important goal of refactoring is to avoid duplicate code, referred to as code clones in the literature). The above approaches are effective against different levels of similarity; low-level similarity refers to identical text, while high-level similarity can be due to similar specifications. In an academic setting, when all students are expected to code to the same specifications, functionally equivalent code (with high-level similarity) is entirely expected, and only low-level similarity is considered as proof of cheating.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3844203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3844203", "title": "Scout method", "text": "Scout method\n\nThe Scout method is the informal educational system used by Scouts. The aim of Scouting is character training with the goal of helping participants become independent and helpful, and thereby become \"healthy, happy, helpful citizens\".\n\nThe Scout method uses appealing games in the primitive outdoors to generate challenges which a Scout learns to solve by himself. Through the training and the example of the leader, Scouts are taught independence, leadership, the ambition to learn by himself, and a moral code with positive goals. According to founder Robert Baden-Powell, the Scout method works naturally and unconsciously: naturally in the way that it follows the natural impulses of the Scout, and unconsciously because the Scout is not aware of the education.\n\nHands-on orientation provides a practical method of learning and helps the Scout build confidence. Activities and games provide a fun way to develop skills and provide contact with nature and the environment when pursued in an outdoor setting. Scouts learn in small groups to build unity and a brotherly atmosphere. Developing the characteristics of responsibility, self-reliance, self-confidence, and readiness, the Scouts eventually learn collaboration and leadership skills. An attractive program of varying activities expands a Scout's horizons and bonds the Scout even more to the group.\n\nThe World Organization of the Scout Movement's (WOSM) definition of the Scout method has changed over the years. Through the 1980s it was composed of four elements: Scout Law and Scout Promise (Scout Oath), learning by doing, development of small groups, and a progressive and attractive programs of different activities. This changed in the 1990s when WOSM restated the method in seven elements. At the 41st World Scout Conference in 2017, an eighth element was added, \"community involvement\". These eight elements are summarized here.\n\nThe World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts uses a very similar, eight-part method.\n\nThe Scout law is a personal code of living to guide the way each Scout lives his or her life. It is not a repression of faults, so was not framed as a list of prohibitions. It states what is good form and what is expected of a Scout. The Scout Law is at the heart of the Scout method. With the Scout promise a Scout is engaged to do his best to obey the Scout law. The main principles are:\nScouting does not prohibit bad habits, but instead gives better alternatives that will absorb the Scout's attention and gradually lead him to forget the old habit. The reasoning is that \"prohibition generally invites evasion, since it challenges the spirit inherent in every red-blooded boy. The boy is not governed by DON'T, but is led on by DO.\"\n\nA Scout should be spiritual but Scouting is open to all religions. Scouting deals with religions in the practical way: by nature study (to see what God is) and helping others (which is what God asks for). According to Baden-Powell this is part of all religions. Scouting develops the spiritual side through teaching life-saving techniques and by promoting the daily good deed. Today religious practice is not a duty any more, as long as the Scout follows the Scout law and promise.\n\nThe good deed is a key component of the law and promise. Baden-Powell felt this is the main duty God asks for, and fulfilling our duty to others makes us happy, which fulfills the duty to ourselves. The point is not so much the deed itself, which could be minor, but to teach the Scout to always pay attention and recognise if he could help someone.\n\nScouts games are full of practical action. This holds the participant's attention and gives the Scout hands-on experience in how the theory works. Although Baden-Powell put emphasis on practical work and independent learning, he did not rule out the need for instruction by leaders or in books. The phrase \"Learning by doing\" is nowadays much used in Scouting.\n\nSometimes called the 'patrol method.' Scouts are organised in small groups (about five to seven Scouts) because this is the natural way boys work together. These patrols are therefore more important than the Scout troop. Patrols must be kept intact under all circumstances, including working, tenting, learning, cooking, and surviving together. In a Patrol the Scouts learn to work with others, while the Patrol leader learns responsibility for others. Both have to give up part of their personal interest for this. However, Scouting deals with the individual, not with the Company. A Scout has his own identity within the group and learns as an individual. The Patrol serves as the character school for the individual. Younger sections, such as Cub Scouts and Beaver Scouts, are divided into sixes (Cubs) or lodges (Beavers). While Beaver lodges have no leader structure, Cub sixes have a sixer and seconder.\n\nCalled the \"Patrol Leaders' Council\" in some places. The Scout patrols are subject to a Court of Honour formed by the Patrol Leaders, with the Scout Leader as advisor. This is a peer system in which Scouts discuss each other's behaviour and is part of the self-governing aspect of Scouting.\n\nScouting plays on the imagination of the Scout, who loves to \"make-believe\" and live in the imaginative world of adventurers, such as backwoodsmen, pioneers, sailors, and airmen. The Scout identifies with the personal qualities of his heroes. Drawing on his experience as an amateur actor, Baden-Powell built into Scouting a theatrical and non-serious environment, using words with strange meanings, yells, songs, and unique customs. The common uniform is also part of this theatre.\n\nScouting has a number of rituals. They are designed to be short, simple, and attractive for Scouts, but with underlying symbolism. For instance, the cub yell during the opening ritual is \"We DOB, DOB, DOB\". It is a funny yell for the cubs, but at same time it is an abbreviation for \"we Do Our Best\".\n\nBaden-Powell wanted a Scout to learn to make his own decisions, as he felt this would help the children grow and mature. Baden-Powell wrote that a Scout should paddle his own canoe, metaphorically speaking. He should travel not in a rowing boat, with his back to where he goes, rowed by others and someone else at the rudder, but alone in a canoe: facing the future, paddling and steering by himself. Scouting teaches self-reliance by bringing the Scouts into a challenging, somewhat risky environment, without help in the direct neighbourhood. Therefore the program is based on an adult, adventurous, and appealing outdoor life. \"A man's job cut down to boy's size.\"\n\nGiving responsibility to the Scouts is a keystone of the Scout method: \"Expect him to carry out his charge faithfully. Don't keep prying to see how he does. Let him do it his own way. Let him come a howler over it if need be, but in any case leave him alone.\" The Patrol is almost independent, while the Troop is run by the Patrol Leaders in the Patrols' Leaders Council and Court of Honour.\n\nEducation in Scouting should give a Scout the ambition and desire to learn by himself, which is more valuable than receiving instruction from leaders. This is done by having the Scout undertake activities that attract him individually from the selection offered in Scouting for Boys.\n\nThe \"Personal Progressive Scheme\" is based on two complementary elements:\n\nEducation in Scouting is non-competitive because Scouts should learn because they like the subject, not just in competition or to be better than others.\n\nEducation in Scouting is individual, because every Scout, no matter what their capabilities, must be inspired to learn. The goal is not the quality of the whole group. Scouts should proceed on their own level. The badges signify not a certain quality of knowledge or skill as \"the amount of effort the Scout puts into his work.\" The standards were therefore purposely not clearly defined.\n\nThe Scouting game mostly takes place in Nature, because it is an adventurous environment with challenges, which Scouts want to conquer. In this way the Scout and the Patrol learn to overcome difficulties and learn to make their own decisions.\n\nAccording to Baden-Powell, the Scout could find God in Nature when he realised the complexity and beauty of Nature.\n\nScouts see Nature as an adventurous place, and it is expected that when they get older the experience from their youth will make them nature lovers.\n\nAn important part of Scouting education is the personal example of the leader. The Scout is impressed by the leader because of his age, his knowledge, and his position as a leader. If the leader is popular, leadership will be seen as an attractive goal, and the Scout will follow the example of the leader. The Scoutmaster living the Scout law will have more influence than one who simply talks about it. In the boys' eyes it is what a man does that counts and not so much what he says.\n\nThe self-governing of the boys changes the role of the leader: \"I had stipulated that the position of Scoutmaster was to be neither that of a schoolmaster nor of a commander Officer, but rather that of an elder brother among his boys, not detached or above them individually, able to inspire their efforts and to suggest new diversions when his finger on their pulse told him the attraction of any present craze was wearing off.\" Scouting leaders should not direct, but guide (and check on safety).\n\nThis refers to knowledge of and service to the various communities that a person is part of, local, national, and international.\n\n"}
{"id": "7011272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7011272", "title": "Sloyd", "text": "Sloyd\n\nSloyd (Slöjd), also known as Educational sloyd, is a system of handicraft-based education started by Uno Cygnaeus in Finland in 1865. The system was further refined and promoted worldwide, and was taught in the United States until the early 20th Century. It is still taught as a compulsory subject in Finnish, Swedish and Norwegian schools.\n\nThe word \"sloyd\" is derived from the Swedish word \"Slöjd\", which translates as crafts, handicraft, or handiwork. It refers primarily to woodwork but also paper-folding and sewing, embroidery, knitting and crochet.\n\nOtto Salomon, with the financial support of his uncle, started a school for teachers in Nääs (now a part of the Swedish municipality of Lerum) in the 1870s. The school attracted students from throughout the world and was active until around 1960.\n\nEducational sloyd's purpose was formative in that it was thought that the benefits of handicrafts in general education built the character of the child, encouraging moral behavior, greater intelligence, and industriousness. Sloyd had a noted impact on the early development of manual training, manual arts, industrial education and technical education.\n\nSloyd (\"Slöjd\") has been a Swedish school subject since the 1870s and compulsory since 1955. In the present national curriculum for Swedish elementary schools, students have classes in \"Slöjd\" every semester, normally between the ages of nine and fifteen.\n\nIn most schools, the course is still divided traditionally in two parts: soft materials (textiles) and hard materials (woodwork and metalwork). Each semester, students switch between the two different classrooms. Differences in what kind of tasks are selected, and how the subject-specific content is handled, depend on the teacher's training.\n\nThe present aims of the \"Slöjd\" curriculum in Sweden are:\n\nSloyd also aims to develop the student's practical knowledge, and their ability to solve practical problems through knowledge of different working processes, as well as how to evaluate the results of their own work during the production process by trying out different ways to handle specific tools or materials or by choosing alternative tools and materials.\n\nBorn in Finland, Meri Toppelius was the first to introduce the sloyd system in the United States.\n\nThe major points of sloyd introduction in the United States were Gustaf Larsson's Sloyd Teacher Training School, which was housed on the fourth floor of the North Bennet Street Industrial School (now the North Bennet Street School) in Boston, and at the Baron de Hirsch Trade School in NYC.\n\nOf the sloyd system, North Bennet Street Industrial School's annual report from the school year 1908-1909 had the following to say:\n\nThat same annual report goes on to say that \"The Sloyd Training School, for many years occupying the fourth floor, was given a new building on Harcourt Street, the growth and demands upon the school having increased to such an extent as made the old quarters entirely inadequate. The implication is that the teachings were further absorbed into the Boston educational system.\n\nGustaf Larsson wrote a number of books about sloyd and sloyd education, and B.B. Hoffmann, principal of the Baron De Hirsch Trade School, also published an important text. Ednah Anne Rich, a graduate of Gustaf Larsson's school in Boston and of the Sloyd Training School at Nääs started Sloyd teacher training in Santa Barbara. In a few years, sloyd was being taught in hundreds of schools throughout the US.\n\nIn “Educational sloyd,” as devised by Otto Salomon in the 1870s, woodworking projects were designed to build incrementally on the child’s growing skill. This was accomplished by making the projects grow in degree of difficulty over a period of time, through the introduction of complexity of shape and procedures and through the gradual introduction of more difficult woodworking tools. Salomon believed that the teacher should carefully study and know each child. It was said that from the student’s perspective, no project should be any more difficult than the immediately preceding project. Sloyd was taught through the use of series of models, growing in difficulty and complexity that the students were supposed to accurately reproduce without interference from the teacher. Salomon developed \"exercises\" in the use of various tools leading to proficiency in the making of models. The exercises in the use of various tools were developed through careful study by Salomon, but he also encouraged that model series be adapted and made relevant to the various cultures in which sloyd was taught. The objects in the model series were designed to be useful to the child and his family, thereby building a relationship of good will and mutual support in the child's education.\n\n\"Paper sloyd,\" in particular, was intended as a preparation for woodworking and sewing, which were considered more difficult work appropriate for older students. The book \"Paper Sloyd for Primary Grades\" suggests that the craft's benefits for the student included the following: \"Observation is quickened; eyes are trained to see right lines and distances, thus aiding in free-hand drawing and writing; while the hand and wrist muscles, being used for a definite purpose, unconsciously become obedient assistants.\"\n\nPaper sloyd consisted of paper folding which resembles the Japanese art of origami, but involves more cutting and gluing. Projects might include folding a case for a comb or whiskbroom, a box for candies or pencils, pinwheels, a \"match scratcher,\" a blotting pad, or a penwiper.\n\nSloyd differed from other forms of manual training in its adherence to a set of distinct pedagogical principles. These were: that instruction should move from the known to the unknown, from the easy to the more difficult, from the simple to the more complex, from the concrete to the abstract and the products made in sloyd should be practical in nature and build the relationship between home and school. Sloyd, unlike its major rival, \"the Russian system\" promoted by Victor Della-Vos, was designed for general rather than vocational education.\n\nEducational sloyd as practiced in Sweden started with the use of the knife. The knife was controversial when sloyd was first introduced in the UK. Educators in London and the other cities of the UK could hardly imagine putting knives in the hands of the juveniles. They developed a rationale for the use of chisels instead. Salomon's purpose in the use of the knife was that it illustrates a fundamental premise. During the time of sloyd’s invention and introduction in rural Sweden, nearly every boy growing up on a farm was already experienced in the use of the knife and knew how to use it without endangering himself or others. Starting with the known and moving toward the unknown was a crucial element of Salomon’s theory. He also believed that beauty of form was more readily available through the use of the knife.\n\nSalomon believed that of all the basic crafts, woodworking best fit general educational purposes. Because most schools would not be able to afford to introduce a wide variety of crafts to their students, the overall needs of education would be best served through woodworking sloyd. He adhered rigidly to this plan, and it wasn’t until his death that textile and metal sloyd were added to the teacher training at Nääs. It was also clear to Salomon, that mastery of a single craft was more important than a cursory exploration of several crafts that did not offer the student the opportunity of reaching a point of mastery.\n\nUnlike woodworking education of the later years in the US, woodworking sloyd was introduced in the primary grades for the greatest benefit to the child’s growing intellect. This was in contrast to the Russian system devised by Victor Della Vos, which was intended as a vocational system to help prepare students for employment in industry. The distinctions between the two systems were greater than perceived by many. Both used series of models, but the Russian system used only parts of things rather than finished objects. Salomon's system was based firmly on his study of a long line of educational philosophers like Rousseau, Pestalozzi, Fröbel, Commenius and others. Teacher training at Nääs involved extensive lectures in the fundamental theory of education. Salomon believed that teaching was an art in itself, and that woodworking skills were of secondary importance in the teaching of sloyd. Of various educational theorists, sloyd is most closely associated with Fröbel. \"Hand & Eye,\" an educational journal published in England from about 1890-1902, was dedicated to joint discussion of the principles of \"Freobelian education\" and Educational sloyd.\n\nAs Salomon was a great believer in physical education, training teachers in games was part of the basic curriculum. In fact, the school at Nääs was the point of introduction of basketball to Europe, with the game being brought to the school by students from the US. Salomon also believed that woodworking was a means for physical development. He drew a distinction between the posture of the carpenter, and the proper posture for use in sloyd.\n\nSalomon kept up regular correspondence with former students all over the world, spoke in several languages, and delivered his lectures on alternate days in Swedish, English, and German. He was not as good in English – but he practiced in his lessons and conversations during the summer courses. “My English is always better in the autumn”, he said as a joke.\n\nThousands of teachers from all over the world attended classes at Nääs. Some of the countries, in which sloyd was successfully introduced were the UK, the US, Japan, Brazil, Argentina, Cuba, the Scandinavian Countries and many more.\n\nCurrently, sloyd is still part of the compulsory school curriculum in Finland, Sweden, Denmark, and Norway. In Sweden, students take part in both wood and metal, and textile sloyd (but only given one grade that covers both areas), in Denmark all three materials are compulsory as individual subjects, and in Norway they are united into one subject called \"forming\".\n\nWhile sloyd disappeared from the American educational landscape in the early 1900s, articles have been published by Doug Stowe in Woodwork Magazine, August 2004 and again in August 2005, and by Joe Barry in the Journal of the American Period Furniture Makers, September 2004, Volume IV.\n\nRoy Underhill gives a 30-minute presentation from \"The Book of Sloyd\" on The Woodwright's Shop on PBS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22424194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22424194", "title": "Student approaches to learning", "text": "Student approaches to learning\n\nStudent Approaches to Learning is a theory that students will take a different approach to how they study, depending upon the perceived objectives of the course they are studying.\n\nThe theory was developed from the clinical studies of two educational psychologists, Ference Marton and Roger Säljö, who found that students, in relation to any given learning task, can be divided into two distinct groups:\n\n\nThese are commonly referred to as the \"deep\" and \"surface\" approaches.\n\nIn a study conducted by Marton and Säljö, students read a 1500-word article, about which they were later questioned by an interviewer. In the interviews, students were asked about what they remembered, how they felt about the task, and how they had approached the task. Analysis of the interviews showed that the students could be divided into two distinct groups:\n\nThese findings were corroborated by the laboratory studies of G. Pask and co-workers. Pask referred to the two groups of students as \"holists\" and \"serialists.\" Holists have a broad focus and see their task in context, using analogies and illustrations. Serialists look at details and at steps in an argument. \n\nResearchers later proposed the “strategic approach or achievement approach” those individuals who try to attain the maximum grade by studying in an organized fashion utilizing time-management skill .   \n\nUsing the following sub-scale: “(1) organized study, (2) time management, (3) being alert to assessment demands, (4) achieving high grades, and (5) monitoring effectiveness” . \n\nLater, Entwistle and McCune (2004) suggest that the strategic approach is an approach to studying rather than an approach to learning but when combined with the deep approach, students seem to show successful academic performance. \n\nMarton has also been involved in the development of phenomenography, a qualitative research methodology. Phenomenography seeks to create a detailed understanding of people's experiences and thoughts.\n\nLearning approaches are not the same as learning styles. Students will use different learning approaches for different tasks.\n\nLearning approaches are not inherent personality traits; they are produced by the interaction of the student with specific learning tasks. \n\n\nAvailable at: http://www.docs.hss.ed.ac.uk/iad/Learning_teaching/Academic_teaching/Resources/Experience_of_learning/EoLChapter11.pdf \n"}
{"id": "31029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31029", "title": "Taking Children Seriously", "text": "Taking Children Seriously\n\nTaking Children Seriously (TCS) is a parenting movement and educational philosophy whose central idea is that it is possible and desirable to raise and educate children without either doing anything to them against their will, or making them do anything against their will.\n\nIt was founded in 1994 as an on-line mailing-list by the libertarians Sarah Fitz-Claridge and David Deutsch. Deutsch is also a theoretical physicist at Oxford University.\n\nTCS begins with the observation that most traditional interactions between adults and youth are based on coercion. The TCS model of parenting and education rejects this coercion as infringing on the will of the child, and also rejects parental or educator \"self-sacrifice\" as infringing on the will of the adult. TCS advocates that parents and children work to find a common preference, a solution all parties genuinely prefer to all other candidate solutions they can think of.\n\nThe TCS philosophy was inspired by the epistemology of Karl Popper. Popper was a professional educator himself before he started to do philosophy. In fact, philosophy was only a second option for him at that time, to be able to emigrate to escape the imminent Anschluss. He was active in the \"Wiener Schulreform\" (Vienna school reform) movement, and there are connections between the psychology of learning, on which he did his doctoral thesis, and his philosophy. However, as a philosopher, he did not advocate any concrete pedagogy, although he had some general views on the issue. TCS views Popper's epistemology, as did Popper, as a universal theory of how knowledge grows, and tries to work out its profound implications for educational theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "1191780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1191780", "title": "The Hidden Curriculum", "text": "The Hidden Curriculum\n\nThe Hidden Curriculum (1970) is a book by the psychiatrist Benson R. Snyder, the then-Dean of Institute Relations at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Snyder advances a thesis that much of campus conflict and students' personal anxiety is caused by unstated academic and social norms. These hidden norms affect the ability to develop independently or think creatively, and form what Snyder calls the hidden curriculum. He illustrates his thesis with psychological studies and other research conducted at MIT and Wellesley College.\n\nThe phrase \"hidden curriculum\" was coined by Philip Jackson in his 1968 book entitled \"Life in Classrooms\", in a section about the need for students to master the institutional expectations of school. Snyder develops this with observations of particular institutions. Snyder then addresses the question of why students — even or especially the most gifted — turn away from education. Even honest efforts to enrich curricula frequently fail, says Snyder, thanks to the importance of the tacit and unwritten understanding. He says that while some students do not realize there is a disjunction between the two curricula, in a demanding environment, students develop strategies to cope with the requirements they face.\n\nMany students find they can not possibly complete all the work assigned them; they learn to neglect some of it. Some student groups maintain files of past examinations which only worsen this situation.\n\nThe difference between the formal and real requirements produced considerable dissonance among the students and resulted in cynicism, scorn, and hypocrisy among students, and particular difficulty for minority students. No part of the university community, writes Snyder, neither the professors, the administration nor the students, desires the end result created by this process.\n\nThe Saturday Review said the book \"will gain recognition as one of the more cogent 'college unrest' books\" and that it presents a \"most provocative thesis.\"\n\nThe book has been cited many times in studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2442443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2442443", "title": "Training bus", "text": "Training bus\n\nA training bus is a special kind of bus or coach that is used by bus operators for training the driving skills of bus drivers. It is also used to train the driving skill of a person who is learning to become a bus driver. Driving a training bus on the road is an important part of driving training, as it is the most practical to train one's driving skill.\n\nA training bus is usually a bus that has been retired from the passenger-serving fleet. Some bus companies may like to repaint the bus with a special livery for training bus after the bus is retired from the passenger-serving fleet, which is usually white or a plainer version of the company's regular livery. Some bus companies may also remove most of the facilities (such as passenger seats) from a training bus, so that those facilities can be installed onto some newer buses. On a training bus, there is usually another seat for the driving instructor (trainer) next to the driver's seat. This allows the instructor to monitor how trainee is driving and give appropriate instruction when necessary.\n\nThe use of training buses for practical training is especially popular among the . In Hong Kong, training buses are known in Chinese as \"訓練巴士\" (pinyin: Xùn liàn bā Shì). Training buses used in Hong Kong, such as those used at Kowloon Motor Bus, are typically buses that are older buses and retired from its main bus fleet, therefore only used for training purposes and not for passenger services. However, for route training and other service or safety improvement trainings, in-service buses may be used.\n\nIn contrast, other jurisdictions may use active-service buses for training; this will be at non-peak service times when more buses are available. The head sign may be set to read 'TRAINING', and a sign mounted at the rear as well.\n\nThe Toronto Transit Commission uses training buses on regular routes or roads with sign display the bus as a training bus for real life training for new drivers. The bus will not be in service and will only stop briefly at select bus stops.\n\n"}
{"id": "3568256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3568256", "title": "Videobook", "text": "Videobook\n\nVideoBook is a brand of online, interactive educational videos marketed by Studio 21.\n\nThe name \"VideoBook\" was first registered and used in the United Kingdom (UK) in 1982 by Barry R. Pyatt, the owner of Yorkshire film producers \"Studio 21.\" VideoBook was the marque, trading title and style for local-interest and sell-through video films. The name VideoBook was in commercial use by Studio 21 in the UK and Spain until 2003. In 2004, Pyatt opened AngelFilms in Spain, which took over the VideoBook marque. In 2005, AngelFilms-UK was established, and in 2008, VideoBook products were re-launched in the UK.\n\nVideo Books are identified and registered with the ISBN agencies. The trademark style is as one word, with uppercase V and uppercase B, in a modified Bookman typeface, and is Pyatt's exclusive property.\n\nThe name \"videobook\" (without the two uppercase characters) has become a standard term for a form of online training that delivers downloadable training videos. Most video books are single website entities that focus on teaching a particular topic.\n\nVideo books are similar in content and structure to a \"regular\" book. The videos are typically recorded by a trained instructor and offered to the viewer on a subscription model. The user visits the video book (the website containing the training videos), purchases a subscription and can then download the videos.\n\nVideo Books are different from many Computer-based training (CBT) models in that they are typically in a shareable and portable format. They also differ in content delivery.\n\nIn contrast to printed books and audio books which rely solely on text and audio, respectively, the basic component of a videobook is video. The video book can have on-screen text along with pictures and video clips. The text may be animated along with related audio background commentary.\n\nThe student can watch videos in any order. Once downloaded, no Internet connection is necessary. The videos use non-proprietary formats. The target market is usually an individual instead of an organization. Videobook materials may involve presentation software such as PowerPoint, screen-capture software such as Camtasia and text-to-speech software, such as TextAloudMP3.\n\nPaid Videobook (online, offline) - videobook online(offline) using the private information in the form of thoughts of a person registered on the Internet project has temporal properties: time, date, month, year of writing. Copyrights are registered online on authoritative sources confirmed . Payment for the information contained in the paid videobook takes place in credit, after reading it.\nInformation source\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32612", "title": "Virtual reality", "text": "Virtual reality\n\nVirtual reality (VR) is an interactive computer-generated experience taking place within a simulated environment. It incorporates mainly auditory and visual feedback, but may also allow other types of sensory feedback like haptic. This immersive environment can be similar to the real world or it can be fantastical. Augmented reality systems may also be considered a form of VR that layers virtual information over a live camera feed into a headset or through a smartphone or tablet device giving the user the ability to view three-dimensional images.\n\nCurrent VR technology most commonly uses virtual reality headsets or multi-projected environments, sometimes in combination with physical environments or props, to generate realistic images, sounds and other sensations that simulate a user's physical presence in a virtual or imaginary environment. A person using virtual reality equipment is able to \"look around\" the artificial world, move around in it, and interact with virtual features or items. The effect is commonly created by VR headsets consisting of a head-mounted display with a small screen in front of the eyes, but can also be created through specially designed rooms with multiple large screens.\n\nVR systems that include transmission of vibrations and other sensations to the user through a game controller or other devices are known as haptic systems. This tactile information is generally known as force feedback in medical, video gaming, and military training applications.\n\n\"Virtual\" has had the meaning of \"being something in essence or effect, though not actually or in fact\" since the mid-1400s. The term \"virtual\" has been used in the computer sense of \"not physically existing but made to appear by software\" since 1959. \nIn 1938, the French avant-garde playwright Antonin Artaud described the illusory nature of characters and objects in the theatre as in a collection of essays, \"\". The English translation of this book, published in 1958 as \"The Theater and its Double\", is the earliest published use of the term \"virtual reality\". The term \"artificial reality\", coined by Myron Krueger, has been in use since the 1970s. The term \"virtual reality\" was first used in a science fiction context in \"The Judas Mandala\", a 1982 novel by Damien Broderick.\n\nA \"cyberspace\" is a networked virtual reality.\n\nVirtual reality shares some elements with \"augmented reality\" (or AR). AR is a type of virtual reality technology that blends what the user sees in their \"real\" surroundings with digital content generated by computer software. The additional software-generated images with the virtual scene typically enhance how the real surroundings look in some way. Some AR systems use a camera to capture the user's surroundings or some type of display screen which the user looks at (e.g., Microsoft's HoloLens, Magic Leap).\n\nThe Virtual Reality Modelling Language (VRML), first introduced in 1994, was intended for the development of \"virtual worlds\" without dependency on headsets. The Web3D consortium was subsequently founded in 1997 for the development of industry standards for web-based 3D graphics. The consortium subsequently developed X3D from the VRML framework as an archival, open-source standard for web-based distribution of VR content.\n\nAll modern VR displays are based on technology developed for smartphones including: gyroscopes and motion sensors for tracking head, hand, and body positions; small HD screens for stereoscopic displays; and small, lightweight and fast processors. These components led to relative affordability for independent VR developers, and lead to the 2012 Oculus Rift Kickstarter offering the first independently developed VR headset.\n\nIndependent production of VR images and video has increased by the development of omnidirectional cameras, also known as 360-degree cameras or VR cameras, that have the ability to record in all directions, although at low-resolutions or in highly compressed formats for online streaming of 360 video. In contrast, photogrammetry is increasingly used to combine several high-resolution photographs for the creation of detailed 3D objects and environments in VR applications.\n\nThe exact origins of virtual reality are disputed, partly because of how difficult it has been to formulate a definition for the concept of an alternative existence. The development of perspective in Renaissance Europe created convincing depictions of spaces that did not exist, in what has been referred to as the \"multiplying of artificial worlds\". Other elements of virtual reality appeared as early as the 1860s. Antonin Artaud took the view that illusion was not distinct from reality, advocating that spectators at a play should suspend disbelief and regard the drama on stage as reality. The first references to the more modern concept of virtual reality came from science fiction.\n\nMorton Heilig wrote in the 1950s of an \"Experience Theatre\" that could encompass all the senses in an effective manner, thus drawing the viewer into the onscreen activity. He built a prototype of his vision dubbed the Sensorama in 1962, along with five short films to be displayed in it while engaging multiple senses (sight, sound, smell, and touch). Predating digital computing, the Sensorama was a mechanical device. Heilig also developed what he referred to as the \"Telesphere Mask\" (patented in 1960). The patent application described the device as \"a telescopic television apparatus for individual use...The spectator is given a complete sensation of reality, i.e. moving three dimensional images which may be in colour, with 100% peripheral vision, binaural sound, scents and air breezes\".\n\nAround the same time, Douglas Engelbart used computer screens both as input and output devices. In 1968, Ivan Sutherland, with the help of his student Bob Sproull, created what was widely considered to be the first head-mounted display (HMD) system for use in immersive simulation applications. It was primitive both in terms of user interface and realism, and the HMD to be worn by the user was so heavy that it had to be suspended from the ceiling. The graphics comprising the virtual environment were simple wire-frame model rooms. The formidable appearance of the device inspired its name, The Sword of Damocles.\n\nThe VR industry mainly provided VR devices for medical, flight simulation, automobile industry design, and military training purposes from 1970 to 1990.\n\nDavid Em became the first artist to produce navigable virtual worlds at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), where he was Artist in Residence from 1977 to 1984.\n\nThe Aspen Movie Map was created at the MIT in 1978. The program was a crude virtual simulation of Aspen, Colorado in which users could wander the streets in one of the three modes: summer, winter, and polygons. \n\nIn 1979 Eric Howlett developed the Large Expanse, Extra Perspective (LEEP) optical system. The combined system created a stereoscopic image with a field of view wide enough to create a convincing sense of space. The users of the system have been impressed by the sensation of depth [field of view] in the scene and the corresponding realism. The original LEEP system was redesigned for the NASA Ames Research Center in 1985 for their first virtual reality installation, the VIEW (Virtual Interactive Environment Workstation) by Scott Fisher. The LEEP system provides the basis for most of the current virtual reality helmets available today.\n\nAtari founded a research lab for virtual reality in 1982, but the lab was closed after two years due to the Atari Shock (North American video game crash of 1983). However, its hired employees, such as Tom Zimmerman, Scott Fisher, Jaron Lanier, Michael Naimark, and Brenda Laurel, kept their research and development on VR-related technologies. \n\nBy the 1980s the term \"virtual reality\" was popularized by Jaron Lanier, one of the modern pioneers of the field. Lanier had founded the company VPL Research in 1985. VPL Research has developed several VR devices like the Data Glove, the EyePhone, and the Audio Sphere. VPL licensed the Data Glove technology to Mattel, which used it to make an accessory known as the Power Glove. While the Power Glove was hard to use and not popular, at US$75, it was an early affordable VR device.\n\nIn 1991, Carolina Cruz-Neira, Daniel J. Sandin and Thomas A. DeFanti from the Electronic Visualization Laboratory created the first cubic immersive room, The Cave. Developed as Cruz-Neira's PhD thesis, it involved a multi-projected environment, similar to the holodeck, allowing people to see their own bodies in relation to others in the room.\n\nBetween 1989-1992, Nicole Stenger created \"Angels\", the first real-time interactive immersive movie. The interaction was facilitated with a dataglove and high-resolution goggles.\n\nIn 1992, Louis Rosenberg created the Virtual Fixtures system at the U.S. Air Force’s Armstrong Labs using a , enabling a physically realistic virtual reality in 3D. The system enabled the overlay of physically real 3D virtual objects registered with a user's direct view of the real world, producing the first true augmented reality experience enabling sight, sound, and touch.\n\nAntonio Medina, a MIT graduate and NASA scientist, designed a virtual reality system to \"drive\" Mars rovers from Earth in apparent real time despite the substantial delay of Mars-Earth-Mars signals.\n\nThe 1990s saw the first widespread commercial releases of consumer headsets. In 1991, Sega announced the Sega VR headset for arcade games and the Mega Drive console. It used LCD screens in the visor, stereo headphones, and inertial sensors that allowed the system to track and react to the movements of the user's head. In the same year, Virtuality launched and went on to become the first mass-produced, networked, multiplayer VR entertainment system. It was released in many countries, including a dedicated VR arcade at Embarcadero Center in San Francisco. Costing up to $73,000 per multi-pod Virtuality system, they featured headsets and exoskeleton gloves that gave one of the first \"immersive\" VR experiences. \"Computer Gaming World\" predicted \"Affordable VR by 1994\". \n\nBy 1994, Sega released the Sega VR-1 motion simulator arcade attraction, in SegaWorld amusement arcades. It was able to track head movement and featured 3D polygon graphics in stereoscopic 3D, powered by the Sega Model 1 arcade system board. Apple released QuickTime VR, which, despite using the term \"VR\", was unable to represent virtual reality, and instead displayed 360 photographic panoramas.\n\nNintendo's Virtual Boy console was released in 1995. Also in 1995, a group in Seattle created public demonstrations of a \"CAVE-like\" 270 degree immersive projection room called the Virtual Environment Theater, produced by entrepreneurs Chet Dagit and Bob Jacobson. Forte released the VFX1, a PC-powered virtual reality headset in 1995.\n\nIn 1999, entrepreneur Philip Rosedale formed Linden Lab with an initial focus on the development of VR hardware. In its earliest form, the company struggled to produce a commercial version of \"The Rig\", which was realized in prototype form as a clunky steel contraption with several computer monitors that users could wear on their shoulders. The concept was later adapted into the personal computer-based, 3D virtual world Second Life.\n\nIn 2001, SAS Cube (SAS3) became the first PC based cubic room, developed by Z-A Production (Maurice Benayoun, David Nahon), Barco, and Clarté. It was installed in Laval, France. The SAS library gave birth to Virtools VRPack. \n\nBy 2007, Google introduced Street View, a service that shows panoramic views of an increasing number of worldwide positions such as roads, indoor buildings and rural areas. It also features a stereoscopic 3D mode, introduced in 2010.\n\nIn 2010, Palmer Luckey designed the first prototype of the Oculus Rift. This prototype, built on a shell of another virtual reality headset, was only capable of rotational tracking. However, it boasted a 90-degree field of vision that was previously unseen in the consumer market at the time. This initial design would later serve as a basis from which the later designs came. In 2014, Facebook purchased Oculus VR for $2 billion. This purchase occurred after the first development kits ordered through Oculus' 2012 Kickstarter had shipped in 2013 but before the shipping of their second development kits in 2014.\n\nIn 2013, Valve Corporation discovered and freely shared the breakthrough of low-persistence displays which make lag-free and smear-free display of VR content possible. This was adopted by Oculus and was used in all their future headsets. In early 2014, Valve showed off their SteamSight prototype, the precursor to both consumer headsets released in 2016. It shared major features with the consumer headsets including separate 1K displays per eye, low persistence, positional tracking over a large area, and fresnel lenses.\n\nIn 2014, Sony announced Project Morpheus (its code name for PlayStation VR), a virtual reality headset for the PlayStation 4 video game console. In 2015, HTC and Valve announced the virtual reality headset HTC Vive and controllers. The set included tracking technology called Lighthouse, which utilized wall-mounted \"base stations\" for positional tracking using infrared light.\n\nIn 2015, Google announced Cardboard, a do-it-yourself stereoscopic viewer for smartphones. The user places their smartphone in the cardboard holder, which they wear on their head. Michael Naimark was appointed Google's first-ever 'resident artist' in their new VR division. The Kickstarter campaign for Gloveone, a pair of gloves providing motion tracking and haptic feedback, was successfully funded, with over $150,000 in contributions. \n\nBy 2016 there were at least 230 companies developing VR-related products. Facebook had 400 employees focused on VR development; Google, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Sony and Samsung all had dedicated AR and VR groups. Dynamic binaural audio was common to most headsets released that year. However, haptic interfaces were not well developed, and most hardware packages incorporated button-operated handsets for touch-based interactivity. Visually, displays were still of a low-enough resolution and frame-rate that images were still identifiable as virtual.\n\nIn 2016, HTC shipped its first units of the HTC Vive SteamVR headset. This marked the first major commercial release of sensor-based tracking, allowing for free movement of users within a defined space. In 2017, a patent filed by Sony showed they were developing a similar location tracking technology to the Vive for PlayStation VR, with the potential for the development of a wireless headset.\n\nVR is most commonly used in entertainment applications such as gaming and 3D cinema. Consumer virtual reality headsets were first released by video game companies in the early-mid 1990s. Beginning in the 2010s, next-generation commercial tethered headsets were released by Oculus (Rift), HTC (Vive) and Sony (PlayStation VR), setting off a new wave of application development. 3D cinema has been used for sporting events, pornography, fine art, music videos and short films. Since 2015, roller coasters and theme parks have incorporated virtual reality to match visual effects with haptic feedback .\n\nIn robotics, virtual reality has been used to control robots in telepresence and telerobotic systems. The technology is useful in robotics development such as in experiments that investigate how robots—through virtual articulations—can be applied as an intuitive human interface. For instance, researchers can simulate how robots are remotely controlled in different environments such as in space. Here, virtual reality not only offers insights into the manipulation and locomotion of robotic technology but also shows opportunities for inspection. \n\nIn social sciences and psychology, virtual reality offers a cost-effective tool to study and replicate interactions in a controlled environment. It can be used as a form of therapeutic intervention. For instance, there is the case of the virtual reality exposure therapy (VRET), a form of exposure therapy for treating anxiety disorders such as post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and phobias.\n\nWith the supervision of experts to provide feedback, simulated VR surgical environment provide effective and repeatable training at a low cost, allowing trainees to recognize and amend errors as they occur. \n\nVirtual reality has been used in rehabilitation since the 2000s. Despite numerous studies conducted, good quality evidence of its efficacy compared to other rehabilitation methods without sophisticated and expensive equipment is lacking for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. A 2018 review on the effectiveness of mirror therapy by virtual reality and robotics for any type of pathology concluded in a similar way.\n\nVR can simulate real workspaces for workplace occupational safety and health purposes, educational purposes, and training purposes. It can be used to provide learners with a virtual environment where they can develop their skills without the real-world consequences of failing. It has been used and studied in primary education, military, astronaut training, flight simulators, miner training, driver training and bridge inspection. Supplementing military training with virtual training environments has been claimed to offer avenues of realism in military and healthcare training while minimizing cost. It also has been claimed to reduce military training costs by minimizing the amounts of ammunition expended during training periods.\n\nApplications for VR are facilitated by technologies that go beyond the use of graphics and headsets. There are a multitude of techniques, technologies, and hardware solutions to enhance the immersive experience and derive data from the users’ responses to that experience. The use of haptic clothing, eye tracking technologies, and “Fourth Dimension” sensory stimulation are becoming especially popular and useful.\n\nThe first fine art virtual world was created in the 1970s. As the technology developed, more artistic programs were produced throughout the 1990s, including feature films. When commercially available technology became more widespread, VR festivals began to emerge in the mid-2010s. The first uses of VR in museum settings began in the 1990s, seeing a significant increase in the mid-2010s. Additionally, museums have begun making some of their content virtual reality accessible. \n\nImmersive VR engineering systems enable engineers to see virtual prototypes prior to the availability of any physical prototypes.\n\nVirtual reality's growing market presents an opportunity and an alternative channel for digital marketing. It is also seen as a new platform for e-commerce, particularly in the bid to challenge traditional brick and mortar retailers. A study revealed that the majority of goods are still purchased in physical stores. For this reason, the simulated store environment made possible by VR technology has the potential to attract more consumers since it offers an almost similar experience in the physical store without the inconvenience of being there.\n\nThere have been many works of fiction that reference and describe forms of virtual reality. \n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, cyberpunks viewed the technology as a potential means for social change. The recreational drug subculture praised virtual reality not only as a new art form, but as an entirely new frontier.\n\nThere are many health and safety considerations of virtual reality. Most virtual reality systems come with consumer warnings, including: seizures; developmental issues in children; trip-and-fall and collision warnings; discomfort; repetitive stress injury; and interference with medical devices. Some users may experience twitches, seizures or blackouts while using VR headsets, even if they do not have a history of epilepsy and have never had blackouts or seizures before. As many as one in 4000 people may experience these symptoms. Since these symptoms are more common among people under the age of 20, children are advised against using VR headsets. Other problems may occur in physical interactions with one's environment. While wearing VR headsets, people quickly lose awareness of their real-world surroundings and may injure themselves by tripping over, or colliding with real-world objects.\n\nA number of unwanted symptoms have been caused by prolonged use of virtual reality, and these may have slowed proliferation of the technology. For example, in 1995, Nintendo released a gaming console known as the Virtual Boy. Worn as a headpiece and connected to a typical controller, the Virtual Boy received much criticism for its negative physical effects, including \"dizziness, nausea, and headaches\". VR headsets may regularly cause eye fatigue, as does all screened technology, because people tend to blink less when watching screens, causing their eyes to become more dried out. There have been some concerns about VR headsets contributing to myopia, but although VR headsets sit close to the eyes, they may not necessarily contribute to nearsightedness if the focal length of the image being displayed is sufficiently far away. Virtual reality sickness (also known as cybersickness) occurs when a person's exposure to a virtual environment causes symptoms that are similar to motion sickness symptoms. The most common symptoms are general discomfort, headache, stomach awareness, nausea, vomiting, pallor, sweating, fatigue, drowsiness, disorientation, and apathy. These motion sickness symptoms are caused by a disconnect between what is being seen and what the rest of the body perceives. When the vestibular system, the body's internal balancing system, does not experience the motion that it expects from visual input through the eyes, the user may experience VR sickness. This can also happen if the VR system does not have a high enough frame rate, or if there is a lag between the body's movement and the onscreen visual reaction to it. Because approximately 25–40% of people experience some kind of VR sickness when using VR machines, companies are actively looking for ways to reduce VR sickness.\n\nThe persistent tracking required by all VR systems makes the technology particularly useful for, and vulnerable to, mass surveillance. The expansion of VR will increase the potential and reduce the costs for information gathering of personal actions, movements and responses.\n\nIn addition, there are conceptual and philosophical considerations and implications associated with the use of virtual reality. What the phrase \"virtual reality\" means or refers to can be ambiguous. Mychilo S. Cline argued in 2005 that through virtual reality techniques will be developed to influence human behavior, interpersonal communication, and cognition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57361678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57361678", "title": "Walter Omar Kohan", "text": "Walter Omar Kohan\n\nWalter Omar Kohan is Professor of Philosophy of Education at the State University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. He is also a researcher at the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPQ) and the Carlos Chagas Filho Research Support Foundation (FAPERJ), and was previously President of the International Council of Philosophical Inquiry with Children (ICPIC).\n"}
