{"id": "17048535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17048535", "title": "Angiostrongylus cantonensis", "text": "Angiostrongylus cantonensis\n\nAngiostrongylus cantonensis is a parasitic nematode (roundworm) that causes angiostrongyliasis, the most common cause of eosinophilic meningitis in Southeast Asia and the Pacific Basin. The nematode commonly resides in the pulmonary arteries of rats, giving it the common name rat lungworm. Snails are the primary intermediate hosts, where larvae develop until they are infectious.\n\nHumans are incidental hosts of this roundworm, and may become infected through ingestion of larvae in raw or undercooked snails or other vectors, or from contaminated water and vegetables. The larvae are then transported via the blood to the central nervous system, where they are the most common cause of eosinophilic meningitis, a serious condition that can lead to death or permanent brain and nerve damage. Angiostrongyliasis is an infection of increasing public health importance, as globalization contributes to the geographic spread of the disease.\n\nFirst described by the renowned Chinese parasitologist Hsin-Tao Chen (1904–1977) in 1935, after examining Cantonese rat specimens, the nematode \"Angiostrongylus cantonensis\" was identified in the cerebrospinal fluid of a patient with eosinophilic meningitis by Nomura and Lim in Taiwan in 1944. They noted that raw food eaten by the patient may have been contaminated by rats. In 1955, Mackerass and Sanders identified the lifecycle of the worm in rats, defining snails and slugs as the intermediate hosts and noting the path of transmission through the blood, brain, and lungs in rats.\n\n\"A. cantonensis\" is a helminth of the phylum Nematoda, order Strongylida, and superfamily Metastrongyloidea. Nematodes are roundworms characterized by a tough outer cuticle, unsegmented bodies, and a fully developed gastrointestinal tract. The order Strongylida includes hookworms and lungworms. Metastrongyloidea are characterized as 2-cm-long, slender, threadlike worms that reside in the lungs of the definitive host. \"Angiostrongylus costaricensis\" is a closely related worm that causes intestinal angiostrongyliasis in Central and South America.\n\nFollowing World War II, \"A. cantonensis\" spread throughout Southeast Asia and Western Pacific Islands, including Australia, Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia. Cases were soon reported in New Caledonia, the Philippines, Rarotonga, Saipan, Sumatra, Taiwan, and Tahiti. In the 1960s, even more cases were reported from the region from locations such as Cambodia, Guam, Hawaii, Java, Thailand, Sarawak, Vietnam, and the New Hebrides (Vanuatu).\n\nIn 1961, an epidemiological study of eosinophilic meningitis in humans was conducted by Rosen, Laigret, and Bories, who hypothesized that the parasite causing these infections was carried by fish. However, Alicata noted that raw fish was consumed by large numbers of people in Hawaii without apparent consequences, and patients presenting with meningitis symptoms had a history of eating raw snails or prawns in the weeks before presenting with symptoms. This observation, along with epidemiology and autopsy of infected brains, confirmed \"A. cantonensis\" infection in humans as the cause of the majority of eosinophilic meningitis cases in Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands.\n\nSince then, cases of \"A. cantonensis\" infestations have appeared in American Samoa, Australia, Hong Kong, Bombay, Fiji, Hawaii, Honshu, India, Kyushu, New Britain, Okinawa, Ryukyu Islands, Western Samoa, and most recently mainland China. Other sporadic occurrences of the parasite in its rat hosts have been reported in Cuba, Egypt, Louisiana, Madagascar, Nigeria, New Orleans, and Puerto Rico.\n\nIn 2013, \"A. cantonensis\" was confirmed present in Florida, USA, where its range and prevalence are expanding. In 2018, a case was found in a New Yorker, who had visited Hawaii.\n\nIn recent years, the parasite has been shown to be proliferating at an alarming rate due to modern food-consumption trends and global transportation of food products. Scientists are calling for a more thorough study of the epidemiology of \"A. cantonensis\", stricter food-safety policies, and the increase of knowledge on how to properly consume products commonly infested by the parasite, such as snails and slugs that act as intermediate hosts or those that act as paratenic hosts, such as fish, frogs, or freshwater prawns. Ingestion of food items that can be contaminated by the mucus excretions of intermediate or paratenic hosts, such as snails and slugs or by the feces of rats that act as definitive hosts, can lead to infection of \"A. cantonensis\". The most common route of infection of \"A. cantonesis\" in humans is by ingestion of either intermediate or paratenic hosts of the larvae. Unwashed fruits and vegetables, especially romaine lettuce, can be contaminated with snail and slug mucus or can result in accidental ingestion of these intermediate and paratenic hosts. These items need to be properly washed and handled to prevent accidental ingestion of \"A. cantonensis\" larvae or the larvae-containing hosts. The best mechanism of prevention of \"A. cantonesis\" outbreak is to institute an aggressive control of snail and slug population, proper cooking of intermediate and paratenic hosts such as fish, freshwater prawn, frogs, mollusks, and snails along with proper food-handling techniques. The common prevention techniques for diarrheal illness is very effective in preventing \"A. cantonensis\" infection. Not much is known about why it targets the brain in humans, but a chemically induced chemotaxis has been implicated recently. Acetylcholine has been previously reported to enhance motility of this worm via nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Experimental assays in animal models are needed to validate a chemically induced chemotaxis by use of anticholinergic drugs to prevent cerebral infection following infections by \"A. cantonesis\".\n\nIntermediate hosts of larvae of for \"A. cantonensis\" include:\n\nDefinitive host of \"A. cantonensis\" include wild rodents, especially the brown rat (\"Rattus norvegicus\") and the black rat (\"Rattus rattus\").\n\nParatenic hosts of \"A. cantonensis\" include: predatory land flatworm \"Platydemus manokwari\" and amphibians \"Bufo asiaticus\", \"Rana catesbeiana\", \"Rhacophorus leucomystax\" and \"Rana limnocharis\".\n\nIn 2004, a captive yellow-tailed black cockatoo (\"Calyptorhynchus funereus\") and two free-living tawny frogmouths (\"Podargus strigoides\") suffering neurological symptoms were shown to have the parasite. They were the first avian hosts discovered for the organism.\n\nThe presence of parasitic worms burrowed in the neural tissue of the human central nervous system will cause obvious complications. All of the following will result in damage to the CNS:\n\n\nAlthough the clinical disease caused by \"Angiostrongylus\" invasion into the central nervous system is commonly referred to as \"eosinophilic meningitis\", the actual pathophysiology is of a meningoencephalitis with invasion not just of the meninges, or superficial lining of the brain, but also deeper brain tissue. Initial invasion through the lining of the brain, the meninges, may cause a typical inflammation of the meninges and a classic meningitis picture of headache, stiff neck, and often fever. The parasites subsequently invade deeper into the brain tissue, causing specific localizing neurologic symptoms depending on where in the brain parenchyma they migrate. Neurologic findings and symptoms wax and wane as initial damage is done by the physical in-migration of the worms and secondary damage is done by the inflammatory response to the presence of dead and dying worms. This inflammation can lead in the short term to paralysis, bladder dysfunction, visual disturbance, and coma and in the long term to permanent nerve damage, mental retardation, nerve damage, permanent brain damage, or death.\n\nEosinophilic meningitis is commonly defined by the increased number of eosinophils in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). In most cases, eosinophil levels rise to 10 or more eosinophils per μl in the CSF, accounting for at least 10% of the total CSF leukocyte (white blood cell) count. The chemical analysis of the CSF typically resembles the findings in \"aseptic meningitis\" with slightly elevated protein levels, normal glucose levels, and negative bacterial cultures. Presence of a significantly decreased glucose on CSF analysis is an indicator of severe meningoencephalitis and may indicate a poor medical outcome. Initial CSF analysis early in the disease process may occasionally show no increase of eosinophils, only to have classical increases in eosinophils in subsequent CSF analysis. Caution should be advised in using eosinophilic meningitis as the only criterion for diagnosing angiostrongylus infestation in someone with classic symptoms, as the disease evolves with the migration of the worms into the CNS.\n\nEosinophils are specialized white blood cells of the granulocytic cell line which contain granules in their cytoplasm. These granules contain proteins that are toxic to parasites. When these granules degranulate, or break down, chemicals are released that combat parasites such as \"A. cantonensis\". Eosinophils, which are located throughout the body, are guided to sites of inflammation by chemokines when the body is infested with parasites such as \"A. cantonensis\". Once at the site of inflammation, type 2 cytokines are released from helper T cells, which communicate with the eosinophils, signaling them to activate. Once activated, eosinophils can begin the process of degranulation, releasing their toxic proteins in the fight against the foreign parasite.\n\nAccording to a group case study, the most common symptoms in mild eosinophilic meningitis tend to be headache (with 100% of people in the study suffering from this symptom), photophobia or visual disturbance (92%), neck stiffness (83%), fatigue (83%), hyperesthesias (75%), vomiting (67%), and paresthesias (50%). Incubation period is often 3 weeks, but can be 3–36 days and even 80 days.\n\nPossible clinical signs and symptoms of mild and severe eosinophilic meningitis are:\n\nThe severity and clinical course of \"Angiostrongylus\" disease depends significantly on the ingested load of third-stage larvae, creating great variability from case to case, making clinical trials difficult to design, and effectiveness of treatments difficult to discern. Typical conservative medical management including analgesics and sedatives provide minimal relief for the headaches and hyperesthesias. Removing cerebrospinal fluid at regular 3- to 7-day intervals is the only proven method of significantly reducing intracranial pressure and can be used for symptomatic treatment of headaches. This process may be repeated until improvement is shown. There is growing evidence of moderate quality that suggests corticosteroid therapy using prednisolone or dexamethasone has beneficial effect in treating the CNS symptoms related to \"A. cantonensis\" infections. Although early research did not show treatment with antihelminthic agents (parasite-killing drugs) such as thiobendazole or albendazole effective in improving the clinical course of the illness, a number of recent studies from Thailand and China show that the combination of glucocorticoids and antihelminthics is safe and decreases the duration of headaches and the number of patients who had significant headache. Although the addition of antihelminthic agents for management of \"A. cantonensis\" infection has a theoretic risk of precipitating a neurologic crisis by releasing an overwhelming load of antigens through simultaneous death of the larvae, no study has shown this to exist in the clinical setting. Additionally, the failure to kill parasites before they attempt to migrate out of the CNS increases the risk of mechanical damage by migrating larvae. Although combination therapy using albendazole and prednisolone has no significant advantage compared to treatment using prednisolone alone in mild cases, the treatment with antihelminthics is demonstrably safe and may have significant benefit for patients with high parasite loads at risk for permanent disability or death. \nThe diagnosis of disease caused by \"A. cantonensis\" infestation is often difficult and relies heavily on the history of a likely ingestion of a commonly infested host and the presence of typical features of the disease. The presumptive diagnosis is particularly strong when eosinophilic meningoencephalitis can be confirmed. The diagnosis of eosinophilic meningitis can be arrived at through detection of elevated cranial pressure and increased numbers of eosinophils. The diagnosis of the cause of eosinophilic meningitis and the presence of \"A. cantonensis\" is remarkably more difficult. A spinal tap, or a sample of CSF, must be taken to search for \"A. cantonensis\" worms or larvae. \"A. cantonensis\" is undetectable in the CSF of more than half of the infected individuals. Current methods of detecting specific antigens associated with \"A. cantonensis\" are also unreliable. Consequently, alternative approaches to detect antigen-antibody reactions are being explored, such as immuno-PCR. A rapid dot-blot ELISA test is also available for quick, effective, and economical on-site diagnosis of \"A. cantonensis\".\n\n"}
{"id": "50508420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50508420", "title": "Child survival revolution", "text": "Child survival revolution\n\nThe child survival revolution (also called the child survival and development revolution) was an effort started by UNICEF (but joined by others) to reduce child mortality in the developing world. The effort lasted from 1982 to the 1990s, and generally coincides with James P. Grant's tenure as executive director of UNICEF (1980–1995). The child survival revolution included various programs and conferences, including the World Summit for Children in 1990.\n\nRather than treating child mortality as a measurement of development, the effort sought to directly reduce child mortality as a way toward development.\n\nAlthough the revolution was started by UNICEF, other organizations, including the Rockefeller Foundation, UNDP, the World Bank, and WHO joined; thus the revolution is sometimes called \"a grand alliance for children\". The revolution was analogized with the Green Revolution by James Grant.\n\nThe initial reaction to Grant's announcement of the child survival revolution was overwhelmingly negative due to several reasons, including practical reasons, e.g., the money and infrastructure to support Grant's plans not existing.\n\nIt is estimated that the child vaccination increased worldwide from 20% in 1982(?) to 80% in 1990 because of the child survival revolution.\n\nWriting in 1990, D. A. Henderson noted that although \"dramatic progress\" had been made because of the child survival revolution, the results were still \"little-appreciated\".\n\nThe child survival revolution is estimated to have saved the lives of 25 million children.\n\nThe genesis of the Child Survival Revolution can be traced to 1973 when James P. Grant, gave his annual lecture at Johns Hopkins University's School of Public Health. In reviewing research findings of Prof Carl E. Taylor Grant grasped how the collective package from Taylor's Narangwal research (childhood pneumonia, oral rehydration therapy, neonatal tetanus, family planning) served as a parallel to The Green Revolution, saying \"we can now start to talk about a Child Survival Revolution!\" Grant had earlier been Deputy Director of USAID, and in that role had been an early and strong backer of The Green Revolution, a global effort that dramatically raised global food supply through a package of agricultural innovations (new seed types, fertilizer, irrigation, pesticides, and mechanization). Grant grasped that it was the synergy that came through a package of interventions that would allow children to survive,\n\nFor much of the child survival revolution, James Grant and UNICEF adopted a strategy known as GOBI-FFF, a form of selective primary healthcare:\n\nOf these, \"immunization and ORT were seen as the 'twin-engines' of the child survival revolution\".\n\nAfter 1986, when studies by Alfred Sommer and others were published, vitamin A administration also became a focus.\n\nAlthough the revolution was started by UNICEF, other organizations were involved.\n\n\nUNICEF took advantage of the growing levels of basic education and access to television and radio to generate support for the child survival revolution through persuasion.\n\nJames Grant also \"persuaded many heads of state to get personally involved in their national programmes for children, for example in their immunization by being photographed giving polio drops to a baby\". Several figures from film and sports, like Audrey Hepburn, Liv Ullmann, and Peter Ustinov also participated in the UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador program.\n\n"}
{"id": "12822286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12822286", "title": "Conflict resource", "text": "Conflict resource\n\nConflict resources are natural resources extracted in a conflict zone and sold to perpetuate the fighting. There is both statistical and anecdotal evidence that belligerent accessibility to precious commodities can prolong conflicts (a \"resource curse\"). The most prominent contemporary example has been the eastern provinces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), where various armies, rebel groups, and outside actors have profited from mining while contributing to violence and exploitation during wars in the region.\n\nThe four most commonly mined conflict minerals (known as 3TGs, from their initials) are cassiterite (for tin), wolframite (for tungsten), coltan (for tantalum), and gold ore, which are extracted from the eastern Congo, and passed through a variety of intermediaries before being purchased. These minerals are essential in the manufacture of a variety of devices, including consumer electronics such as mobile phones, laptops, and MP3 players.\n\nThe extraction and sale of blood diamonds, also known as \"conflict diamonds\", is a better-known phenomenon which occurs under virtually identical conditions. Even petroleum can be a conflict resource; ISIS used oil revenue to finance its military and terrorist activities.\n\nInternational efforts to reduce trade in conflict resources, tried to reduce incentives to extract and fight over them. For example, in the United States, the 2010 Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act required manufacturers to audit their supply chains and report use of conflict minerals. In 2015 a US federal appeals court struck down some aspects of the reporting requirements as a violation of corporations’ freedom of speech, but left others in place.\n\nThe concept of 'conflict resource', or 'conflict commodity' emerged in the late 1990s, initially in relation to the 'conflict diamonds' that were financing rebellions in Angola and Sierra Leone. (The media often called these 'blood diamonds'.) Then 'conflict timber' financed hostilities in Cambodia and Liberia.\n\nThe concept was first officially discussed by the UN General Assembly in the context of 'conflict diamonds': The UN Security Council has since referred to conflict resources in several resolutions.\n\nGlobal Witness has called for an international standardized definition to facilitate a more systematic application of UN resolutions, the prevention of complicity in abuses during hostilities by commercial entities exploiting or trading in conflict resources, and the prosecution of war profiteers suspected of supporting or abetting war criminals.\"\nSince 1996 the Bonn International Center for Conversion has tracked \"resource governance\" and \"conflict intensity\" by country. Aside from fossil fuels, metals, diamonds, and timber it tracks the governance of other primary goods that might fund conflicts, including: poppy seeds and talc (Afghanistan), rubber (Côte d'Ivoire), cotton (Zambia), and cocoa (Indonesia).\n\nThe four most prominent conflict minerals, for example codified in the U.S. Conflict Minerals Law, are:\n\n\nThese are sometimes referred to as \"\"the 3T's and gold\", \"3TG\", or even simply the \"3T's\"\". Under the US Conflict Minerals Law, additional minerals may be added to this list in the future.\n\nAs of 2010, the conflict resource fueling the world's deadliest war is gold in the Congo. Gold bars are less traceable than diamonds, and gold is abundant in the Kivu conflict region. In any case, no jewellery industry standard exists for verifying gold origination, as it does for diamonds (though jeweler's total outlay on gold is five times that on diamonds). Other conflict minerals being illicitly exported from the Congo include cobalt, tungsten, cassiterite, and coltan (which provides the tantalum for mobile phones, and is also said to be directly sustaining the conflict).\n\nArmed conflict and mineral resource looting by the Congolese National Army and various armed rebel groups, including the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR) and the National Congress for the Defense of the People (CNDP), a proxy Rwandan militia group, has occurred throughout the late 20th century and the early 21st century. Additionally, the looting of the Congo's natural resources is not limited to domestic actors. During the Congo Wars (First Congo War (1996–1997) and Second Congo War (1998–2003)), Rwanda, Uganda and Burundi particularly profited from the Congo's resources. These governments continued to smuggle resources out of the Congo to this day.\n\nThe profits from the sale of these minerals have financed fighting in the Second Congo War and ongoing follow-on conflicts. Control of lucrative mines has also itself become a military objective.\n\nMines, in eastern Congo, are often located far from populated areas in remote and dangerous regions. A recent study by International Peace Information Service (IPIS) indicates that armed groups are present at more than 50% of mining sites. At many sites, armed groups illegally tax, extort, and coerce civilians to work. Miners, including children, work up to 48-hour shifts amidst mudslides and tunnel collapses that kill many. The groups are often affiliated with rebel groups, or with the Congolese National Army, but both use rape and violence to control the local population.\n\nIn April 2009, Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) introduced the Congo Conflict Minerals Act of 2009 (S. 891) to require electronics companies to verify and disclose their sources of cassiterite, wolframite, and tantalum. This legislation died in committee. However, Brownback added similar language as Section 1502 of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which passed Congress and was signed into law by President Barack Obama on July 21, 2010.\n\nThe U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) draft regulations to implement the Conflict Mineral Law, published in the Federal Register of December 23, 2010. would have required U.S. and certain foreign companies to report and make public their use of so-called \"conflict minerals\" from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries in their products. Comments on this proposal were extended until March 2, 2011. The comments on the proposal were reviewable by the public.\n\nOne report on the proposal stated the following statistics for the submitted comments:\nThat report also contained what it calls a \"preview of the final SEC regulations\" synthesized from their detailed research and analysis of a large body of documents, reports and other information on the law, proposed regulation and the current budget/political setting facing the SEC in the current administration.\n\nThe final rule went into effect 13 November 2012.\n\nThe SEC rule did not go unnoticed by the international community, including entities seeking to undermine traceability efforts. A report published by a metals trading publication illustrated one DRC ore/mineral flow method that has apparently been devised to thwart detection.\n\nOn July 15, 2011, the US State Department issued a statement on the subject. Section 1502(c) of the Law mandates that the State Department work in conjunction with SEC on certain elements of conflict minerals policy development and support.\n\nOn October 23, 2012 U.S. State Dept Officials asserted that ultimately, it falls on the U.S. State Dept. to determine when this rule would no longer apply.\n\nIn April 2014, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit struck down several parts of the SEC Rules as unconstitutional.\n\nUS Conflict Minerals Law contains two requirements that are closely connected: \n\nEven companies not directly regulated by the SEC will be impacted by the audit requirements because they will be pushed down through entire supply chains, including privately held and foreign-owned companies.\n\nSEC estimated that 1,199 \"issuers\" (i.e., companies subject to filing other SEC reports) will be required to submit full conflict mineral reports. This estimate was developed by finding the amount of tantalum produced by the DRC in comparison to global production (15% – 20%). The Commission selected the higher figure of 20% and multiplied that by 6,000 (the total number of \"issuers\" SEC will be required to do initial product/process evaluations). This estimate does not account for the companies who supply materials to the \"issuers\" (but are not themselves SEC-regulated) but who will almost certainly be required to conduct conflict minerals audits to meet the demands of those customers. Other estimates indicate that the total number of US companies likely impacted may exceed 12,000.\n\nA study of the potential impact of the regulation in early 2011 by the \"IPC – Association Connecting Electronic Industries\" trade association. was submitted with the association's comments to the SEC. The study states that the IPC survey respondents had a median of 163 direct suppliers. Applying that number to the SEC's estimated number of impacted issuers results in the possibility of over 195,000 businesses that could be subject to some level of supply chain traceability effort.\n\nUnder the law, companies have to submit an annual conflict minerals report to the SEC if: \n\nA company would be deemed to contract an item to be manufactured if it:\n\nThis language implied that some retailers who are not manufacturers might be subject to the audit and disclosure requirements.\n\n\"Contracting to manufacture\" a product requires some actual influence over the manufacturing of process that product, a determination based on facts and circumstances. A company is not to be deemed to have influence over the manufacturing process if it merely:\n\nThe proposed regulations attempted to clarify that tools used in assembly and manufacturing will not trigger the law. The intent was to cover minerals/metals in the final product only. Nothing specifically addresses intermediate chemical processes that use chemicals that contain conflict minerals. Additionally, neither the law nor the proposed regulation established a de minimis quantity or other form of materiality threshold that would preclude the applicability of the auditing/reporting requirements.\n\nThe law mandates the use of an \"independent private sector auditor\" to conduct the audits. SEC has proposed two different standards for the audits: the \"reasonable inquiry\" and the \"due diligence\". Should the final rule include this structure, the reasonable inquiry would be the first step to determine if the company can on its own, using reasonable efforts and trustworthy information, make a reliable determination as to the source/origin of its tin, tantalum, tungsten and/or gold. Where companies are unable to make such a determination for any reason, they would then be required to take the next step of the \"due diligence\", which is the independent private sector audit.\n\nThe statute specified that the audits be \"conducted in accordance with standards established by the Comptroller General of the United States, in accordance with rules promulgated by the Commission.\" This means that the same auditing standards that apply to other SEC auditing requirements will apply to conflict minerals audits Because of this language, SEC will have little discretion to allow companies to issue self-generated statements or certifications to satisfy the law.\n\nThird party audits for conflict minerals supply chain traceability began in summer 2010 under the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), a US-based electronics manufacturing trade association. Under this program, EICC selected three audit firms to conduct the actual audits, with two of the three participating in the pilot audits in 2010. After concluding the pilot, one of the two firms involved in 2010 withdrew from the program specifically in response to the SEC's proposal and to reduce potential legal risks to the audited entities.\n\nNeither the law nor the proposed regulations provide guidance on what will be considered an acceptable audit scope or process, preferring to allow companies the flexibility meeting the requirement in a manner that is responsive to their own individual business and supply chain. At the same time, the law contains a provision that preserves the government's rights to deem any report, audit or other due diligence processes as being unreliable, and in such cases, the report shall not satisfy the requirements of the regulations, further emphasizing the need for such audits to conform to established SEC auditing standards. Comments on the proposed regulation pointed out that, should SEC not specify an applicable audit standard, it cannot also be silent or ambiguous on the auditor standards as well, or the Commission will violate the plain language of the Law mandating \"standards established by the Comptroller General of the United States\". It is generally expected that SEC will provide specificity on both the audit standard and the auditor standard. SEC's proposal attempted to clarify its position on auditor requirements.\n\nThe Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) published its Guidance on conflict minerals supply chain traceability. This guidance is gaining much momentum as \"the\" standard within US policy. However, a recent critical analysis of the standard in comparison to existing US auditing standards under SEC highlighted a number of significant inconsistencies and conflict with relevant US standards. Companies subject to the US law who implement the OECD Guidance without regard for the SEC auditing standards may face legal compliance risks.\n\nCompanies subject to the SEC reporting requirement would be required to disclose whether the minerals used in their products originated in the DRC or adjoining countries (as defined above). The law mandates that this reporting be submitted/made available annually. Many comments to the proposed regulation asked SEC to clarify whether the report must be \"furnished\"—meaning it is made available to SEC but not directly incorporated within the company's formal financial report—or \"submitted\"—meaning the report is directly incorporated into the financial report. At first glance, this may appear to be a minor point; however, this difference is very important in determining the audit/auditor standards and related liabilities.\n\nIf it is determined that none of the minerals originated in the DRC or adjoining countries, the report must include a statement to that effect and provide an explanation of the country of origin analysis that was used to arrive at the ultimate conclusion. On the other hand, if conflict minerals originating in the DRC or adjoining countries were used (or if it is not possible to determine the country of origin of the conflict minerals used), companies would be required to state as such in the annual report. In either case, companies would also be required to make this information public by posting their annual conflict minerals report on their websites, and providing the SEC with the internet addresses where the reports may be found. Further, the proposed regulations would require companies to maintain records relating to the country of origin of conflict minerals used in their products.\n\nMedia outlets have reported that many companies required to file Specialized Disclosure Reports to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and any necessary conflict minerals reports for 2013 under the SEC’s conflict minerals rule are struggling to meet the June 2, 2014 report filing deadline. Many impacted companies were hoping for clarification regarding filing requirements, from the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit from a lawsuit filed by the National Association of Manufacturers. The appellate court’s ruling left the necessary conflict minerals reporting requirements largely intact and it has been suggested that impacted companies should review the SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance’s response to the court’s ruling which provides guidance regarding the effect of the appellate court’s ruling.\n\nOn August 18, 2015 the divided D.C. Circuit Court again held the SEC's conflict materials rule violates the First Amendment. Senior Circuit Judge A. Raymond Randolph, joined by Senior Circuit Judge David B. Sentelle, weighed if the required disclosures were effective and uncontroversial. Citing news reports and a Congressional hearing, the court decided the policy was ineffective. The court next found the required label was controversial because it \"is a metaphor that conveys moral responsibility for the Congo war.\" As such, the court struck down the conflict materials rule’s disclosure requirements as a violation of corporations’ freedom of speech. Circuit Judge Sri Srinivasan dissented, writing that the required disclosures were not controversial because they were truthful.\n\nThe law has been criticised for not addressing the root causes of the conflict, leaving to the Congolese government the responsibility for providing an environment in which companies can practice due diligence and legitimately purchase the minerals they need, when the reality is that mechanisms for transparency do not exist. The effect has been to halt legitimate mining ventures that provided livelihoods for people, reducing the Congo's legal exports of tantalum by 90%.\n\nAn investigation by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that most companies were unable to determine the source of their conflict minerals.\n\nTechnology manufacturers criticized a law which required them to label a product as not \"DRC Conflict Free\" as compelled speech, and in violation of the First Amendment.\n\nThe European Parliament passed legislation in 2015; negotiations are currently underway among member states as to specific wording details.\n\nOn 16 June 2016 the European Parliament confirmed that \"mandatory due diligence\" would be required for \"all but the smallest EU firms importing tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold and their ores\".\n\nOn May 17, 2017 the EU passed Regulation (EU) 2017/821 of the Parliament and of the Council on the supply chain due diligence obligations for importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten, their ores, and gold from conflict-affected and high risk areas. The regulation will take effect in January 2021, and will directly apply to companies that import 3TG metals into the EU, no matter where they originate.\n\nOn August 10, 2018 The European Commission published their non-binding guidelines for the identification of conflict-affected and high-risk areas and other supply chain risks under Regulation (EU) 2017/821 of the European Parliament and of the Council.\n\nIncreases in business process outsourcing to globally dispersed production facilities means that social problems and human rights violations are no longer only an organization matter, but also often occur in companies’ supply chains, and challenge for supply chain managers. Besides the harm conflict minerals do where they are produced, human rights violations also raise an enormous risk to corporate reputations. Consumers, mass media and employees expect companies to behave responsibly and have become intolerant of those who don't.\n\nConsequently, firms that are located downstream in the supply chain and that are more visible to stakeholders are particularly threatened by social supply chain problems. The recent debate concerning conflict minerals illustrates the importance of social and human rights issues in supply chain management practice as well as the emerging need to react to social conflicts. Conflict minerals are processed in many different components throughout various industries and hence have a high overall impact on business.\nInitiatives like the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act or the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas demand that supply chain managers verify purchased goods as ‘‘conflict-free’’ or implement measures to better manage any inability to do so.\n\nMinerals mined in Eastern Congo pass through the hands of numerous middlemen as they are shipped out of Congo, through neighboring countries such as Rwanda or Burundi, to East Asian processing plants. Because of this, the US Conflict Minerals Law applies to materials originating (or claimed to originate) from the DRC as well as the nine adjoining countries: Angola, Burundi, Central African Republic, Congo Republic, Rwanda, South Sudan, Zimbabwe, Uganda, and Zambia.\n\nFirms have begun to apply governance mechanisms to avoid adverse effects of conflict mineral sourcing. However, the mere transfer of responsibilities upstream in the supply chain apparently will not stop the trade with conflict minerals, notably due to two reasons: \n\nIn the context of mineral supply chains, due diligence represents a holistic concept that aims at providing a chain of custody tracking from mine to export at country level, regional tracking of mineral flows through the creation of a database on their purchases, independent audits on all actors in the supply chain, and a monitoring of the whole mineral chain by a mineral chain auditor. In this sense, due diligence transcends conventional risk management approaches that usually focus on the prevention of direct impacts on the core business activities of companies. Moreover, due diligence focuses on a maximum of transparency as an end itself while risk management is always directed towards the end of averting direct damages. However, besides the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the OECD Guidance, there is still a gap in due diligence practices as international norms are just emerging. Studies found that the motivation for supply chain due diligence as well as expected outcomes of these processes vary among firms. Furthermore, different barriers, drivers, and implementation patterns of supply chain due diligence have been identified in scholarly research.\n\nA number of organizations and celebrities working to find solutions and raise awareness of conflict minerals. These include:\n\n\nMoreover, FairPhone Foundation raises awareness of conflict minerals in the mobile industry and is a company which tries to produce a smart phone with 'fair' conditions along the supply chain. Various industry and trade associations are also monitoring developments in conflict minerals laws and traceability frameworks. Some of these represent electronics, retailers, jewelry, mining, electronics components, and general manufacturing sectors. One organization – ITRI (a UK-based international non-profit organization representing the tin industry and sponsored/supported by its members, principally miners and smelters.) had spearheaded efforts for the development and implementation of a \"bag and tag\" scheme at the mine as a key element of credible traceability. The program and related efforts were initially not likely to extend beyond the pilot phase due to a variety of implementation and funding problems that occurred. In the end however, the device did enter the market.\n\nIn late March 2011, the UK government launched an informational section on its Foreign & Commonwealth Office website dedicated to conflict minerals. This information resource is intended to assist British companies in understanding the issues and, specifically, the US requirements.\n\nOn Jan 6th 2014, the semiconductor giant Intel announced that it would distance itself from conflict minerals. As a result, all Intel microprocessors henceforth will be conflict-free.\n\nManufacturers and supply chain partners needing to comply with the ever-increasing reporting regulations have a few commercial options available.\n\nA major research report from November 2012 by the Southern Africa Resource Watch revealed that gold miners in the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo were being exploited by corrupt government officials, bureaucrats and security personnel, who all demand illegal tax, fees and levies from the miners without delivering any services in return. Despite the alleged gold rush in regions of the country, none of the population and workforce is benefiting from this highly lucrative industry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49644336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49644336", "title": "Cristina Possas", "text": "Cristina Possas\n\nCristina Possas de Albuquerque (born 5 June 1948) is a Brazilian public health scientist working with infectious diseases and emerging infectious diseases from an eco-social perspective. However, her approach to social ecosystem complexity is quite different from the four-fold eco-social approach of Harvard's Nancy Krieger in that she has proposed in a 2001 English-language article in the \"Brazilian Journal of Public Health Reports\" the concept of \"social ecosystem health\" where ecosystems are increasingly changed by social human activity, favoring the emergence of diseases, so the term \"social\" should precede the prefix \"eco\".\n\nShe is a Takemi Fellow at Harvard University in Boston, where for 10 years she has been a Visiting Scientist and a Fulbright Fellow, and a professor at FIOCRUZ in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.\n\nAs a Brazilian Brazilian public health scientist working with infectious diseases from an eco-social perspective, Cristina Possas de Albuquerque (Cristina Possas) has as a policymaker long worked closely with public health and environmental scientists and with human rights and social justice civil organizations.\n\nShe also is a full professor at FIOCRUZ in Brazil, where in 1998 she had earned a PhD in public health, and where she now does research on infectious diseases and teaches a course named \"Scientific Methodology\" in the Masters and Doctoral Programs.\n\nShe has been also a Professor of Health Policy at the National School of Public Health at the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, Brazil. She was nominated in 1987 by the Brazilian Ministry of Health/Fiocruz to be the National Technical Coordinator of seven Groups supporting the Health Reform in Brazil, whose contributions were later incorporated into the new Brazilian 1988 Constitution.\n\nFor a decade, she also has been a Takemi Fellow at Harvard University, a Visiting Scientist and Fulbright Fellow, and a member of the Harvard New Diseases Group, coordinated by the late Richard Levins and by Tamara Awerbuch-Friedlander, collaborating with them and other outstanding members of the group in the organizing committee of the Woods Hole Conference on New Diseases, with articles with the group later published in a special supplement of the \"Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences\" on this conference and in other journals. She had held for 10 years a national position as the Head of the Research and Development Unit of the Brazilian National AIDS Program.\n\nShe has worked for more than five decades in several national and international positions with the scientific community and civil society organizations. For ten years, she had been National Director of the Research and Technological Development Unit at the Brazilian AIDS Program in the Brazilian Ministry of Health, which has been recognized globally as an outstanding public health initiative with innovative approaches to the pandemics, always centering on free and universal access to prevention and treatment. She was invited by the Director of the National AIDS Program to conceive and create a new and innovative Research and Technological Development Unit in the Program’s structure.\n\nShe has given interviews on AIDS, dengue, and zika.\n\n\nFIOCRUZ\n\n1985–present - Full professor and researcher at FIOCRUZ (Master, Doctoral and Post-Doctoral Programs in Clinical Research on Infectious Diseases). Scientific Advisor for the President of the Policy and Strategy Council of Bio-Manguinhos.\n\nPositions:\n\n\nNATIONAL TECHNICAL BIOSAFETY COMMISSION - CTNBio\n\n\nNATIONAL AIDS PROGRAM\n\n\nHARVARD UNIVERSITY\n\n\nSTATE OF SÃO PAULO, BRAZIL\n\n\nPUC OF CAMPINAS, SP.\n\n\nCITY OF CAMPINAS, SP\n\n\nUNICAMP, SP\n\n\n\nDr. Possas's writings are in six broad areas:\n\n\nThese numerous writings include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21418432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21418432", "title": "Criticism of democracy", "text": "Criticism of democracy\n\nCriticism of democracy is grounded in democracy's contested definition—its purpose, process, and outcomes. Since Classical antiquity and through the modern era, democracy has been associated with \"rule of the people,\" \"rule of the majority,\" and free selection or election either through direct participation or elected representation respectively, but has not been linked to a particular outcome.\n\nPolitical thinkers approach their critique of democracy from different perspectives. Many do not necessarily oppose democracy—\"rule of the people\"—but, rather, seek to expand or question its popular definition. In their work, they distinguish between democratic principles that are effectively implemented through undemocratic procedures; undemocratic principles that are implemented through democratic procedures; and variations of the same kind.\n\nFor instance, some critics of democracy would agree with Winston Churchill's famous remark, \"No one pretends that democracy is perfect or all-wise. Indeed, it has been said that democracy is the worst form of government except all those other forms that have been tried from time to time.\" While others, may be more prepared to describe existing democratic regimes as anything but \"rule of the people.\"\n\nCritics of democracy have tried to highlight democracy's inconsistencies, paradoxes, and limits by contrasting it with other forms of governments. They have characterized most modern democracies as democratic polyarchies and democratic aristocracies; they have identified fascist moments in modern democracies; they have termed the societies produced by modern democracies as neo-feudal; while, yet others, have contrasted democracy with Nazism, anarcho-capitalism, theocracy, and absolute monarchy.\n\nThe most widely known critics of democracy include Plato and the authors of the Federalist Papers, who were interested in establishing a representative democracy in America instead of a direct democracy.\n\nAdditional historical figures associated with the critique of democracy thought include Aristotle, Montesquieu, James Harrington, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Martin Heidegger, Hubert Lagardelle, Charles Maurras, Friedrich Nietzsche, Carl Schmitt, Oswald Spengler, Nicolás Gómez Dávila, and Elazar Menachem Shach.\n\nLeading contemporary thinkers in critical democratic theory include Jürgen Habermas, Robert A. Dahl, Robert E. Goodin, Bernard Manin, Joseph Schumpeter, James S. Fishkin, Ian Shapiro, Jason Brennan, Hélène Landemore and Hans-Hermann Hoppe.\n\nOne such argument is that the benefits of a specialized society may be compromised by democracy. As ordinary citizens are encouraged to take part in the political life of the country, they have the power to directly influence the outcome of government policies through the democratic procedures of voting, campaigning and the use of press. The result is that government policies may be more influenced by non-specialist opinions and thereby the effectiveness compromised, especially if a policy is very technically sophisticated and/or the general public inadequately informed. For example, there is no guarantee that those who campaign about the government's economic policies are themselves professional economists or academically competent in this particular discipline, regardless of whether they were well-educated. Essentially this means that a democratic government may not be providing the most good for the largest number of people. However, some have argued that this should not even be the goal of democracies because the minority could be seriously mistreated under that purported goal.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche, as an opponent of Christianity, saw western democracy as connected to it, claiming that \"the \"democratic\" movement is Christianity's heir\" and denounced the democratic man for being inherently unable to \"feel any shame for being unable to rise above\" his desire \"to satisfy a host of petty wants through the calculation of long-term self-interest\". Nietzsche claimed that in a democracy \"[w]hen the individual's highest and strongest instincts break forth with a passion, driving him far and above the average, beyond the lowlands of the herd conscience\", \"the moral perspective now considers how harmful or harmless an opinion, an emotional state, a will, a talent is to the community, to equality\". \"Exalted, self-directed spirituality, a will to solitude, even great powers of reason are felt as a danger\". \"Morality in Europe today is herd animal morality\".\n\nThe real difference between ancient democracies and modern republics lies, according to Madison, in \"\"the total exclusion of the people in their collective capacity\" from any share in the \"latter\", and not in the \"total exclusion of the representatives of the people\" from the administration of the \"former\".— Bernard Manin, p. 2 (See: Madison, \"Federalist 63,\" in \"The Federalist Papers,\" p. 387; Madison's emphasis.)Bernard Manin is interested in distinguishing modern representative republics, such as the United States, from ancient direct democracies, such as Athens. Manin believes that both aspire to \"rule of the people,\" but that the nature of modern representative republics lends them to \"rule of the aristocratic.\" Manin explains that in ancient democracies, virtually every citizen had the chance to be selected to populate the government but in modern republics, only elites have the chance of being elected. He does not defend this phenomenon but rather seeks to describe it.\n\nManin draws from James Harrington, Montesquieu, and Jean-Jacques Rousseau to suggest that the dominant form of government, representative as opposed to direct, is effectively aristocratic. He proposes that modern representative governments exercise political power through aristocratic elections which, in turn, brings into question democracy's \"rule of the people\" principle. As far as Montesquieu is concerned, elections favor the \"best\" citizens who Manin notes tend to be wealthy and upper-class. As far as Rousseau is concerned, elections favor the incumbent government officials or the citizens with the strongest personalities, which results in hereditary aristocracy. Manin further evinces the aristocratic nature of representative governments by contrasting them with the ancient style of selection by lot. Manin notes that Montesquieu believed that lotteries prevent jealousy and distribute offices equally (among citizens from different ranks), while Rousseau believed that lotteries choose indifferently, preventing self-interest and partiality from polluting the citizen's choice (and thus prevent hereditary aristocracy).\n\nHowever, Manin also provides criticism of direct democracy, or selection by lot. Manin reflects on Montesquieu's interrogation of the extent to which Athenian direct democracy was truly direct. Montesquieu finds that citizens who had reason to believe they would be accused as \"unworthy of selection\" commonly withheld their names from the lottery, thereby making selection by lot vulnerable to self-selection bias and, thus, aristocratic in nature. Manin does not dwell on direct democracy's potentially aristocratic elements, perhaps because he share's Montesquieu's belief that there is nothing alarming about the exclusion of citizens who may be incompetent; this exclusion may be inevitable in any method of selection.\n\nAdditionally, Manin is interested in explaining the discrepancy between 18th century American and French revolutionaries' \"declaration\" of the \"equality of all citizens\" and their \"enactment\" of (aristocratic) elections in their respective democratic experiments. Manin suggests that the discrepancy is explained by the revolutionaries' contemporary preoccupation with one form of equality over another. The revolutionaries prioritized gaining the equal right to consent to their choice of government (even a potentially aristocratic democracy), at the expense of seeking the equal right to be face of that democracy. And it is elections, not lots, that provide citizens with more opportunities to consent. In elections, citizens consent both to the procedure of elections and to the product of the elections (even if they produce the election of elites). In lotteries, citizens consent only to the procedure of lots, but not to the product of the lots (even if they produce election of the average person). That is, if the revolutionaries prioritized consent to be governed over equal opportunity to serve as the government, then their choice of elections over lotteries makes sense.\n\nA major scholarly attack on the basis of democracy was made by German-Italian political scientist Robert Michels who developed the mainstream political science theory of the iron law of oligarchy in 1911. Michels argued that oligarchy is inevitable as an \"iron law\" within any organization as part of the \"tactical and technical necessities\" of organization and on the topic of democracy, Michels stated: \"It is organization which gives birth to the dominion of the elected over the electors, of the mandataries over the mandators, of the delegates over the delegators. Who says organization, says oligarchy\" and went on to state \"Historical evolution mocks all the prophylactic measures that have been adopted for the prevention of oligarchy.\" Michels stated that the official goal of democracy of eliminating elite rule was impossible, that democracy is a façade legitimizing the rule of a particular elite, and that elite rule, that he refers to as oligarchy, is inevitable. Michels had formerly been a Marxist but became drawn to the syndicalism of Sorel, Eduoard Berth, Arturo Labriola, and Enrico Leone and had become strongly opposed parliamentarian, legalistic, and bureaucratic socialism of social democracy and in contrast supported an activist, voluntarist, anti-parliamentarian socialism. Michels would later become a supporter of fascism upon Mussolini's rise to power in 1922, viewing fascism's goal to destroy liberal democracy in a sympathetic manner.\n\nCharles Maurras, an FRS member of the \"Action française\" movement, stated in a famous dictum \"Democracy is evil, democracy is death.\" Maurras' concept of \"politique naturelle\" declared recognition of inescapable biological inequality and thereby natural hierarchies, and claimed that the individual is naturally subordinated to social collectivities such as the family, the society, and the state, which he claims are doomed to fail if based upon the \"myth of equality\" or \"abstract liberty\". Maurras criticized democracy as being a \"government by numbers\" in which quantity matters more over quality and prefers the worst over the best. Maurras denounced the principles of liberalism as described in \"The Social Contract\" by Jean-Jacques Rousseau and in \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen\" as based upon the false assumption of liberty and the false assumption of equality. He claimed that the parliamentary system subordinates the national interest, or common good, to private interests of a parliament's representatives where only short-sighted interests of individuals prevail.\n\nFrench revolutionary syndicalist Hubert Lagardelle claimed that French revolutionary syndicalism came to being as the result of \"the reaction of the proletariat against democracy,\" which he claimed was \"the \"popular form\" of bourgeois dominance.\" Lagardelle opposed democracy for its universalism, and believed in the necessity of class separation of the proletariat from the bourgeoisie, as democracy did not recognize the social differences between them.\n\nIsraeli politician Rabbi Elazar Menachem Shach promoted Judaic law to be the natural governance for Jews and condemned democracy, he claimed that \"Democracy as a machinery of lies, false notions, pursuit of narrow interests and deceit - as opposed to the Torah regime, which is based on seeking the ultimate truth.\" Shach criticized democracy for having no real goals, saying \"The whole point of democracy is money. The one does what the other asks him to do in pursuit of his own interest, so as to be given what he himself asks for, and the whole purpose of the transaction is that each would get what they want.\"\n\nMore recently, democracy is criticized for not offering enough political stability. As governments are frequently elected on and off there tend to be frequent changes in the policies of democratic countries both domestically and internationally. Even if a political party maintains power, vociferous, headline grabbing protests and harsh criticism from the mass media are often enough to force sudden, unexpected political change. Frequent policy changes with regard to business and immigration are likely to deter investment and so hinder economic growth. For this reason, many people have put forward the idea that democracy is undesirable for a developing country in which economic growth and the reduction of poverty are top priority. However, Anthony Downs argued that the political market works much the same way as the economic market, and that there could potentially be an equilibrium in the system because of democratic process. However, he eventually argued that imperfect knowledge in politicians and voters prevented the reaching of that equilibrium.\n\nDemocracy is also criticised for frequent elections due to the instability of coalition governments. Coalitions are frequently formed \"after\" the elections in many countries (for example India) and the basis of alliance is predominantly to enable a viable majority, not an ideological concurrence.\n\nThis opportunist alliance not only has the handicap of having to cater to too many ideologically opposing factions, but it is usually short lived since any perceived or actual imbalance in the treatment of coalition partners, or changes to leadership in the coalition partners themselves, can very easily result in the coalition partner withdrawing its support from the government.\n\nDemocratic institutions work on consensus to decide an issue, which usually takes longer than a unilateral decision.\n\nM. S. Golwalkar in his book Bunch of Thoughts describes democracy as, \"is to a very large extent only a myth in practice...The high-sounding concept of \"individual freedom\" only meant the freedom of those talented few to exploit the rest.\"\n\nThis is a simple form of appealing to the short term interests of the voters.\n\nAnother form is commonly called Pork barrel, where local areas or political sectors are given special benefits but whose costs are spread among all taxpayers.\n\nMere elections are just one aspect of the democratic process. Other tenets of democracy, like relative equality and freedom, are frequently absent in ostensibly democratic countries.\n\nMoreover, in many countries, democratic participation is less than 50% at times, and it can be argued that election of individual(s) instead of ideas disrupts democracy.\n\nThe new establishment of democratic institutions, in countries where the associated practices have as yet been uncommon or deemed culturally unacceptable, can result in institutions that are not sustainable in the long term. One circumstance supporting this outcome may be when it is part of the common perception among the populace that the institutions were established as a direct result of foreign pressure.\n\nSustained regular inspection from democratic countries, however effortful and well-meaning, are normally not sufficient in preventing the erosion of democratic practices. In the cases of several African countries, corruption still is rife in spite of democratically elected governments, as one of the most severe examples, Zimbabwe, is often perceived to have backfired into outright militarism.\n\nEconomist Donald Wittman has written numerous works attempting to counter criticisms of democracy common among his colleagues. He argues democracy is efficient based on the premise of rational voters, competitive elections, and relatively low political transactions costs. Economist Bryan Caplan argues that, while Wittman makes strong arguments for the latter two points, the first is vitiated by the insurmountable evidence for voter irrationality. The problem is not merely the voters' lack of information, but their poor judgement. For many voters, the difficulty of learning about a particular issue is too high compared to the likely costs of ignorance, but this ignorance does not lessen their enthusiasm for voting. Other economists, such as Meltzer and Richard, have added that as industrial activity in a democracy increases, so too do the people's demands for subsidies and support from the government. By the median voter theorem, only a few people actually hold the balance of power in the country, and many may be unhappy with their decisions. In this way, they argue, democracies are inefficient.\n\nSuch a system could result in a wealth disparity or racial discrimination. Fierlbeck (1998) points out that such a result is not necessarily due to a failing in the democratic process, but rather, \"because democracy is responsive to the desires of a large middle class increasingly willing to disregard the muted voices of economically marginalized groups within its own borders.\" The will of the democratic majority may not always be in the best interest of all citizens.\n\nVoters may not be educated enough to exercise their democratic rights prudently. Politicians may take advantage of voters' irrationality, and compete more in the field of public relations and tactics, than in ideology. While arguments against democracy are often taken by advocates of democracy as an attempt to maintain or revive traditional hierarchy and autocratic rule, many extensions have been made to develop the argument further. In Lipset's 1959 essay about the requirements for forming democracy, he found that almost all emerging democracies provided good education. However, education alone cannot sustain a democracy, though Caplan did note in 2005 that as people become educated, they think more like economists.\n\nPoliticians and special interests have attempted to manipulate public opinion for as long as recorded history − this has put into question the feasibility of democratic government. Critics claim that mass media actually shapes public opinion, and can therefore be used to \"control\" democracy. Opinion polls before the election are under special criticism. Furthermore, the disclosure of reputation damaging material shortly before elections may be used to significantly manipulate public opinion. In the United States the FBI was criticized for announced that the agency would examine potentially incriminating evidence against Hillary Clinton's use of a private email server just 11 days before the election. It has been said that misinformation − such as fake news − has become central to elections around the world. In December 2016 United States' intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia worked \"to undermine public faith in the U.S. democratic process, denigrate Secretary [Hillary] Clinton, and harm her electability and potential presidency\" − including passing material against the Democrats to WikiLeaks to discredit the election and favor Donald Trump. Social bots and other forms of online propaganda as well as search engine result algorithms may be used to alter the perception and opinion of voters. In 2016 Andrés Sepúlveda disclosed that he manipulated public opinion to rig elections in Latin America. According to him with a budget of $600,000 he led a team of hackers that stole campaign strategies, manipulated social media to create false waves of enthusiasm and derision, and installed spyware in opposition offices to help Enrique Peña Nieto, a right-of-center candidate, win the election.\n\nVarious reasons can be found for eliminating or suppressing political opponents. Methods such as false flags, counterterrorism-laws, planting or creating compromising material and perpetuation of public fear may be used to suppress dissent. After a failed coup d'état over 110,000 people have been purged and nearly 40,000 have been imprisoned in Turkey, which is or was considered to be a democratic nation, during the 2016 Turkish purges.\n\nFake parties, phantom political rivals and \"scarecrow\" opponents may be used to undermine the opposition.\n\nRobert A. Dahl defines democracies as systems of government that respond nearly fully to each and every one of their citizens. He then poses that no such, fully responsive system exists today. However, this does not mean that \"partially\" democratic regimes do not exist—they do. Thus, Dahl rejects a democracy dichotomy in favor of a democratization spectrum. To Dahl, the question is not whether a country is a democracy or not. The question is to what extent a country is experiencing democratization at a national level. Dahl measures this democratization in terms of the country's endorsement and reception of public contestation. And polyarchy, or \"rule of the many people,\" is the only existing form of democratizeable government; that is, it is within polyarchies that democratization can flourish. Countries do not immediately transform from hegemonies and competitive oligarchies into democracies. Instead, a country that adopts democracy as its form of government can only claim to have switched to polyarchy, which is conducive to, but does not guarantee, democratization. Dahl's polyarchy spectrum ends at the point in which a country becomes a full polyarchy at the national level and begins to democratize at the subnational level, among its social and private affairs. Dahl is not deeply concerned about the limits of his polyarchy spectrum because he believes that most countries today still have a long way before they reach full polyarchy status. For Dahl, whatever lies beyond full polyarchy is only possible, and thus only a concern, for advanced countries like the Western Europe.\n\nPlato's \"Republic\" presents a critical view of democracy through the narration of Socrates: \"Democracy, which is a charming form of government, full of variety and disorder, and dispensing a sort of equality to equals and unequaled alike.\" In his work, Plato lists 5 forms of government from best to worst. Assuming that \"the Republic\" was intended to be a serious critique of the political thought in Athens, Plato argues that only Kallipolis, an aristocracy led by the unwilling philosopher-kings (the wisest men), is a just form of government.\n\nPlato rejected Athenian democracy on the basis that such democracies were anarchic societies without internal unity, that they followed citizens' impulses rather than pursuing the common good, that democracies are unable to allow a sufficient number of their citizens to have their voices heard, and that such democracies were typically run by fools. Plato attacked Athenian democracies for mistaking anarchy for freedom. The lack of coherent unity in Athenian democracy made Plato conclude that such democracies were a mere collection of individuals occupying a common space rather than a form of political organization.\n\nAccording to Plato, other forms of government place too much focus on lesser virtues and degenerate into other forms from best to worst, starting with timocracy, which overvalues honour, then oligarchy, which overvalues wealth, which is followed by democracy. In democracy, the oligarchs, or merchant, are unable to wield their power effectively and the people take over, electing someone who plays on their wishes (for example, by throwing lavish festivals). However, the government grants the people too much freedom, and the state degenerates into the fourth form, tyranny, or mob rule.\n\nThe constitutions of many countries have parts of them that restrict the nature of the types of laws that legislatures\ncan pass. A fundamental idea behind some of these restrictions, is that the majority of a population and its elected legislature can often be the source of minority persecutions, such as with racial discrimination. For example, during the mid-1930s and mid-1970s in the democratic country of Sweden, the government forcibly sterilized thousands of innocent women. They were sterilized due to \"'mental defects', or simply because they were of mixed race.\" A second example is when, in 2014 in Pakistan, \"a Christian couple were burnt alive in a brick kiln by a mob for their alleged burning of the pages of Quran.\" This was followed by little police retaliation and a statement from the President of Pakistan stating that his government would protect the rights and interests of the Christian community. Some countries throughout the world have judiciaries where judges can serve for long periods of time, and often serve under appointed posts. This is often balanced, however, by the fact that some trials are decided by juries. While many, like Wittman, have argued that democracies work much the same way as the free market and that there is competition among parties to prevent oppression by the majority, others have argued that there is actually very little competition among political parties in democracies due to the high cost associated with campaigning.\n\nJohn T. Wenders, a professor of Economics at the University of Idaho, writes:\n\nAdditionally, some political scientists question the notion that majority rule is an \"uncontested good.\" If we base our critique on the definition of democracy as governance based on the will of the majority, there can be some foreseeable consequences to this form of rule. For example, Fierlbeck (1998: 12) points out that the middle class majority in a country may decide to redistribute wealth and resources into the hands of those that they feel are most capable of investing or increasing them. Of course this is only a critique of a subset of types of democracy that primarily use majority rule.\n\nUS President James Madison devoted the whole of Federalist No. 10 to a scathing critique of democracy and offered that republics are a far better solution, saying: \"...democracies have ever been spectacles of turbulence and contention; have ever been found incompatible with personal security or the rights of property; and have in general been as short in their lives as they have been violent in their deaths.\" Madison offered that republics were superior to democracies because republics safeguarded against tyranny of the majority, stating in Federalist No. 10: \"the same advantage which a republic has over a democracy, in controlling the effects of faction, is enjoyed by a large over a small republic\".\n\nThe Founding Fathers of the United States intended to address this criticism by combining democracy with republicanism. A constitution would limit the powers of what a simple majority can accomplish.\n\nMachiavelli put the idea that democracies will tend to cater to the whims of the people, who follow false ideas to entertain themselves, squander their reserves, and do not deal with potential threats to their rule until it is too late. He put forth a cyclical theory of government where monarchies tend to decay into aristocracies, which then decay into democracies, which subsequently decay into anarchy, then tyranny, then return to monarchy. An example is the timeline of France before, during, and after the Revolution until the last Bourbon Monarch.\n\nHowever Machiavelli's definition of democracy was narrower than the current one. He hypothesized that a hybrid system of government incorporating facets of all three major types (monarchy, aristocracy and democracy) could break this cycle. Many modern democracies that have separation of powers are claimed to represent these kinds of hybrid governments. However, in modern democracies there is usually no direct correlation with Machiavelli's idea, because of weakening of the separation of powers, or erosion of the original function of the various branches. For example, the modern United States executive branch has slowly accumulated more power from the legislative branch, and the Senate no longer functions as a quasi-aristocratic body as was originally intended, since senators are now democratically elected.\n\nSome have tried to argue that the Coase theorem applies to political markets as well. Daron Acemoglu, however, provides evidence to the contrary, claiming that the Coase Theorem is only valid while there are \"rules of the game,\" so to speak, that are being enforced by the government. But when there is nobody there to enforce the rules for the government itself, there is no way to guarantee that low transaction costs will lead to an efficient outcome in democracies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "275715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275715", "title": "Digital Radio Mondiale", "text": "Digital Radio Mondiale\n\nDigital Radio Mondiale (DRM; \"mondiale\" being Italian and French for \"worldwide\") is a set of digital audio broadcasting technologies designed to work over the bands currently used for analogue radio broadcasting including AM broadcasting, particularly shortwave, and FM broadcasting. DRM is more spectrally efficient than AM and FM, allowing more stations, at higher quality, into a given amount of bandwidth, using various MPEG-4 audio coding formats.\n\nDigital Radio Mondiale is also the name of the international non-profit consortium that has designed the platform and is now promoting its introduction. Radio France Internationale, TéléDiffusion de France, BBC World Service, Deutsche Welle, Voice of America, Telefunken (now Transradio) and Thomcast (now Ampegon) took part at the formation of the DRM consortium.\n\nThe principle of DRM is that bandwidth is the limited element, and computer processing power is cheap; modern CPU-intensive audio compression techniques enable more efficient use of available bandwidth, at the expense of processing resources.\n\nDRM can deliver up to FM-comparable sound quality on frequencies below 30 MHz (long wave, medium wave and short wave), which allow for very-long-distance signal propagation. The modes for these lower frequencies are often collectively known under the term \"DRM30\". In the VHF bands, the term \"DRM+\" is used. DRM+ is able to use available broadcast spectra between 30 and 300 MHz; generally this means band I (47 to 68 MHz), band II (87.5 to 108 MHz) and band III (174 to 230 MHz). DRM has been designed to be able to re-use portions of existing analogue transmitter facilities such as antennas, feeders, and, especially for DRM30, the transmitters themselves, avoiding major new investment. DRM is robust against the fading and interference which often plague conventional broadcasting in these frequency ranges.\n\nThe encoding and decoding can be performed with digital signal processing, so that a cheap embedded computer with a conventional transmitter and receiver can perform the rather complex encoding and decoding.\n\nAs a digital medium, DRM can transmit other data besides the audio channels (datacasting) — as well as RDS-type metadata or program-associated data as Digital Audio Broadcasting (DAB) does. DRM services can be operated in many different network configurations, from a traditional AM one-service one-transmitter model to a multi-service (up to four) multi-transmitter model, either as a single-frequency network (SFN) or multi-frequency network (MFN). Hybrid operation, where the same transmitter delivers both analogue and DRM services simultaneously is also possible.\n\nDRM incorporates technology known as Emergency Warning Features that can override other programming and activates radios which are in standby in order to receive emergency broadcasts.\n\nThe technical standard is available free-of-charge from the ETSI, and the ITU has approved its use in most of the world. Approval for ITU region 2 is pending amendments to existing international agreements. The inaugural broadcast took place on June 16, 2003, in Geneva, Switzerland, at the ITU's World Radio Conference.\n\nCurrent broadcasters include All India Radio, BBC World Service, BitExpress, Radio Exterior de España, Radio New Zealand International, Vatican Radio, Radio Romania International and Radio Kuweit.\n\nUntil now DRM receivers have typically used a personal computer. A few manufacturers have introduced DRM receivers which have thus far remained niche products due to limited choice of broadcasts. It is expected that the transition of national broadcasters to digital services on DRM, notably All India Radio, will stimulate the production of a new generation of affordable, and efficient receivers.\n\nChengdu NewStar Electronics is offering the DR111 from May 2012 on which meets the minimum requirements for DRM receivers specified by the DRM consortium and is sold worldwide.\n\nThe General Overseas Service of All India Radio broadcasts daily in DRM to Western Europe on 9.95 MHz at 17:45 to 22:30 UTC. All India Radio is in the process of replacing and refurbishing many of its domestic AM transmitters with DRM. The project which began in 2012 is scheduled to complete during 2015.\n\nThe British Broadcasting Corporation BBC has trialed the technology in the United Kingdom by broadcasting BBC Radio Devon in the Plymouth area in the MF band. The trial lasted for a year (April 2007 – April 2008). \nThe BBC also trialed DRM+ in the FM band in 2010 from the Craigkelly transmitting station in Fife, Scotland, over an area which included the city of Edinburgh. In this trial, a previously used 10 kW (ERP) FM transmitter was replaced with a 1 kW DRM+ transmitter in two different modes and the coverage compared with FM Digital Radio Mondiale was included in the 2007 Ofcom consultation on the future of radio in the United Kingdom for the AM medium wave band.\n\nRTÉ has also run single and multiple programme overnight tests during a similar period on the 252 kHz LW transmitter in Trim, Co.Meath, Ireland which was upgraded to support DRM after Atlantic 252 closed.\n\nThe Fraunhofer Institute for integrated circuits IIS offers a package for software defined radios which can be licensed to radio manufacturers. \n\nOn 28 September 2006, the Australian spectrum regulator, the Australian Communications and Media Authority, announced that it had \"placed an embargo on frequency bands potentially suitable for use by broadcasting services using Digital Radio Mondiale until spectrum planning can be completed\" \"those bands being \"5,950–6,200; 7,100–7,300; 9,500–9,900; 11,650–12,050; 13,600–13,800; 15,100–15,600; 17,550–17,900; 21,450–21,850 and 25,670–26,100 kHz.\n\nThe United States Federal Communications Commission states in that: \"For digitally modulated emissions, the Digital Radio Mondiale (DRM) standard shall be employed.\" Part 73, section 758 is for HF broadcasting only.\n\nUseful bitrates for DRM30 range from 6.1 kbit/s (Mode D) to 34.8 kbit/s (Mode A) for a 10 kHz bandwidth (±5 kHz around the central frequency). It is possible to achieve bit rates up to 72 kbit/s (Mode A) by using a standard 20 kHz (±10 kHz) wide channel. (For comparison, pure digital HD Radio can broadcast 20 kbit/s using channels 10 kHz wide and up to 60 kbit/s using 20 kHz channels.) Useful bitrate depends also on other parameters, such as:\n\nWhen DRM was originally designed, it was clear that the most robust modes offered insufficient capacity for the then state-of-the-art audio coding format MPEG-4 HE-AAC (High Efficiency Advanced Audio Coding). Therefore, the standard launched with a choice of three different audio coding systems (source coding) depending on the bitrate:\n\nHowever, with the development of MPEG-4 xHE-AAC, which is an implementation of MPEG Unified Speech and Audio Coding, the DRM standard was updated and the two speech-only coding formats, CELP and HVXC, were replaced. USAC is designed to combine the properties of a speech and a general audio coding according to bandwidth constraints and so is able to handle all kinds of programme material. Given that there were few CELP and HVXC broadcasts on-air, the decision to drop the speech-only coding formats has passed without issue.\n\nMany broadcasters still use the HE-AAC coding format because it still offers an acceptable audio quality, somewhat comparable to FM broadcast at bitrates above about 15 kbit/s. However, it is anticipated that in future, most broadcasters will adopt xHE-AAC.\n\nAdditionally, as of v2.1, the popular Dream software can broadcast using the Opus coding format. Whilst not within the current DRM standard the inclusion of this codec is provided for experimentation. Aside from perceived technical advantages over the MPEG family such as low latency (delay between coding and decoding), this codec provides an open source (therefore free to use) alternative to the proprietary MPEG family whose use is permitted at the discretion of the patent holders, unfortunately it has a substantially lower audio quality than xHE-AAC on low bitrates, which are a key to conserve bandwidth. In fact, at 8Kbps Opus actually sounds worse than analog shortwave radio. A video showing the comparison between Opus and xHE-AAC is available here. Equipment manufacturers currently pay royalties for incorporating the MPEG codecs.\n\nDRM broadcasting can be done using a choice of different bandwidths:\n\n\nThe modulation used for DRM is coded orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (COFDM), where every carrier is modulated with quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) with a selectable error coding.\n\nThe choice of transmission parameters depends on signal robustness wanted and propagation conditions. Transmission signal is affected by noise, interference, multipath wave propagation and Doppler effect.\n\nIt is possible to choose among several error coding schemes and several modulation patterns: 64-QAM, 16-QAM and 4-QAM. OFDM modulation has some parameters that must be adjusted depending on propagation conditions. This is the carrier spacing which will determine the robustness against Doppler effect (which cause frequencies offsets, spread: Doppler spread) and OFDM guard interval which determine robustness against multipath propagation (which cause delay offsets, spread: delay spread). The DRM consortium has determined four different profiles corresponding to typical propagation conditions:\n\nThe trade-off between these profiles stands between robustness, resistance in regards to propagation conditions and useful bit rates for the service. This table presents some values depending on these profiles. The larger the carrier spacing, the more the system is resistant to Doppler effect (Doppler spread). The larger the guard interval, the greater the resistance to long multipath propagation errors (delay spread).\n\nThe resulting low-bit rate digital information is modulated using COFDM. It can run in simulcast mode by switching between DRM and AM, and it is also prepared for linking to other alternatives (e.g., DAB or FM services).\n\nDRM has been tested successfully on shortwave, mediumwave (with 9 as well as 10 kHz channel spacing) and longwave.\nThere is also a lower bandwidth two-way communication version of DRM as a replacement for SSB communications on HF - note that it is \"not\" compatible with the official DRM specification. It may be possible in some future time for the 4.5 kHz bandwidth DRM version used by the Amateur Radio community to be merged with the existing DRM specification.\n\nThe Dream software will receive the commercial versions and also limited transmission mode using the FAAC AAC encoder.\n\nError coding can be chosen to be more or less robust.\n\nThis table shows an example of useful bitrates depending on protection classes\n\nThe lower the protection class the higher the level of error correction.\n\nWhile the initial DRM standard covered the broadcasting bands below 30 MHz, the DRM consortium voted in March 2005 to begin the process of extending the system to the VHF bands up to 108 MHz.\n\nOn 31 August 2009, DRM+ (Mode E) became an official broadcasting standard with the publication of the technical specification by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute; this is effectively a new release of the whole DRM spec with the additional mode permitting operation above 30 MHz up to 174 MHz.\n\nWider bandwidth channels are used, which allows radio stations to use higher bit rates, thus providing higher audio quality. A 100 kHz DRM+ channel has sufficient capacity to carry one low-definition 0.7 megabit/s wide mobile TV channel: it would be feasible to distribute mobile TV over DRM+ rather than DMB or DVB-H. However, DRM+ (DRM Mode E) as designed and standardized only provides bitrates between 37.2 and 186.3 kbit/s depending on robustness level, using 4-QAM or 16-QAM modulations and 100 kHz bandwidth.\n\nDRM+ has been successfully tested in all the VHF bands, and this gives the DRM system the widest frequency usage; it can be used in band I, II and III. DRM+ can coexist with DAB in band III. but also the present FM-band can be utilized. The ITU has published three recommendations on DRM+, known in the documents as Digital System G. This indicate the introduction of the full DRM system (DRM 30 and DRM+).\nITU-R Rec. BS.1114 is the ITU recommendation for sound broadcasting in the frequency range 30 MHz to 3 GHz. DAB, HD-Radio and ISDB-T were already recommended in this document as Digital Systems A, C and F respectively.\n\nIn 2011, the paneuropean organisation Community Media Forum Europe has recommended to the European Commission that DRM+ should rather be used for small scale broadcasting (local radio, community radio) than DAB/DAB+.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41777477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41777477", "title": "Director of National Intelligence Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies", "text": "Director of National Intelligence Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies\n\nThe Director of National Intelligence Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies was a review group formed by the Director of National Intelligence of the United States in light of the global surveillance disclosures of 2013. In December 2013, the five-member group produced a public report. \n\nOn August 12, 2013, President Barack Obama issued a Presidential Memorandum instructing the Director of National Intelligence, James Clapper, to form a \"Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies\". Obama instructed that \"The Review Group will assess whether, in light of advancements in communications technologies, the United States employs its technical collection capabilities in a manner that optimally protects our national security and advances our foreign policy while appropriately accounting for other policy considerations, such as the risk of unauthorized disclosure and our need to maintain the public trust.\"\n\nThe memorandum called for an interim report within 60 days of establishment and a final report by December 15, 2013.\n\nThe group included former counter-terrorism czar Richard A. Clarke, former Acting Central Intelligence Agency director Michael Morell, University of Chicago Law professor Geoffrey Stone, former administrator of the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs Cass Sunstein and former Chief Counselor for Privacy in the Office of Management and Budget Peter Swire.\n\nThe 300-page report, entitled \"Liberty and Security in a Changing World\", was released on December 12, 2013. It contained over 40 recommendations.\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation released a statement criticizing the report, saying \"we’re disappointed that the recommendations suggest a path to continue untargeted spying. Mass surveillance is still heinous, even if private company servers are holding the data instead of government data centers.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1065199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1065199", "title": "Encyclopedia of Life Support Systems", "text": "Encyclopedia of Life Support Systems\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Life Support Systems (EOLSS) is an encyclopedia on the science of sustainable development and conservation of life support systems on earth. The extensive publication is published under the patronage of UNESCO.\n\nIn 1996, international scientists, engineers, and policy makers were invited by the UNESCO to Washington, Tokyo, Moscow, Mexico City, Beijing and the Bahamas to generate a detailed list of EOLSS contents and achieve a global consensus and acceptance of its structure. Life support system means a natural or human constructed system that furthers the life of the biosphere in a sustainable fashion. The knowledge is structured in 21 topic areas: Earth and atmospheric sciences; Mathematical sciences; Biological, physiological and health sciences; Biotechnology; Land use, land cover and soil sciences; Tropical biology and conservation management; Social sciences and humanities; Physical sciences, engineering and technology resources; Control systems, robotics and automation; Chemical sciences engineering and technology resources; Water sciences, engineering and technology resources; Energy sciences, engineering and technology resources; Environmental and ecological sciences, engineering and technology resources; Food and agricultural sciences, engineering and technology resources; Human resources policy, development and management; Natural resources policy and management; Development and economic sciences; Institutional and infrastructural resources; Technology, information and system management resources; Area studies (Africa, Brazil, Canada and USA, China, Europe, Japan, Russia); Desalination and water resources.\n\nThe way the encyclopedia is being compiled can be defined as crowdsourcing, where thousands of intellectuals from all over the world and across various academic institutions are contributing. The encyclopedia relies on strict standards of peer review and the joint Paris-based UNESCO and EOLSS secretariat manages the encyclopedia in progress. It has got a publishing wing in Oxford as well which specializes in publishing various materials such as books, e-books or scholarly subscriptions.\n\nThe web portal of EOLSS receives maximum hits from the United States and India. If each hit is assumed to originate from one unique user, then USA has about 28% and India has about 10% of the users of this portal. The number of hits falls dramatically after we consider USA and India, whereas countries like Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom each contribute almost about 5% of the total hits. This shows that people familiar with English are feeling more comfortable in utilizing this project for their educational or knowledge seeking purposes and researches. The proportion of users from states of the European Union who do not speak English as native language is about 8 percent in total. The statistics are updated as of May 2018.\n\n1. Earth and Atmospheric Sciences\n2. Mathematical Sciences\n3. Biological, Physiological and Health Sciences\n4. Biotechnology\n5. Tropical Biology and Conservation Management\n6. Social Sciences and Humanities\n7. Physical Sciences, Engineering and Technology Resources\n8. Control Systems, Robotics and Automation\n9. Chemical Sciences, Engineering and Technology Resources\n10. Water Sciences, Engineering and Technology Resources\n11. Compendium of Desalination and Water Resources\n12. Energy Sciences, Engineering and Technology Resources\n13. Environmental and Ecological Sciences, Engineering and Technology Resources\n14. Food and Agricultural Sciences, Engineering and Technology Resources\n15. Human Resources Policy, Development and Management\n16. Natural Resources Policy and Management\n17. Development and Economic sciences\n18. Institutional and Infrastructural Resources\n19. Technology, Information and Sytems Management Resources\n20. Land Use, Land Cover and Soil Sciences\n21. Area Studies (Regional Sustainable Development Reviews)\n\n"}
{"id": "723774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=723774", "title": "FIFA Women's World Rankings", "text": "FIFA Women's World Rankings\n\nThe FIFA Women's World Rankings for football were introduced in 2003, with the first rankings published in March of that year, as a follow-on to the existing FIFA World Rankings for men. They attempt to compare the strength of internationally active women's national teams at any given time.\n\n\nThe first two points result from the FIFA Women's World Rankings system being based on the Elo rating system adjusted for football; in 2018, FIFA modified the men's ranking system to similarly be based on Elo systems after continued criticism. FIFA considers the ratings for teams with fewer than 5 matches provisional and at the end of the list. Also any team that plays no matches for 18 months becomes unranked.\n\nTo date Germany and the United States have been the only two teams to have led the rankings. They have also held the top two spots in all but five releases, when Germany was ranked third: Norway was in second position in the first two rankings until Germany overtook them by winning the 2003 FIFA Women's World Cup, Brazil was ranked second in March and June 2009 until Germany won 2009 Euro and rejoined the top two, and England reached the #2 ranking in March 2018.\n\nThe United States holds the record for the longest period being ranked first: almost 7 years, from March 2008 to December 2014.\n\nIn the latest rankings, action from Women's World Cup qualifying tournaments in UEFA and CONCACAF, as well as the 2018 Tournament of Nations, caused movement throughout the rankings, though three of the top five did not change. The United States (#1), Germany (#2), and Canada (#5) retained their positions while England (#3) and France (#4) swapped. Australia rose to #6 on a 33-point gain, the largest gain among any of the top 50 teams, though Uganda earned the most points of any team with 44.\n\nThe rankings are based on the following formulae:\n\nWhere\nThe average points of all teams are about 1300 points. The top nations usually exceed 2000 points. In order to be ranked, a team must have played at least 5 matches against officially ranked teams, and have not been inactive for more than 18 months. Even if teams are not officially ranked, their points rating is kept constant until they play their next match.\n\nThe main component of the actual result is whether the team wins, loses, or draws, but goal difference is also taken into account.\n\nIf the match results in a winner and loser, the loser is awarded a percentage given by the accompanying table, with the result always less than or equal to 20% (for goal differences greater than zero). The result is based on the goal difference and the number of goals they scored. The remaining percentage points are awarded to the winner. For example, a 2–1 match has the result awarded 84%–16% respectively, a 4–3 match has the result awarded 82%–18%, and an 8–3 match has the result awarded 96.2%–3.8%. As such, it is possible for a team to lose points even if they win a match, assuming they did not \"win by enough\".\n\nIf the match ends in a draw the teams are awarded the same result, but the number depends on the goals scored so the results will not necessarily add up to 100%. For example, a 0–0 draws earns both teams 47% each, a 1–1 draw earns 50% each, and a 4–4 draw earns 52.5% each.\n\nThe following is from a non-winning perspective (loss or draw). The factor for the winning team adds up to 100.\nAnd from a winning perspective.\n\"Source\"\n\nHistorically, home teams earn 66% of the points available to them, with away teams earning the other 34%. To account for this, when two teams are not playing on neutral ground, the home team has its formula_4 inflated by 100 points for the purposes of calculation. That is, if two equally ranked teams playing at one team's home ground, the home team would be expected to win at the same rate a team playing on neutral ground with a 100-point advantage. This 100 point difference corresponds to a 64%–36% advantage in terms of expected result.\n\nThis also helps define the scaling constant formula_5, which has a value of 200. In addition to a 100-point difference causing an expected result difference of 64%–36%, it also results in a 300-point difference causing expected results of 85%–15%.\n\nRankings are published four times a year, usually on a Friday.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56632344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56632344", "title": "Finno-Ugric countries", "text": "Finno-Ugric countries\n\nFinno-Ugric countries is a term used for the three independent nation states with a Finno-Ugric national majority: Finnic Finland and Estonia and the Ugric Hungary.\n\nThe Finno-Ugric countries work together in funding Finno-Ugric research and protecting the minority rights of other Finno-Ugric nations without their own sovereign states. The three countries are also represented as Finno-Ugric countries in the Finno-Ugric Congress \n"}
{"id": "4756231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4756231", "title": "Five Eyes", "text": "Five Eyes\n\nThe Five Eyes, often abbreviated as FVEY, is an intelligence alliance comprising Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States. These countries are parties to the multilateral UKUSA Agreement, a treaty for joint cooperation in signals intelligence.\n\nThe origins of the FVEY can be traced back to the post–World War II period, when the Atlantic Charter was issued by the Allies to lay out their goals for a post-war world. During the course of the Cold War, the ECHELON surveillance system was initially developed by the FVEY to monitor the communications of the former Soviet Union and the Eastern Bloc, although it is now used to monitor billions of private communications worldwide.\n\nIn the late 1990s, the existence of ECHELON was disclosed to the public, triggering a major debate in the European Parliament and, to a lesser extent, the United States Congress. As part of efforts in the ongoing War on Terror since 2001, the FVEY further expanded their surveillance capabilities, with much emphasis placed on monitoring the World Wide Web. The former NSA contractor Edward Snowden described the Five Eyes as a \"supra-national intelligence organisation that does not answer to the known laws of its own countries\". Documents leaked by Snowden in 2013 revealed that the FVEY have been spying on one another's citizens and sharing the collected information with each other in order to circumvent restrictive domestic regulations on surveillance of citizens.\n\nIn spite of continued controversy over its methods, the Five Eyes relationship remains one of the most comprehensive known espionage alliances in history.\n\nSince processed intelligence is gathered from multiple sources, the intelligence shared is not restricted to signals intelligence (SIGINT) and often involves defence intelligence as well as human intelligence (HUMINT) and geospatial intelligence (GEOINT). The following table provides an overview of most of the FVEY agencies involved in such forms of data sharing.\n\nThe origins of the Five Eyes alliance can be traced back to the Atlantic Charter, which was issued in August 1941 to lay out the Allied goals for the post-war world. On 17 May 1943, the British–U.S. Communication Intelligence Agreement, also known as the BRUSA Agreement, was signed by the UK and U.S. governments to facilitate co-operation between the U.S. War Department and the British Government Code and Cypher School (GC&CS). On 5 March 1946, the secret treaty was formalized as the UKUSA Agreement, which forms the basis for all signal intelligence cooperation between the NSA and the GCHQ to this day.\n\nIn 1948, the treaty was extended to include Canada, followed by Norway (1952), Denmark (1954), West Germany (1955), Australia (1956), and New Zealand (1956). These countries participated in the alliance as \"third parties\". By 1955, the formal status of the remaining Five Eyes countries was officially acknowledged in a newer version of the UKUSA Agreement that contained the following statement:\n\nThe \"Five Eyes\" term has its origins as a shorthand for a \"AUS/CAN/NZ/UK/US EYES ONLY\" (AUSCANNZUKUS) classification level.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the GCHQ and the NSA shared intelligence on the Soviet Union, the People's Republic of China, and several eastern European countries (known as Exotics). Over the course of several decades, the ECHELON surveillance network was developed to monitor the military and diplomatic communications of the Soviet Union and its Eastern Bloc allies.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War, Australian and New Zealand operators in the Asia-Pacific region worked directly to support the United States, while GCHQ operators stationed in the (then) British colony of Hong Kong were tasked with monitoring North Vietnamese air defence networks. During the Falklands War, the British received intelligence data from its FVEY allies such as Australia, as well as from third parties such as Norway and France. In the aftermath of the Gulf War, a technician of the ASIS was used by SIS to bug Kuwaiti government offices.\n\nIn the 1950s, SIS and the CIA jointly orchestrated the overthrow of Iran's Prime Minister Mohammad Mosaddegh. In the 1960s, SIS and the CIA jointly orchestrated the assassination of the Congolese independence leader Patrice Lumumba. In the 1970s, the ASIS and the CIA jointly orchestrated the overthrow of Chile's President Salvador Allende. During the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, SIS and the CIA took part in Operation Yellowbird to rescue dissidents from the Chinese regime.\n\nBy the end of the 20th century, the ECHELON surveillance network had evolved into a global system capable of sweeping up massive amounts of private and commercial communications, including telephone calls, fax, e-mail and other data traffic. This was done through the interception of communication bearers such as satellite transmission and public switched telephone networks.\n\nThe Five Eyes has two types of information collection methods: the PRISM program and the Upstream collection system. The PRISM program gathers user information from technology firms such as Google, Apple and Microsoft, while the Upstream system gathers information directly from the communications of civilians via fiber cables and infrastructure as data flows past. In 1988, Duncan Campbell revealed in the \"New Statesman\" the existence of ECHELON, an extension of the UKUSA Agreement on global signals intelligence [Sigint]. The story, 'Somebody's listening,' detailed how the eavesdropping operations were not only being employed in the interests of 'national security,' but were regularly abused for corporate espionage in the service of US business interests. The piece passed largely unnoticed outside of journalism circles.\nIn 1996, a detailed description of ECHELON was provided by New Zealand journalist Nicky Hager in a book titled \"Secret Power – New Zealand's Role in the International Spy Network\", which was cited by the European Parliament in a 1998 report titled \"An Appraisal of the Technology of Political Control\" (PE 168.184). On 16 March 2000, the Parliament called for a resolution on the Five Eyes and their ECHELON surveillance network, which, if passed, would have called for the \"complete dismantling of ECHELON\".\n\nThree months later, the Temporary Committee on ECHELON was set up by the European Parliament to investigate the ECHELON surveillance network. However, according to a number of European politicians such as Esko Seppänen of Finland, these investigations were hindered by the European Commission.\n\nIn the United States, congressional legislators warned that the ECHELON system could be used to monitor U.S. citizens. On 14 May 2001, the U.S. government cancelled all meetings with the Temporary Committee on ECHELON.\n\nAccording to a BBC report in May 2001, \"the US Government still refuses to admit that Echelon even exists\".\n\nIn the aftermath of the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the surveillance capabilities of the Five Eyes were greatly increased as part of the global War on Terror.\n\nDuring the run-up to the Iraq War, the communications of UN weapons inspector Hans Blix were monitored by the Five Eyes. The office of UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan was bugged by British agents. An NSA memo detailed plans of the Five Eyes to boost eavesdropping on UN delegations of six countries as part of a \"dirty tricks\" campaign to apply pressure on these six countries to vote in favour of using force against Iraq.\n\nSIS and the CIA forged a surveillance partnership with Libya's ruler Muammar Gaddafi to spy on Libyan dissidents in the West, in exchange for permission to use Libya as a base for extraordinary renditions.\n\n, the Five Eyes also have access to SIPRNet, the U.S. government's classified version of the Internet.\n\nIn 2013, documents leaked by the former NSA contractor Edward Snowden revealed the existence of numerous surveillance programs jointly operated by the Five Eyes. The following list includes several notable examples reported in the media:\n\nIn March 2014, the International Court of Justice (ICJ) ordered Australia to stop spying on East Timor. This marks the first time that such restrictions are imposed on a member of the FVEY.\n\nIn recent years, documents of the FVEY have shown that they are intentionally spying on one another's citizens and sharing the collected information with each other in order to circumvent restrictive domestic regulations on spying.\n\nAs a result of Snowden's disclosures, the FVEY alliance has become the subject of a growing amount of controversy in parts of the world:\n\nSince the addition of two members in 1956, the specific Five Eyes consist of Australia (accepted 1956), Canada (accepted 1948), New Zealand (accepted 1956), the United Kingdom (co-creator 1946), and the United States (co-creator 1946). Further, there is a group of nations termed '3rd Party Partners', which share their intelligence with the 5 Eyes.\n\nWhile the Five Eyes is a very specific agreement with specific operations amongst the five nations, other non-FVEY sharing agreements have been set up independently and for specific purposes. For example, according to Edward Snowden, the NSA has a \"massive body\" called the Foreign Affairs Directorate that is responsible for partnering with foreign countries.\n\nAccording to the news magazine \"L'Obs\", in 2009, the United States proposed to France to join the Five Eyes, that would then have become the \"Six Eyes\". Nicolas Sarkozy however made the requirement to be granted the same status as other allies, including the signing of a \"no-spy agreement\". This requirement was approved by the director of the NSA, but not by the director of the CIA, and furthermore not by President Barack Obama, resulting in a refusal from France.\n\nIn 2013 it was reported that Germany was interested in joining the Five Eyes alliance. At that time, several members of the United States Congress, including Tim Ryan and Charles Dent, were pushing for Germany's entrance to the Five Eyes alliance.\n\nIsrael is, reportedly, an observer in Five Eyes.\n\nSingapore is reported to have partnered with the Five Eyes.\n\n\nThe Nine Eyes is a different arrangement that consists of the same members of Five Eyes working with Denmark, France, the Netherlands and Norway.\n\n\nAccording to a document leaked by Edward Snowden, there is another working agreement amongst 14 nations officially known as SIGINT Seniors Europe, or \"SSEUR\". These \"14 Eyes\" consist of the same members of 9 Eyes plus Belgium, Germany, Italy, Spain and Sweden.\n\nAs spelled out by Privacy International, there are a number of issue-specific intelligence agreements that include some or all the above nations and numerous others, such as:\n\n\nAs the surveillance capabilities of the FVEY continue to increase to keep up to pace with technological advancements, a global surveillance system has been gradually developed to capture the communications of entire populations across national borders. The following list contains a handful of targets of the FVEY who are public figures in various fields. In order for a person to be included in the list, there must be well-documented evidence based on reliable sources, such as leaked or declassified documents or whistleblower accounts, which demonstrate that the person involved is, or was, intentionally targeted for FVEY surveillance.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "477535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=477535", "title": "Forced displacement", "text": "Forced displacement\n\nForced displacement or forced immigration is the coerced movement of a person or people away from their home or home region and it often connotes violent coercion. Someone who has experienced forced displacement is a \"forced immigrant\", a \"displaced person\" (DP), rarely also a \"displacee\", or if it is within the same country, an internally displaced person (IDP). In some cases the forced immigrant can also become a refugee, as that term has a specific legal definition. A specific form of forced displacement is population transfer, which is a coherent policy to move unwanted groups, for example, as an attempt at ethnic cleansing. Another form is deportation.\n\nForced displacement has accompanied persecution, as well as war, throughout human history but has only become a topic of serious study and discussion relatively recently. This increased attention is the result of greater ease of travel, allowing displaced people to flee to nations far removed from their homes, the creation of an international legal structure of human rights, and the realizations that the destabilizing effects of forced immigration, especially in parts of Africa, the Middle East, south and central Asia, ripple out well beyond the immediate region.\n\nThe concept of forced displacement envelopes demographic movements like flight, evacuation, displacement, and resettlement. The International Organization for Migration defines a forced migrant as any person who migrates to \"escape persecution, conflict, repression, natural and human-made disasters, ecological degradation, or other situations that endanger their lives, freedom or livelihood\".\n\nThe International Association for the Study of Forced Migration (IASFM) defines it as \"the movements of refugees and internally displaced people (those displaced by conflicts) as well as people displaced by natural or environmental disasters, chemical or nuclear disasters, famine, or development projects.\"\n\nAccording to Alden Speare, \"in the strictest sense migration can be considered to be involuntary only when a person is physically transported from a country and has no opportunity to escape from those transporting him.\" Movement under threat, even the immediate threat to life, contains a voluntary element, as long as there is an option to escape to another part of the country, go into hiding or to remain and hope to avoid persecution.\" However this thought has been questioned, especially by Marxians, who argue that in most cases migrants have little or no choice.\n\nCauses for forced displacement can include:\n\nIn the majority of cases forced migration across borders takes place without the required documentation. It may even involve human smugglers and traffickers. Displaced people often place their lives at risk, are obliged to travel in inhumane conditions and may be exposed to exploitation and abuse. And on top of that the states where they seek protection may regard them as a threat to their security.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nForced displacement has been subjected to several trials before local and international courts. One of the requirements that need to be met for an offence as a war crime is that the victim is a \"protected person\" under international humanitarian law. The expression \"protected person\" originally referred only to the categories of individuals explicitly protected under one of the four Geneva Conventions of 1949, but was later accepted as defining a civilian or police force who do not participate directly in a conflict. Following the end of World War II, the Krupp trial was held with a specific charge to the forced displacement of civilian populations for the purpose of forced labour. The US Military Tribunal concluded that \"\n[t]here is no international law that permits the deportation or the use of civilians against their will for other than on reasonable requisitions for the need of the army, either within the area of the army or after deportation to rear areas or to the homeland of the occupying power\". At the Nuremberg trials, Hans Frank, chief jurist in occupied Poland, was found guilty, among others for forced displacement of the civilian population. \n\nIn Article 49, the Fourth Geneva Convention, adopted on 12 August 1949, specifically forbids forced displacement:\n\nThe Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court defines forced displacement as a crime within the jurisdiction of the court:\nSeveral people were tried and convicted by the ICTY for connection to forced displacement during the Yugoslav Wars in the 1990s. On 11 April 2018, the Appeals Chamber sentenced Vojislav Šešelj 10 years in prison under Counts 1, 10, and 11 of the indictment for instigating deportation, persecution (forcible displacement), and other inhumane acts (forcible transfer) as crimes against humanity due to his speech in Hrtkovci on 6 May 1992, in which he called for the expulsion of Croats from Vojvodina. Other convictions for forced displacement included ex-Bosnian Serb politician Momčilo Krajišnik, ex-Croatian Serb leader Milan Martić, former Bosnian Croat paramilitary commander Mladen Naletilić, and Bosnian Serb politician Radoslav Brđanin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "337386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337386", "title": "Foreign language influences in English", "text": "Foreign language influences in English\n\nThe core of English language descends from Old English, the language brought with the Angles, Saxon, and Jutish settlers to what was to be called England in and after the 500s. The bulk of the language in spoken and written texts is from this source. As a statistical rule, around 70 percent of words in any text are Anglo-Saxon. Moreover, the grammar is largely Anglo-Saxon.\n\nA significant portion of the English vocabulary comes from Romance and Latinate sources. Estimates of native words (derived from Old English) range from 20%–33%, with the rest made up of outside borrowings. A portion of these borrowings come directly from Latin, or through one of the Romance languages, particularly Anglo-Norman and French, but some also from Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish; or from other languages (such as Gothic, Frankish or Greek) into Latin and then into English. The influence of Latin in English, therefore, is primarily lexical in nature, being confined mainly to words derived from Latin roots.\n\nWhile some new words enter English as slang, most do not. Some words are adopted from other languages; some are mixtures of existing words (portmanteau words), and some are new creations made of roots from dead languages: e.g., thanatopsis.\n\nA computerized survey of about 80,000 words in the old \"Shorter Oxford Dictionary\" (3rd ed.) was published in \"Ordered Profusion\" by Thomas Finkenstaedt and Dieter Wolff (1973) that estimated the origin of English words as follows:\n\n\nA survey by Joseph M. Williams in \"Origins of the English Language\" of 10,000 words taken from several thousand business letters gave this set of statistics:\n\nHere is a list of the most common foreign language influences in English, where other languages have influenced or contributed words to English.\n\nWords are almost absent, except for dialectal words, such as the Yan Tan Tethera system of counting sheep. However, hypotheses have been made that English syntax was influenced by Celtic languages, such as the system of continuous tenses was a cliché of similar Celtic phrasal structures; this is controversial, as the system has clear native English and other Germanic developments.\n\nThe French contributed legal, military, technological, and political terminology. Their language also contributed common words, such as the names of meats: \"veal\", \"mutton\", \"beef\", \"pork\", and how food was prepared: \"boil\", \"broil\", \"fry\", \"roast\", and \"stew\"; as well as words related to the nobility: \"prince\", \"duke\", \"marquess\", \"viscount\", \"baron\", and their feminine equivalents. Nearly 40 percent of English words (in an 80,000 word dictionary) may be of French origin.\n\nScientific and technical words, medical terminology, academic and legal terminology.\n\nScientific and medical terminology (for instance -phobias and -ologies), Christian theological terminology.\n\n\"Castle\", \"cauldron\", \"kennel\", \"catch\", \"cater\" are among Norman words introduced into English. The Norman language also introduced (or reinforced) words of Norse origin such as \"mug\".\n\nThere are many ways through which Dutch words have entered the English language: via trade and navigation, such as \"skipper\" (from \"schipper\"), \"freebooter\" (from \"vrijbuiter\"), \"keelhauling\" (from \"kielhalen\"); via painting, such as \"landscape\" (from \"landschap\"), \"easel\" (from \"ezel\"), \"still life\" (from \"stilleven\"); warfare, such as \"forlorn hope (from \"verloren hoop\"), \"beleaguer (from \"beleger\"), \"to bicker\" (from \"bicken\"); via civil engineering, such as \"dam\", \"polder\", \"dune\" (from \"duin\"); via the New Netherland settlements in North America, such as \"cookie\" (from \"koekie\"), \"boss\" from \"baas\", \"Santa Claus\" (from \"Sinterklaas\"); via Dutch/Afrikaans speakers with English speakers in South Africa, such as \"wildebeest\", \"apartheid\", \"boer\"; via French words of Dutch/Flemish origin that have subsequently been adopted into English, such as \"boulevard\" (from \"bolwerk\"), \"mannequin\" (from \"manneken\"), \"buoy\" (from \"boei\").\n\nWords relating to warfare and tactics, for instance \"flotilla\" and \"guerrilla\"; or related to science and culture, whether created in Arabic, originated in Amerindian civilizations (Cariban: \"cannibal\", \"hurricane\"; Mescalero: \"apache\"; Nahuatl: \"tomato\", \"coyote\", \"chocolate\"; Quechua: \"potato\"; Taíno: \"tobacco\"), or Iberian Romance languages (\"aficionado\", \"albino\", \"alligator\", \"cargo\", \"cigar\", \"embargo\", \"guitar\", \"jade\", \"mesa\", \"paella\", \"platinum\", \"plaza\", \"renegade\", \"rodeo\", \"salsa\", \"savvy\", \"sierra\", \"siesta\", \"tilde\", \"tornado\", \"vanilla\" etc.).\n\nWords relating to some music, piano, \"fortissimo\". Or Italian culture, such as \"piazza\", \"pizza\", \"gondola\", \"balcony\", \"fascism\". The English word \"umbrella\" comes from Italian \"ombrello\".\n\nWords relating to culture, originating from the colonial era. Many of these words are of Persian origin rather than Hindi because Persian was the official language of the Mughal courts. e.g., \"pyjamas\", \"bungalow\", \"verandah\", \"jungle\", \"curry\", \"shampoo\", \"khaki\".\n\nGerman words relating to World War I and World War II found their way into the English language, words such as \"Blitzkrieg\", \"Führer\" and \"Lebensraum\"; food terms, such as \"bratwurst\", \"hamburger\" and \"frankfurter\"; words related to psychology and philosophy, such a \"gestalt\", \"Übermensch\", \"zeitgeist\" and \"realpolitik\". From German origin are also: \"wanderlust\", \"schadenfreude\", \"kaputt\", \"kindergarten\", \"autobahn\", \"rucksack\".\n\nWords of Old Norse origin have entered English primarily from the contact between Old Norse and Old English during colonisation of eastern and northern England between the mid 9th to the 11th centuries (see also Danelaw). Many of these words are part of English core vocabulary, such as \"egg\", \"sky\" or \"knife\".\n\nWords used in religious contexts, like Sabath, kosher, hallelujah, amen, and jubilee or words that have become slang like \"schmuck\", \"shmooze\", \"nosh\", \"oy vey\", and \"schmutz\".\n\nTrade items such as \"borax\", \"coffee\", \"cotton\", \"hashish\", \"henna\", \"mohair\", \"muslin\", \"saffron\"; Islamic religious terms such as \"jihad\", \"hadith\" and \"sharia\"; scientific vocabulary borrowed into Latin in the 12th and 13th centuries (\"alcohol\", \"alkali\", \"algebra\", \"azimuth\", \"cipher\", \"nadir\"); plants or plant products originating in tropical Asia and introduced to medieval Europe through Arabic intermediation (\"camphor\", \"jasmine\", \"lacquer\", \"lemon\", \"orange\", \"sugar\"); Middle Eastern cuisine words (\"couscous\", \"falafel\", \"hummus\", \"kebab\", \"tahini\").\n\nCardinal numbering in English follows two models, Germanic and Italic. The basic numbers are zero through ten. The numbers eleven through nineteen follow native Germanic style, as do twenty, thirty, forty, fifty, sixty, seventy, eighty, and ninety.\n\nStandard English, especially in very conservative formal contexts, continued to use native Germanic style as late as World War I for intermediate numbers greater than 20, viz., \"one-and-twenty,\" \"five-and-thirty,\" \"seven-and-ninety,\" and so. But with the advent of the Industrial Revolution, the Latin tradition of counting as \"twenty-one,\" \"thirty-five,\" \"ninety-seven,\" etc., which is easier to say and was already common in non-standard regional dialects, gradually replaced the traditional Germanic style to become the dominant style by the end of nineteenth century.\n\nLinguistic purism in the English language is the belief that words of native origin should be used instead of foreign-derived ones (which are mainly Romantic, Latin and Greek). \"Native\" can mean \"Anglo-Saxon\" or it can be widened to include all Germanic words. In its mild form, it merely means using existing native words instead of foreign-derived ones (such as using \"begin\" instead of \"commence\"). In its more extreme form, it involves reviving native words that are no longer widely used (such as \"ettle\" for \"intend\") and/or coining new words from Germanic roots (such as word stock for vocabulary). This dates at least to the inkhorn term debate of the 16th and 17th century, where some authors rejected the foreign influence, and has continued to this day, being most prominent in Plain English advocacy to avoid Latinate terms if a simple native alternative exists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1508112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1508112", "title": "Four continents", "text": "Four continents\n\nEuropeans in the 16th century divided the world into four continents: Africa, America, Asia and Europe. Each of the four continents was seen to represent its quadrant of the world—Europe in the north, Asia in the east, Africa in the south, and America in the west. This division fit the Renaissance sensibilities of the time, which also divided the world into four seasons, four classical elements, four cardinal directions, four classical virtues, etc.\n\nThe four parts of the world or the four corners of the world refers to the Americas (the \"west\"), Europe (the \"north\"), Asia (the \"east\"), and Africa (the \"south\"). \n\nBefore the discovery of the New World a commonplace of classical and medieval geography had been the \"three parts\" in which, from Mediterranean and European perspectives, the world was divided: Europe, Asia and Africa. As Laurent de Premierfait, the pre-eminent French translator of Latin literature in the early fifteenth century, informed his readers:\nAsia is one of the three parts of the world, which the authors divide in Asia, Africa and Europe. Asia extends towards the Orient as far as the rising sun (\"devers le souleil levant\"), towards the south (\"midi\") it ends at the great sea, towards the occident it ends at our sea, and towards the north (\"septentrion\") it ends in the Maeotian marshes and the river named \"Thanaus\".\n\nFor Laurent's French readers, Asia ended at \"our sea\", the Mediterranean; Europeans were only dimly aware of the Ural Mountains, which divide Europe from Asia in the eyes of the modern geographer, and which represent the geological suture between two fragmentary continents, or cratons. Instead, the division between these continents in the European-centered picture was the Hellespont, which neatly separated Europe from Asia. From the European perspective, into the Age of Discovery, Asia began beyond the Hellespont with Asia Minor, where the Roman province of Asia had lain, and stretched away to unimaginably exotic and distant places— \"the Orient\".\n\nIn the sixteenth century America too was full of exotic promise: the \"New World\".\n\nIn 1603, Cesare Ripa published a book of emblems for the use of artists and artisans who might be called upon to depict allegorical figures. He covered an astonishingly wide variety of fields, and his work was reprinted many times. It was still being brought up-to-date in the 18th century. The illustrations reveal fixed Eurocentric perceptions of the nature of the \"four corners of the world.\" Ripa's \"Europe\" (\"illustration, left\") is the land of abundance (cornucopia) of kings and the pope, whose crowns and the papal tiara lie at her feet, and of cities.\n\n\"Africa\", by contrast (\"illustration, below right\") wears the elephant headdress (worn by rulers depicted on Hellenistic Bactrian coins) and is accompanied by a lion, the scorpion of the desert sands and Cleopatra's asps. \"Asia\" (\"illustration, right\"), the seat of Religion, carries a smoking censer as a camel takes its ease.\n\nAnd the iconic image of \"America\" (\"illustration, below left\") shows a Native American maiden in a feathered headdress, with bow and arrow. Perhaps she represents a fabled Amazon from the river that already carried the name.\n\nThe American millionaire philanthropist James Hazen Hyde, who inherited a majority share in Equitable Life Assurance Society, formed a collection of allegorical prints illustrating the Four Continents that are now at the New-York Historical Society; Hyde's drawings and a supporting collection of sets of porcelain table ornaments and other decorative arts illustrating the Four Continents were shared by various New York City museums.\nThe Renaissance associated one major river to each of the continents.\nThe Four Rivers theme appears for example in the Fontana dei Quattro Fiumi in the Piazza Navona in Rome.\n\nWith the confirmed discovery that Australia was an island continent, the theme of the \"Four Continents\" lost much of its drive, long before a sixth continent, Antarctica, was discovered. The iconography survived as the Four Corners of the World, however, generally in self-consciously classicizing contexts: for instance, in New York, in front of the Beaux-Arts Alexander Hamilton U.S. Custom House (1907), four sculptural groups by Daniel Chester French symbolize the \"Four Corners of the World.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6442856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6442856", "title": "G-Zero world", "text": "G-Zero world\n\nThe term G-Zero world refers to an emerging vacuum of power in international politics created by a decline of Western influence and the domestic focus of the governments of developing states. It aims to explain a world in which there is no single country or group of countries that has ability and will, economically and politically, to drive a truly global agenda. \n\nThe term G-Zero was first coined by political scientists Ian Bremmer and David F. Gordon. G-Zero became the main theme of Ian Bremmer's book, \"\" (Portfolio, May 2012). \n\nIt is a reference to a perceived shift away from the preeminence of the Group of Seven industrialized countries and the expanded Group of Twenty, which includes major emerging powers like China, India, Brazil, Turkey and others. It is also a rejection of terms like G2, often used to identify a possible strategic partnership between the U.S. and Chinese governments, or G3, which represents an attempt to align U.S., European and Japanese interests to defend free market democracy from the rise of Chinese-inspired state-dominated capitalism.\n\nThose who argue that the G-Zero has become the current international order warn that the G7 has become obsolete, that the G20 offers too many competing visions of the proper role of government in an economy to produce well-coordinated policies, that China has no interest in the responsibilities that come with a G2, and that America, Europe and Japan are too mired in internal problems to forge a common approach to economic and security policy. \n\nIn an article called “From G8 to G20 to G-Zero: Why no one wants to take charge in the new global order,\" Ian Bremmer writes that making compromises are difficult since each country has their own values and developed countries have voters that want their leader's focus to be domestic community, not the international one. Some of these developed countries include: the United States, Britain, Germany, France, and Japan. As developed countries start to focus on their domestic issues, the lack of global leadership increases which in turn increases the transnational problems. As global leadership decreases, clashes between countries are also increasing such as America and China having different views on “statedriven and free-market varieties of capitalism”. There are also issues arising in East Asia between nations such as China and Japan in the East China Sea. The U.S. has to also focus on changes in their energy sector and whether they should participate in Syria’s civil war.\n\nBremmer explains that governments can adapt to the G-Zero through focusing on regional solutions such as China’s deals with the Association of South-East Asian Nations (A.S.E.A.N.) and the United States’ progress on the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Governments can also form relationships with a diversity of partners. However some countries may still not be able to adapt to the G-0 because of three impacting events in the world: \"China's rise, Middle East turmoil and the redesign of Europe\". Countries affected by these events would be Japan, Israel and Britain. \n\nThe concept of the G-Zero has been criticized by some who argue that it overstates the decline in America’s political and economic power and underestimates the willingness of developing countries to play a larger role on the international stage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2224906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2224906", "title": "GMA Pinoy TV", "text": "GMA Pinoy TV\n\nGMA Pinoy TV is a Filipino television channel incorporated in February 2004 by GMA Network and its subsidiaries, GMA International and GMA Worldwide Inc. It was launched in 2005, primarily in Japan and the USA, as a 24-hour international Filipino television station. The channel is targeted towards overseas Filipinos and their families in the Philippines. The network airs shows produced by GMA Network. Drawing on programming from its flagship station in the Philippines, the network's programs can be seen worldwide.\n\nThe programming of GMA Pinoy TV consists mostly of from the Philippines from GMA Network as well as previously aired shows, documentaries, films, and sports events from the Philippines. The delay of GMA Pinoy TV's dramas all air on one-episode delay basis. Most weekend shows are up to date, with the exception of some shows that air on a one-episode delay basis.\n\nGMA Pinoy TV was first launched in Japan on March 2005. It was later launched in several parts of the United States in the same year, such as San Francisco, Los Angeles, and the states of the East Coast. The official GMA Pinoy TV launch in America happened in San Francisco on 23 July 2005 and was aired on \"SOP\" the following Sunday, 31 July 2005.\n\nIn 2006, the so-called Filipino colors—red, blue and yellow—were used for the graphics and since December 2006, the on-screen graphics of GMA Pinoy TV is being changed every Christmas season.\n\nIn 2008, GMA Pinoy TV was also known for the program Dyesebel. Due to the success of the program, GMA Pinoy TV launched a billboard in Daly City, which was there for the entirety of the show.\n\nThe logo also was seen in the upper right and left corners at varied times. It was settled in 2007 that the logo will be seen in the upper right corner. In 2007, GMA Pinoy TV became a huge success and was known better known because of \"Marimar\". Due to the success of the program, GMA Pinoy TV once changed graphics, which has been used from 2007 to October 2010.\n\nAn associated second channel, GMA Life TV, was successfully launched in March 2008 and soon grew to 109,000 subscribers. GMA Pinoy TV had 225,000 subscribers as of September 2009. The percent of subscribers has gone up 34% according to GMA New Media, Inc.\n\nIn 2010, an amount of PhP253 million for the 1st Quarter of 2010's revenues was posted in the Annual Stockholders Meeting of GMA Network for GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV. In May 2010, GMA and GMA Network were acclaimed for their performance of covering the elections. The said election coverage was aired live on GMA Pinoy TV on 9 May until the Election ended. Based on the September 2010 report posted by the Corporate Communications Department of GMA Network, GMA Pinoy TV had a total of 256,000 subscribers while its sister channel, GMA Life TV had 122,000 subscribers. On 10 October 2010 (otherwise known was 10-10-10), GMA Pinoy TV changed graphics with a theme that recognizes and is towards Pinoys all over the world. It also has a globe symbolizing how far GMA Pinoy TV has gone since the start. On Christmas 2010, GMA Pinoy TV used the slogan \"Isang Maligayang at Masaganang Paskong Pinoy, Kapuso.\" This was the first time that GMA Pinoy TV used another Christmas slogan besides the GMA Network Christmas 2010 slogan, \"Isang Pagkilala sa Puso ng Pilipino Ngayong Pasko.\" As for the 3rd Quarter of 2010, GMA Pinoy TV had around 261,000 subscribers posted. As of December 2010, GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV has expanded into the following: Chicago, Illinois (via Comcast Chicago); New York (via Time Warner New York); Washington, D.C., Maryland, Alabama, Virginia (via Comcast); Vancouver, British Columbia (via Telus Canada); and Italy, London, and the rest of UK and rest of Europe (via Infinity IPTV). In a report published showing GMA Network's revenues for 2010 with a total of PhP 14.299 billion, GMA Life TV has 125,000 subscribers (an estimated 800,000 viewers count) while GMA Pinoy TV has an accounted 274,000 subscribers (around 1.8 million viewers).\n\nIn 2011, the delays of the shows on GMA Pinoy TV receded from months of delay to two days delay for primetime shows and three days delay for afternoon dramas. On the first quarter of 2011, GMA Pinoy TV and its home network in the Philippines revealed a new logo with minor changes. The \"GMA\" letters part is seen to be more embossed and the logo has a \"glow\" effect. On 28 February 2011 for the first time in GMA International's history, two programs that started airing on GMA Pinoy TV that were still running with new episodes were switched over to GMA Life TV, where it will then air its new episodes to occupy free time slots. This then led to replays of other Kapuso shows. The shows included \"Pinoy MD\" and \"Love ni Mister, Love ni Misis\". All this will be straightened out once GMA News TV starts its international operations sometime 2nd to 3rd quarter of 2011.\n\nOn 10 March 2011 GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV expanded even more in the United States in Florida. The Florida counties that are part of the extension include Brevard, Flagler, Lake, Marion, Orange, Osceola, Seminole, Sumter and Volusia. On 5 April 2011, though already launched in the Philippines on 27 March 2011, GMA Pinoy TV officially launched the 2011 summer slogan of GMA \"Halo-Halo Ang Summer Saya\". This took some time to launch on GMA Pinoy TV because significant edits were made in which some of the programs on the original version were not slated to air on GMA Pinoy TV like \"Man vs. Beast\" but beside that, the international version of the station ID still included planned shows of Summer 2011. Also in April 2011, GMA Pinoy TV is now being broadcast by COX Communications in Arizona, areas like Tucson and Arizona, on Channel 482. In a report dated 16 May 2011 regarding the consolidated gross revenues of GMA Network, Inc. in the 1st quarter of 2011, it is noted that GMA Pinoy TV's subscriptions grew by 10 percent (approximately 300,000 subscribers) and GMA Life TV's subscriptions grew by 2 percent (approximately 128,000). This consisted of PhP 230 million worth of advertising and subscription revenues. In another recent report with regards to GMA Network's consolidated revenues in the 2nd quarter of 2011, GMA Pinoy TV's subscribers grew to 279,000 from 274,000 (actual count) and an estimated number of 1.85 million viewers and GMA Life TV's subscribers grew as well, an estimated 1 million viewers. Also, GMA Network recently launched GMA News TV in the past month and will be made available to all areas where GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV reaches by 3rd Quarter of 2011. GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV were further made to subscribers in key Filipino-American areas in the US, namely New Jersey, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Maryland and Washington D.C. They were also launched in many parts of Detroit, Hawaii and upstate New York and New England. The channels were also launched by additional carriers in Australia and Papua New Guinea.\n\nOn 5 October 2011, GMA Pinoy TV accepted two awards from the National Association for Multi-Ethnicity in Communications (NAMIC) in New York for 2011 Excellence in Multicultural Marketing Awards. On 4 November 2011, GMA Pinoy TV launched GMA's 2011 Christmas Station ID in several parts with each cast of most Kapuso shows and it was usually during the show and one right after the show ended. On 24 November 2011, Thanksgiving Day in the US, GMA Pinoy TV launched the Christmas-themed graphics for 2011, which also included the upper-right logo being converted to a Christmas-themed one. This was also the same date that GMA Network revamped its websites, with new features and a new look.\nOn December 2011, GMA Pinoy TV’s subscriber count closed at 291,309, a 7% increase over the 2010 closing subscriber number of 273,317. Because of this, revenues grew by 8% year-on-year and are expected to grow at that rate 2012 onwards.\n\nOn 2012, \"My Beloved\" became is the first primetime TV Drama series of GMA Network to premiere just a day after its original premiere on GMA Pinoy TV. On 15 March 2012, GMA Pinoy TV updated its on-screen graphics, replacing the 2010 version of approximately 30 seconds to one that is approximately 15 seconds.\n\nIn a press statement released by GMA Network, Inc., it was stated that GMA Pinoy TV, as of 1st Quarter of 2012, has approximately 303,000 subscribers, which numbers nearly 2 million viewers.\n\nOn 18 May 2012, GMA Pinoy TV released on-air alternate versions of its \"Up Next\" and \"You're Watching\" bumpers; they were much shorter and instead of clips of the shows, they featured the stars of the respective shows. On 5 June 2012, GMA Pinoy TV began experiencing audio issues with its broadcast, audio that is not so typical of High-Definition, High-Resolution cameras tha GMA uses. On 21 June 2012, the issue was resolved and the original audio type was restored. For the first time in GMA history, \"Idol sa Kusina\", a program originally aired on QTV then GMA News TV and simulcast on GMA Life TV moved to GMA Pinoy TV on 14 July 2012. In September 2012, for the first time in GMA Pinoy TV's history, \"24 Oras\", the network's flagship newscast program will had a four-hour-delayed telecast, meaning in the US, the show aired 7:30am (US-PST), 10:30am (US-EST), and 4:30am (Hawaii). This is the first time the network has placed \"24 Oras\" right after \"Unang Hirit\", which also changed timeslots to give way for 24 Oras.\n\nAs of 30 October 2012, four drama series were premiered that were one-day delayed: \"My Beloved\", \"One True Love\", \"Coffee Prince\", and \"Temptation of Wife\". This is part of GMA Pinoy TV's promise to its viewers to lessen airing delays and more original programming being shown. On 30 November 2012, GMA Pinoy TV updated its upper-right corner logo once more to a Christmas-themed one and one that celebrates GMA Pinoy TV's 7th anniversary and the version of the letters \"GMA\" are the more current one used by GMA. The on-air Christmas graphics which has been annually seen on GMA Pinoy TV was subsequently launched on 1 December 2012 and will last until the first week of January 2013. On 31 December 2012, GMA Pinoy TV aired \"Win na Win sa 2013: The GMA New Year Countdown\" live, making it the third time that GMA aired its New Year countdown live worldwide (previously in 2008 and 2011).\n\nOn 2013, \"Indio\" and \"Mundo Mo'y Akin\" became the fifth and sixth TV Drama series of GMA Network to premiere just a day after its original premiere on GMA Pinoy TV. This makes all the current and future primetime dramas of GMA to air on a one-day episode delay basis, compared to previously where it started first as long as three-weeks delay to as short as two-days delay. For the first time on GMA Pinoy TV, copyrighted material created and produced by another company, National Geographic Channel, was aired on GMA Pinoy TV on 7 April 2013. The copyrighted material aired under license is the National Geographic Channel Documentary entitled \"Inside Malacanang Palace\", which aired on March 2012, is a special documentary that takes the audience to an exclusive guided tour of the Malacanang Palace of the Philippines.\n\nOn the first quarter of 2013, GMA Pinoy TV had a total of 333,000 subscribers while its sister channel, GMA Life TV had 125,000 subscribers. This is based on a report that the Corporate Communications Department of GMA Network has posted. Overall, in 2012 and Q1 of 2013, subscription to GMA International channels increased by 7 percent. On June 2013, SingTel relaunched this channel together with GMA Life TV and in the new Fiesta Pack as well after 2 months of hiatus of this channel.\n\n\"Anna Karenina\" and \"My Husband's Lover\" became the seventh and eighth primetime TV drama series of GMA Network to premiere just a day after its original premiere. On 27 August 2013, \"\" started airing and was the first GMA Afternoon Prime drama series to be on only a one-episode delay basis, as for previous years, GMA Afternoon Prime dramas have been noted to be two to even four episodes delayed. On 10 September 2013, \"Akin Pa Rin ang Bukas\" became the ninth primetime TV drama series of GMA Network to premiere just a day after its original premiere on GMA Pinoy TV.\n\nOn 17 September 2013, GMA Pinoy TV had experienced technical problems and thus a three-hour delay was caused in its programming schedule, which received negative feedback from the viewers as they were not warned beforehand. The management had appealed to the viewers by saying that such was not intentional and was accidental because of technical/conversion issues. The following day, 18 September 2013, the programming staff of GMA Pinoy TV was prompted to change the programming schedule, effectively removing the airings of Eat Bulaga! and 24 Oras just a few hours after its original broadcast. Viewers are still hoping for the programming of GMA Pinoy TV to revert to its original state, which most viewers preferred.\n\nOn 29 September 2013, a fire hit the basement of GMA Network's Building. The fire was put out in less than 50 minutes as the fire correspondents responded immediately. The fire affected the power supply of GMA Network and thus further affected the normal operations of GMA Network, including the operations of GMA Pinoy TV as well as GMA Life TV and GMA News TV International. During the fire, temporary programming was aired consisting of replays of shows from the weekend. The fire had caused disappointment and inconvenience on the part of the viewers/subscribers. However, the management of GMA International assured its subscribers that indeed the appropriate measures are being taken and that normal operations are hoped to be restored at the soonest possible time. On 1 October 2013, programming had slowly been restored. Subscribers reported \"Unang Hirit\", \"24 Oras\", \"The Ryzza Mae Show\" and \"Eat Bulaga!\" among others to be updated and though slightly off their appropriate timeslot, still was managed to be aired over on GMA Pinoy TV. Also, \"My Husband's Lover\" aired back-to-back episodes and thus only on 1 October did it become the first TV series of GMA Drama to air the same episode that aired in the Philippines on the same day that it aired on GMA Pinoy TV. \"Akin Pa Rin ang Bukas\" and \"Kahit Nasaan Ka Man\" followed and also had back-to-back episodes aired; these \"back-to-back\" episode appeared to the viewers as hints that the primetime dramas will begin to air on same-day episode basis. However, this idea was dismissed on 2 October 2013 when these shows had re-aired the \"catch up\" episodes and thus, the primetime dramas were confirmed to be on a one-episode delay basis again. The network's afternoon dramas, \"Prinsesa ng Buhay Ko\", \"Magkano Ba ang Pag-ibig?\" and \"\", are still airing on a one-episode delay basis and were not affected by the \"catching up\" that happened on 1 October. The only afternoon drama left airing on a two-episode delay basis is \"Mga Basang Sisiw\".\n\nOn 5 October 2013, GMA Pinoy TV updated its on-air title screen, in celebration of its \"8 Years of Bringing Global Pinoys Closer to Home.\" On 30 November 2013, GMA Pinoy TV updated its upper-right logo to a Christmas-themed one, alongside GMA's Christmas Theme for 2013, \"Sundan Natin ang Bituin Pabalik sa Kanyang Piling\". The following day, 1 December 2013, the on-air title screen and graphics were updated.\n\nOn 17 December 2013, \"The Ryzza Mae Show\" and \"Eat Bulaga!\" were restored to their late night timeslots in the North American feed. It was noted that subscribers continually pleaded GMA Pinoy TV to restore these shows to their late night timeslots as this is convenient for many working subscribers who are only able to watch at that time. After three months and a day of requests, the management finally granted such and the shows were restored to their respective and consecutive late night timeslots. In addition to their restored timeslots, the two shows air as well right after their restored timeslots and so, overall, \"The Ryzza Mae Show\" and \"Eat Bulaga\" air four times on GMA Pinoy TV daily. The New Year Countdown aired on a three-hour delay basis on GMA Pinoy TV on 31 December 2013. From 31 December 2013 to 13 January 2014, GMA Pinoy TV had a special airing of \"Titser\". This was in the timeslot previously occupied by \"Genesis\" and \"Akin Pa Rin Ang Bukas\", as in the Philippines the timeslots of the two shows were replaced by Hollywood blockbusters.\n\nThe GMA Pinoy TV on-screen graphics and logo returned to its regular version on 5 January 2014, marking the end of the Christmas season. GMA Pinoy TV began inserting English subtitles in certain shows like \"Wish Ko Lang\", \"Pepito Manaloto: Ang Tunay na Kuwento\" and \"Magpakailanman\" on Saturday, 11 January 2014. This is part of GMA Pinoy TV's efforts to expand its audience reach so that not only those who can speak and understand Tagalog can watch GMA Pinoy TV but also those who cannot.\n\nOn 22 April 2014, GMA Pinoy TV began to air \"Full House\", the first Tagalog-dubbed Koreanovela aired on this channel. The shows with English subtitles are noted in the next section \"currently broadcast\". \"Basta Every Day, Happy!\" was supposed to premiere on 12 May 2014 (in some territories like the US on the evening of 11 May 2014) and air throughout its entire duration on GMA Pinoy TV but the programming department of GMA International, GMA's international subsidiary, decided to move the show over to GMA Life TV as it adheres more to GMA Life TV's overall theme as a lifestyle channel as well as the show is a replacement for \"\", so the programming department had seen that the move was done rightfully so.\n\nOn 26 May 2014, GMA Pinoy TV began to air \"Niño\" with no episode delay whatsoever, thus premiering on the same day. This is a historical event for GMA Pinoy TV, as GMA drama series have never aired without episode delays. The nearest to not having a delay was the one-episode\ndelay policy that was established on 14 February 2012 with the premiere of \"My Beloved\". What is going to happen is in the North American feed as well as on the Australian feed, the premiere of \"Niño\" and subsequent new episodes on same-day airing will take place on the evening telecast and replays in the afternoon telecasts while in other feeds, particularly, the Middle East and North Africa, Asia Pacific and European feeds, the premiere and subsequent new episodes will take place in the afternoon telecasts and replays on evening telecasts, thus because these telecasts will take place in the afternoon, such is still not considered delayed, as a new episode of the show still has not premiered. This similar framework followed with \"Ang Dalawang Mrs. Real\", which premiered on 2 June airing on same-day basis as well along with \"Strawberry Lane\" on 15 September and \"Hiram na Alaala\" on 22 September. \"Ilustrado\", the first BayaniSerye on Philippine Primetime, had a world premiere on all feeds of GMA Pinoy TV on 20 October 2014; this was simultaneous with the premiere in the Philippines and this is the first time such has happened in GMA Pinoy TV history.\n\nOn December 2014, GMA Pinoy TV updated its on-air title screen and graphics and upper-right logo to a Christmas-themed one, alongside GMA's Christmas theme for 2014, \"Share the Love\". On December 31, 2014, \"Countdown to 2015: The GMA New Year Countdown Special\" aired live on GMA Pinoy TV.\n\nThe GMA Pinoy TV on-screen graphics and logo returned to its regular version on 4 January 2015, marking the end of the Christmas season. In the 1st quarter of 2015, in response to viewers' requests and to remain competitive in the international market, GMA Pinoy TV began to increase the number of shows with English subtitles, now including daily dramas like \"Let the Love Begin\" and \"The Rich Man's Daughter\".\n\nOn May 10, 2015, Willie Revillame's \"Wowowin\" premiered on GMA Network and on GMA Pinoy TV, serving as his return to the Kapuso Network. It is noted that Revillame's popular \"Wowowee\" aired for five years on GMA and GMA Pinoy TV's rival stations.\n\nOn July 27, 2015, the sixth and final State of the Nation Address of President Benigno S. Aquino II aired live in the Asia Pacific and aired on a delay basis in North America, North Africa, the Middle East and Europe.\n\nIn mid-2015 GMA's programming changed from news to other programs to four-five hours programming of Pinoy Telenovela block starting with its AfternoonPrime to GMA telebabad Programming with some programs one day delayed however, has caught up throughout with its future schedules. Eat Bulaga airs its initial programming, and Wowowin, Daily news as well and other programming.\n\nOn May to June 2011, GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV sent many of its artists to various places worldwide, it's the first time that Kapuso artists were sent almost consecutively, to celebrate Philippine Independence Day, Filipino Culture Fiestas and to promote GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV and its shows. They consisted of Iza Calzado & Dennis Trillo who went to Hawaii on 7 May 2011, then on 28 May 2011, Jolina Magdangal and JayR visited National City in San Diego, CA. On the 113th Philippine Independence Day proper, Dennis Trillo & Iza Calzado were sent this time to Hong Kong to represent GMA Pinoy TV and perform there and in Singapore, Dingdong Dantes and Rachel Ann Go were present. And on 25 June 2011, Carla Abellana, JayR and Frencheska Farr along with Arnel Ignacio are heading off to Toronto, Canada to be a part of the Pinoy Fiesta Trade Show there. A day after, 26 June 2011, Aljur Abrenica, Jennylyn Mercado, Iza Calzado and Mark Bautista will be sent to be part of Philippine-American Friendship Day in Jersey City, New Jersey.\nOn 2 October 2011, Heart Evangelista, Daniel Matsunaga, and former \"Eat Bulaga\" host, Kim Idol graced an event in Australia celebrating the launch of GMA News TV International as well as the strengthening presence of GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV.\n\nOn 16 September 2012, in celebration of GMA Pinoy TV's 7th anniversary, \"Manny Many Prizes' held a special event at Universal Studios Hollywood. The live show featured the show's cast plus Dingdong Dantes, Solenn Heussaff, Julie Anne San Jose, Elmo Magalona and Rochelle Pangilinan.\n\nTo celebrate GMA Pinoy TV's 10th anniversary, GMA Pinoy TV rolled out a series of concerts, entitled \"Kapusong Pinoy\" followed by the name of the place as well as appearances at Filipino cultural events throughout the world, mainly in June and July to celebrate the Philippines' 117th Independence Day. GMA Pinoy TV used the hashtag #Sampuso to celebrate and highlight its 10th year of bringing Filipinos closer to home. The first two concerts were originally supposed to include GMA's Primetime Queen Marian Rivera-Dantes but because of her pregnancy, she chose to withdraw from the concerts for her and her child's safety and AiAi delas Alas served as her replacement in the first two concerts. The first Sampuso concert was on May 29, 2015 (originally slated for April 24, 2015), at the Orpheum Theater in Vancouver, Canada, featuring AiAi delas Alas, Christian Bautista, Jonalyn Viray, Alden Richards, and Betong Sumaya as Antonietta of Bubble Gang. The second Sampuso concert was on May 31, 2015 (originally slated for April 26, 2015), at the City National Grove of Anaheim, California, featuring AiAi delas Alas, Christian Bautista, Jonalyn Viray, Alden Richards, and Betong Sumaya as Antonietta of Bubble Gang.\n\nGMA announced a third concert in celebration of GMA Pinoy TV's 10th anniversary. The concert took place in New York at the Town Hall on September 5, 2015, featuring Primetime King Dingdong Dantes, AiAi delas Alas, Julie Anne San Jose, Christian Bautista, and Betong Sumaya as Antonietta of Bubble Gang. There are more concerts in celebration of GMA Pinoy TV's 10th Anniversary slated.\n\n"}
{"id": "19574596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19574596", "title": "Global Handwashing Day", "text": "Global Handwashing Day\n\nGlobal Handwashing Day (GHD) is a campaign to motivate and mobilize people around the world to improve their handwashing habits. Washing hands at critical points during the day and washing with soap are both important. \n\nGlobal Handwashing Day occurs on 15 October of each year. The global campaign is dedicated to raising awareness of handwashing with soap as a key factor in disease prevention. Respiratory and intestinal diseases can be reduced by 25-50%.\n\nThe Global Handwashing Partnership (GHP) (formerly called \"Public Private Partnership for Handwashing\" (PPPHW)) established Global Handwashing Day in 2008 as a way to promote a global and local vision of handwashing with soap.\n\nSteering Committee members of the GHP include Colgate-Palmolive; FHI 360; The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine; Procter & Gamble; UNICEF; Unilever; University at Buffalo; USAID; the Water and Sanitation Programme at the World Bank; and the Water Supply and Sanitation Collaborative Council.\n\nContinued research on handwashing habits and practices is commissioned in conjunction with GHD. In 2011, Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget (SCA), sponsored a study to assess the handwashing habits of American and Canadian adults, finding that many were not using soap when washing their hands.\n\nThe aims of Global Handwashing Day are to:\n\nEach year, over 200 million people celebrate Global Handwashing Day.\n\n\nGlobal Handwashing Day was initiated by the Global Handwashing Partnership (GHP) in August 2008 at the annual World Water Week in Stockholm, Sweden. This means that the first Global Handwashing Day took place on 15 October 2008. The date was appointed by the UN General Assembly. The year 2008 was also the International Year of Sanitation. The founding bodies in 2008 included: FHI360 (a nonprofit human development organization based in the US), US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Procter & Gamble, UNICEF, Unilever, World Bank Water & Sanitation Program and the United States Agency for International Development.\n\n\nTheme for Global Handwashing Day 2018: Clean Hands- a recipe for health\n\nThe campaign was initiated to reduce childhood mortality rates and related respiratory and diarrheal diseases by introducing simple behavioral changes, such as handwashing with soap. This simple action can reduce the mortality rate of respiratory disease by 25%. Death from diarrheal diseases can be reduced by 50%. Across the world, more than 60 percent of health workers do not adhere to proper hand hygiene. According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, US health care providers, on average, wash their hands less than half of the time they should. On any given day, one in 25 US hospital patients has at least one health care-associated infection.\n\nHandwashing with soap is very effective and the least expensive way to prevent diarrhea and acute respiratory infections. Pneumonia, a major ARI (acute respiratory infection), is the number one cause of mortality among children under five years old, killing an estimated 1.8 million children per year. Diarrhea and pneumonia together account for almost 3.5 million child deaths annually. Handwashing with soap is estimated to reduce cases of diarrhea by 30% and respiratory infections by 21% in children under the age of five.\n\nIt is important to make handwashing into a habit. Good handwashing with soap before eating and after using the toilet into a regular habit can save more lives than any single vaccine or medical intervention, cutting deaths from diarrhea by almost half and deaths from acute respiratory infections by one-quarter.\n\nHandwashing is usually done together with other sanitation interventions as part of water, sanitation and hygiene WASH programmes.\n\nThe Global Handwashing Day helps raise awareness of the importance of washing with soap, but it also makes it fun for children to get involved.\n\nProper hygiene requires that individuals know the importance of good hygiene and develop the habits to carry it out. There are people with plenty of money but nonetheless, they lack the important habits of timely handwashing with soap, and thereby unknowingly endanger themselves and others around them.\n\nPeer influence is significant to seeing increased handwashing among students. In a study conducted in Kenya, researchers found that students were much more likely to wash their hands when another student is present. Peer influence is only successful, however, when students know that handwashing is a desirable action.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) celebrates a World Hand Hygiene Day on 5 May. In 2018 the theme was prevention of sepsis in health care. The theme of the year before was to combat antibiotic resistance (AMR).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13312969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13312969", "title": "Global mental health", "text": "Global mental health\n\nGlobal mental health is the international perspective on different aspects of mental health. It is 'the area of study, research and practice that places a priority on improving mental health and achieving equity in mental health for all people worldwide'. There is a growing body of criticism of the global mental health movement, and has been widely criticised as a neo-colonial or \"missionary\" project and as primarily a front for pharmaceutical companies seeking new clients for psychiatric drugs.\n\nIn theory, taking into account cultural differences and country-specific conditions, it deals with the epidemiology of mental disorders in different countries, their treatment options, mental health education, political and financial aspects, the structure of mental health care systems, human resources in mental health, and human rights issues among others.\n\nThe overall aim of the field of global mental health is to strengthen mental health all over the world by providing information about the mental health situation in all countries, and identifying mental health care needs in order to develop cost-effective interventions to meet those specific needs.\n\nMental, neurological, and substance use disorders make a substantial contribution to the global burden of disease (GBD). This is a global measure of so-called disability-adjusted life years (DALY's) assigned to a certain disease/disorder, which is a sum of the years lived with disability and years of life lost due to this disease within the total population. Neuropsychiatric conditions account for 14% of the global burden of disease. Among non-communicable diseases, they account for 28% of the DALY's – more than cardiovascular disease or cancer. However, it is estimated that the real contribution of mental disorders to the global burden of disease is even higher, due to the complex interactions and co-morbidity of physical and mental illness.\n\nAround the world, almost one million people die due to suicide every year, and it is the third leading cause of death among young people. The most important causes of disability due to health-related conditions worldwide include unipolar depression, alcoholism, schizophrenia, bipolar depression and dementia. In low- and middle-income countries, these conditions represent a total of 19.1% of all disability related to health conditions.\n\nIt is estimated that one in four people in the world will be affected by mental or neurological disorders at some point in their lives. Although many effective interventions for the treatment of mental disorders are known, and awareness of the need for treatment of people with mental disorders has risen, the proportion of those who need mental health care but who do not receive it remains very high. This so-called \"treatment gap\" is estimated to reach between 76–85% for low- and middle-income countries, and 35–50% for high-income countries.\n\nDespite the acknowledged need, for the most part there have not been substantial changes in mental health care delivery during the past years. Main reasons for this problem are public health priorities, lack of a mental health policy and legislation in many countries, a lack of resources – financial and human resources – as well as inefficient resource allocation.\n\nIn 2011, the World Health Organization estimated a shortage of 1.18 million mental health professionals, including 55,000 psychiatrists, 628,000\nnurses in mental health settings, and 493,000 psychosocial care providers needed to treat mental disorders in 144 low- and middle-income countries. The annual wage bill to remove this health workforce shortage was estimated at about US$4.4 billion.\n\nInformation and evidence about cost-effective interventions to provide better mental health care are available. Although most of the research (80%) has been carried out in high-income countries, there is also strong evidence from low- and middle-income countries that pharmacological and psychosocial interventions are effective ways to treat mental disorders, with the strongest evidence for depression, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and hazardous alcohol use.\n\nRecommendations to strengthen mental health systems around the world have been first mentioned in the WHO's \"World Health Report 2001\", which focused on mental health:\n\n\nBased on the data of 12 countries, assessed by the \"WHO Assessment Instrument for Mental Health Systems\" (WHO-AIMS), the costs of scaling up mental health services by providing a core treatment package for schizophrenia, bipolar affective disorder, depressive episodes and hazardous alcohol use have been estimated. Structural changes in mental health systems according to the WHO recommendations have been taken into account.\n\nFor most countries, this model suggests an initial period of investment of US$0.30 – 0.50 per person per year. The total expenditure on mental health would have to rise at least ten-fold in low-income countries. In those countries, additional financial resources will be needed, while in middle- and high-income countries the main challenge will be the reallocation of resources within the health system to provide better mental health service.\n\nPrevention is beginning to appear in mental health strategies, including the 2004 WHO report \"Prevention of Mental Disorders\", the 2008 EU \"Pact for Mental Health\" and the 2011 US National Prevention Strategy. NIMH or the National Institute of Mental Health has over 400 grants.\n\nTwo of WHO's core programmes for mental health are WHO MIND (Mental health improvements for Nations Development) and Mental Health Gap Action Programme (mhGAP).\n\nWHO MIND focuses on 5 areas of action to ensure concrete changes in people's daily lives. These are:\n\nMental Health Gap Action Programme (mhGAP) is WHO’s action plan to scale up services for mental, neurological and substance use disorders for countries especially with low and lower middle incomes. The aim of mhGAP is to build partnerships for collective action and to reinforce the commitment of governments, international organizations and other stakeholders.\n\nThe mhGAP Intervention Guide (mhGAP-IG) was launched in October 2010. It is a technical tool for the management of mental, neurological and substance use disorders in non-specialist health settings. The priority conditions included are: depression, psychosis, bipolar disorders, epilepsy, developmental and behavioural disorders in children and adolescents, dementia, alcohol use disorders, drug use disorders, self-harm/suicide and other significant emotional or medically unexplained complaints.\n\nOne of the most prominent critics of the Movement for Global Mental Health has been China Mills, author of the book \"Decolonizing Global Mental Health: The Psychiatrization of the Majority World\".\n\nMills writes that:\n\nAnother prominent critic is Ethan Watters, author of \"Crazy Like Us: The Globalization of the American Psyche\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41833074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41833074", "title": "Global surveillance whistleblowers", "text": "Global surveillance whistleblowers\n\nGlobal surveillance whistleblowers are whistleblowers who provided public knowledge of global surveillance.\n\nPerry Fellwock revealed the existence of then ultra secretive National Security Agency (NSA) and its global mass surveillance apparatus and activities, including domestic spying, in a 1971 \"Ramparts\" exposé. This was the first wide exposure of the NSA, which had for decades prevented public knowledge of its abilities and activities. The revelations led the U.S. Senate Church Committee to introduce successful legislation intended to stop the NSA spying on American citizens.\n\nIn December 2005 Russ Tice helped spark a national controversy over claims that the NSA and the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) were engaged in unlawful and unconstitutional wiretaps on American citizens. He later acknowledged that he was one of the sources that were used in \"The New York Times\" reporting on the wiretap activity in December 2005. After speaking publicly about the need for legislation to protect whistleblowers, Tice received national attention as the first NSA-whistleblower in May 2005 before William Binney, Thomas Andrews Drake, Mark Klein, Thomas Tamm, and Edward Snowden came forward.\n\nMark Klein is a former AT&T technician who leaked knowledge of his company's cooperation with the NSA in installing network hardware to covertly monitor, capture, and process American telecommunications en masse. The subsequent media coverage became a major story in May 2006.\n\nIn recognition of his actions, the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) picked Klein as one of the winners of its 2008 Pioneer Awards.\n\nFor over 22 years Mark Klein worked for AT&T. Starting with the company as a Communications Technician in New York, where he remained from November 1981 until March 1991, he later continued in that capacity in California until 1998. From January 1998 to October 2003, Klein worked as a Computer Network Associate in San Francisco. From October 2003 to May 2004 he returned to the role of Communications Technician, after which he retired in May 2004.\n\nWilliam Binney is a former highly placed intelligence official with the NSA turned whistleblower who resigned on October 31, 2001, after more than 30 years with the agency. He was a high-profile critic of his former employers during the George W. Bush administration, and was the subject of FBI investigations, including a raid on his home in 2007. He came forward with NSA colleagues J. Kirk Wiebe and Edward Loomis, in cooperation with House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence staffer Diane Roark.\n\nThomas Tamm is a former attorney in the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of Intelligence Policy and Review (OIPR) during the period in 2004 when senior Justice officials fought against the widening scope of warrantless NSA surveillance that consisted of eavesdropping on U.S. citizens. He was an anonymous whistleblower to \"The New York Times\", making the initial disclosure regarding the issue.\n\nThomas Andrews Drake is a former senior executive at the NSA, a decorated United States Air Force (USAF) and United States Navy (USN) veteran, and a whistleblower. In 2010 the government alleged that Drake \"mishandled\" documents, one of the few such Espionage Act cases in U.S. history. Drake's defenders claim that he was instead being persecuted for challenging the Trailblazer Project. He is the 2011 recipient of the Ridenhour Prize for Truth-Telling and co-recipient of the Sam Adams Associates for Integrity in Intelligence (SAAII) award.\n\nOn June 9, 2011, all 10 original charges against him were dropped. Drake rejected several deals because he refused to \"plea bargain with the truth\". He eventually pleaded to one misdemeanor count for exceeding authorized use of a computer; Jesselyn Radack of the Government Accountability Project (GAP), who helped represent him, called it an act of \"civil disobedience.\"\n\nEdward Snowden is an American computer specialist, a former Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) employee, who, while working as a Booz Allen Hamilton contractor, disclosed top secret NSA documents to various media outlets, initiating the NSA leaks, which reveal operational details of a global surveillance apparatus run by the NSA and other members of the Five Eyes alliance, along with numerous commercial and international partners.\n\nThe release of classified material was called the most significant leak in US history by Pentagon Papers leaker Daniel Ellsberg. A series of exposés beginning June 5, 2013 revealed Internet surveillance programs such as PRISM, XKeyscore, and Tempora, as well as the interception of US and European telephone metadata, among other disclosures.\n\n"}
{"id": "2596739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2596739", "title": "Health geography", "text": "Health geography\n\nHealth geography is the application of geographical information, perspectives, and methods to the study of health, disease, and health care.\n\nThe study of health geography has been influenced by repositioning medical geography within the field of social geography due to a shift towards a social model in health care, rather than a medical model. This advocates for the redefinition of health and health care away from prevention and treatment of illness only to one of promoting well-being in general. Under this model, some previous illnesses (e.g., mental ill health) are recognized as behavior disturbances only, and other types of medicine (e.g., complementary or alternative medicine and traditional medicine) are studied by the medicine researchers, sometimes with the aid of health geographers without medical education. This shift changes the definition of care, no longer limiting it to spaces such as hospitals or doctor's offices. Also, the social model gives priority to the intimate encounters performed at non-traditional spaces of medicine and healthcare as well as to the individuals as health consumers.\n\nThis alternative methodological approach means that medical geography is broadened to incorporate philosophies such as Marxian political economy, structuralism, social interactionism, humanism, feminism and queer theory.\n\nThe relationship between space and health dates back to Hippocrates, who stated that \"airs, waters, places\" all played significant roles impacting human health and history. A classic piece of research in health geography was done in 1854 as a cholera outbreak gripped a neighborhood in London. Death tolls rang around the clock and the people feared that they were being infected by vapors coming from the ground. John Snow predicted that if he could locate the source of the disease, it could be contained. He drew maps demonstrating the homes of people who had died of cholera and the locations of water pumps. He found that one pump, the public pump on Broad Street, was central to most of the victims. He concluded that infected water from the pump was the culprit. He instructed the authorities to remove the handle to the pump, making it unusable. As a result, the number of new cholera cases decreased.\n\nHealth geography is considered to be divided into two distinct elements. The first of which is focused on geographies of disease and ill health, involving descriptive research quantifying disease frequencies and distributions, and analytic research concerned with finding what characteristics make an individual or population susceptible to disease. This requires an understanding of epidemiology. The second component of health geography is the geography of health care, primarily facility location, accessibility, and utilization. This requires the use of spatial analysis and often borrows from behavioral economics.\n\nHsenting health risks, from natural disasters, to interpersonal violence, stress, and other potential dangers.\n\nAlthough healthcare is a public good, it is not equally available to all individuals. Demand for public services is continuously increasing. People need advance knowledge and the latest prediction technology, that health geography offers. The latest example of such technology is Telemedicine. Many people in the United States are not able to access proper healthcare because of inequality in health insurance and the means to afford medical care.\n\nMobility and Disease Tracking\n\nWith the advent of mobile technology and its spread, it is now possible to track individual mobility. By correlating the movement of individuals through tracking the devices using access towers or other tracking systems, it is now possible to determine and even control disease spread. While privacy laws question the legality of tracking individuals, the commercial mobile service providers are using covert techniques or obtaining government waivers to allow permission to track people .\n\nNotable health geographers include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "331039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331039", "title": "Hong Kong–Zhuhai–Macau Bridge", "text": "Hong Kong–Zhuhai–Macau Bridge\n\nThe Hong Kong–Zhuhai–Macau Bridge (HZMB), officially the Hong Kong–Zhuhai–Macao Bridge, is a bridge–tunnel system consisting of a series of three cable-stayed bridges, an undersea tunnel, and four artificial islands. It is both the longest sea crossing and the longest fixed link on earth. The HZMB spans the Lingding and Jiuzhou channels, connecting Hong Kong, Macau, and Zhuhai—three major cities on the Pearl River Delta. \n\nThe HZMB was designed to last for 120 years and built with a cost of 126.9 billion yuan (US$ billion). The cost of constructing the main bridge was estimated at 51.1 billion yuan (US$ 7.56 billion) funded by bank loans and shared among the governments of mainland China, Hong Kong and Macau.\n\nOriginally set to be opened to traffic in late 2016, the structure was completed on 6 February 2018 and journalists were subsequently given rides over the bridge. On 24 October 2018, the HZMB was opened to the public after its inauguration a day earlier by Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the Communist Party of China and President of the People's Republic of China.\n\nHopewell Holdings founder and then-managing director Gordon Wu proposed the concept of a bridge-tunnel linking China, Hong Kong and Macau in the 1980s. Wu stated that he got the idea in 1983 from the Chesapeake Bay Bridge–Tunnel. In 1988, Wu pitched the concept to Guangdong and Beijing officials. He envisaged a link farther north than the current design, beginning at Black Point near Tuen Mun, Hong Kong and crossing the Pearl River estuary via Neilingding Island and Qi'ao Island. His proposed bridge would end at the Chinese village of Tangjia, and a new road would continue south through Zhuhai before terminating at Macau. Discussions stalled after the Tiananmen Square massacre in mid-1989 \"unnerved\" Wu and other foreign investors, and caused Hopewell's Hong Kong share prices to plunge.\n\nThe route proposed by Wu was promoted by the government of Zhuhai under the name Lingdingyang Bridge. In the mid-1990s, Zhuhai built a bridge between the mainland and Qi'ao Island that was intended as the first phase of this route, though the full scheme had not been approved by either the Chinese nor Hong Kong governments at that time. China's central government showed support for this project on 30 December 1997. The new Hong Kong government was reticent, stating that it was still awaiting cross-border traffic study results, and Hong Kong media questioned the environmental impact of the project with regard to air pollution, traffic and marine life.\n\nIn December 2001, the Legislative Council of Hong Kong passed a motion urging the Administration to develop the logistics industry including the construction of a bridge connecting Hong Kong, Zhuhai and Macao. At a meeting of the China/Hong Kong Conference on Co-ordination of Major Infrastructure Projects held on 20 September 2002, it was agreed that a joint study should be conducted on the transport link between Hong Kong and Pearl River West.\n\nTo coordinate the project, the Advance Work Coordination Group of HZMB was set up in 2003. Officials from three sides solved the issues such as landing points and alignments of the bridge, operations of the Border Crossing Facilities and project financing.\n\nIn August 2008, China's Central Government, the governments of Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macau agreed to finance 42% of the total costs. The remaining 58% consisted of loans (approximately 22 billion yuan or US$ 3.23 billion) from Bank of China.\n\nIn March 2009, it was further reported that China's Central Government, Hong Kong and Macau agreed to finance 22% of the total costs. The remaining 78% consisted of loans (approximately 57.3 billion yuan or US$ 8.4 billion) from a consortium of banks led by Bank of China.\n\nConstruction of the HZMB project began on 15 December 2009 on the Chinese side, with then-Vice Premier of China Li Keqiang holding a commencement ceremony. Construction of the Hong Kong section of the project began in December 2011 after a delay caused by a legal challenge regarding the environmental impact of the bridge.\n\nThe last bridge tower was erected on 2 June 2016, the last straighted-element of the straight section of the undersea tunnel was installed on 12 July 2016, while the final tunnel joint was installed on 2 May 2017. Construction of the Main Bridge, consisting of a viaduct and an undersea tunnel, was completed on 6 July 2017, and the construction of the whole project was completed on 6 February 2018.\n\nThe 55-km () HZMB consists of three main sections: the Main Bridge () in the middle of the Pearl River estuary, the Hong Kong Link Road () in the east and the Zhuhai Link Road () in the west of the estuary.\n\nThe Main Bridge, the largest part of the HZMB project, is a bridge-cum-tunnel system constructed by the mainland Chinese authorities. It connects an artificial island, housing the Boundary Crossing Facilities (BCF) for both mainland China and Macau in the west, to the Hong Kong Link Road in the east.\n\nThis section includes a 22.9-km () viaduct and a 6.7-km () undersea tunnel that runs between two artificial islands. The viaduct crosses the Pearl River estuary with three cable-stayed bridges spanning between 280 and 460 metres (920 and 1,510 ft), allowing shipping traffic to pass underneath.\n\nUnder Hong Kong jurisdiction, the Hong Kong Link Road was built by Highway Department to connect the Main Bridge to an artificial island housing the Hong Kong Boundary Crossing Facilities (HKBCF). This section includes a 9.4-km () viaduct, a 1-km () Scenic Hill Tunnel and a 1.6-km () at-grade road along the east coast of the Hong Kong International Airport.\n\nThe Zhuhai Link Road starts from an artificial island housing the Boundary Crossing Facilities for both mainland China and Macau, passes through the developed area of Gongbei via a tunnel towards Zhuhai, and connects to three major expressways, namely, the Jing-Zhu Expressway, Guang-Zhu West Expressway and Jiang-Zhu Expressway.\n\nAlthough the HZMB connects two left-hand traffic (LHT) areas, namely Hong Kong and Macau, the crossing itself is right-hand traffic (RHT), the same as in Zhuhai and other regions of China. Thus, drivers from Hong Kong and Macau need to make use of crossing viaducts to switch to RHT upon entering the bridge, and back to LHT upon leaving the bridge when they are back to Hong Kong and Macau. Traffic between Zhuhai and the bridge requires no left-right conversion as they are both RHT.\n\nShuttle buses are available 24 hours a day and depart up to every 5 minutes with tickets available for purchase from vending machines or ticket counters. They take around 40 minutes to cross the HZMB.\n\nThe HZMB Hong Kong Port can be reached from Hong Kong by taxis or various buses including CityFlyer airport (A-number) routes, or the B5 shuttle bus from Sunny Bay MTR station, or the B6 bus from Tung Chung.\n\nThe HZMB Zhuhai Port can be reached from the mainland by taxis or the L1 bus which uses historic tourist vehicles, or Line-12, 23, 25 or 3 buses.\n\nThe HZMB Macau Port can be reached from Macau by taxis or various buses including the 101X bus and the 102X bus from St Paul's and Taipa, or the HZMB Integrated Resort Connection bus from Taipa Ferry Terminal or the Exterior Ferry terminal, connecting with free casino shuttle buses.\n\nCurrently only 10,000 permits are available for private vehicles to drive across the HZMB from Hong Kong to Zhuhai. In addition, the number of vehicles permitted to enter Hong Kong and Macau from other regions is subject to a daily quota.\n\nSince the Hong Kong government imposes significant fees, taxes and administrative paperwork on private car ownership and usage to deal with road congestion, driving a car on the HZMB would incur the same restrictions as current cross-border traffic. These include applying for separate driving licences for both Hong Kong and mainland China, a Hong Kong Closed Road Permit for cross-boundary vehicles, and an Approval Notice from the Guangdong Public Security Bureau. Vehicle owners also need to ensure they have the appropriate insurance coverage for the regions they are travelling to.\n\nThe HZMB links three major cities Hong Kong, Zhuhai and Macau, which are geographically close but separated by water. With the bridge in place, travelling time between Zhuhai and Hong Kong would cut down from about four hours to 30 minutes on the road.\n\nThe HZMB project is part of a Beijing-driven strategy to create an economic hub and promote the economic development of the whole area of the Pearl River Delta, which is also known as Greater Bay Area. Hoping to leverage the bridge and create an economic zone linking the three cities, Zhuhai's Hengqin area was designated as a free trade zone in 2015.\n\nThe artificial island housing the Hong Kong Boundary Crossing Facilities (HKBCF) was reported drifting due to an unconventional method, hitherto unused in Hong Kong, for land reclamation with steel circular cells in a row pushed through the mud and filled with inert material to form a seawall.\n\nThe drifting of parts of the reclaimed island had allegedly caused a delay in the HZMB project. The Highways Department denied reports in various sources of movement up to 20 metres but admitted parts of the reclaimed land had moved \"up to six or seven metres\", claiming that some movement was expected and safety had not been jeopardised.\n\nMainland contractors were also reportedly having difficulty in constructing immersed tubes in their section of the project, with the director of the Guangdong National Development and Reform Commission stating that 2020 would be a difficult target to meet.\n\nIn 2017, the Main Bridge of the HZMB project experienced a cost overrun of about 10 billion yuan, arising from an increase in labor and material costs, as well as the refinement of the design and construction schemes.\n\nThe number of deaths and injuries that have taken place on the project has come under scrutiny in Hong Kong. Apart from nine fatal cases on the mainland side, there have been ten deaths reported on the Hong Kong side of the construction project, and somewhere between 234 and 600 injuries, depending on the source. In April 2017, the Construction Site Workers General Union, the Labour Party and the Confederation of Trade Unions demonstrated at the Central Government Complex, demanding the government take action.\n\nLawmaker Fernando Cheung also expressed concerns over the unknown death toll on the Chinese side of the project, stating: \"the project is known as the 'bridge of blood and tears’ and we are only talking about the Hong Kong side. We don’t even know what is happening in China. I suppose the situation could be 10 times worse than that in Hong Kong.\" He said that the Hong Kong Government had a responsibility to consider worker safety on the Chinese side.\n\nIn 2017, Hong Kong's Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) arrested 21 employees (two senior executives, 14 laboratory technicians and five laboratory assistants) of Jacobs China Limited, a contractor of the Civil Engineering and Development Department for falsifying concrete test results, thus potentially risking the safety of bridge for public use. In December 2017, a lab technician pleaded guilty and was sentenced to imprisonment for eight months, while the others await sentencing. Hong Kong's Highways Department conducted tests again after the falsified results were exposed and found all test results met safety standards.\n\nIn April 2018, the public and media raised questions over the integrity of the seawalls protecting the artificial islands at both ends of the undersea tunnel. In footage taken by drone users and mariners, the dolosse installed at the edges of the artificial islands appear to have dislodged. Some civil engineers suggested that there was an error in design. In dismissing the safety concerns, the HZMB Authority said the dolosse were designed to be submerged and the design was working as intended. Director of Highways Department Daniel Chung denied on 8 April 2018 that the breakwater components had been washed away by waves.\n\nSubsequent aerial footage posted online showed a section of the dolosse breakwater completely underwater. Civil engineer So Yiu-kwan told Hong Kong media on 12 April 2018 that the water level, at the time the photos were taken, was about 1.74 mPD (metres above Principal Datum), but the maximum water level could reach 2.7 mPD. He said the dolosse would offer no wave protection if entirely submerged, and further alleged that they had been installed backwards.\n\nConservationists at WWF Hong Kong blamed the construction of the HZMB for the falling number of white dolphins in the waters near the bridge. The dolphins found near waters of Lantau were worst hit with numbers dropping by 60 per cent between April 2015 and March 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "145753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145753", "title": "Hydrosphere", "text": "Hydrosphere\n\nThe hydrosphere (from Greek ὕδωρ \"hydōr\", \"water\" and σφαῖρα \"sphaira\", \"sphere\") is the combined mass of water found on, under, and above the surface of a planet, minor planet or natural satellite. Although the hydrosphere has been around for longer than 4 billion years, it continues to change in size. This is caused by the seafloor spreading and the continental drift, which rearranges the land and ocean. \n\nIt has been estimated that there are 1,386 million cubic kilometers of water on Earth. This includes water in liquid and frozen forms in groundwater, oceans, lakes and streams. Saltwater accounts for 97.5% of this amount. Fresh water accounts for only 2.5%. Of this fresh water, 68.9% is in the form of ice and permanent snow cover in the Arctic, the Antarctic, and mountain glaciers. 30.8% is in the form of fresh groundwater. Only 0.3% of the fresh water on Earth is in easily accessible lakes, reservoirs and river systems. The total mass of the Earth's hydrosphere is about 1.4 × 10 tonnes, which is about 0.023% of Earth's total mass. About 20 × 10 tonnes of this is in Earth's atmosphere (for practical purposes, 1 cubic meter of water weighs one tonne). Approximately 71% of Earth's surface, an area of some 361 million square kilometers (139.5 million square miles), is covered by ocean. The average salinity of Earth's oceans is about 35 grams of salt per kilogram of sea water (3.5%).\n\nThe water cycle refers to the transfer of water from one state or reservoir to another. Reservoirs include atmospheric moisture (snow, rain and clouds), streams, oceans, rivers, lakes, groundwater, subterranean aquifers, polar ice caps and saturated soil. Solar energy, in the form of heat and light (insolation), and gravity cause the transfer from one state to another over periods from hours to thousands of years. Most evaporation comes from the oceans and is returned to the earth as snow or rain. Sublimation refers to evaporation from snow and ice. Transpiration refers to the expiration of water through the minute pores or stomata of trees. Evapotranspiration is the term used by hydrologists in reference to the three processes together, transpiration, sublimation and evaporation.\n\nMarq de Villiers has described the hydrosphere as a closed system in which water exists. The hydrosphere is intricate, complex, interdependent, all-pervading and stable and \"seems purpose-built for regulating life.\" De Villiers claimed that, \"On earth, the total amount of water has almost certainly not changed since geological times: what we had then we still have. Water can be polluted, abused, and misused but it is neither created nor destroyed, it only migrates. There is no evidence that water vapor escapes into space.\"\n\n\"Every year the turnover of water on Earth involves 577,000 km of water. This is water that evaporates from the oceanic surface (502,800 km) and from land (74,200 km). The same amount of water falls as atmospheric precipitation, 458,000 km on the ocean and 119,000 km on land. The difference between precipitation and evaporation from the land surface (119,000 - 74,200 = 44,800 km/year) represents the total runoff of the Earth's rivers (42,700 km/year) and direct groundwater runoff to the ocean (2100 km/year). These are the principal sources of fresh water to support life necessities and man's economic activities.\"\n\nWater is a basic necessity of life. Since 2/3 of the Earth is covered by water, the Earth is also called the blue planet and the watery planet. Hydrosphere plays an important role in the existence of the atmosphere in its present form. Oceans are important in this regard. When the Earth was formed it had only a very thin atmosphere rich in hydrogen and helium similar to the present atmosphere of Mercury. Later the gases hydrogen and helium were expelled from the atmosphere. The gases and water vapor released as the Earth cooled became its present atmosphere. Other gases and water vapor released by volcanoes also entered the atmosphere. As the Earth cooled the water vapor in the atmosphere condensed and fell as rain. The atmosphere cooled further as atmospheric carbon dioxide dissolved in to rain water. In turn this further caused the water vapor to condense and fall as rain. This rain water filled the depressions on the Earth's surface and formed the oceans. It is estimated that this occurred about 4000 million years ago. The first life forms began in the oceans. These organisms did not breathe oxygen. Later, when cyanobacteria evolved, the process of conversion of carbon dioxide into food and oxygen began. As a result, Earth's atmosphere has a distinctly different composition from that of other planets and allowed for life to evolve on Earth.\n\nAccording to Igor A. Shiklomanov, it takes 2500 years for the complete recharge and replenishment of oceanic waters, 10,000 years for permafrost and ice, 1500 years for deep groundwater and mountainous glaciers, 17 years in lakes and 16 days in rivers.\n\n\"Specific water availability is the residual (after use) per capita quantity of fresh water.\" Fresh water resources are unevenly distributed in terms of space and time and can go from floods to water shortages within months in the same area. In 1998 76% of the total population had a specific water availability of less than 5.0 thousand m3 per year per capita. Already by 1998, 35% of the global population suffered \"very low or catastrophically low water supplies\" and Shiklomanov predicted that the situation would deteriorate in the twenty-first century with \"most of the Earth's population will be living under the conditions of low or catastrophically low water supply\" by 2025. There is only 2.5% of fresh water in the hydrosphere and only 0.25% of water is accessible for our use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57291070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57291070", "title": "Hyper-globalization", "text": "Hyper-globalization\n\nHyper-globalization is a term used to describe the dramatic change in the size, scope and velocity of globalization that began in the late 1990s and that continues into the beginning of the 21st century. It covers all three main dimensions of economic globalization, cultural globalization, and political globalization. The term appeared in the 2011 work by Dani Rodrik an economist and professor of International Political Economy at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, who used the term in his \"The Globalization Paradox: Democracy and the Future of the World Economy\". Rodrik used the term as a criticism of state of globalization, questioning the wisdom of unlimited economic integration beyond national borders. He sees a conflict between the workings of the nation state and free flow economic globalization that has gone too far “toward an impractical version that we might call hyperglobalization.”\n\nIn 2013 economists at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, Arvind Subramanian and Martin Kessler used the term in their \"The Hyperglobalization of Trade and Its Future\", to describe the dramatic increase in world trade that has occurred since the founding of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 1995.\n\nThe term was extended beyond economic globalization to include the realms of culture and politics in 2018 by Public Relations consultant and academician, Takashi Inoue. In his \"Public Relations in Hyper-Globalization\" he argues that the world is being transformed by three forces of hyper-globalization: economic, social media, and new disruptive technologies that together are accelerating the pace of change in all spheres. Inoue argues that this is the new reality in which leaders must now operate in.\n\nDani Rodrik defines hyper-globalization as a type of globalization aimed at the elimination of all transaction costs associated with the movement between the natural borders of nation states of goods, services, capital and finance. These costs are not limited to just tariffs and quotas, but also includes things such as domestic regulations, standards, rules on product safety, rules on intellectual property, and banking regulations. In other words, Rodrik sees hyper-globalization as a type of globalization that allows multinational companies to avoid the rules and regulations of nation states. The deep integration of hyper-globalization conflicts with and threatens the sovereignty of the nation state. Rodrik concludes that hyper-globalization is globalization that has gone too far. He rejects the solution of using intergovernmental organizations as a way to provide governance, because by definition that requires nation states to give up sovereignty and thus it is not compatible with democracy. He does not argue to stop or reduce globalization, but rather to change the rules of globalization away from hyper-globalization to activity that does not conflict with national sovereignty.\n\nSubramanian and Kessler argue that the world is now in an era of “hyper-globalization, where world trade has soared much more rapidly than world GDP.” They note that in the period since the late 1990s there was a surge in economic activity in the developing world. Prior to the late 1990s only 30 percent of the developing world or 21 countries out of 72 were catching up to the United States as the economic frontier, but since the late 1990s that number jumped nearly 75 percent or 75 out of 103 countries. The rate at which convergence with the U.S. was occurring jumped from 1.5 percent per capita per year to 3.3 percent per capita after the late 1990s. They call the period between 1870 and 1914 the Golden Age of globalization in which world trade in terms of GDP went from a 9 percent to 16 percent share. However, in the current age of hyper-globalization, which includes both goods and services, the GDP share has reached 33 percent.They explain that China, which gained entry into the WTO in 2001, has become the world’s sole mega-trader. At the height of the Golden Age of globalization in 1913 Great Britain was the world’s megatrader with its share of GDP of 18.5 percent. In contrast, China’s share of GDP has reached 50%.\n\nTakashi Inoue describes three forces of hyper-globalization: (1) Economic force in which extensive growth in global trade creates cross-border economic integration, (2) Human communications force via the Internet in which instant and global communication of social media and the Internet are changing norms of human communication blurring social barriers, and (3) Technological disruption force coming from new innovations in technology driven by Internet-of-Things (IoT), big data, and Artificial Intelligence (AI) bringing massive economic and rapid social changes leading to a world of Singularity. His main argument is that these three forces are creating a new reality for which global leaders must now be proficient in stakeholder relationship management of strategic public relations. \n"}
{"id": "31294660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31294660", "title": "International Broadcasting Act", "text": "International Broadcasting Act\n\nSigned in law in 1994 by U.S. President Bill Clinton, this act was meant to streamline the U.S. international broadcasting and provide a cost-effective way to continue Radio Free Europe/ Radio Liberty, Voice of America, and Radio Marti. It placed control of the international broadcasting under the United States Information Agency.\n\nIn 1958, President Eisenhower in an address to the United Nations proposed monitoring radio broadcasts:\n\nI believe that this Assembly should ... consider means for monitoring the radio broadcasts directed across national frontiers in the troubled Near East area. It should then examine complaints from these nations which consider their national security jeopardized by external propaganda.\n\nIn the 1960s, President Kennedy to build an international broadcasting arm of the United States to as a way to promote foreign policy and overthrow socialism. In 1976, President Gerald Ford signed the Voice of America charter that established it as the leading branch of US international broadcasting.\n\nIn 1993, the Clinton Administration proposed cutting the budget for Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty in order to reduce budget expenditures. However, after working with the Congress, the International Broadcasting Act was born.\n\nThis Act (Public Law 103-236) consolidated all non-military, U.S. Government international broadcast services under a Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG) and also created the International Broadcasting Bureau (IBB). The BBG is an independent government agency created to replace the Board for International Broadcasting and consolidate Voice of America broadcasting.\n\nIn this law, the President appoints one member of the board as the Chairman of the board. The Secretary of State also serves on the board.\n\nBesides combining current radio service, this Act also created the Radio Free Asia - a network aimed at Burma, China, Cambodia, Laos, North Korea, and Vietnam.\n\nIn September 2009, the 111th Congress amended the International Broadcasting Act to allow a one year extension of the operation of Radio Free Asia.\n\nIn 2002, the Act was amended to include the Radio Free Afghanistan.\n\nIn May 1994, the President announce the continuation of Radio Free Asia after 2009 was dependent on its increased international broadcasting and ability to reach its audience.\n"}
{"id": "23927971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23927971", "title": "International Health Partnership", "text": "International Health Partnership\n\nThe International Health Partnership (IHP+) is a group of partners committed to improving the health of citizens in developing countries. International organizations, bilateral agencies and country governments all sign the IHP+ Global Compact. They commit to putting the principles for aid effectiveness and development cooperation into practice in the health sector. IHP+ achieves results by mobilizing national governments, development agencies, civil society and others to support a single, country-led national health strategy. Partners aim to hold one another to account. This global initiative is administered by the World Health Organization and the World Bank.\n\nFaster progress to achieve results requires governments, CSOs, the private sector and especially international development partners to take action. The most critical areas for action for development partners have become known as the \"seven behaviours\". Global health agency leaders recently endorsed these seven behaviours, and have met five times in order to discuss obstacles to progress in these key seven areas. As of June 2014, Agencies have committed to action in one specific area: streamlining the measurement of results and accountability.\n\nImproving health and health services involves governments, health workers, civil society, parliamentarians and other stakeholders working together. In developing countries, money for health comes from both domestic and external resources. This means that governments must also work with a range of international development partners. These partners are increasing in number, use different funding streams and have diverse bureaucratic demands. As a result, development efforts can become fragmented and resources can be wasted.\n\nIn 2005, the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness set out principles for making aid more effective. These principles include ownership, alignment, harmonization, mutual accountability and managing for results. In 2011, the Busan High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness signaled a shift in thinking from traditional aid effectiveness to a broader, more inclusive approach to development cooperation, a greater emphasis on considering domestic and external resources together, and on results.\n\nIHP+ began in September 2007 in order to put these international principles into practice in the health sector and accelerate progress towards the Millennium Development Goals. Since then it has worked to encourage more inclusive national health planning and joint assessment (JANS) processes, more unified support to national plans through country compacts, one monitoring & evaluation platform to track strategy implementation, greater mutual accountability, improved civil society engagement and financial management harmonization and alignment. The initiative arose from pre-existing developments aimed at improving health outcomes and improving aid effectiveness, including the High-level Forum (HLF) on the Health MDGs, the post-HLF process, and the HLF on Aid Effectiveness.\n\nIHP+ has partners from around the world including developing countries, civil society organizations (CSOs) and development partners. Originally, 26 signatories including 7 countries, 18 bilateral and multilateral partners, and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation signed the IHP+ Global Compact for achieving the health-related Millennium Development Goals. The Global Compact is the initiative's foundational global document that is signed by all partner countries, international agencies and bilateral donors when they join the IHP+. The Compact sets out the goals and approach of IHP+ and contains collective and individual commitments by signatories to adhere to agreed aid effectiveness principles. Signatories agree to support country and government-led national health plans. Currently, there are 63 signatories to the Global Compact (as of June 2014).\n\nCivil Society Organizations (CSOs) play an important role in IHP+ at both the country and global level. At the country level, civil society encompasses patient groups, health workers, medical or health unions and associations, faith-based organizations, non-governmental organizations, community-based organizations, academic institutions, media, advocacy groups, refugees, women, youth and other neglected or vulnerable groups. At the global level, civil society is included in IHP+ governance bodies. The IHP+ Steering Committee and Reference Group each include one northern and one southern civil society representative, who draw on a Civil Society Consultative Group of up to 12 civil society members, to discuss IHP+ related issues and activities. IHP+ thematic working groups also include civil society representation. IHP+ supports a small grants programme for southern CSOs called the Health Policy Action Fund. This is designed to strengthen the capacity of southern CSOs so that they can engage more meaningfully with national health policy processes.\n\nIn addition, IHP+ collaborates with related initiatives including Harmonization for Health in Africa (HHA); the Global Health Workforce Alliance (GHWA); H8; Health Metrics Network (HMN); Providing for Health (P4H); and follow-up activities of the Commission for Information and Accountability for Women’s and Children’s Health (COIA).\n\nIHP+ encourages inclusive ways of working, and governments, CSOs, private organizations, parliaments and international development partners all have a role to play in the process. IHP+ works in six key areas to change the way we work together in countries: \n\nIHP+ also works to enable greater south-south knowledge exchange. Experience of working with multiple partners to deliver better results is growing. IHP+ is fostering more systematic approaches to learning with and across countries, through existing networks where possible.\n\n"}
{"id": "21106773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21106773", "title": "International Society for the Comparative Study of Civilizations", "text": "International Society for the Comparative Study of Civilizations\n\nThe International Society for the Comparative Study of Civilizations (ISCSC) is an international scholarly organization dedicated to the interdisciplinary study of civilizations. Based at Western Michigan University in the United States, the ISCSC holds an annual conference and publishes the journal \"Comparative Civilizations Review\".\n\nIn October 1961, in Salzburg, Austria, an extraordinary group of scholars gathered to create the International Society for the Comparative Study of Civilizations. Among the 26 founding members from Austria, Germany, France, Switzerland, The Netherlands, Spain, Italy, England, Russia, the United States, China and Japan were such luminaries as Pitirim Sorokin and Arnold Toynbee. For six days, the participants debated such topics as the definition of “civilization,” problems in the analysis of complex cultures, civilizational encounters in the past, the Orient versus the Occident, problems of universal history, theories of historiography, and the role of the “human sciences” in “globalization.” The meeting was funded by the Austrian government, in cooperation with UNESCO, and received considerable press coverage. Sorokin was elected the Society’s first president. After several meetings in Europe, the advancing age of its founding members and the declining health of then president, Othmar F. Anderle, were important factors in the decision to transfer the Society to the United States. Between 1968 and 1970 Roger Williams Wescott of Drew University facilitated that transition. In 1971, the first annual meeting of the ISCSC (US) was held in Philadelphia. Important participants in that meeting and in the Society’s activities during the next years included Benjamin Nelson (the Society’s first American president), Roger Wescott, Vytautas Kavolis, Matthew Melko, David Wilkinson, Rushton Coulborn and C.P. Wolf. In 1974, the Salzburg branch was formally dissolved, and from that year to the present there has been only one International Society for the Comparative Study of Civilizations (ISCSC). \n\nThe ISCSC is a multidisciplinary scholarly organization that has connections with comparative studies programs throughout the world. The society holds an annual conference, often with the cooperation of other scholarly organizations based in the conference locale. One example of this is the 1998 conference held at Reitaku University in Japan together with the Japan Society for the Comparative Study of Civilizations; the two organizations continue to have a close relationship.\n\nThe ISCSC publishes the bi-annual 'Comparative Civilizations Review', a peer-reviewed journal. The blog Civilitas: https://civilitasblog.blogspot.com/ has been active since 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18201224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18201224", "title": "International organization", "text": "International organization\n\nAn international organization is an organization with an international membership, scope, or presence. There are two main types:\n\n\nThe first and oldest intergovernmental organization is the Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine, created in 1815 by the Congress of Vienna.\n\nThe role of international organizations is helping to set the international agenda, mediating political bargaining, providing a place for political initiatives and acting as catalysts for coalition- formation. International organizations also define the salient issues and decide which issues can be grouped together, thus help governmental priority determination or other governmental arrangements.\n\nNot all international organizations seek economic, political and social cooperation and integration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "343555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343555", "title": "Interval signal", "text": "Interval signal\n\nAn interval signal, or tuning signal, is a characteristic sound or musical phrase used in international broadcasting, numbers stations, and by some domestic broadcasters, played before commencement or during breaks in transmission, but most commonly between programmes in different languages. It serves several purposes:\n\nThe practice began in Europe in the 1920s and 1930s and was carried over into shortwave broadcasts. The use of interval signals has declined with the advent of digital tuning systems, but has not vanished. Interval signals were not required on commercial channels in the USA, where jingles were used as identification.\n\n « \\relative c { g4 g4. e8 g f d g a8. g16 g2 \\fermata \\bar \"|.\"\n } \\\\ \\relative c\" {\\partial 4 \n\n\n\nClassical Radio Station WQXR-FM in New York City, during its ownership by The New York Times Company, played different variations of a classical infused gong with the ID read at the same time as \"The Classical Station of the New York Times, WQXR, New York (And WQXR.com 2000-2009) \n\nNumbers stations are often named after their interval signals, such as The Lincolnshire Poacher or Magnetic Fields after \"Magnetic Fields Part 1\" by Jean-Michel Jarre.\n\n"}
{"id": "18507109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18507109", "title": "List of intergovernmental organizations", "text": "List of intergovernmental organizations\n\nThe following is a list of the major existing intergovernmental organizations (IGOs).\n\nFor a more complete listing, see the \"Yearbook of International Organizations\", which includes 25,000 international non-governmental organizations (INGOs), excluding for-profit enterprises, about 5,000 IGOs, and lists dormant and dead organizations as well as those in operation (figures as of the 400th edition, 2012/13).\n\nThe UN has six principal organs:\n\nThe UN also includes various Funds, Programmes and specialized agencies:\n\nThe UN also includes subsidiary organs:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n (disbanded)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46520800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46520800", "title": "List of shortwave radio broadcasters", "text": "List of shortwave radio broadcasters\n\nNote: Bold stands for major international broadcasters.\n"}
{"id": "27232111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27232111", "title": "Longest recorded sniper kills", "text": "Longest recorded sniper kills\n\nReports regarding the longest recorded sniper kills that contain information regarding the shooting distance and the identity of the sniper have been presented to the general public since 1967. Snipers in modern warfare have had a substantial history following the development of long distance weaponry. As weapons, ammunition, and aids to determine ballistic solutions improved, so too did the distance from which a kill could be targeted. In mid-2017 it was reported that an unnamed Canadian special forces operator, based in Iraq, had set a new record of , beating the record previously held by British Corporal Craig Harrison at 2,475 m (2,707 yd).\n\nAlthough technology such as electronics have improved, optical equipment such as rangefinders and ballistic calculators have eliminated manual mathematical calculations to determine elevation and windage, the fundamentals of accurate and precise long-range shooting remain largely the same since the early history of shooting, and the skill and training of the shooter and the shooter's spotter where applicable are the primary factors. Accuracy and precision of ammunition and firearms are also still reliant primarily on human factors and attention to detail in the complex process of producing maximum performance.\n\nThe modern method of long-distance sniping (shots over ) requires intense training and practice. A sniper must have the ability to accurately estimate the various factors that influence a bullet's trajectory and point of impact, such as the shooter's distance from the target, wind direction, wind speed, air density, elevation, and even the Coriolis effect due to the rotation of the Earth. Mistakes in estimation compound over distance and can cause a shot to only injure, or to miss completely. Any given combination of firearm and ammunition will have an associated value, known as the circular error probable (CEP), defined as the radius of a circle whose boundary is expected to contain the impact points of half of the rounds fired.\n\nIf the shooter wishes to improve accuracy and precision, wishes to increase range or wishes to do all of these things, the accuracy of \"estimates\" of external factors must improve accordingly. At extreme ranges, extremely accurate \"estimates\" are required and even with the most accurate estimates, hitting the target becomes subject to uncontrollable factors. For example, a rifle capable of firing a 1/2 MOA (approximately 1/2\" center to center of the two holes furthest apart) 5-round group (often referred to as \"grouping\") at 100 yards will fire a theoretical 12.5\" group at 2,500 yards. Unless the group is centered perfectly on the target at 100 yards, the 2,500-yard group will be centered 25 times the off-center error at 100 yards. This example ignores all other factors and assumes \"perfect\" no-wind shooting conditions and identical muzzle velocities and ballistic performance for each shot.\n\nUSMC Gunnery Sergeant Carlos Hathcock's confirmed kill in the Vietnam War was primarily due to the enemy soldier stopping his bicycle on the spot Hathcock had fired at while sighting in his Browning M2 heavy machine-gun.\n\nDevices such as laser rangefinders, handheld meteorological measuring equipment, handheld computers, and ballistic-prediction software can contribute to increased accuracy (i.e. reduced CEP), although they rely on proper use and training to realize any advantages. In addition, as instruments of measure, they are subject to accuracy errors and malfunction. Handheld meteorological instruments only measure conditions at the location they are used. Wind direction and speed can vary dramatically along the path of the bullet.\n\nThe science of long-range sniping came to fruition in the Vietnam War. Carlos Hathcock held the record from 1967 to 2002 at . He recorded 93 official kills. After returning to the U.S., Hathcock helped to establish the Marine Corps Scout Sniper School at Quantico, Virginia.\n\nIn addition to his success as a USMC scout-sniper during multiple deployments to Vietnam, Gunnery Sergeant Hathcock competed in multiple USMC shooting teams. Hathcock also won the 1966 Wimbledon Cup, which is earned by the winner of the U.S. 1,000-yard high-powered rifle National Championship. Even after being severely burned during an attack on an Amtrac on which he was riding and his efforts to rescue other soldiers, and after being diagnosed with multiple sclerosis, Hathcock continued to serve, shoot and instruct. In Vietnam, Hathcock also completed missions involving a \"through the scope\" shot which killed an enemy sniper specifically hunting him, and a multiple-day solo stalk and kill of an enemy general.\n\nHathcock's record stood until Canadian sniper Arron Perry of the Princess Patricia's Canadian Light Infantry exceeded it with a shot of . Perry held the title for only a few days, as another man in his unit (Corporal Rob Furlong) beat Perry's distance with a shot in March 2002. Perry and Furlong were part of a six-man sniper team during 2002's Operation Anaconda, part of the War in Afghanistan.\n\nCorporal Furlong's record was bested by a British soldier, Corporal of Horse Craig Harrison, of the Blues and Royals, Household Cavalry, who recorded two shots (confirmed by GPS) in November 2009, also during the War in Afghanistan, in which he hit two Taliban insurgents consecutively. Harrison killed the two Taliban machine gunners with shots that took the 8.59 mm rounds almost five seconds to hit their targets, which were beyond the L115A3 sniper rifle’s recommended range. A third shot took out the insurgents' machine gun. The rifle used was made by Accuracy International.\n\nIn June 2017, an unnamed sniper from Canada's Tier 1 special forces unit, Joint Task Force 2, surpassed the 2009 record by over , with a shot in the \nIraqi Civil War. As with the previous two Canadian records, a McMillan Tac-50 with Hornady A-MAX .50 (.50 BMG) ammunition was used.\n\nThis list is not exhaustive, as such data is generally not tracked nor managed under any official procedure. For example, the Canadian Army 2002 sniper team that saw two soldiers (Arron Perry/2,310 m and Rob Furlong/2,430 m) set consecutive new records, also made a number of kills at that are not counted here. The list also shows that, in some cases, an armed force command may choose to withhold the name of the actual sniper for security reasons. The United Nations Security Forces, such as in the Balkans, also had one U.S. sniper (name withheld) attributed with a shot.\n\nWhile not on the list due to the range being less than the minimum distance used to compile it, Hathcock's second-longest confirmed kill was using a \"standard\" USMC sniper rifle chambered in .30-06 Springfield. At the time of Hathcock's service, snipers had essentially been eliminated from the USMC, and its sniper rifles were a hodgepodge mix of commercial Remington 700 and Winchester Model 70 rifles chambered for multiple cartridges. The major challenge for Hathcock and other scout-snipers was improving the performance and reliability of their rifles and ammunition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41422437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41422437", "title": "MAP International", "text": "MAP International\n\nMAP International is a global Christian health and relief organization that partners with people living in conditions of poverty to save lives and develop healthier families and communities. Recognized for their 99% efficiency rating, they respond to the needs of those they serve by providing medicines, preventing disease and promoting health to create real hope and lasting change. Their mission is to advance the total health of people living in the world’s poorest communities. They carry out that mission in the broad programmatic areas of community health development, disease prevention and eradication, relief and rehabilitation and global health advocacy.\n\nMAP International was founded as Medical Assistance Programs International, an organization that provides medical supplies abroad, encourages community health development, prevents disease, and responds to disasters, was founded in 1954 by J. Raymond Knighton, the first Executive director of the Christian Medical and Dental Society (CMDS). MAP International is a member of Integral, an international cooperation of 19 Christian aid organizations. MAP International’s first project was to supply Shering Corporation and Eli Lilly’s donation of 11 tons of medicines abroad in developing areas. \n\nSince then, MAP International has instituted numerous projects including but not limited to emergency relief efforts after Typhoon Gloria in Taiwan, civilian casualties in Panama, the fall of the Soviet Union, Hurricane Mitch in Honduras, the fall of the Taliban, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the 2010 Haiti earthquake, the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, the 2015 Nepal earthquake, the 2016 Ecuador earthquake, and Zika relief in Latin America. MAP International also started Fellowship programs to train medical students, opened offices in developing areas such as Ecuador, Kenya, and West Africa, and donated billions of dollars in medicines and supplies to people in need.\n\nMAP's Mission | MAP International is a global Christian health and relief organization that partners with people living in conditions of poverty to save lives and develop healthier families and communities. Recognized for our 99% efficiency rating, we respond to the needs of those we serve by providing medicines, preventing disease and promoting health to create real hope and lasting change. Our mission is to advance the Total Health of people living in the world’s poorest communities. We carry out that mission in the broad programmatic areas of community health development, disease prevention and eradication, relief and rehabilitation and global health advocacy. Although MAP International is a Christian organization, it has a policy against discrimination based on religion, gender, race, and other aspects of an individual’s background, and will not refuse help to anyone based on these classifications.\n\nMAP International’s status as a highly credible organization is well attested to by multiple well-known sources. Forbes, Inc. recognizes MAP International as the #37 Largest U.S. Charity. This shows that the MAP International program is very well recognized and generates a large amount of revenue. It illuminates important aspects of the program such as its donor dependency, total revenue, amount spent on charitable work, and fundraising efficiency. BBB lists MAP International as an accredited charity, meaning it meets the standards in terms of governance, measuring effectiveness, finances, and fund raising and information. Charity Navigator rates MAP International as 100 out of 100, and four out of four stars, and includes information about the program’s accountability and transparency. CNBC named MAP International #2 on their list of Top-Ten Charities Changing the World in 2015. Popline points out that some health workers have biases against working with faith-based programs, but that the merits of the MAP International program should dispel these biases. It also discusses the financial benefits of FBOs in relation to “their ability to leverage volunteer work with minimal effort.”\n\nMAP International works to respond to both natural and conflict related emergencies. MAP International provides medical relief shipments to those in need and monitors the health of those in need, if an emergency occurs in a country MAP International has instituted a country presence it implements a country office response in which MAP International staff mobilize to provide health care, and utilizes community based disaster mitigation to train community members to manage the effects of the disaster and promote health in the wake of the disaster on a long-term scale. Current MAP International disaster relief programs include Typhoon Haiyan: Philippines, Cyclone Phailin, Oklahoma Tornado, and Syrian Refugee relief. MAP International has responded to Typhoon Haiyan by shipping $4.2 million in medicines and supplies, and is still in the process of responding by providing emergency health care kits to victims. MAP International recognizes its partners for their integral role in efficiently distributing donated medicines and supplies, and states the difficulties they have encountered in getting the medicines to the victims. For example, all of the medicine shipments in Leyte Island were washed away when the typhoon hit that area. In response to the detrimental effects of Cyclone Phailin, MAP International is providing India with temporary shelter structures, food, medicine, and cooking utensils. MAP International has responded to the Oklahoma Tornado by donating over $127,000 of supplies to their partner, Convoy of Hope, in Oklahoma. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation also mentions MAP International's affiliation with Abbott in response to the tornado. In response to the civil war in Syria, MAP International has sent two shipments to refugees, and is still responding by preparing a third shipment to send when sufficient funding is acquired. The Saporta Report outlines MAP International's involvement in Syrian Refugee Crisis relief efforts, and briefly describes the cost of these emergency aid kits.\n\nA program to turn short-term missions into long-term local health programs.\n\nMedical or non-medical volunteers from the United States help with an existing program in a Total Health Village, assisted by members of MAP International.\n\nShort-term field study for students integrated into the curriculum of a scholastic establishment for credit within the degree areas of health or international development.\n\nOpportunity for fourth year medical students to work during an 8-week program in a MAP-approved hospital or clinic, usually in Kenya, Uganda, Ecuador, Honduras, Bolivia, Indonesia, Liberia, Cote d’Ivore, or Ghana.\n\nVolunteers are educated about a MAP Internal program and work with members of an underserved community to explore ways to collaborate with MAP International programs.\n\nEmergency aid teams from the United States respond quickly to help affected communities by implementing disaster management strategies and training community members to sustain these programs on a long-term basis.\n\nMAP International contributes over $250 million inexpensive bought and donated medicines and supplies to philanthropic relief organizations helping underserved communities each year. The medicines provided are from the Essential Drug List (EDL).\n\nMAP International has implemented programs in Ecuador, Uganda, Kenya, and Bolivia. These programs focus on a plethora of different topics including perinatal care, training health promoters, preventing sexual abuse, providing rehabilitation for victims of sexual abuse, and education.\n\nMAP International has implemented programs in Kenya, Uganda, Ecuador, Honduras, Bolivia, Indonesia, Liberia, Cote d’Ivore, and Ghana to treat and prevent Guinea worm, Buruli ulcer, Leprosy, Yaws, Lymphatic filariasis, Chagas Disease, Soil-transmitted Helminthes, and Rabies. Programs to eradicate these diseases include vaccinations, education, water and sanitation efforts, awareness building, community mobilization, and operations.\n\nMAP International has implemented programs in 65 villages throughout Kenya, Uganda, Ecuador, Honduras, Bolivia, Indonesia, Liberia, Cote d’Ivore, and Ghana to encourage and equip underserved communities to come up with their own innovative solutions to the daily challenges they face. This program focuses on local solutions to problems within the cultural context of the community and is designed to give the community command of the improvement plan. Community members take part in many aspects of other current projects listed such as water and sanitation efforts and disease treatment, as well as working to settle conflict, train local health promoters, and facilitate economic security.\n\nWater and Sanitation are aspects assimilated into all MAP International programs because of the significant impact they have on preventing disease and promoting other facets of Total Health. Water and Sanitation efforts involve building separate waste and clean drinking structures, providing water filters to communities, and establishing Community Led Total Sanitation programs. MAP International utilizes a sweat equity design to implement Sawyer water filters in underserved communities and implements a small-scale demonstration with the help of a few members in the community before introducing water sanitation efforts on a large-scale throughout the village. Sawyer attests to the integral role MAP International has played in distributing hundreds water filters to communities. Community Led Total Sanitation programs are designed to educate and empower local community members to make their village a more sanitary and healthy environment through education about the negative health effects of drinking unclean water and the importance of separating human waste structures and drinking water structures.\n"}
{"id": "15389216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15389216", "title": "Macroregion", "text": "Macroregion\n\nA macroregion is a geopolitical subdivision that encompasses several traditionally or politically defined regions. The meaning may vary, with the common denominator being cultural, economical, historical or social similarity within a macroregion. The term is often used in the context of globalization.\n\nThe term \"macroregion\" may be also used in the context of natural regions, like in Slovenia.\n\n"}
{"id": "3551421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3551421", "title": "Museum of World Culture", "text": "Museum of World Culture\n\nThe national Museum of World Culture () opened in Gothenburg, Sweden, in 2004. It is a part of the public authority Swedish National Museums of World Cultures and builds on the collections of the former Göteborgs Etnografiska Museum that closed down in the year 2000. Its aim is to interpret the subject of world culture in an interdisciplinary way. The museum is situated next to the Universeum science centre and the amusement park Liseberg, and close to Korsvägen. \n\"The museum interprets the concept of world culture in a dynamic and open-ended manner. On the one hand, various cultures are incorporating impulses from each other and becoming more alike. On the other hand, local, national, ethnic and gender differences are shaping much of that process. World culture is not only about communication, reciprocity, and interdependence, but the specificity, concretion and uniqueness of each and every individual.\" (From the background info on the museums homepage.)\n\nThe opening exhibitions of the museum were:\n\nThe cement and glass building, located on a slope leading up to the Liseberg amusement park, is graceful, compact and modernistic. Its four-storey glass atrium looks out on mountains and woods.\n\nThe exhibition halls are in the closed part of the building, facing Södra vägen road. The upper storeys hang freely over a footpath. A long section of a display window provides passers-by with a view straight into the largest exhibition hall.\n\nThe architects behind the museum, who were chosen after an international competition, were the French-Cuban-English couple Cécile Brisac and Edgar Gonzalez of Brisac Gonzalez Architects.\n\nIn February 2005 the museum decided to remove the painting \"Scène d'Amour\" by Louzla Darabi. The painting was part of a temporary exhibition about HIV/AIDS, and depicted a man and a woman having sexual intercourse. The artist and the curator had received numerous death threats from Muslims saddened and frustrated over the Koran quotations which were featured in a corner of the painting. Some threats were telling the artist to \"learn from the Netherlands\", referring to the murder of van Gogh and threats against Hirsi Ali.\n\n"}
{"id": "42737858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42737858", "title": "No Place to Hide (Greenwald book)", "text": "No Place to Hide (Greenwald book)\n\nNo Place to Hide: Edward Snowden, the NSA, and the U.S. Surveillance State is a 2014 non-fiction book by American investigative journalist Glenn Greenwald. It was first published on May 13, 2014 through Metropolitan Books and details Greenwald's role in the global surveillance disclosures as revealed by the former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden. The documents from the Snowden archive cited in the book are freely available online.\n\nThe book consists of five chapters; Contact, Ten Days in Hong Kong, Collect It All, The Harm of Surveillance, and the Fourth Estate, plus an introduction and an epilogue.\nIn the introduction Greenwald explains how his background as a blogger on surveillance practices of the American government attracted Edward Snowden's attention, and he summarizes the nature, legality, and evolution of such practices. Greenwald concludes by discussing how a global surveillance network has been created with the assistance of technology companies and the unique role of the internet in human history as a facilitator of such surveillance.\n\nIn the body of the book, Greenwald discusses how he became involved with the 2013 global surveillance disclosures. He began by traveling to Hong Kong to meet Edward Snowden, who had contacted Greenwald as an anonymous source purporting to have evidence of government surveillance. As Greenwald continued to investigate he uncovered more information that he later published, to much controversy. In the book Greenwald also discusses establishment media, which he states will traditionally avoid publishing anything that would put them at odds with the government and as such, are less helpful when it comes to the interests of the general public.\n\nIn his review for \"The Washington Post\", law professor David Cole called \"No Place to Hide\" an important and illuminating book but wrote, \"It would have been more important and illuminating were Greenwald able to acknowledge that the choices we face about regulating surveillance in the modern age are difficult and that there are no simple answers.\" \"Slate\" gave a mostly positive review, stating that while the book \"doesn’t offer an in-depth portrait of the leaker\" it does serve as a good \"primer\" on \"what was at stake when he downloaded the government’s most precious secrets onto a thumb drive\".\n\nThe book was positively reviewed by Henry Porter in \"The Guardian\". Porter said that he found \"reacquainting myself with the details of surveillance and intrusion by America's NSA and Britain's GCHQ was simply shocking. As the stories rolled out last year, there was almost too much to absorb...Greenwald's book is a tough read if you find these things disturbing.\" Porter said that reading \"No Place to Hide\" he had wondered \"...how we let the spies probe our lives with such inadequate controls, and how on earth we fell for the propaganda that this massive apparatus was there to protect, not control, us.\" Critically Porter felt that the book lacked \"...a chart or timeline of the major revelations as well as a proper index. And I did feel the argument lost momentum in the middle...\" concluding that \"...on the whole this is a vigorously executed and important book.\" Porter reserved criticism for what he felt was a lack of appreciation by Greenwald of the importance of the efforts of Ewen MacAskill and his fellow \"Guardian\" writers in bringing the disclosures to publication.\n\nGlenn Greenwald received the 2014 Geschwister-Scholl-Preis, an annual German literary award, for the German edition of \"No Place to Hide\".\n"}
{"id": "56258775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56258775", "title": "Nomad studies", "text": "Nomad studies\n\nNomad studies (, kochevnikovedenie; , nomadistika) is branch of historical and anthropological studies specialised in cultures and history of nomad peoples, particularly the Eurasian nomads and history of the Eurasian steppes. Studies of the Eurasian nomads influence the political idea of Eurasianism.\n\nAmong notable researchers in that field were Lev Gumilyov, Pyotr Savitskiy, Sergei Rudenko, George Vernadsky, Nikolai Trubetzkoy, Hara-Davan Erendzhen, Mikhail Artamonov, and others.\n\nAccording to Savitskiy, the history of Scythians and huns encompasses in general (within historically foreseeable events) over 12 centuries. Savitskiy claims that the nomad culture of Scythians and Huns should be considered as culture of horse and iron.\n\n"}
{"id": "20842544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20842544", "title": "Official Women's Squash World Ranking", "text": "Official Women's Squash World Ranking\n\nThe Official Women's Squash World Ranking is the official world ranking for women's squash. The ranking is to rate the performance level of female professional squash player. It is also a merit-based method used for determining entry and seeding in women's squash tournaments. The rankings are produced monthly. The current world number one is Nour El Sherbini of Egypt, who replaced Laura Massaro in May 2016.\n\nPlayers competing in PSA tournaments earn ranking points according to how far they get in the draw. The points available depend on the prize money and the draw size. The monthly rankings (issued on the 1st of the month) are used in selecting entries to tournaments and in determining the seeds.\n\nThe total number of points a player earns in a year (52 weeks) is divided by the number of tournaments played (a minimum of eight are required) to give a ranking average. Where a player has played more than 8 tournaments the best scores may be selected (i.e., the lowest are not included).\n\nFor example, a player who has competed in 13 events will have selected her best 10 scores, which will be accumulated and divided by 10.\n\nPlayers competing in PSA World Tour Events earn ranking points according to the prize money, classification of the event, and the final position in the draw the player reaches.\n\nThe total number of points a player accumulates in any year (52-week period) is divided by the number of tournaments played (minimum 8 tournaments in 52 weeks) to give an average score:\n\nNote: The monthly ranking for the women's squash (world ranking) is taken directly from the Professional Squash Association (PSA) official website.\n\nThe following is a list of players who have achieved the world number one position since April 1983 (active players in green):\n\n\"Last update: April, 2017\"\n\nnajmi\n\nNote: \n1) Natalie Grinham changed her nationality in 2008.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41227473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41227473", "title": "Origins of global surveillance", "text": "Origins of global surveillance\n\nThe origins of global surveillance can be traced back to the late 1940s, when the UKUSA Agreement was jointly enacted by the United Kingdom and the United States, whose close cooperation eventually culminated in the creation of the global surveillance network, code-named \"ECHELON\", in 1971.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 1970s Watergate affair and a subsequent congressional inquiry led by Sen. Frank Church, it was revealed that the NSA, in collaboration with Britain's GCHQ, had routinely intercepted the international communications of prominent anti-Vietnam War leaders such as Jane Fonda and Dr. Benjamin Spock. Decades later, a multi-year investigation by the European Parliament highlighted the NSA's role in economic espionage in a report entitled 'Development of Surveillance Technology and Risk of Abuse of Economic Information', in 1999.\n\nHowever, for the general public, it was a series of detailed disclosures of internal NSA documents in June 2013 that first revealed the massive extent of the NSA's spying, both foreign and domestic. Most of these were leaked by an ex-contractor, Edward Snowden. Even so, a number of these older global surveillance programs such as PRISM, XKeyscore, and Tempora were referenced in the 2013 release of thousands of documents. As confirmed by the NSA's director Keith B. Alexander on September 26, 2013, the NSA collects and stores all phone records of all American citizens. Much of the data is kept in large storage facilities such as the Utah Data Center, a US$1.5 billion megaproject referred to by \"The Wall Street Journal\" as a \"symbol of the spy agency's surveillance prowess.\"\n\nWartime censorship of communications during the World Wars was paralleled by peacetime decipherment of communications by the Black Chamber (Cipher Bureau, MI-8), operating with the approval of the U.S. State Department from 1919 to 1929. In 1945 the now-defunct Project SHAMROCK was created to gather all telegraphic data entering into or exiting from the United States. Major communication companies such as Western Union, RCA Global and ITT World Communications actively aided the U.S. government in the latter's attempt to gain access to international message traffic.\n\nIn 1952, the NSA was officially established. According to \"The New York Times\", the NSA was created in \"absolute secrecy\" by President Truman. Six weeks after President Truman took office, he ordered wiretaps on the telephones of Thomas Gardiner Corcoran, a close advisor of Franklin D. Roosevelt. The recorded conversations are currently kept at the Harry S. Truman Presidential Library and Museum, along with other sensitive documents (~233,600 pages).\n\nUnder J. Edgar Hoover, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) carried out wide-ranging surveillance of communications and political expression, targeting many well-known speakers such as Albert Einstein, Frank Sinatra, First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt, Marilyn Monroe, John Lennon, Martin Luther King, Jr., A FBI memo recognized King to be the \"most dangerous and effective Negro leader in the country.\", and Daniel Ellsberg, Some of these activities were eventually uncovered in the aftermath of the Watergate scandal, leading to the Resignation of Richard Nixon.\n\nDuring World War II the U.K. and U.S. governments entered into a series of agreements for sharing of signals intelligence of enemy communications traffic. In March 1946, a secret agreement, the \"British-US Communication Intelligence Agreement\", known as BRUSA, was established, based on the wartime agreements. The agreement \"tied the two countries into a worldwide network of listening posts run by Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ), the U.K.'s biggest spying organisation, and its U.S. equivalent, the National Security Agency.\"\n\nIn 1988, an article titled \"Somebody's listening\" by Duncan Campbell in the \"New Statesman\", described the signals intelligence gathering activities of a program code-named \"ECHELON. The program was engaged by English-speaking World War II Allied powers Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States (collectively known as AUSCANNZUKUS). Based on the UKUSA Agreement, it was created to monitor the military and diplomatic communications of the Soviet Union and its Eastern Bloc allies during the Cold War in the early 1960s. Though its existence had long been known, the UKUSA agreement only became public in 2010. It enabled the U.S. and the U.K. to exchange \"knowledge from operations involving intercepting, decoding and translating foreign communications.\" The agreement forbade the parties to reveal its existence to any third party.\n\nBy the late 1990s the ECHELON system was capable of intercepting satellite transmissions, public switched telephone network (PSTN) communications (including most Internet traffic), and transmissions carried by microwave. A detailed description of ECHELON was provided by New Zealand journalist Nicky Hager in his 1996 book \"Secret Power\". While the existence of ECHELON was denied by some member governments, a report by a committee of the European Parliament in 2001 confirmed the program's use and warned Europeans about its reach and effects. The European Parliament stated in its report that the term \"ECHELON\" was used in a number of contexts, but that the evidence presented indicated it was a signals intelligence collection system capable of interception and content inspection of telephone calls, fax, e-mail and other data traffic globally. The report to the European Parliament confirmed that this was a \"global system for the interception of private and commercial communications.\"\n\nIn the aftermath of the September 11 attacks in 2001 on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the scope of domestic spying in the United States increased significantly. The bid to prevent future attacks of this scale led to the passage of the Patriot Act. Later acts include the Protect America Act (which removes the warrant requirement for government surveillance of foreign targets) and the FISA Amendments Act (which relaxed some of the original FISA court requirements).\n\nIn 2005, the existence of STELLARWIND was revealed by Thomas Tamm. On January 1, 2006, days after \"The New York Times\" wrote that \"\"Bush Lets U.S. Spy on Callers Without Courts\", the President emphasized that \"This is a limited program designed to prevent attacks on the United States of America. And I repeat, limited.\"\n\nIn 2006, Mark Klein revealed the existence of Room 641A that he had wired back in 2003. In 2008, Babak Pasdar, a computer security expert, and CEO of Bat Blue publicly revealed the existence of the \"Quantico circuit\", that he and his team found in 2003. He described it as a back door to the federal government in the systems of an unnamed wireless provider; the company was later independently identified as Verizon. Additional disclosures regarding a mass surveillance program involving U.S. citizens had been made in the U.S. media in 2006.\n\nOn November 28, 2010, WikiLeaks and five major news outlets in Spain (\"El País\"), France (\"Le Monde\"), Germany (\"Der Spiegel\"), the United Kingdom (\"The Guardian\"), and the United States (\"The New York Times\") began publishing the first 220 of 251,287 leaked U.S. State department diplomatic \"cables\" simultaneously.\n\nOn March 15, 2012, the American magazine \"Wired\" published an article with the headline \"The NSA Is Building the Country's Biggest Spy Center (Watch What You Say)\", which was later mentioned by U.S. Rep. Hank Johnson during a congressional hearing. In response to Johnson's inquiry, NSA director Keith B. Alexander testified that these allegations made by \"Wired\" magazine were untrue.\n\nIn early 2013, Edward Snowden handed over 200,000 top secret documents to various media outlets, triggering one of the biggest news leaks in the modern history of the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "23151656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23151656", "title": "Rise Against Hunger", "text": "Rise Against Hunger\n\nRise Against Hunger, formerly Stop Hunger Now, is an international hunger relief non-profit organization that coordinates the packaging and distribution of food and other life-changing aid to people in developing nations. Founded in 1998, Rise Against Hunger mobilizes more than 350,000 volunteers each year to package meals for people in need around the globe. Since 2005, Rise Against Hunger has distributed more than 315,000,000 meals to recipients in 74 countries with a mission to end hunger in our lifetime.\n\nRise Against Hunger is an international hunger relief agency that seeks to end global hunger by engaging local volunteers. The organization was formed in 1998 by Ray Buchanan, a United Methodist Minister, and began its meal packaging program in 2005. The organizational mission is stated as \"Rise Against Hunger is driven by the vision of a world without hunger. Its mission is to end hunger in our lifetime by providing food and life-changing aid to the world’s most vulnerable and creating a global commitment to mobilize the necessary resources.\"\n\nRise Against Hunger aims to end hunger through four pathways: Nourishing Lives, Responding to Emergencies, Empowering Communities and Growing the Movement. From the implementation of sustainable development community projects to the meal packaging program that utilizes local volunteers, Rise Against Hunger strives to make a global impact on hunger by building resilience, self-sufficiency and empowerment among the world’s most vulnerable populations. \n\nRise Against Hunger supports safety net programs that support nourishment and skills trainings that help the world’s most vulnerable navigate the difficult journey out of poverty. Rise Against Hunger partners with schools in order to promote and incentivize increased attendance. Additionally, Rise Against Hunger works to partner with skills trainings and clinics in order to support adults learning new trades and encourage healthy lifestyles. Rise Against Hunger works to nourish lives through a holistic approach in the development of the most vulnerable populations.\n\nRise Against Hunger responds to emergencies. In times of floods, droughts or political unrest, to name a few, Rise Against Hunger aims to provide the immediate critical need, food. Access to food, wages and market systems are often destroyed in times of emergency. Rise Against Hunger works with its in-country partner organizations in order to address the immediate needs in the wake of crisis. Each year Rise Against Hunger reserves 10% of its projected meals to respond to crisis situations. Official Rise Against Hunger responses include the 2016 Hurricane Matthew, Syrian conflict, South Sudanese conflict and 2010 Haiti earthquake.\n\nIn order to create long-term solutions to hunger and poverty, Rise Against Hunger works to empower communities through agricultural and income-generating initiatives. Rise Against Hunger works to increase agriculture production and incomes through programs that promote improved agricultural methods, business skills and market access. Farmers, one of the most food insecure populations in the world, are given access to quality seeds and fertilizers to increase agricultural production and diversify their crops. Rise Against Hunger supports vocational training to help at-risk individuals increase their earning potentials and gain consistent access to food.\n\nPart of Rise Against Hunger’s mission is to create a global commitment to mobilize the necessary resources to end hunger. Rise Against Hunger works with volunteer groups from communities of faith, corporations, schools and civic clubs to package meals while developing a greater awareness of hunger-related issues. Additionally, Rise Against Hunger engages its supporters to participate in advocacy activities to work toward changing laws, policies, systems and attitudes to end hunger by 2030.\n\nThe assembly process combines rice, soy, dehydrated vegetables and a micronutrient flavoring mix formulated by Kraft Heinz Company Foundation that includes 23 essential vitamins and minerals. The cost of each meal varies between 29 and 34 cents. The food has a shelf-life of two years.\nRise Against Hunger provides over 70% of its meals to support transformational development programs such as school lunch programs, vocational training programs, early childhood development programs, orphanages, and medical clinics. Working with these programs helps enhance lives by giving beneficiaries the opportunity to break the cycle of poverty through education, skills development, and healthcare while also receiving much needed nutrition.\n\nRise Against Hunger supports partner organizations in developing countries by providing direct financial assistance to support ongoing programs that provide food, medicines or other basic necessities to impoverished populations. This program enables Rise Against Hunger to respond to crises immediately by working with organizations already on the ground. It also supports local economies in developing areas and promotes self-reliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "2823596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2823596", "title": "SINPO code", "text": "SINPO code\n\nSINPO, an acronym for Signal, Interference, Noise, Propagation, and Overall, is a Signal Reporting Code used to describe the quality of radiotelegraph transmissions. SINPFEMO, an acronym for Signal, Interference, Noise, Propagation, frequency of Fading, Modulation, dEpth, and Overall is used to describe the quality of radiotelephony transmissions. SINPFEMO code consists of the SINPO code plus the addition of three letters to describe additional features of radiotelephony transmissions. These codes are defined by \"Recommendation ITU-R Sm.1135, SINPO and SINPFEMO codes\".\n\nSINPO code is most frequently used in reception reports written by shortwave listeners. Each letter of the code stands for a specific factor of the signal, and each item is graded on a 1 to 5 scale (where 1 stands for nearly undetectable/severe/unusable and 5 for excellent/nil/extremely strong).\n\nThe code originated with the CCIR (a predecessor to the ITU-R) in 1951, and was widely used by BBC shortwave listeners to submit signal reports, with many going so far as to mail audio recordings to the BBC's offices.\n\nSINPO and SINPFEMO are the official signal reporting codes for international civil aviation and ITU-R.\n\nThe use of the SINPO code can be subjective and may vary from person to person. Not all shortwave listeners are conversant with the SINPO code and prefer using plain language instead.\n\n\nEach category is rated from 1 to 5 with 1 being 'unusable' or 'severe' and 5 being 'perfect' or 'nil'. MANY raters misunderstand the code and will rate everything either 55555 or 11111 when in reality both extremes are unusual in the extreme. '55555' essentially means 'perfect reception akin to a local station' while that is occasionally possible, when talking about long-distance short-wave reception, it is almost never the case.\n\nAnother common mistake in rating is presenting an 'O' higher than any previously rated element. By definition, a station cannot present 'perfect' reception if there is any Noise or Interference or Fading present. In other words, it is NOT 'perfect local quality' reception if any of those things are present.\n\nAn extension of SINPO code, for use in radiotelephony (voice over radio) communications, SINPFEMO is an acronym for Signal, Interference, Noise, Propagation, frequency of Fading, dEpth, Modulation, and Overall.\n\nIn responding to a shortwave reception, the SINPO indicates to the transmitting station the overall quality of the reception.\n\nThe SINPO code in normal use consists of the 5 rating numbers listed without the letters, as in the examples below:\n\n\nGenerally, a SINPO with a code number starting with a 2 or lower would not be worth reporting, unless there is no noise, interference or loss of propagation, since it would be likely the signal would be unintelligible.\n\nAlthough the original SINPO code established technical specifications for each number (i.e., a number 3 in the P column meant a fixed number of fades per minute), these are rarely adhered to by reporters. The 'S' meter displays the relative strength of the received RF signal in decibels; however, this should not be used as the sole indication of signal strength, as no two S meters are calibrated exactly alike, and many lower-priced receivers omit the S meter altogether. References to a \"SINFO\" code may also be found in some literature. In this case, the 'F' stands for Fading, instead of 'P' for Propagation, but the two codes are interchangeable. It was presumed that the average listener would be more familiar with the meaning of \"fading\" than \"propagation\". A simple way to ensure the rating applied is useful is to rate the \"O\" column first based on the intelligibility of the station. If you can understand everything easily, the station will rate a 4 or higher. If you have to work hard, but can understand everything '3' is the appropriate rating. If you cannot understand everything although you put great effort into it, a '2' is appropriate, and if you cannot understand the programming at all '1' is the appropriate rating.\n\nSome listeners may not know how to distinguish between the 'I' which indicates interference from adjacent stations, and the 'N' which describes natural atmospheric or man-made noise; also for some listeners, the rating for 'Propagation' may not be completely understood. As a result of this confusion, many stations suggest the SIO code – a simpler code which makes the limitations noted above not relevant. Despite this, some books and periodicals maintain the SINPO code is the best for DX reporters.\n\nSINPO is said to have evolved from the BBC's RAISO format (full version: RAFISBEMVO, which measured:\n\n"}
{"id": "9836566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9836566", "title": "Stephen Williams (Radio Luxembourg)", "text": "Stephen Williams (Radio Luxembourg)\n\nStephen Williams (31 March 1908 - 23 November 1994) was a British radio announcer, presenter and producer, and a pioneer of commercial radio for the UK.\n\nBorn in London and educated at Trinity College, Cambridge, as a young boy he was already, in his words, a \"wireless fanatic\": he said, \"I was able to listen proudly to the debut of the BBC on 14 November 1922, and from the moment I heard the announcer say \"This is 2LO calling, 2LO, the London station of the British Broadcasting Company\", I was seized with an ambition to have a job like his.\"\n\nDuring his university vacation in 1928 he got a job as announcer on a \"broadcasting yacht\" sponsored by the Daily Mail newspaper group. This vessel went round the coast of Britain, transmitting music on records and advertisements for the Daily Mail, from just outside territorial waters, an early precursor of the 1960s \"pirate radio\" ships..\n\nThe broadcasting yacht had been the idea of the paper's Circulation and Publicity Director, Valentine Smith, who soon transferred to the Sunday Referee, where he gave Williams a job with the idea of involving the paper in commercial broadcasting. They were soon in contact with Captain Leonard F. Plugge, who was starting the International Broadcasting Company (IBC).\n\nAt the beginning of 1932, Williams was sent to France to join Max Staniforth at the IBC's new Radio Normandy service, broadcasting to the south of England.\n\nRecordings of two commercials read by Stephen Williams on Radio Normandy in 1932 are said to survive.\n\nStephen Williams moved on to a rival company to IBC, Radio Publicity, which started broadcasting to the UK from Radio Paris, then a much more powerful station than Radio Normandy, which rapidly gained a large British audience. But French listeners complained that their most popular station was now too dominated by English programmes, so Radio Publicity turned to the newly created Radio Luxembourg, where it was able to gain the sole concession for English programmes.\n\nIn December 1933 Williams thus became the first English radio presenter in Luxembourg as well as serving as manager of the station.\n\nShortly before his death in 1994, Williams gave an interview to Roger Bickerton about his work at Radio Luxembourg which was published in \"The Historic Record and AV Collector\", Issues 39,40 and 41, April, June & October 1996.\n\nRadio Luxembourg closed down on the outbreak of World War II in September 1939. Stephen Williams resumed his duties there when the station restarted in 1946. He left Luxembourg in 1948, and worked until 1975 as a freelance broadcaster.\n\nWhen, on 1 January 1992, Radio Luxembourg's English service closed down as a terrestrial radio station, the last words heard, \"Good luck, good listening ... and goodbye\" were spoken by 83-year-old Stephen Williams, who had been the first person ever to say on the air \"This is Radio Luxembourg\" over 58 years earlier.\n\nWilliams was awarded the Order of Merit by the Grand Duke of Luxembourg in 1992.\n\nHe collected a large archive of material related to Radio Luxembourg, much of which his widow has donated to the Centre for Luxembourg Studies at Sheffield University.\n"}
{"id": "51099085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51099085", "title": "To Save Humanity", "text": "To Save Humanity\n\nTo Save Humanity is a 2015 collection of 96 essays on global health from a collection of authors who range from heads of states, movie stars, scientists at leading universities, activists, and Nobel Prize winners. Each contributor was asked the same question: \"What is the single most important thing for the future of global health over the next fifty years?\" The collection was edited by Julio Frenk and Steven J. Hoffman.\n\nThe Global Strategy Lab called the collection \"unparalleled\" and \"a primer on the major issues of our time and a blueprint for post-2015 health and development,\" and featured it in their annual conference.\n\nThe Health Impact Fund also featured the collection at their conference.\n\nThe Lancet described the book as \"testimony to the complexity of global health politics,\" and called it \"a reminder that the breadth of individual and institutional engagement with global health cannot be fully captured by one set of global goals.\"\n\nVox has republished several of the articles for free online as part of a series entitled \"One Change to Save the World.\"\n"}
{"id": "8890266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8890266", "title": "Tube Challenge", "text": "Tube Challenge\n\nThe Tube Challenge is the competition for the fastest time to travel to all London Underground stations, tracked as a Guinness World Record since 1960. The goal is to visit all the stations on the system, not necessarily all the lines; participants may connect between stations on foot, or by using other forms of public transport.\n\n, the record for fastest completion was held by Andi James (Finland) and Steve Wilson (UK), who completed the challenge in 15 hours, 45 minutes and 38 seconds on 21 May 2015.\n\nThe first recorded challenge took place in 1959. Although many people have attempted the challenge and held the record since, they have not always been credited in the record books. In the earlier days of the challenge, participants were permitted to use private forms of transport (such as a car or bike) to move between stations. This led to times of less than 16 hours in some earlier records, and Guinness later changed the rules to ban private transport.\n\nThe following is a list of record holders that have appeared in the printed edition of the \"Guinness Book of Records\". The record did not appear in the book until its eighth edition.\nBetween the 1960s and 1990s the record regularly appeared in the \"Guinness Book of Records\", initially listed under \"Underground Railways – circuit of\", but later just under \"Railways\" and then \"Trains\". Since the change of publishing style of the book from the 2001 edition onwards, the record – although frequently broken – has only once appeared in printed form, in the 2008 edition. More recent records have tended to be published online instead. Since the record has not regularly been published in the book, there have been two broad configurations on the system – one for 275 stations, and one for 270 once the East London Line was no longer part of the network.\n\nOn 3 April 2002 Jack Welsby set a new record time for 275 stations by traversing the system in 19 hours, 18 minutes and 45 seconds. Welsby made just one attempt, starting his route at Heathrow and finishing at Amersham.\n\nThis time was beaten on 4 May 2004 by Geoff Marshall and Neil Blake who achieved a new record time of 18 hours 35 minutes and 43 seconds. Their attempt began on the first train out of Amersham on the Metropolitan Line and ended at Upminster, and it took Guinness World Records four months to ratify it. A previous attempt had been broadcast on TV as part of \"The Tube\" TV series and another attempt had been televised as part of an ITV1 programme \"Metroland: Race Around the Underground\" on 16 October 2003.\n\nAlthough this time stood for two years before being beaten by just five seconds, it was not until Håkan Wolgé and Lars Andersson (both from Sweden) set a new record time for 275 stations that it appeared in the \"Guinness World Records\" Book again, in the 2008 edition. They set a new record of 18 hours, 25 minutes and 3 seconds, on 26 September 2006.\n\nChanges to the total number of stations meant that the record was 'reset' and broken three more times over a two-year period until Wood Lane station opened in October 2008, and the network settled at 270 stations.\n\nThe first holders of the 270-station record were Andi James, Martin Hazel and Steve Wilson who, on 14 December 2009, achieved a record time of 16 hours, 44 minutes and 16 seconds. TfL used this route four years later as part of the Art on the Underground labyrinth project to mark the 150th anniversary of the London Underground, installing permanent designs at stations in the same order that the world record route had taken, and later appeared in an \"Information Capital\" article.\n\nThe record remained unbeaten for 17 months, until Marc Gawley from Denton, Greater Manchester, set a new time of 16 hours, 29 minutes and 57 seconds on 21 April 2011. As a fast marathon runner, he revealed that he did not use any buses on the day, preferring instead to make all his connections on foot. Gawley's record was beaten 37 days later, when James and Wilson completed the challenge in just 44 seconds under Gawley's time, setting a new record of 16 hours, 29 minutes and 13 seconds on 27 May 2011.\n\nThis record stood for over two years until August 2013, before being broken by previous record holder Geoff Marshall who along with Anthony Smith, completed the challenge in 16 hours, 20 minutes and 27 seconds, the record time was then published for the first time in seven years in the \"Guinness World Records\" in the 2015 edition.\n\nClive Burgess and Ronan McDonald set a new Guinness world record time of 16 hours, 14 minutes and 10 seconds on 21 February 2015. The record was broken later that year, on 21 May, by previous record holders Andi James and Steve Wilson, in a time of 15 hours 45 minutes 38 seconds.\n\nAttempts to travel the network have been linked to charities such as Children in Need and Comic Relief. A charity attempt known as \"Tube Relief\" was organised, following the 7 July 2005 London bombings, to raise money for the London Bombings Relief Charitable Fund. Fifty-one people rode the entire tube network for the day, raising over £10,000 towards the official charity fund. A Sue Ryder charity event took place in November 2011, when ten teams competed against each other to have their photo taken outside as many of the 270 stations as possible. Former record holder Geoff Marshall subsequently organised a mass-participant event in 2014, called \"Walk The Tube\", which has become an annual event, raising tens of thousands of pounds in the process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48640", "title": "Universal jurisdiction", "text": "Universal jurisdiction\n\nUniversal jurisdiction allows states or international organizations to claim criminal jurisdiction over an accused person regardless of where the alleged crime was committed, and regardless of the accused's nationality, country of residence, or any other relation with the prosecuting entity. Crimes prosecuted under universal jurisdiction are considered crimes against all, too serious to tolerate jurisdictional arbitrage. \n\nThe concept of universal jurisdiction is therefore closely linked to the idea that some international norms are \"erga omnes\", or owed to the entire world community, as well as the concept of \"jus cogens\" – that certain international law obligations are binding on all states.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International, a proponent of universal jurisdiction, certain crimes pose so serious a threat to the international community as a whole that states have a logical and moral duty to prosecute an individual responsible; therefore, no place should be a safe haven for those who have committed genocide, crimes against humanity, extrajudicial executions, war crimes, torture and forced disappearances.\n\nOpponents such as Henry Kissinger, who himself was called to give testimony about the US Government's Operation Condor in a Spanish court, argue that universal jurisdiction is a breach of each state's sovereignty: all states being equal in sovereignty, as affirmed by the United Nations Charter, \"[w]idespread agreement that human rights violations and crimes against humanity must be prosecuted has hindered active consideration of the proper role of international courts. Universal jurisdiction risks creating universal tyranny – that of judges.\" According to Kissinger, as a practical matter, since any number of states could set up such \"universal jurisdiction\" tribunals, the process could quickly degenerate into politically driven show trials to attempt to place a quasi-judicial stamp on a state's enemies or opponents.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council Resolution 1674, adopted by the United Nations Security Council on 28 April 2006, \"Reaffirm[ed] the provisions of paragraphs 138 and 139 of the 2005 World Summit Outcome Document regarding the responsibility to protect populations from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity\" and commits the Security Council to action to protect civilians in armed conflict.\n\nThe \"Institutes of Justinian\", echoing the \"Commentaries\" of Gaius, says that \"All nations ... are governed partly by their own particular laws, and partly by those laws which are common to all, [those that] natural Reason appoints for all mankind.\" Expanding on the classical understanding of universal law accessible by reason, in the seventeenth century, the Dutch jurist Grotius laid the foundations for universal jurisdiction in modern international law, promulgating in his \"De Jure Pradae\" (\"Of the Law of Captures\") and later \"De jure belli ac pacis\" (\"Of the Law of War and Peace\") the Enlightenment view that there are universal principles of right and wrong.\n\nAt about the same time, international law came to recognize the analogous concept of \"hostes humani generis\" (\"enemies of the human race\"): pirates, hijackers, and similar outlaws whose crimes were typically committed outside the territory of any state. The notion that heads of state and senior public officials should be treated like pirates or outlaws before the global bar of justice is, according to Henry Kissinger, a new gloss on this old concept. From these premises, representing the Enlightenment belief in trans-territorial, trans-cultural standards of right and wrong, derives universal jurisdiction.\n\nPerhaps the most notable and influential precedent for universal jurisdiction were the mid-20th century Nuremberg Trials. U.S. Justice Robert H. Jackson then chief prosecutor, famously stated that an International Military Tribunal enforcing universal principles of right and wrong could prosecute acts without a particular geographic location, Nazi \"crimes against the peace of the world\"—even if the acts were perfectly legal at the time in Fascist Germany. Indeed, one charge was Nazi law itself became a crime, law distorted into a bludgeon of oppression. The Nuremberg trials supposed universal standards by which one nation's laws, and acts of its officials, can be judged; an international rule of law unbound by national borders.\n\nOn the other hand, even at the time the Nuremberg trials appeared to be victor's justice, revenge papered over with legal simulcra. US Supreme Court Chief Justice Harlan Fiske Stone remarked that his colleague Justice Jackson acting as Nuremberg Chief prosecutor was \"conducting his high-grade lynching party in Nuremberg. I don't mind what he does to the Nazis, but I hate to see the pretense that he is running a court and proceeding according to common law. This is a little too sanctimonious a fraud to meet my old-fashioned ideas.\"\n\nKenneth Roth, the executive director of Human Rights Watch, argues that universal jurisdiction allowed Israel to try Adolf Eichmann in Jerusalem in 1961. Roth also argues that clauses in treaties such as the Geneva Conventions of 1949 and the United Nations Convention Against Torture of 1984, which requires signatory states to pass municipal laws that are based on the concept of universal jurisdiction, indicate widespread international acceptance of the concept.\n\nUniversal jurisdiction differs from a state's prosecuting crimes under its own laws, whether on its own territory (territorial jurisdiction) or abroad (extraterritorial jurisdiction). As an example, the United States asserts jurisdiction over stateless vessels carrying illicit drugs on international waters—but here the US reaches across national borders to enforce its own law, rather than invoking universal jurisdiction and trans-national standards of right and wrong.\n\nStates attempting to police acts committed by foreign nationals on foreign territory tends to be more controversial than a state prosecuting its own citizens wherever they may be found. Bases on which a state might exercise jurisdiction in this way include the following:\n\n\nEstablished in The Hague in 2002, the International Criminal Court (ICC) is an international tribunal of general jurisdiction (defined by treaty) to prosecute state-members' citizens for genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, and the crime of aggression, as specified by several international agreements, most prominently the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court signed in 1998. Universal jurisdiction over the crimes enumerated in the Rome Statute was rejected by the signing parties, however universal jurisdiction is what allows the United Nations Security Council to refer specific situations to the ICC. This has only happened with Darfur (2005) and Libya (2011).\n\nIn addition the United Nations has set up geographically specific courts to investigate and prosecute crimes against humanity under a theory of universal jurisdiction, such as the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (1994), and the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (1993).\n\nThe International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia investigates war crimes that took place in the Balkans in the 1990s. It convicted former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadžić on 10 charges relating to directing murders, purges and other abuses against civilians, including genocide in connection with the 1995 massacre of 8,000 Muslim men and boys in Srebrenica; he was sentenced to 40 years in prison.\n\nUniversal jurisdiction may be asserted by a particular nation as well as by an international tribunal. The result is the same: individuals become answerable for crimes defined and prosecuted regardless of where they live, or where the conduct occurred; crimes said to be so grievous as to be universally condemned.\n\nAmnesty International argues that since the end of the Second World War over fifteen states have conducted investigations, commenced prosecutions and completed trials based on universal jurisdiction for the crimes or arrested people with a view to extraditing the persons to a state seeking to prosecute them. These states include: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Israel, Mexico, Netherlands, Senegal, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States. Amnesty writes:\n\nExamples of particular states invoking universal jurisdiction are Israel's prosecution of Eichmann in 1961 (see below) and Spain's prosecution of South American dictators and torturers (see below). More recently, the Center for Constitutional Rights tried first in Switzerland and then in Canada to prosecute former US President George W. Bush on behalf of persons tortured in US detention camps, invoking the universal jurisdiction doctrine. Bush cancelled his trip to Switzerland after news of the planned prosecution came to light. Bush has traveled to Canada but the Canadian government shut down the prosecution in advance of his arrest. The Center has filed a grievance with the United Nations for Canada's failure to invoke universal jurisdiction to enforce the Convention Against Torture, a petition on which action is pending.\n\nOn 14 February 2002, the International Court of Justice in the \"ICJ Arrest Warrant Case\" concluded that state officials may have immunity under international law while serving in office. The court stated that immunity was not granted to state officials for their own benefit, but instead to ensure the effective performance of their functions on behalf of their respective states. The court also stated that when abroad, state officials may enjoy immunity from arrest in another state on criminal charges, including charges of war crimes or crimes against humanity. But the ICJ qualified its conclusions, saying that state officers \"may be subject to criminal proceedings before certain international criminal courts, where they have jurisdiction. Examples include the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda ..., and the future International Criminal Court.\"\n\nIn 2003, Charles Taylor, the former president of Liberia, was served with an arrest warrant by the Special Court for Sierra Leone (SCSL) that was set up under the auspices of a treaty that binds only the United Nations and the Government of Sierra Leone. Taylor contested the Special Court's jurisdiction, claiming immunity, but the Special Court for Sierra Leone concluded in 2004 that \"the sovereign equality of states does not prevent a head of state from being prosecuted before an international criminal tribunal or court\". The Special Court convicted Taylor in 2012 and sentenced him to fifty years' imprisonment, making him the first head of state since the Nuremberg Trials after World War II to be tried and convicted by an international court. In sum, the question whether a former head of state might have immunity depends on which international court or tribunal endeavors to try him, how the court is constituted, and how it interprets its own mandate.\n\nThe High Court of Australia confirmed the authority of the Australian Parliament, under the Australian Constitution, to exercise universal jurisdiction over war crimes in the \"Polyukhovich v Commonwealth\" case of 1991.\n\nIn 1993, Belgium's Parliament passed a \"law of universal jurisdiction\" (sometimes referred to as \"Belgium's genocide law\"), allowing it to judge people accused of war crimes, crimes against humanity or genocide. In 2001, four Rwandan citizens were convicted and given sentences from 12 to 20 years' imprisonment for their involvement in 1994 Rwandan genocide. There was a rapid succession of cases:\n\nConfronted with this sharp increase in cases, Belgium established the condition that the accused person must be Belgian or present in Belgium. An arrest warrant issued in 2000 under this law, against the then Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, was challenged before the International Court of Justice in the case entitled \"ICJ Arrest Warrant Case\". The ICJ's decision issued on 14 February 2002 found that it did not have jurisdiction to consider the question of universal jurisdiction, instead deciding the question on the basis of immunity of high-ranking state officials. However, the matter was addressed in separate and dissenting opinions, such as that of President Guillaume who concluded that universal jurisdiction exists only in relation to piracy; and the dissenting opinion of Judge Oda who recognised piracy, hijacking, terrorism and genocide as crimes subject to universal jurisdiction.\n\nOn 1 August 2003, Belgium repealed the law on universal jurisdiction, and introduced a new law on extraterritorial jurisdiction similar to or more restrictive than that of most other European countries. However, some cases that had already started continued. These included those concerning the Rwandan genocide, and complaints filed against the Chadian ex-President Hissène Habré (dubbed the \"African Pinochet\"). In September 2005, Habré was indicted for crimes against humanity, torture, war crimes and other human rights violations by a Belgian court. Arrested in Senegal following requests from Senegalese courts, he was tried and convicted for war crimes by the Special Tribunal in Senegal in 2016 and sentenced to life in prison.\n\nTo implement the Rome Statute, Canada passed the Crimes Against Humanity and War Crimes Act. Michael Byers, a University of British Columbia law professor, has argued that these laws go further than the Rome Statute, providing Canadian courts with jurisdiction over acts pre-dating the ICC and occurring in territories outside of ICC member-states; \"as a result, anyone who is present in Canada and alleged to have committed genocide, torture ... anywhere, at any time, can be prosecuted [in Canada]\".\n\nA Finnish high court sentenced a Rwandan preacher to life in jail in 2010 for his participation in Rwanda's genocide in 1994. Francois Bazaramba, 59, moved in 2003 to Finland seeking asylum. Finland allows prosecutions for crimes against humanity wherever they are committed. At the time of the genocide, he was a pastor in the Baptist church in Nyakizu in southern Rwanda. According to Finnish newspaper \"Helsingin Sanomat\", the court found him guilty of orchestrating deadly attacks, and organising the torching of Tutsi homes. In a statement the court said he had spread anti-Tutsi propaganda and incited \"killings through fomenting anger and contempt towards Tutsis\". It stated that \"The court has found Bazaramba guilty of an offence which without a genocidal intent would be judged as a murder or incitement to murder ... For those crimes, the only possible punishment is life imprisonment.\" \"Helsingin Sanomat\" reported that he was acquitted of 10 counts of murder and of providing training and acquiring weapons. During the trial, the court heard from 68 witnesses, travelling to Rwanda and Tanzania to hear some testimonies.\n\nThe article 689 of the \"code de procédure pénale\" states the infractions that can be judged in France when they were committed outside French territory either by French citizens or foreigners. The following infractions may be prosecuted:\n\nGermany has implemented the principle of universal jurisdiction for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes into its criminal law through the \"Völkerstrafgesetzbuch\" or VStGB (\"international criminal code\", literally \"book of the criminal law of peoples\"), which implemented the treaty creating the International Criminal Court into domestic law. The law was passed in 2002 and up to 2014 it has been used once, in the trial of Rwandan rebel leader Ignace Murwanashyaka. In 2015 he was found guilty and sentenced to 13 years in prison.\n\nThe moral philosopher Peter Singer, along with Kenneth Roth, has cited Israel's prosecution of Adolf Eichmann in 1961 as an assertion of universal jurisdiction. He claims that while Israel did invoke a statute specific to Nazi crimes against Jews, its Supreme Court claimed universal jurisdiction over crimes against humanity.\n\nEichmann's defense lawyer argued that Israel did not have jurisdiction on account of Israel not having come into existence until 1948. The Genocide Convention also did not come into effect until 1951, and the Genocide Convention does not automatically provide for universal jurisdiction. It is also argued that Israeli agents obtained Eichmann illegally, violating international law when they seized and kidnapped Eichmann, and brought him to Israel to stand trial. The Argentinian government settled the dispute diplomatically with Israel.\n\nIsrael argued universal jurisdiction based on the \"universal character of the crimes in question\" and that the crimes committed by Eichmann were not only in violation of Israel law, but were considered \"grave offenses against the law of nations itself\". It also asserted that the crime of genocide is covered under international customary law. As a supplemental form of jurisdiction, a further argument is made on the basis of protective jurisdiction. Protective jurisdiction is a principle that \"provides that states may exercise jurisdiction over aliens who have committed an act abroad which is deemed prejudicial to the security of the particular state concerned\".\n\nIn November 2011, the Kuala Lumpur War Crimes Commission purportedly exercised universal jurisdiction to try and convict \"in absentia\" former US President George W. Bush and former British Prime Minister Tony Blair for the invasion of Iraq. In May 2012, the tribunal again under a purported exercise of universal jurisdiction took testimony from victims of torture at Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo, and convicted \"in absentia\" former President Bush, former Vice President Dick Cheney, former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, former Deputy Assistant Attorneys General John Yoo and Jay Bybee, former Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, and former counselors David Addington and William Haynes II for conspiracy to commit war crimes. The tribunal referred their findings to the chief prosecutor at the International Court of Justice in The Hague.\n\nThe legitimacy of the tribunal and its findings have been questioned.\n\nIn July 2015, the first trial in Africa of a universal jurisdiction case relating to crimes committed abroad by a foreigner with foreign victims was held in a Senegalese courtroom. The former dictator of Chad, Hissène Habré, denied the legitimacy of the special court set up to try him in Senegal for the deaths of thousands during his rule, but the head of the tribunal, Gberdao Gustave Kam, said he would be compelled to participate. Mr. Habré's lawyers said he was forced to attend the first day of his trial for crimes against humanity, war crimes and torture. The case was lauded by Human Rights Watch. It was also the first time the courts of one country are prosecuting the former ruler of another for alleged human rights crimes.\n\nSpanish law recognizes the principle of universal jurisdiction. Article 23.4 of the Judicial Power Organization Act (LOPJ), enacted on 1 July 1985, establishes that Spanish courts have jurisdiction over crimes committed by Spaniards or foreign citizens outside Spain when such crimes can be described according to Spanish criminal law as genocide, terrorism, or some other, as well as any other crime that, according to international treaties or conventions, must be prosecuted in Spain. On 25 July 2009, the Spanish Congress passed a law that limits the competence of the Audiencia Nacional under Article 23.4 to cases in which Spaniards are victims, there is a relevant link to Spain, or the alleged perpetrators are in Spain. The law still has to pass the Senate, the high chamber, but passage is expected because it is supported by both major parties.\n\nIn 1999, Nobel peace prize winner Rigoberta Menchú brought a case against the Guatemalan military leadership in a Spanish Court. Six officials, among them Efraín Ríos Montt and Óscar Humberto Mejía, were formally charged on 7 July 2006 to appear in the Spanish National Court after Spain's Constitutional Court ruled in September 2005, the Spanish Constitutional Court declaration that the \"principle of universal jurisdiction prevails over the existence of national interests\", following the Menchu suit brought against the officials for atrocities committed in the Guatemalan Civil War\n\nIn June 2003, Spanish judge Baltasar Garzón jailed Ricardo Miguel Cavallo, a former Argentine naval officer, who was extradited from Mexico to Spain pending his trial on charges of genocide and terrorism relating to the years of Argentina's military dictatorship.\n\nOn 11 January 2006, the Spanish High Court agreed to investigate a case in which seven former Chinese officials, including the former Communist Party General Secretary Jiang Zemin and former Premier Li Peng were alleged to have participated in a genocide in Tibet. This investigation follows a Spanish Constitutional Court (26 September 2005) ruling that Spanish courts could try genocide cases even if they did not involve Spanish nationals. China denounced the investigation as an interference in its internal affairs and dismissed the allegations as \"sheer fabrication\". The case was shelved in 2010, because of a law passed in 2009 that restricted High Court investigations to those \"involving Spanish victims, suspects who are in Spain, or some other obvious link with Spain\".\n\nComplaints were lodged against former Israeli Defense Forces chief of General Staff Lt.-Gen. (res.) Dan Halutz and six other senior Israeli political and military officials by pro-Palestinian organizations, who sought to prosecute them in Spain under the principle of universal jurisdiction. On 29 January 2009, Fernando Andreu, a judge of the Audiencia Nacional, opened preliminary investigations into claims that a targeted killing attack in Gaza in 2002 warranted the prosecution of Halutz, the former Israeli defence minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, the former defence chief-of-staff Moshe Ya'alon, and four others, for crimes against humanity. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu strongly criticized the decision, and Israeli officials refused to provide information requested by the Spanish court. The attack killed the founder and leader of the military wing of the Islamic militant organisation Hamas, Salah Shehade, who Israel said was responsible for hundreds of civilian deaths. The attack also killed 14 others (including his wife and 9 children). It had targeted the building where Shahade hid in Gaza City. It also wounded some 150 Palestinians, according to the complaint (or 50, according to other reports). The Israeli chief of operations and prime minister apologized officially, saying they were unaware, due to faulty intelligence, that civilians were in the house. The investigation in the case was halted on 30 June 2009 by a decision of a panel of 18 judges of the Audiencia Nacional. The Spanish Court of Appeals rejected the lower court's decision, and on appeal in April 2010 the Supreme Court of Spain upheld the Court of Appeals decision against conducting an official inquiry into the IDF's targeted killing of Shehadeh.\n\nAn offence is generally only triable in the jurisdiction where the offence took place, unless a specific statute enables the UK to exercise extraterritorial jurisdiction. This is the case for:\n\nIn December 2009 a court in London issued an arrest warrant for Tzipi Livni in connection with accusations of war crimes in the Gaza Strip during Operation Cast Lead (2008–2009). The warrant was issued on 12 December and revoked on 14 December 2009 after it was revealed that Livni had not entered British territory. The warrant was later denounced as \"cynical\" by the Israeli foreign ministry, while Livni's office said she was \"proud of all her decisions in Operation Cast Lead\". Livni herself called the arrest warrant \"an abuse of the British legal system\". Similarly a January visit to Britain by a team of Israel Defense Forces (IDF) was cancelled over concerns that arrest warrants would be sought by pro-Palestinian advocates in connection with allegations of war crimes under laws of universal jurisdiction.\n\nWhile the United States has no formal statute authorizing it, in some cases the Federal government has exercised self-help in apprehending or killing persons suspected of conspiring to commit crimes within the United States from outside of the country, or committing crimes against U.S officials outside of the United States. This has occurred even when the suspect is not a U.S. person, has never been in the United States, and even when the person has never conspired or assisted in the commission of a crime within the United States, there is a functioning government which could try the person for the crime committed there, and notwithstanding the existence of a proper extradition treaty between that country and the United States, ignoring the provisions of the treaty and capturing or killing the person directly.\n\nIn 1985, Dr. Humberto Alvarez-Machain, a Mexican national, allegedly assisted in the torture and murder of a U.S. DEA agent in Mexico. Notwithstanding that the U.S had an extradition treaty with Mexico (and because the Mexican government declined to extradite a Mexican national to the U.S. for a crime allegedly committed in Mexico), the U.S. Government hired a private citizen and some Mexican nationals to essentially act as mercenaries, who then went into Mexico, kidnapped Dr. Alvarez-Machain, and brought him back to the U.S. for trial for the crime committed in Mexico. The trial court ruled that since Alvarez-Machain had been brought to the U.S. in violation of the treaty, his arrest was unlawful. The United States Supreme Court, in \"United States v. Alvarez-Machain\", ruled that notwithstanding the existence of an extradition treaty with Mexico, it was still legal for the U.S. government to exercise self-help and essentially grab him off the street in Mexico (\"forcible abduction\") to bring him back to the U.S. for trial. In Alvarez-Machain's subsequent criminal trial, he was acquitted, and he lost a civil suit he filed for false arrest against the government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33153769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33153769", "title": "World History Association", "text": "World History Association\n\nThe World History Association (WHA) is an academic association that promotes the study of world history through the encouragement of research, teaching, and publication. It was founded in 1982.\n\nThe WHA provides many opportunities for connecting world historians with one another. It publishes the \"Journal of World History\" and \"World History Bulletin\", and has awarded World History Association Book Prize since 1999.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1536556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1536556", "title": "World Radio TV Handbook", "text": "World Radio TV Handbook\n\nThe World Radio TV Handbook, also known as WRTH, is a directory of virtually every radio and TV station on Earth, published yearly. It was started in 1947 by Oluf Lund Johansen (1891–1975) as the \"World Radio Handbook\" (WRH). The word \"TV\" was added to the title in 1965, when Jens M. Frost (1919–1999) took over as editor. It had then already included data for television broadcasting for some years. After the 40th edition in 1986, Frost handed over editorship to Andrew G. (Andy) Sennitt.\n\nThe first edition that bears an edition number is the 4th edition, published in 1949. The three previous editions appear to have been:\n\nSummer Supplements appear to have been issued from 1959 through 1971. From 1959 through 1966 they were called the Summer Supplement. From 1967 through 1971 they were called the Summer Edition.\n\nThrough the 1969 edition, the WRTH indicated the date on which the manuscript was completed.\n\nIssues with covers in Danish are known to have been available for the years 1948 May-November (2d ed.), 1950-51 (5th ed.; cover and 1st page in Danish, rest in English, most ads in Danish), 1952 (6th ed.; cover and 1st page in Danish, rest in English, most ads in Danish), and probably others. The 1952 English ed., which is completely in English, has an extra page with world times and agents, and ads in English which are sometimes different from the ads in the Danish edition. Also, the 1953 ed. mentions the availability of a German edition.\n\nOluf Lund Johansen published, in conjunction with Libreria Hispanoamericana of Barcelona, Spain, a softbound Spanish-language version of the 1960 WRTH. The book was printed in Spain and called \"Guia Mundial de Radio y Television\", and carried the WRTH logo at the time as well as all the editorial references contained in the English-language version. \n\nHardbound editions are known to have been available for the years 1963 through 1966, 1968, 1969, and 1975-1978, and probably others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4380391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4380391", "title": "World record", "text": "World record\n\nA world record is usually the best global performance ever recorded and officially verified in a specific skill or sport. The book \"Guinness World Records\" collates and publishes notable records of all types, from first and best to worst human achievements, to extremes in the natural world and beyond.\n\nIn the United States the form World's Record was formerly more common. The term World Best was also briefly in use. The latter term is still used in athletics events, including track and field and road running to describe good and bad performances not recognized as an official world record: either because it is not an event where the IAAF tracks the record (e.g. the 150 m run or individual events in a decathlon), or because it does not fulfil other rigorous criteria of an otherwise qualifying event (e.g. the Great North Run half-marathon, which has an excessive downhill gradient). The term is also used in video game speedrunning when someone achieves the fastest possible time for the game and category.\n\nMalaysia is one country where world record-breaking has become something of a national fad. In India, the setting and breaking of records is popular: world record registrars based in India are Limca Book of Records, Unique World Records, World Records India, and Asia Book of Records.\n\nSome sports have world records recognised by their respective sports governing bodies:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8163829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8163829", "title": "World to come", "text": "World to come\n\nThe world to come, age to come, and heaven on Earth are eschatological phrases reflecting the belief that the current world or current age is flawed or cursed and will be replaced in the future by a better world, age, or paradise. The concept is related to but differs from the concepts of heaven, the afterlife, and the Kingdom of God in that heaven is another place or state generally seen as above the world, the afterlife is generally an individual's life after death, and the Kingdom of God could be in the present (such as Realized eschatology) or the future.\n\nIn Hindu eschatology the current age is the Kali Yuga, a period of decline. Kalki ('Destroyer of Filth') will appear to purge all evil, beginning a golden age of Satya Yuga.\n\nThere have been a range of dates predicted, purportedly from different methods of calculation. Sri Potuluri Virabrahmendra Swami, for example, wrote 400 years ago in his \"Divya Maha Kala Gnana,\" or 'Divine Knowledge of the Time,' that Kalki would arrive when the moon, sun, Venus and Jupiter entered the same sign. This is not a rare occurrence and last happened in early 2012, passing without event. The time of arrival of Kalki has not been consistently asserted by astrologers.\n\n\"HaOlam HaBa\", or \"the world to come\", is an important part of Jewish eschatology, although Judaism concentrates on the importance of \"HaOlam HaZeh\" (\"this world\"). The afterlife is known as \"Olam haBa\", \"Gan Eden\" (the Heavenly Garden of Eden) and \"Gehinom\". According to the Talmud, any non-Jew who lives according to the Seven Laws of Noah is regarded as a \"Ger toshav\" (righteous gentile), and is assured of a place in the world to come, the final reward of the righteous.\n\nUnder Christian eschatology, the phrase is found in the Nicene Creed (current Ecumenical version): \"We look for the resurrection of the dead, and the life of the world to come.\" It is also found in the King James Version of the New Testament at , , , , . Other related expressions are \"age to come\" which is typically found in more recent translations, Kingdom of God, Messianic Age, Millennial Age, The New Earth and New Jerusalem, and dispensation of the fulness of times and possibly also eternal life.\n\nIn Zoroastrian eschatology, the world to come is the \"frashokereti\", where the \"saoshyant\" will bring about a resurrection of the dead in the bodies they had before they died. This is followed by a last judgment. The \"yazatas\" Airyaman and Atar will melt the metal in the hills and mountains, and the molten metal will then flow across the earth like a river. All humankind—both the living and the resurrected dead—will be required to wade through that river, but for the righteous (\"ashavan\") it will seem to be a river of warm milk, while the wicked will be burned. The river will then flow down to hell, where it will annihilate Angra Mainyu and the last vestiges of wickedness in the universe.\n\n"}
