{"id": "1536254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1536254", "title": "Artistic director", "text": "Artistic director\n\nAn artistic director is the executive of an arts organization, particularly in a theatre or dance company, who handles the organization's artistic direction. They are generally a producer and director, but not in the sense of a mogul, since the organization is generally a non-profit organization. The artistic director of a theatre company is the individual with the overarching artistic control of the theatre's production choices, directorial choices, and overall artistic vision. In smaller theatres, the artistic director may be the founder of the theatre and the primary director of its plays. In larger non-profit theatres (often known in Canada and the United States as regional theatres), the artistic director may be appointed by the board of directors.\n\nThe artistic director of a performing arts company is similar to the musical director of an orchestra, the primary person responsible for planning a company's season. The artistic director's responsibilities can include (but are not limited to) choosing the material staged in a season, the hiring of creative/production personnel (such as directors), and other theatre management tasks. He or she may also direct productions for the company. Artistic directors work closely with the general manager of the theatre, and contribute the artistic evaluation of projects and productions to be included in promotional, funding, and press materials. An artistic director also functions as a resource for the directors who are working to mount productions at the theatre and can provide support, counsel, and/or artistic input where requested. The artistic director is usually prepared to assume the production should the director become unable to complete his/her duties. Artistic directors are frequently regarded as the artistic representatives of theatre companies and are often required to speak about their theatre to the press. In the United States, artistic directors often have fundraising responsibilities as well. \n\nIn some ensemble companies, the artistic director is responsible for recruiting performers to act as a talent pool for the company's productions. This ensemble may include actors and artists of various disciplines. The artistic director functions as leader of this group, with the aim to create and/or realize various new and established works. \n\nIn ballet, the artistic director is the head of a ballet company. They have overall responsibility for training the dancers as well as selecting and mounting productions. They are almost always a retired dancer. Often they also choreograph some of the company's productions. \n\nIn some companies, the artistic director may also manage the day-to-day operations of the company, but in many (particularly larger) companies, the artistic director is often exempt from routine administrative duties, freeing him or her to concentrate on the art. In those cases, decisions about administration, business issues, finances, fundraising, board relations, donor relations, publicity, and marketing devolve to the responsibility of the general manager, chief operating officer, managing director, etc. or are discussed collaboratively.\n"}
{"id": "29160333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29160333", "title": "Attack of the Killer Tomatoes", "text": "Attack of the Killer Tomatoes\n\nAttack of the Killer Tomatoes is a 1978 musical dark comedy horror film produced by J. Stephen Peace and John DeBello, and directed by John DeBello based upon an original idea by Costa Dillon. The screenplay was written by Dillon, Peace, and DeBello. The film is a spoof of B movies. Made on a budget less than US$100,000, the story involves tomatoes becoming sentient by unknown means and revolting against humanity. \n\nThe success of the film led to three sequels, all co-written by the same three writers and directed by DeBello.\n\nThe film opens with a scroll saying that when Alfred Hitchcock's film \"The Birds\" (1963) was released, audiences laughed at the notion of birds revolting against humanity, but when an attack perpetrated by birds occurred in 1975, no one laughed. This is followed by a precredits sequence of a tomato rising out of a woman's garbage disposal. Her puzzlement turns into terror as the tomato draws her into a corner. Following the credits, the police investigate her death. One officer discovers that the red substance with which she is covered is not blood, but tomato juice.\n\nA series of attacks perpetrated by tomatoes occurs (including a man dying by drinking tomato juice made from a killer tomato, a boy heard being gobbled up by a killer tomato, and a sequence where the tomatoes attack innocent swimmers, in a parody of \"Jaws\"). While the President's press secretary Jim Richardson tries to convince the public that no credible threat exists, the President puts together a team of specialists to stop the tomatoes, led by a man named Mason Dixon. Dixon's team includes Sam Smith, a disguise expert who is seen at various points dressed as, among other things, George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, and Adolf Hitler; scuba diver Greg Colburn; Olympic swimmer Gretta Attenbaum; and parachute-toting soldier Wilbur Finletter.\n\nSmith is sent out to infiltrate the tomatoes at a campfire, eventually blowing his cover while eating a hamburger and asking if anyone could \"pass the ketchup.\" Colburn and Gretta are sent to sectors, while Finletter stays with Mason. Meanwhile, the President sends Richardson to the fictitious ad agency Mind Makers, where executive Ted Swan spends huge amounts of money to develop virtually worthless ploys, including a bumper sticker with \"STP\" for \"Stop Tomato Program\" on it, a satirical reference to both the real \"whip inflation now\" campaign with its widely ridiculed \"WIN\" slogan and STP motor oil decals and bumper stickers which were commonplace in the 1970s. A human is revealed to be also plotting to stop Dixon when a masked assassin attempts to shoot him, but misses. A senate subcommittee meeting is held where one secret pamphlet is leaked to a newspaper editor, who sends Lois Fairchild on the story. While she tails Finletter, he mistakes her for a spy and trashes a hotel room attempting to kill her. He then chases the assassin as the masked man fails again to kill Dixon, but loses him.\n\nGretta is killed and further regression has led leaders to bring in tanks and soldiers to the West Coast in a battle that leaves the American forces in shambles. Dixon, walking among the rubble, sees a trail of tomato juice and decides to investigate. He ends up being chased by a killer tomato to an apartment where an oblivious child is listening to the radio. The tomato is about to kill Dixon, but suddenly flies out the window. Dixon peers out to see if it has died, and he spots the assassin hijacking his car. He chases the assassin in a \"slow car chase\" that has since been copied by other comedies. Dixon is eventually knocked out by his own car. Awakening, Dixon finds himself captured by Richardson. Though he did not create the killer tomatoes, he has discovered how to control them and plans to do so once civilization has collapsed - leaving him in control. He is about to reveal his secret of control to Dixon when Finletter charges in and runs him through with his sword. Dixon, picking up some strewn records, realizes that he has seen the tomatoes retreat at the sound of the song \"Puberty Love\", but had not put two and two together until now. He orders Finletter to gather all remaining people and bring them to the stadium. Finletter remarks that \"only crazy people\" are left in the nearly deserted city, resulting in a motley assortment of people in costumes facing the attacking tomatoes at the stadium.\n\nThe tomatoes are cornered in a stadium. \"Puberty Love\" is played over the loudspeaker, causing the tomatoes to shrink and allowing the various people at the stadium to squash them by stomping on them repeatedly. Fairchild, meanwhile, is cornered by a giant tomato wearing earmuffs, hence cannot hear the music. Dixon saves her by showing the tomato the sheet music to \"Puberty Love\". He professes his love to her, in song. The film ends with a carrot that rises from the soil and says \"All right, you guys. They're gone now.\"\n\n\nThe film also contains the first screen appearance of Dana Ashbrook, then aged 10 or 11, as Boy on Boat (uncredited).\n\nThe finished film contains footage of a real helicopter crash. In a scene showing law enforcement officers firing their weapons to ward off tomatoes in a field, a $600,000 Hiller Aircraft UH-12E that had been rented for the production was supposed to have landed in the tomato patch behind the officers, but during the landing, its tail rotor struck the ground, causing the craft to spin out of control near the ground, roll over, and burst into flames. The helicopter pilot escaped without serious injury. The crash was caught on film as the cameras were rolling at the time. The crash was later worked into the film.\n\nThe theme song, written by DeBello, describes the tomatoes' rampages through the world, describing that they have killed a man named Herman Farbage while he was taking out the garbage, that the mayor is on vacation to get out of stopping them, that they have scared off the National Guard, and that they have even eaten the narrator's sister. This theme song is used in different variations over the course of the series, here simply sounding like the score of an old monster movie with lyrics and a more catchy tune. All other music was written by Gordon Goodwin and Paul Sundfor with lyrics by Dillon, DeBello, and Peace.\n\nThe song \"Puberty Love\" was sung by the then-teenaged Matt Cameron, who later became the drummer for Soundgarden and since 1998 has been the drummer for Pearl Jam.\n\nThe film received negative reviews and has become a cult film.\n\n\"Variety\" wrote that the film \"isn't even worthy of sarcasm.\"\n\nA number of sequels and other spin-off material have been done in various media as a result of this movie. They include three movie sequels:\n\n\nThe sequel \"Return of the Killer Tomatoes\" picks up the story 10 years later. The film is notable for the casting of George Clooney in one of his first film roles.\nAmerican composer and orchestrator Gordon Goodwin, one of the original composers for the film, later wrote an Emmy-nominated, big-band piece inspired by the music for this film, to be played with his jazz ensemble Gordon Goodwin's Big Phat Band. \n\n\nIn 2008, a remake was announced. Kent Nichols and Douglas Sarine, creators of \"Ask a Ninja\", were developing the project. This was to be Nichols' directorial debut. M. Dal Walton III was co-producing along with Emmett/Furla Films. In 2011, John DeBello said that the \"Ask a Ninja\" creators were no longer involved. In July of 2018, Steve Peace and Costa Dillon announced a new sequel at the San Diego Comic Book Convention. Dustin Ferguson is rumored to be directing the new installment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1856564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1856564", "title": "Comedy rock", "text": "Comedy rock\n\nComedy rock is rock music mixed with comedy, often satire and parody.\n\nEarly American examples include Stan Freberg, who lampooned artists such as Elvis Presley, Harry Belafonte and The Platters, and Sheb Wooley. The latter's \"Purple People Eater\" reached No. 1 on the \"Billboard\" pop chart in 1958 and stayed there 6 weeks.\n\nIn Britain during the 1950s and early 1960s comedians such as Charlie Drake and The Goons frequently appeared in the top ten with humorous rock 'n' roll records—the latter, along with Lewis Carroll and Edward Lear, were to influence the word-play of John Lennon's lyrics. Later British groups specialised in comedy: these included The Scaffold, The Bonzo Dog Doo-Dah Band and Alberto y Lost Trios Paranoias. Later in Britain, in the 2000s, Mitch Benn released several studio albums that satirised current affairs using various musical genres, but mainly rock. His 2012 \"Breaking Strings\" album was critically acclaimed for its rock sensibility.\n\nAllmusic described Frank Zappa as the \"godfather\" of comedy rock. The pop rock and folk rock band The Turtles released a comedy rock album, \"The Turtles Present the Battle of the Bands\", in 1968, though the band had previously incorporated humor into their songs. Two of its members, Howard Kaylan and Mark Volman later performed more explicitly comedic songs as Flo & Eddie with their own band and with Frank Zappa.\n\nSeveral modern comedy rock bands have experienced mainstream commercial success. Duos Tenacious D and Flight of the Conchords both released platinum-selling albums and starred in their own respective comedic television series. Dan Finnerty with his The Dan Band has made comedy rock appearances in the Todd Phillips films \"Old School\" and \"The Hangover\" spoofing \"Total Eclipse of the Heart\" and \"Candy Shop\", as well as his live show, which parodies female cover songs and was filmed as a one-hour TV special directed by McG and executive produced by Steven Spielberg. Stephen Lynch from New York developed a following with several Opie and Anthony appearances which led to two specials on Comedy Central. He performed on Broadway with the production of Grease.\n\nWith over 12 million albums sold, song parodist \"Weird Al\" Yankovic remains the highest-selling comedy act in history, with his 2014 album \"Mandatory Fun\" having debuted at #1 on the \"Billboard\" 200, the first comedy album to do so since Allan Shermans \"My Son, the Nut\" in 1963. Rock has been the target of many spoofs and several spoof bands have gone on to have hit records, for example Spinal Tap in the U.S., and The Hee Bee Gee Bees and Bad News in the UK. The band Steel Panther has become a fixture on the Los Angeles Sunset Strip with their parody of 80s glam metal and their success has opened the doors for other spoof bands such as The Jimi Homeless Experience. Other spoof bands such as Dread Zeppelin, Beatallica and Those Darn Accordions rely on unusual or intentionally contrasting genre-mixing for comic effect. Comedy rock duo Ninja Sex Party, who have collaborated with Steel Panther on occasion, blend rock and synthpop and have produced songs that parody the dubstep and heavy metal genres. They have enjoyed success from their online popularity. Another band, Primus, is known for their wacky lyrics and comedic music videos.\n\nMany bands within the alternative rock and college rock spectrum are known for their incorporation of humorous and satirical songs, with bands such as They Might Be Giants, The Presidents of the United States of America, Bloodhound Gang, System of a Down, Ween and Camper Van Beethoven finding both mainstream and independent success in the United States, as well as successful foreign bands such as Parokya ni Edgar and Knorkator.\n\nPunk rock and pop punk has made its contribution to the comedy rock ranks, with such bands as The Aquabats, Blink-182, Bowling for Soup, Patent Pending, Dead Kennedys, The Dead Milkmen, The Meatmen and The Radioactive Chicken Heads. Heavy metal has also produced many humor-oriented and satirical bands, including Green Jellÿ, Lawnmower Deth, Massacration, M.O.D., Big Dumb Face, Psychostick, Crotchduster, Ludichrist and Scatterbrain, while other bands like Gwar and Rosemary's Billygoat utilize outrageous costumes and over-the-top stage shows. The virtual band Dethklok is death metal spoof featured in the Adult Swim animated TV Show \"Metalocalypse\" and their album entitled \"The Dethalbum\" debuted at No. 21 on the \"Billboard\" Top 200 list.\n\n"}
{"id": "31631748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31631748", "title": "Comic book therapy", "text": "Comic book therapy\n\nComic book therapy is a form of art therapy in which those undergoing rehabilitation or those who have already completed rehabilitation express their experiences through personal narratives within a comics format. The combination of text and image enables patients to process their memories and emotions through two different, yet compatible mediums. Comic book therapy can also be used in a psychotherapeutic setting, whereby clients are encouraged to read specific comic books, often surrounding topics similar to their own diagnoses. Clients are encouraged to present their thoughts and feelings they experienced while reading as well as to draw parallels with their own lived experiences based on the events that occur within the books. This is done in an effort to reach a cathartic moment of clarity and understanding of one's own life.\n\nBoth forms of therapy can be used throughout a patient's treatment process: immediately after diagnosis, throughout rehabilitation, and during the events that follow, including readjustment and general coping.\n\nComic book therapy is currently being applied to a variety of populations, including patients diagnosed with life-altering diagnoses (i.e. cancer, Dementia, Parkinson's Disease, diabetes, etc.), patients and family members experiencing severe illness or death, families undergoing therapy, sexual assault survivors, and soldiers returning from war. One such therapy, originally conceptualized by Captain Russel Shilling, is currently being developed by The United States Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA).\n\nGraphic medicine, originally coined by Ian Williams, is a literary genre that combines the medium of comics and the discourse of medicine. Within the last ten years, graphic stories, which are also referred to as adult themed comics, have slowly become a rising pop-culture trend. It owes its success in part to the rise of medical humanities, an interdisciplinary study of medicine and healthcare related topics. While medical humanities incorporates a variety of language-based subjects (i.e. philosophy, ethics, religion, etc.), graphic medicine strives to analyze the same healthcare-related topics using an artistic lens. The genre combines the conventionality of text with the eccentricity of images to present intimate narratives related to healthcare or medical experiences. These narratives are also sometimes referred to as \"graphic pathologies\", as they commonly discuss diagnoses of injury, illness, or disease.\n\nCurrent professionals within the field are striving to develop a collection of novels that can act not only as a therapeutic tool for patients and their loved ones, but that serve as an educational tool for medical students as well.\n\nThe general concepts of graphic medicine and comic book therapy are often used interchangeably as they both strive to develop healthcare-related stories using both text and graphics. There is however a distinction that should be made. Graphic medicine acts as an umbrella term that encompasses a host of therapeutic techniques. Therefore, comic book therapy comfortably fits under its heading as just one of many therapies that the field of graphic medicine investigates.\n\nThe foundations of the comics industry began in the early 1920's just after the culmination of the First World War. Initially starting out as small black-and-white strips, comics predominantly acted as entertaining filler space within national and local magazines and newspapers around the country. It was not until 1929 with the publication of \"The Funnies #1\" that the first collection of comics material came about. The years following witnessed a spurt of comics publication that lasted up until present day with children and adults alike still knowing names like \"Batman, Superman, Peanuts,\" and \"Calvin and Hobbes.\"\n\nProfessionals within the graphic medicine field trace the history of comics back further than the early 1920's, however. Instead, they claim the origin of their academic field can be traced back to prehistoric cave drawings and man's desire to express himself with pictures. In this light, professors of graphic medicine and clinicians of comic book therapy include Egyptian hieroglyphics, Mayan and Aztecs drawings, and the great art of the Greeks, the Persians, and the Romans within the history of comic books as well. They do, of course, begin the story of comics specifically in 1938 with the publication of \"Action Comics #1\", the first to detail the adventures and heroic efforts of Superman. The development of radio, television, and film only heightened the popularity of comic books and comic book characters; and by 1980, the merchandising of comic books hit an all time peak. Today, comic books have slowly begun to matriculate within select topics of academia, now regarded as significant contributions to literary expression, covering topics of medicine, politics, economy, and social change.\n\nSince its beginning, graphic medicine as a field of study has steadily become more relevant. As such, the use of comic book therapy as well as its functions have expanded as well. Today, comic books and graphic novels alike are being implemented in a variety of clinical and educational settings, likely due to its efforts in serving a variety of needs for a diverse target audience. Comic book therapies can serve multiple purposes. Some authors hope to relay information, creating a graphic encyclopedia of sorts. Therapists often collaborate with patients in comic book therapy to develop a closer relationship based on the tenants of empathy and understanding. Patients, more often than not, are encouraged to process difficult emotions and memories in the attempt to process, readjust, and engage in healthier coping strategies. Because of its multiple functions, graphic medicine and comic book therapy have been implemented both therapeutically and educationally in the medical field.\n\nOne form of comic book therapy involves the creation of a comic strip, a comic book, or a graphic novel. The process by which a patient, family member, caregiver, or practitioner creates a comic book is complex and involves extensive research. In essence, the process of developing a comic book serves as a therapeutic coping mechanism that goes beyond text-based story telling. Instead, patients are pushed to think through multiple mediums. The process can sometimes, hopefully frequently, lead to significant cognitive and emotion breakthroughs. These effects are likely due to the sheer versatility of the comic book medium, as they allow for the simultaneous expression of body image, verbal expression, physical action, and emotion.\n\nTherapists often encourage patients to develop characters first, as this first step situates the patient in relation to their environment, past and present. Most often, the characters of comic book therapy novels imitate those within the author's own life, developing an autobiography of sorts. Occasionally, their experiences are identical to those of reality; often, an author chooses to reshape the narrative altogether, providing the reader an augmented reality of some kind. Patients take this opportunity to rewrite their story, making choices they didn't or couldn't during their own experiences. The comic book aspect acts as a safe avenue of release, in which a patient can comfortably create a world in which the consequences of actions are limited to panels in which they develop.\n\nAnother form of comic book therapy encourages patients, their support systems, and their healthcare providers to read already published graphic novels and comic books. As the field of graphic medicine has grown, so too have the collection of comic books and novels. As such, current graphic novels and comic books cover a wide range of topics, including cancer, Parkinson's disease, Schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, eating disorders, and so on. Popular novels include \"Cancervixen: a True Story\" by Marisa Acocella Marchetto, \"Tangles: A Story About Alzheimer's, My Mother, and Me\" by Sarah Leavitt, and \"Marbles: Mania, Depression, Michelangelo and Me\" by Ellen Forney. Therapists recommend novels that discuss similar experiences, similar diagnoses, similar personal histories to those of their own patients. Patients are encouraged to read them critically in the efforts of finding some kind of parallel between their own experiences and those described within the panels. This method of therapy goes beyond just reading a recommended autobiography. The images and graphics within each panel add to the narrative, bridging a gap between words and meaning. The way in which an author chooses to depict their characters, the environment, and the text are all important and contribute largely the reading experience.\n\nCurrent professionals within the field are striving to develop a field of study that can act not only as a therapeutic tool for patients and healthcare providers alike, but that can serve as an educational tool for medical students as well. With the advancement of technology and the diversification of the patient population, medical practices has undergone significant change within the last century. On the other hand, the education process prior to medical practice has remained arguably stagnant. Present day medical school programs cover material in three broad categories, including the scientific basis of medicine, patient care, and physicianship. The methods of teaching vary across universities, but the basic curricula remain the same across the board. With the evolution of medical practice arriving so quickly, some argue that medical training should follow in suit. According to the scholars of Graphic Medicine, there are multiple parallels between comic book therapy, when used as educational tool, and the everyday practice of medicine. In this way, having medical students engage in comic book therapy during their medical training could prove significant later on. The hustle and bustle of medical practice can prove stressful, especially for a new doctor fresh out of medical school. In order to prove oneself within the medical field, many believe an individual must possess characteristics like 'competency', 'professionalism', and 'brilliance'; rarely are physicians referred to as 'artistically creative' or 'creative' at all. One professor of graphic medicine believes this could be a problem in the future as it pushes medical students to stay within the limitations of an unoriginal box.\n\n"}
{"id": "9955923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9955923", "title": "Corporate entertainment", "text": "Corporate entertainment\n\nCorporate entertainment describes private events held by corporations or businesses for their staff, clients or stakeholders. These events can be for large audiences such as conventions and conferences, or smaller events such as retreats, holiday parties or even private concerts.\n\nIt is also commonly used to mean corporate hospitality, the process of entertaining guests at corporate events.\n\nThe companies that provides corporate entertainment are called corporate event planners or corporate booking agencies.\n\nThere are various types of corporate events that make use of entertainment. An Opening General Session may include entertainment that adds excitement and presents the overall theme of the meeting. Mixers or pre-dinner parties many times use entertainment meant to provide a backdrop for conversation, perhaps an acoustic ensemble or pre-recorded music. Awards or Gala events, usually the last event in a series of meetings, can make use of many options, from celebrity entertainers to exciting bands providing dance music or other options that will leave the attendees with a feeling of excitement and looking forward to the next meeting. There are many different types of corporate entertainment.\n\nCorporate entertainment can also include a day of team building activities. These activities include traditional camp activities like tug of war, scavenger hunts, and relay races. They could also include sports such as volleyball, soccer, or basketball. The goal of team building corporate entertainment is to have employees recognize how the challenges of the activities relate to the workplace. Team chemistry, identifying strengths and attributes, understanding how to work through solving problems as one, and reflecting makes for fruitful team building.\n\nAwards or gala events are usually lavish events that celebrate accomplishment or milestones of a person or group of people in similar industries. Often these events serve as fundraisers for a specific cause. In addition to celebrating and recognizing achievements, it allows attendees to network with others with similar backgrounds or professions.\n\nHoliday celebration events are ways for companies or departments to celebrate holidays and to show appreciation to employees. Entertainment at these events vary from raffles and door prizes, mystery dinners, music and an overall casual, social setting that can build social relationships. For Christmas celebrations, companies have used the \"A Christmas Story\" theme.\n\nCorporate seminars, workshops, symposiums, and conferences are more informative in nature and often focussed on educational purposes. A conference refers to a formal meeting where participants exchange their views on various topics. A seminar is a form of academic instruction, either at a university or offered by a commercial or professional organization. A workshop includes all the elements of the Seminar, but with the largest portion being emphasized on “hand-on-practice” or laboratory work. A symposium is a formal gathering in an academic setting where participants are experts in their fields. Entertainment for these events varies from kick-op brunches to start, special industry guest speakers, and mixers, dinners afterwards. There are also booths set up for trade shows to display a companies strengths and for better marketing.\n\nCorporate charity events, whether concerts, golf tournaments, or anything else, play an important role in how businesses interact with the community. Corporate charity events unite people from all levels of the organization; such events are another form of team building which positively influence other aspects of work.\n"}
{"id": "161227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161227", "title": "Critic", "text": "Critic\n\nA critic is a professional who communicates an assessment and an opinion of various forms of creative works such as art, literature, music, cinema, theater, fashion, architecture, and food. Critics may also take as their subject social or government policy. Critical judgments, whether derived from critical thinking or not, weigh up a range of factors, including an assessment of the extent to which the item under review achieves its purpose and its creator's intention and a knowledge of its context. They may also include a positive or negative personal response.\n\nCharacteristics of a good critic are articulateness, preferably having the ability to use language with a high level of appeal and skill. Sympathy, sensitivity and insight are important too. Form, style and medium are all considered by the critic. In architecture and food criticism, the item's function, value and cost may be added components.\n\nCritics are publicly accepted and, to a significant degree, followed because of the quality of their assessments or their reputation. Influential critics of art, music, theatre and architecture often present their arguments in complete books. One very famous example is John Ruskin's \"Seven Lamps of Architecture\" and \"The Stones of Venice\". Critics may base their assessment on a range of theoretical positions. For instance, they may take a Feminist or Freudian perspective.\n\nUnlike other individuals who may editorialize on subjects via websites or letters written to publications, professional critics are paid to produce their assessment and opinions for print, radio, magazine, television, or Internet companies. When their personal opinion outweighs considered judgment, people who give opinions, whether on current events, public affairs, sports, media or art are often referred to as \"pundits\" instead of critics.\n\nCritics are themselves subject to competing critics, since the final critical judgment always entails some subjectivity. An established critic can play a powerful role as a public arbiter of taste or opinion. Also, critics or a coordinated group of critics, may award symbols of recognition.\n\nThe word \"critic\" comes , which is a Greek derivation of the word \"(krités)\", meaning a person who offers reasoned judgment or analysis, value judgment, interpretation or observation. Early English meaning of criticism was based mainly on the criticism of literature and it was in the 17th century that more general forms of criticism began.\n\nCultural critic Clement Greenberg wrote that a good critic excels through \"insights into the evidence … and by … loyalty to the relevant\"; poet and critic T.S. Eliot wrote \"a critic must have a very highly developed sense of fact\".\n\nIn 1971, Harold C. Schonberg, chief music critic of \"The New York Times\" from 1960 to 1980, said that he wrote for himself, <nowiki>\"</nowiki>not necessarily for readers, not for musicians. ...It's not a critic's job to be right or wrong; it's his job to express an opinion in readable English.<nowiki>\"</nowiki> Schonberg was the first music critic to receive the Pulitzer Prize for criticism.\n\nDaniel Mendelsohn described the equation of criticism for critics as knowledge + taste = meaningful judgement.\n\nRestaurant critic Terry Durack explained that from a critic \"you hope for a thorough, objective and legitimate discussion\" that puts \"opera, art or book into context, so that it adds to your own body of knowledge\"; in the context of a restaurant criticism, this means it is \"not about me liking it or not; it's about me helping you decide whether you are going to like it or not.\"\n\nSocial and political critics have used various forms of art to express their criticism, including literature and music. Pierre Beaumarchais, for example, prior to the French Revolution, used his play \"The Marriage of Figaro\" to denounce aristocratic privilege. A critic's influence is enhanced by subsequent reworkings such as the operatic versions of Beaumarchais's play (\"The Barber of Seville\") by Rossini and (\"The Marriage of Figaro\") by Mozart. Among the most famous social/political criticism in literary form are Jonathan Swift's satire \"Gulliver's Travels\" and George Orwell's satire \"Animal Farm\". Some political critics, such as Ai Weiwei use visual art as their medium. Throughout history, political critics have faced higher risks, including the risk of imprisonment or death.\n\nSeveral websites have developed for the purpose of compiling or publishing original critical reviews. Examples include \"BlogCritics Magazine\", Rotten Tomatoes, and Yelp. According to A. O. Scott, chief film critic for \"The New York Times\", everyone on the Internet is a critic. Some critics like Roger Ebert achieve iconic status in pop culture and become well regarded.\n\nPeople whose work is the subject of criticism have a full range of responses to it. For example, they may be appreciative, offended, distressed, encouraged, amused or nonplussed.\n"}
{"id": "7885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7885", "title": "Dance", "text": "Dance\n\nDance is a performing art form consisting of purposefully selected sequences of human movement. This movement has aesthetic and symbolic value, and is acknowledged as dance by performers and observers within a particular culture. Dance can be categorized and described by its choreography, by its repertoire of movements, or by its historical period or place of origin.\n\nAn important distinction is to be drawn between the contexts of theatrical and participatory dance, although these two categories are not always completely separate; both may have special functions, whether social, ceremonial, competitive, erotic, martial, or sacred/liturgical. Other forms of human movement are sometimes said to have a dance-like quality, including martial arts, gymnastics, cheerleading, figure skating, synchronized swimming, marching bands, and many other forms of athletics.\n\nTheatrical dance, also called performance or concert dance, is intended primarily as a spectacle, usually a performance upon a stage by virtuoso dancers. It often tells a story, perhaps using mime, costume and scenery, or else it may simply interpret the musical accompaniment, which is often specially composed. Examples are western ballet and modern dance, Classical Indian dance and Chinese and Japanese song and dance dramas. Most classical forms are centred upon dance alone, but performance dance may also appear in opera and other forms of musical theatre.\n\nParticipatory dance, on the other hand, whether it be a folk dance, a social dance, a group dance such as a line, circle, chain or square dance, or a partner dance such as is common in western Western ballroom dancing, is undertaken primarily for a common purpose, such as social interaction or exercise, of participants rather than onlookers. Such dance seldom has any narrative. A group dance and a \"corps de ballet\", a social partner dance and a \"pas de deux\", differ profoundly. Even a solo dance may be undertaken solely for the satisfaction of the dancer. Participatory dancers often all employ the same movements and steps but, for example, in the rave culture of electronic dance music, vast crowds may engage in free dance, uncoordinated with those around them. On the other hand, some cultures lay down strict rules as to the particular dances in which, for example, men, women and children may or must participate.\n\nArcheological evidence for early dance includes 9,000-year-old paintings in India at the Rock Shelters of Bhimbetka, and Egyptian tomb paintings depicting dancing figures, dated c. 3300 BC. It has been proposed that before the invention of written languages, dance was an important part of the oral and performance methods of passing stories down from generation to generation. The use of dance in ecstatic trance states and healing rituals (as observed today in many contemporary \"primitive\" cultures, from the Brazilian rainforest to the Kalahari Desert) is thought to have been another early factor in the social development of dance.\n\nReferences to dance can be found in very early recorded history; Greek dance (\"horos\") is referred to by Plato, Aristotle, Plutarch and Lucian. The Bible and Talmud refer to many events related to dance, and contain over 30 different dance terms. In Chinese pottery as early as the Neolithic period, groups of people are depicted dancing in a line holding hands, and the earliest Chinese word for \"dance\" is found written in the oracle bones. Dance is further described in the \"Lüshi Chunqiu\". Primitive dance in ancient China was associated with sorcery and shamanic rituals.\n\nDuring the first millennium BCE in India, many texts were composed which attempted to codify aspects of daily life. Bharata Muni's \"Natyashastra\" (literally \"the text of dramaturgy\") is one of the earlier texts. It mainly deals with drama, in which dance plays an important part in Indian culture. It categorizes dance into four types – secular, ritual, abstract, and, interpretive – and into four regional varieties. The text elaborates various hand-gestures (\"mudras\") and classifies movements of the various limbs, steps and so on. A strong continuous tradition of dance has since continued in India, through to modern times, where it continues to play a role in culture, ritual, and, notably, the Bollywood entertainment industry. Many other contemporary dance forms can likewise be traced back to historical, traditional, ceremonial, and ethnic dance.\n\nDance is generally, though not exclusively, performed with the accompaniment of music and may or may not be performed \"in time\" to such music. Some dance (such as tap dance) may provide its own audible accompaniment in place of (or in addition to) music. Many early forms of music and dance were created for each other and are frequently performed together. Notable examples of traditional dance/music couplings include the jig, waltz, tango, disco, and salsa. Some musical genres have a parallel dance form such as baroque music and baroque dance; other varieties of dance and music may share nomenclature but developed separately, such as classical music and classical ballet.\n\nRhythm and dance are deeply linked in history and practice. The American dancer Ted Shawn wrote; \"The conception of rhythm which underlies all studies of the dance is something about which we could talk forever, and still not finish.\" A musical rhythm requires two main elements; first, a regularly-repeating pulse (also called the \"beat\" or \"tactus\") that establishes the tempo and, second, a pattern of accents and rests that establishes the character of the metre or basic rhythmic pattern. The basic pulse is roughly equal in duration to a simple step or gesture.\n\nDances generally have a characteristic tempo and rhythmic pattern. The tango, for example, is usually danced in time at approximately 66 beats per minute. The basic slow step, called a \"slow\", lasts for one beat, so that a full \"right–left\" step is equal to one measure. The basic forward and backward walk of the dance is so counted – \"slow-slow\" – while many additional figures are counted \"slow – quick-quick.\n\nJust as musical rhythms are defined by a pattern of strong and weak beats, so repetitive body movements often depends on alternating \"strong\" and \"weak\" muscular movements. Given this alternation of left-right, of forward-backward and rise-fall, along with the bilateral symmetry of the human body, it is natural that many dances and much music are in duple and quadruple meter. However, since some such movements require more time in one phase than the other – such as the longer time required to lift a hammer than to strike – some dance rhythms fall equally naturally into triple metre. Occasionally, as in the folk dances of the Balkans, dance traditions depend heavily on more complex rhythms. Further, complex dances composed of a fixed sequence of steps always require phrases and melodies of a certain fixed length to accompany that sequence.\nThe very act of dancing, the steps themselves, generate an \"initial skeleton of rhythmic beats\" that must have preceded any separate musical accompaniment, while dance itself, as much as music, requires time-keeping just as utilitarian repetitive movements such as walking, hauling and digging take on, as they become refined, something of the quality of dance.\n\nMusical accompaniment therefore arose in the earliest dance, so that ancient Egyptians attributed the origin of the dance to the divine Athotus, who was said to have observed that music accompanying religious rituals caused participants to move rhythmically and to have brought these movements into proportional measure. The same idea, that dance arises from musical rhythm, is still found in renaissance Europe in the works of the dancing master Guglielmo Ebreo da Pesaro who speaks of dance as a physical movement that arises from and expresses inward, spiritual motion agreeing with the \"measures and perfect concords of harmony\" that fall upon the human ear, while, earlier, Mechthild of Magdeburg, seizing upon dance as a symbol of the holy life foreshadowed in Jesus' saying \"I have piped and ye have not danced\", writes;\n\nThoinot Arbeau's celebrated 16th century dance-treatise \"Orchésographie\", indeed, begins with definitions of over eighty distinct drum-rhythms.\nAs has been shown above, dance has been represented through the ages as having emerged as a response to music yet, as Lincoln Kirstein implied, it is at least as likely that primitive music arose from dance. Shawn concurs, stating that dance \"was the first art of the human race, and the matrix out of which all other arts grew\" and that even the \"metre in our poetry today is a result of the accents necessitated by body movement, as the dancing and reciting were performed simultaneously\" – an assertion somewhat supported by the common use of the term \"foot\" to describe the fundamental rhythmic units of poetry.\n\nScholes, not a dancer but a musician, offers support for this view, stating that the steady measures of music, of two, three or four beats to the bar, its equal and balanced phrases, regular cadences, contrasts and repetitions, may all be attributed to the \"incalculable\" influence of dance upon music.\n\nÉmile Jaques-Dalcroze, primarily a musician and teacher, relates how a study of the physical movements of pianists led him \"to the discovery that musical sensations of a rhythmic nature call for the muscular and nervous response of the whole organism\", to develop \"a special training designed to regulate nervous reactions and effect a co-ordination of muscles and nerves\" and ultimately to seek the connections between \"the art of music and the art of dance\", which he formulated into his system of eurhythmics. He concluded that \"musical rhythm is only the transposition into sound of movements and dynamisms spontaneously and involuntarily expressing emotion\".\n\nHence, though doubtless, as Shawn asserts, \"it is quite possible to develop the dance without music and... music is perfectly capable of standing on its own feet without any assistance from the dance\", nevertheless the \"two arts will always be related and the relationship can be profitable both to the dance and to music\", the precedence of one art over the other being a moot point. The common ballad measures of hymns and folk-songs takes their name from dance, as does the carol, originally a circle dance. Many purely musical pieces have been named \"waltz\" or \"minuet\", for example, while many concert dances have been produced that are based upon abstract musical pieces, such as \"2 and 3 Part Inventions, Adams Violin Concerto\" and \"Andantino\". Similarly, poems are often structured and named after dances or musical works, while dance and music have both drawn their conception of \"measure\" or \"metre\" from poetry.\n\nShawn quotes with approval the statement of Dalcroze that, while the art of musical rhythm consists in differentiating and combining time durations, pauses and accents \"according to physiological law\", that of \"plastic rhythm\" (i.e. dance) \"is to designate movement in space, to interpret long time-values by slow movements and short ones by quick movements, regulate pauses by their divers successions and express sound accentuations in their multiple nuances by additions of bodily weight, by means of muscular innervations\".\n\nShawn nevertheless points out that the system of musical time is a \"man-made, artificial thing... a manufactured tool, whereas rhythm is something that has always existed and depends on man not at all\", being \"the continuous flowing time which our human minds cut up into convenient units\", suggesting that music might be revivified by a return to the values and the time-perception of dancing.\n\nThe early-20th-century American dancer Helen Moller stated simply that \"it is rhythm and form more than harmony and color which, from the beginning, has bound music, poetry and dancing together in a union that is indissoluble.\"\n\nConcert dance, like opera, generally depends for its large-scale form upon a narrative dramatic structure. The movements and gestures of the choreography are primarily intended to mime the personality and aims of the characters and their part in the plot. Such theatrical requirements tend towards longer, freer movements than those usual in non-narrative dance styles. On the other hand, the \"ballet blanc\", developed in the 19th century, allows interludes of rhythmic dance that developed into entirely \"plotless\" ballets in the 20th century and that allowed fast, rhythmic dance-steps such as those of the \"petit allegro\". A well-known example is \"The Cygnets' Dance\" in act two of \"Swan Lake\".\n\nThe ballet developed out of courtly dramatic productions of 16th- and 17th-century France and Italy and for some time dancers performed dances developed from those familiar from the musical suite, all of which were defined by definite rhythms closely identified with each dance. These appeared as character dances in the era of romantic nationalism.\n\nBallet reached widespread vogue in the romantic era, accompanied by a larger orchestra and grander musical conceptions that did not lend themselves easily to rhythmic clarity and by dance that emphasised dramatic mime. A broader concept of rhythm was needed, that which Rudolf Laban terms the \"rhythm and shape\" of movement that communicates character, emotion and intention, while only certain scenes required the exact synchronisation of step and music essential to other dance styles, so that, to Laban, modern Europeans seemed totally unable to grasp the meaning of \"primitive rhythmic movements\", a situation that began to change in the 20th century with such productions as Igor Stravinsky's \"The Rite of Spring\" with its new rhythmic language evoking primal feelings of a primitive past.\n\nIndian classical dance styles, like ballet, are often in dramatic form, so that there is a similar complementarity between narrative expression and \"pure\" dance. In this case, however, the two are separately defined, though not always separately performed. The rhythmic elements, which are abstract and technical, are known as \"nritta\". Both this and expressive dance \"(nritya)\", though, are closely tied to the rhythmic system (\"tala\"). Teachers have adapted the spoken rhythmic mnemonic system called \"bol\" to the needs of dancers.\n\nJapanese classical dance-theatre styles such as Kabuki and Noh, like Indian dance-drama, distinguish between narrative and abstract dance productions. The three main categories of kabuki are \"jidaimono\" (historical), \"sewamono\" (domestic) and \"shosagoto\" (dance pieces). Somewhat similarly, Noh distinguishes between \"Geki Noh\", based around the advancement of plot and the narration of action, and \"Furyū Noh\", dance pieces involving acrobatics, stage properties, multiple characters and elaborate stage action.\n\nSocial dances, those intended for participation rather than for an audience, may include various forms of mime and narrative, but are typically set much more closely to the rhythmic pattern of music, so that terms like waltz and polka refer as much to musical pieces as to the dance itself. The rhythm of the dancers' feet may even form an essential part of the music, as in tap dance. African dance, for example, is rooted in fixed basic steps, but may also allow a high degree of rhythmic interpretation: the feet or the trunk mark the basic pulse while cross-rhythms are picked up by shoulders, knees, or head, with the best dancers simultaneously giving plastic expression to all the elements of the polyrhythmic pattern.\n\nDance in Africa is deeply integrated into society and major events in a community are frequently reflected in dances: dances are performed for births and funerals, weddings and wars. Traditional dances impart cultural morals, including religious traditions and sexual standards; give vent to repressed emotions, such as grief; motivate community members to cooperate, whether fighting wars or grinding grain; enact spiritual rituals; and contribute to social cohesiveness.\n\nThousands of dances are performed around the continent. These may be divided into traditional, neotraditional, and classical styles: folkloric dances of a particular society, dances created more recently in imitation of traditional styles, and dances transmitted more formally in schools or private lessons. African dance has been altered by many forces, such as European missionaries and colonialist governments, who often suppressed local dance traditions as licentious or distracting. Dance in contemporary African cultures still serves its traditional functions in new contexts; dance may celebrate the inauguration of a hospital, build community for rural migrants in unfamiliar cities, and be incorporated into Christian church ceremonies.\n\nAll Indian classical dances are to varying degrees rooted in the \"Natyashastra\" and therefore share common features: for example, the \"mudra\"s (hand positions), some body positions, and the inclusion of dramatic or expressive acting or abhinaya. Indian classical music provides accompaniment and dancers of nearly all the styles wear bells around their ankles to counterpoint and complement the percussion.\n\nThere are now many regional varieties of Indian classical dance. Dances like \"Odra Magadhi\", which after decades long debate, has been traced to present day Mithila, Odisha region's dance form of Odissi (Orissi), indicate influence of dances in cultural interactions between different regions.\n\nThe Punjab area overlapping India and Pakistan is the place of origin of Bhangra. It is widely known both as a style of music and a dance. It is mostly related to ancient harvest celebrations, love, patriotism or social issues. Its music is coordinated by a musical instrument called the 'Dhol'. Bhangra is not just music but a dance, a celebration of the harvest where people beat the dhol (drum), sing Boliyaan (lyrics) and dance. It developed further with the Vaisakhi festival of the Sikhs.\n\nThe dances of Sri Lanka include the devil dances (\"yakun natima\"), a carefully crafted ritual reaching far back into Sri Lanka's pre-Buddhist past that combines ancient \"Ayurvedic\" concepts of disease causation with psychological manipulation and combines many aspects including Sinhalese cosmology. Their influence can be seen on the classical dances of Sri Lanka.\n\nThe dances of the Middle East are usually the traditional forms of circle dancing which are modernized to an extent. They would include dabke, tamzara, Assyrian folk dance, Kurdish dance, Armenian dance and Turkish dance, among others. All these forms of dances would usually involve participants engaging each other by holding hands or arms (depending on the style of the dance). They would make rhythmic moves with their legs and shoulders as they curve around the dance floor. The head of the dance would generally hold a cane or handkerchief.\n\nFolk dances vary across Europe and may date back hundreds or thousands of years, but many have features in common such as group participation led by a caller, hand-holding or arm-linking between participants, and fixed musical forms known as caroles. Some, such as the maypole dance are common to many nations, while others such as the céilidh and the polka are deeply-rooted in a single culture. Some European folk dances such as the square dance were brought to the New World and subsequently became part of American culture.\n\nBallet developed first in Italy and then in France from lavish court spectacles that combined music, drama, poetry, song, costumes and dance. Members of the court nobility took part as performers. During the reign of Louis XIV, himself a dancer, dance became more codified. Professional dancers began to take the place of court amateurs, and ballet masters were licensed by the French government. The first ballet dance academy was the Académie Royale de Danse (Royal Dance Academy), opened in Paris in 1661. Shortly thereafter, the first institutionalized ballet troupe, associated with the Academy, was formed; this troupe began as an all-male ensemble but by 1681 opened to include women as well.\n\n20th century concert dance brought an explosion of innovation in dance style characterized by an exploration of freer technique. Early pioneers of what became known as modern dance include Loie Fuller, Isadora Duncan, Mary Wigman and Ruth St. Denis. The relationship of music to dance serves as the basis for Eurhythmics, devised by Emile Jaques-Dalcroze, which was influential to the development of Modern dance and modern ballet through artists such as Marie Rambert. Eurythmy, developed by Rudolf Steiner and Marie Steiner-von Sivers, combines formal elements reminiscent of traditional dance with the new freer style, and introduced a complex new vocabulary to dance. In the 1920s, important founders of the new style such as Martha Graham and Doris Humphrey began their work. Since this time, a wide variety of dance styles have been developed; see Modern dance.\nAfrican American dance developed in everyday spaces, rather than in dance studios, schools or companies. Tap dance, disco, jazz dance, swing dance, hip hop dance, the lindy hop with its relationship to rock and roll music and rock and roll dance have had a global influence. Dance styles fusing classical ballet technique with African-American dance have also appeared in the 21st century, including Hiplet.\n\nDance is central to Latin American social life and culture. Brazilian Samba, Argentinian tango, and Cuban salsa are internationally popular partner dances, and other national dances—merengue, cueca, plena, jarabe, joropo, marinera, cumbia, and others—are important components of their respective countries' cultures. Traditional Carnival festivals incorporate these and other dances in enormous celebrations.\n\nDance has played an important role in forging a collective identity among the many cultural and ethnic groups of Latin America. Dance served to unite the many African, European, and indigenous peoples of the region. Certain dance genres, such as capoeira, and body movements, especially the characteristic \"quebrada\" or pelvis swing, have been variously banned and celebrated throughout Latin American history.\n\nHip Hop originated in New York, specifically in the area known as the Bronx. It was created for those who struggled in society and didn't seem to have a voice in the community that surrounded them because of their lack of wealth. It helped those in the same situation come together and speak about difficult topics by using movement and feeling.\n\nDance studies are offered through the arts and humanities programs of many higher education institutions. Some universities offer Bachelor of Arts and higher academic degrees in Dance. A dance study curriculum may encompass a diverse range of courses and topics, including dance practice and performance, choreography, ethnochoreology, kinesiology, dance notation, and dance therapy.\n\nProfessional dancers are usually employed on contract or for particular performances or productions. The professional life of a dancer is generally one of constantly changing work situations, strong competitive pressure and low pay. Consequently, professional dancers often must supplement their incomes to achieve financial stability. In the U.S. many professional dancers belong to unions (such as the American Guild of Musical Artists, Screen Actors Guild and Actors' Equity Association) that establish working conditions and minimum salaries for their members. Professional dancers must possess large amounts of athleticism. To lead a successful career, it is advantageous to be versatile in many styles of dance, have a strong technical background and to utilize other forms of physical training to remain fit and healthy.\n\nDance teachers typically focus on teaching dance performance, or coaching competitive dancers, or both. They typically have performance experience in the types of dance they teach or coach. For example, dancesport teachers and coaches are often tournament dancers or former dancesport performers. Dance teachers may be self-employed, or employed by dance schools or general education institutions with dance programs. Some work for university programs or other schools that are associated with professional classical dance (e.g., ballet) or modern dance companies. Others are employed by smaller, privately owned dance schools that offer dance training and performance coaching for various types of dance.\n\nChoreographers are often university trained and are typically employed for particular projects or, more rarely may work on contract as the resident choreographer for a specific dance company.\n\nA dance competition is an organized event in which contestants perform dances before a judge or judges for awards, and in some cases, monetary prizes. There are several major types of dance competitions, distinguished primarily by the style or styles of dances performed. Major types of dance competitions include:\n\nIn addition, there are numerous dance competitions shows presented on television and other mass media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4154464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4154464", "title": "Dance squad", "text": "Dance squad\n\nA dance squad or dance team, sometimes called a pom squad or song team, is a team of participants that participates in competitive dance. In a routine, a squad will incorporate a specific dance style (i.e. hip hop, jazz, or lyrical), technical work (leaps, turns, kicks, splits, jumps), and, depending on the routine, pom-poms and/or cheers. A pom squad slightly differs from a regular dance squad in that it uses pom-poms in all its dance routines, whilst a regular dance squad may or may not do pom work in a dance routine. Dance teams are also popular in performance dance, especially at sporting events, most commonly performing during the pre-game and halftime periods (and, in a number of cases, on the sidelines) of football and basketball games.\n\nDance is a highly competitive activity. Youth/association, middle school, high school, collegiate, all-star, and professional teams, compete on local, regional, state, national, and international levels. Teams are judged on a number of criteria including form, team unison, showmanship, precision of motions, jumps, leaps, turns, choreography, enthusiasm, and, in the case of pom squads, visual use of poms-poms. Pom squads are like cheerleading or dance, but they use poms (pom-poms). Pom squads also use kicklines in their routines, after they set down their poms, or choose to hold them during the kickline. A kickline routine is a routine of kicks, which cheerleaders also use: high kicks, fan kicks, low kicks, and kicks that go to their waist. Pom squads regularly compete in competitions and perform at sporting events.\n\nDance squads emphasize precise, synchronized motions along with technical dance skills (such as jumps, turns, and leaps). Their routines encompass various styles of dance including the more usually incorporated hip hop, jazz, lyrical, and kickline styles, to the more unusually used styles like disco, rock and roll, and gospel. A key feature of the dance is the ability to change formations very smoothly.\n\nTraditional high school dance/pom squads include competition, performance dance, and promoting school spirit with dance. Dance/pom is usually a year-round sport, performing in competitions and at sporting events, most commonly football and basketball games. Some schools also have their dance team perform short sideline dances, and some dance teams also perform at school pep rallies.\n\nCollege dance squads are like traditional high school squads in that both include competition and performance dance, but there are many differences between the two. For example, a college squad will most likely dance on the sidelines at games or have a specific spot in the stands, whereas high schools usually reserve this activity for cheerleaders.\n\nThe U.S. All Star Federation governs all-star dance-pom squads.\n\nTryouts for all-star dance squads may be conducted in different ways. Some teams have only one tryout in the spring, whereas others may have a tryout in the spring and another in the fall. Some squads have year-round open tryouts where anyone can try out at any time during the season. The opportunity to compete in many large competitions attracts dancers to all-star programs. All-star dance teams can compete regionally, nationally, and even internationally.\n\nMost high schools in Texas have a precision dance/drill team, usually with 25-75 members. The traditional uniform for teams typically includes a white hat and white boots, with team officers wearing a solid white uniform while the line members wear school colors. Teams perform visual routines at football games, both in the stands during the game, and on the field at halftime. During the spring, teams often perform at basketball game halftimes, and compete in many different dance styles at competitions sponsored by dance and drill team companies. They often conclude the year with a spring show in late April or early May.\n\nTexas dance/drill teams are structured with a chain of command similar to the military including captains and lieutenants leading squads. Traditionally, Texas drill teams have been all female, but males have auditioned and been selected to teams in recent years.\n\nSeveral colleges in Texas also have dance teams. Well-known teams include the Kilgore College Rangerettes and the Tyler Junior College Apache Belles. A fierce but friendly rivalry between KC & TJC has existed since the Apache Belles were formed in 1947. The Rangerettes were the first college drill team created in 1939 by Miss Gussie Nell Davis.\n\nIn 1960, Barbara Tidwell, a former Kilgore College Rangerette, created the Strutters at Southwest Texas State University (now Texas State University), the first precision dance team created at a four-year university.\n\nIn Minnesota, competitive high school dance team is regulated under the Minnesota State High School League. The season begins after a two-week choreography period in October and ends after the state tournament in February each year. Team selection is led by the coaching staff in a tryout process individual to each participating school.\n\nTeams within this league are able to compete in one of three class divisions: A, AA, or AAA and in one or both of two categories: high kick or jazz. The high kick division requires a routine that ranges from 2:30 to 3:00 in length, contains 45-60 kicks performed by all members, and consists of up to 34 competing members. The jazz division has a range between 2:30 and 3:00 in length and may have up to 26 competing members. Music selection is done by the coaching staff and/or members of the team. Throughout the state, a wide variety of costume styles are worn to enhance the theme or mood of each routine.\n\nDuring the competition season, teams compete within their designated conference, at team invites, within designated sections, and may qualify to compete at the state tournament. Visit MSHSL dance team judging for more information on dance team scoring process. In addition to competitions, MSHSL dance teams also can perform at invitationals and school events including pep fests and basketball games.\n\nProfessional cheerleading incorporates a lot of pom dance styles, particularly in NFL Cheerleading and NBA Cheerleading.\n\nMany dance squads both in high school and college require everyone to attend a tryout. These are typically held in the spring or early summer, before most sports begin. There are many different aspects of a tryout. The first thing many tryouts do is go through basic dance techniques that will be used during the season. These include but are not limited to toe touches, fouetté turn combinations, kicks, and switch leaps. Other things that are many times included in a dance team tryout is the expectation that you can quickly master multiple short routines in different styles. Depending on what type of dance team the tryout is for will depend on what styles of dance you must know. NDA teams compete with routines that must incorporate jazz, hip hop, and pom styles, so many times you will learn a routine in each of these types of dance and then perform them shortly thereafter in front of a panel of judges.\n\nIn 1967, the legendary Dr. Kay Teer Crawford (1914-2001) founded Miss Dance Drill Team USA, which is historically verified as the first national dance team competition for precision dance teams, drill teams, and dance-sport teams in the United States. This event is recognized as the origin of the worldwide dance competition industry and hosts dance squads from elementary schools, secondary schools, and dance studios from across the United States. In 1981, Crawford started the world's first international dance/drill competition (Miss Dance Drill Team International World Championships) which has regularly hosted past international dance teams from the United States, Australia, Bulgaria, Canada, England, Germany, Japan, Korea, Lithuania, Mexico, New Zealand, Poland, Singapore, and South Africa. In 1991, Crawford founded the world's first national hip hop dance competition: National Street Dance USA. All events are held in the continental United States, with national events held in California each year. The international dance competition has been held in Japan, Australia, South Africa, and the United States.\n\nChampion Tours & Events, Inc. conducts competitions for secondary school and all-star dance teams. It holds national competitions in New York City at the College of Staten Island, in Los Angeles at the Mater Dei High School, and in Orlando, Florida at the University of Central Florida.\n\nThe Universal Dance Association, founded in 1980, holds a national championship for high school, college, and all-star dance teams at Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando, Florida. Approximately 300 high school, college, and all-star teams compete at the competition annually.\n\n"}
{"id": "51909982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51909982", "title": "Donald Trump Access Hollywood tape", "text": "Donald Trump Access Hollywood tape\n\nOn October 7, 2016, during the 2016 United States presidential election, \"The Washington Post\" published a video and accompanying article about then-presidential candidate Donald Trump and television host Billy Bush having \"an extremely lewd conversation about women\" in 2005. Trump and Bush were in a bus on their way to film an episode of \"Access Hollywood\" (now \"Access\"), a show owned by NBCUniversal. In the video, Trump described his attempt to seduce a married woman and indicated he might start kissing a woman that he and Bush were about to meet. He added, \"I don't even wait. And when you're a star, they let you do it. You can do anything. Grab them by the pussy. You can do anything.\" Commentators and lawyers have described such an action as sexual assault.\n\nNews of the recording broke two days before the second 2016 presidential debate between Trump, the Republican nominee, and Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. Trump gave a statement in which he apologized for the video's content, but deflected by saying that Bill Clinton had \"said far worse to me on the golf course\". The recording provoked strong reactions by media figures and politicians across the political spectrum. Statements from Republican officials were varied. Some, including Trump's vice-presidential running mate Mike Pence, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, and Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus, indicated their disapproval of Trump's words but did not renounce their support or call for his resignation from the ticket. Other Republicans, most prominently former presidential nominee John McCain, stated that they would no longer support Trump's presidential campaign, and some called for his withdrawal from the ticket. House Speaker Paul Ryan announced that he would no longer defend or support Trump's campaign, although he did not officially retract his endorsement of Trump. Bush resigned from his position as a host on NBC's \"Today\" show, while Trump received allegations of sexual misconduct from several women.\n\nThe video was recorded in September 2005 in the NBC Studios parking lot while Trump was preparing to appear in an episode of the NBC soap opera \"Days of Our Lives\". \"Access Hollywood\", a syndicated entertainment news program owned by NBCUniversal, conducted a behind-the-scenes interview with Trump about the guest appearance in which Trump and Bush arrived in a tour bus for the \"Access Across America\" series of segments produced in commemoration of the program's 10th season. It features audio of Trump talking with Billy Bush, then co-anchor of \"Access Hollywood\", on a bus embellished with the show's name. Trump and Bush were wearing microphones, which recorded their casual conversation. Trump was later described as \"apparently aware at the time that he was being recorded by a TV program\".\n\nAccording to an \"Access Hollywood\" spokesperson, there were seven other people on the bus: a camera crew of two, the bus driver, the show's producer, a production assistant, Trump's security guard, and Trump's public relations representative. Upon arriving at the lot, the camera crew was let off the bus so they could record Trump and Bush disembarking and meeting with Arianne Zucker, who portrayed Nicole Walker on the soap opera and appeared alongside Trump in the episode in which he guest starred.\n\nIn the video, Trump tells Billy Bush about a failed attempt to seduce Nancy O'Dell, who was Bush's co-host at the time (circa 2005) of the recording:\n\nLater, referring to Arianne Zucker (whom they were waiting to meet), Trump says:\n\nAccording to \"Access Hollywood\", the discovery of the video was prompted by \"Mr. Trump's denial of claims contained in an Associated Press story in which 20 former \"Apprentice\" employees described Mr. Trump's behavior toward women as lewd and inappropriate.\" An NBC source said that an \"Access Hollywood\" producer remembered the conversation on Monday, October 3, and located it in the show's archives. The celebrity news website \"TMZ\" reports a different chronology: when senior executives at NBC learned about the video, they thought it was too early in the presidential campaign season to release it with maximum effect, and (according to \"TMZ\") those executives publicly said they learned of the video long after they actually learned about it.\n\nNBC discussed whether to release the tape and had lawyers review the legality of the publication, as is common among other news media due to the possibility that the involved parties might file a lawsuit if the video was released. By Tuesday, October 4, NBC had drafted a story that it declined to broadcast for another three days. On Friday, October 7, at around 11 a.m., an unidentified source gave a copy of the tape to \"Washington Post\" reporter David Fahrenthold, who contacted NBC for comment, notified the Trump campaign that he had the video, obtained confirmation of its authenticity, and released a story and the tape itself by 4 p.m. Alerted that the \"Post\" might release the story immediately, NBC News released its own story \"mere minutes\" after the \"Post\" story was published.\n\nBy that evening, the \"Post\" story had become \"the most concurrently viewed article in the history of the \"Post\" website\" with more than 100,000 people reading it on the afternoon of October 7. The \"Post\" servers went offline for a short period that day due to the surge in web traffic. This story would later be one of the articles for which Fahrenthold received the Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting.<ref name=\"Pulitzer_4/10/2017\"></ref>\n\nReaction was swift, with Trump's general election opponent Hillary Clinton among the first political figures to respond to the tape, tweeting shortly after its release, \"This is horrific. We cannot allow this man to become president.\" Clinton's VP running mate Tim Kaine said of the tape, \"It makes me sick to my stomach ... I'm sad to say that I'm not surprised.\" At the second presidential debate two days later, Clinton said of the tape, \"With prior Republican nominees for president, I disagreed with them, politics, policies, principles, but I never questioned their fitness to serve. Donald Trump is different.\"\n\nIn the second episode of season 42 of \"Saturday Night Live\" (first aired on October 8), Alec Baldwin parodied the controversy as Donald Trump. Samantha Bee, the host of \"Full Frontal with Samantha Bee\", reversed the gender roles in the video and issued an \"apology\" for the parodied video on Twitter. Singer-songwriter Carly Simon donated her 1972 song \"You're So Vain\" for use in an anti-Trump advertisement—the first time she has ever allowed its use for political purposes—and announced her opposition to Trump in response to the tape.\n\nTouching a person's genitals without consent (also known as groping) is considered sexual assault in most jurisdictions in the United States. Many attorneys and media commentators characterized Trump's statements as describing acts of sexual assault. Lisa Bloom, a sexual harassment expert and civil rights lawyer, stated: \"Let's be very clear, he is talking about sexual assault. He is talking about grabbing a woman's genitals without her consent.\" Trump and some of his supporters claimed that Trump was not saying he committed a sexual assault, or denied that groping is sexual assault. Journalist Emily Crockett says that this is further evidence of a trend to minimize sexual assaults against women.\n\nJohn Banzhaf, a George Washington University public interest law professor, stated, \"if Trump suddenly and without any warning reached out and grabbed a woman's crotch or breast, it would rather clearly constitute sexual assault,\" as indicated in Trump's statement \"I don't even wait.\" It has been argued, however, that despite Trump having stated \"I don't even wait,\" his full remarks could imply something akin to consent. This is pointed out by Trump's full remarks having included the statement \"and when you're a star, they let you do it. You can do anything.\"\n\nIt brought further media comment on Trump's history of criticizing women for their looks, among other remarks criticized as sexist. On October 8, CNN aired segments from multiple interviews Trump gave to \"The Howard Stern Show\" prior to his political career in which he made comments similar to those on the \"Access Hollywood\" tape. In September 2004, Trump comments on his daughter Ivanka's body and, when asked, tells Stern that it is okay for him to call his daughter \"a piece of ass\".\n\nWhile the controversy has focused mainly on Trump, Bush also faced backlash as a result of the tape, mainly due to his statement that Zucker \"[is] hot as shit\" and his goading her into hugging Trump after they get off the bus. Bush received online criticism and calls for his resignation from \"The Today Show\", where he was an anchor at the time. \"The Washington Post\" stated, \"Bush's public image was damaged—perhaps beyond repair.\" There were so many negative comments on Bush's social media accounts following the tape's release that his Twitter account was taken down on the evening of October 7. That evening, Bush issued an apology, saying, \"Obviously I'm embarrassed and ashamed. It's no excuse, but this happened eleven years ago—I was younger, less mature, and acted foolishly in playing along. I'm very sorry.\"\n\nThe controversy has led to speculation that Bush's spot on \"Today\" could be in jeopardy, both because of the backlash against him on social media and the possibility that the tape's release could create a toxic work environment between Bush and the show's mostly female production staff. NBC executives confirmed on the evening of October 8 that Bush's job was safe and he would address the controversy on the October 10 episode of \"Today\". \"Politico\" noted that the audience of \"Today\" is disproportionately female so that a significant ratings drop in the wake of the controversy could still lead to Bush's dismissal. On Monday, October 10, NBC reversed course and announced that Bush would be suspended from \"Today\" indefinitely pending further review; as he was an anchor, his suspension was briefly addressed during that day's broadcast. One day later, on October 11, multiple media sources reported that NBC was \"negotiating his exit\". On October 17, NBC announced that Bush had resigned.\n\nBush's status as a member of the Bush family (specifically, as the cousin of former President George W. Bush and the nephew of former president George H. W. Bush) was also noted in the wake of the controversy. \"The Economist\" noted, \"Who would have thought that Mr. Bush, a presenter of NBC's \"Today\" news show, could end up playing a more influential role in this election than his cousin Jeb, whom many Republicans had expected to win it?\"\n\nNancy O'Dell, the married woman that Trump spoke of, said: \n\nPolitics aside, I'm saddened that these comments still exist in our society at all. When I heard the comments yesterday, it was disappointing to hear such objectification of women. The conversation needs to change because no female, no person, should be the subject of such crass comments, whether or not cameras are rolling. Everyone deserves respect no matter the setting or gender. As a woman who has worked very hard to establish her career, and as a mom, I feel I must speak out with the hope that as a society we will always strive to be better.\n\nIn response to having their product referenced by Trump on the tape, Tic Tac issued a statement on Twitter stating, \"Tic Tac respects all women. We find the recent statements and behavior completely inappropriate and unacceptable.\"\n\nReacting to her unwitting role in this incident, Zucker wrote on TwitLonger, \"How we treat one another, whether behind closed doors, locker rooms or face to face, should be done with kindness, dignity and respect.\"\n\nThe incident was condemned by numerous prominent Republicans. Republican National Committee (RNC) Chairman Reince Priebus said, \"No woman should ever be described in these terms or talked about in this manner. Ever.\" The RNC suspended all support of Trump's campaign shortly thereafter. Former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential nominee in 2012, tweeted, \"Hitting on married women? Condoning assault? Such vile degradations demean our wives and daughters and corrupt America's face to the world.\" Ohio governor John Kasich, a former primary rival to Trump, called the remarks \"indefensible\"; former Florida governor Jeb Bush, also a former primary rival, called them \"reprehensible\".\nSenate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell also denounced the video, but continued to support Trump. Paul Ryan, the House Speaker, disinvited Trump from a scheduled campaign rally, announced that he would no longer defend or support Trump's presidential campaign, and in a highly unusual move he freed down-ticket congressional members to use their own judgment, saying \"you all need to do what's best for you and your district.\"\n\nMany members of the Republican Party rescinded their endorsements as a result of the release of the video, including Governors Bill Haslam and Robert J. Bentley; Representatives Bradley Byrne, Jason Chaffetz, and Joe Heck; and Senators Kelly Ayotte, Mike Crapo, and John McCain. Former California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, who had previously kept his opinion private throughout the campaign, released a statement: \"For the first time since I became a citizen in 1983, I will not vote for the Republican candidate for president ... As proud as I am to label myself a Republican, there is one label that I hold above all else — American.\" By October 11, \"nearly a third\" of Senate Republicans said they would not vote for Trump. Other Republicans expressed continued support for Trump, including former 2016 Republican candidate Ben Carson, evangelical leaders Tony Perkins and Ralph E. Reed Jr., and former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski. Other evangelical leaders, particularly the Southern Baptist Convention Ethics and Policy Director, Dr. Russell D. Moore, publicly rebuked evangelical leaders who still supported Trump. In a tweet, Ted Cruz questioned why NBC, who had possession of the tape, sat on it for 11 years.\n\nBy October 8, several dozen Republicans had called for Trump to withdraw from the campaign and let his VP running mate, Mike Pence, take over the Republican ticket. Among those favoring a Pence takeover were former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., U.S. Senators Dan Sullivan of Alaska, Cory Gardner of Colorado and Deb Fischer of Nebraska, and U.S. Representatives Jason Chaffetz of Utah, Bradley Byrne of Alabama, Rodney Davis of Illinois, and Ann Wagner of Missouri.\n\nPence himself released a statement on October 8, saying, \"As a husband and father, I was offended by the words and actions described by Donald Trump in the eleven-year-old video released yesterday ... I do not condone his remarks and cannot defend them.\" However, he said he still supported Trump since he \"has expressed remorse and apologized to the American people.\"\n\nTrump insisted he would never drop out. As of October 8, depending upon the state:\nFor these reasons, commentators said that it would have been very difficult, if not impossible, to replace Trump as the Republican nominee.\n\nAs the day wore on, a growing number of Republicans went beyond criticizing Trump's remarks or rescinding endorsements of him and began calling for Trump to drop out of the presidential race, ceding the Republican nomination to another person. On the afternoon of October 8, Trump responded with a tweet: \"The media and establishment want me out of the race so badly - I WILL NEVER DROP OUT OF THE RACE, WILL NEVER LET MY SUPPORTERS DOWN! #MAGA\".\n\nThe Republican National Committee continued to support Trump, and within the next couple of days, several of the Republicans who wanted Trump to drop out said that they were still voting for him. Steve Bannon said in an interview on \"60 Minutes\" that response to the controversy served as a \"litmus test\" for Trump's Republican allies. For example, according to Bannon, Chris Christie was denied a Cabinet position because he said Trump's comments were \"completely indefensible\".\n\nTrump acknowledged making the remarks, but tried to deflect by saying that Bill and Hillary Clinton had said and done worse.\n\nAfter the release of the \"Access Hollywood\" video, Trump's first public response came in the form of a written statement published on his campaign website:\n\nEarly on Saturday morning, October 8, Donald Trump issued a lengthier statement, released by video. In it, Trump said of the video's contents, \"I said it, I was wrong, and I apologize.\" He went on to \"pledge to be a better man\" and ended the video with the allegation that Bill Clinton, former President of the United States and husband of Trump's Democratic rival Hillary Clinton, had \"abused women\", and that Hillary had bullied her husband's victims. Trump's video ended with assurances that the Clinton allegations would be discussed in coming days. Trump's statement was criticized severely by the media and members of the public as insincere, and an attempt to divert attention away from Trump's comments and onto unsubstantiated accusations against his political opponents. Trump tweeted the next day: \"Certainly has been an interesting 24 hours!\" On October 10, Trump was also questioned about the tape during the second presidential debate of his campaign. He reiterated that it was \"locker room talk\", then said, \"I'm not proud of it. I apologize to my family. I apologize to the American people.\"\n\nTrump's wife Melania said, \"The words my husband used are unacceptable and offensive to me. This does not represent the man that I know.\" She added that she hopes \"people will accept his apology, as I have\".\n\nIn 2017, it was reported that Trump had questioned the authenticity of the tape in multiple private conversations that year, including one with a Republican senator, even though he had already acknowledged that the voice was his, and apologized, after the tape was revealed.\n\nIn January 2017, shortly before his inauguration, Mr. Trump told a Republican senator that he wanted to investigate the recording that had him boasting about grabbing women's genitals.\n\nThe release of the tape led to a renewed anticipation towards the October 9 debate between Trump and Hillary Clinton, as it would be the first time for each candidate to directly address the controversy. Less than two hours before the debate began, Trump held a surprise press conference in St. Louis with Paula Jones, Kathleen Willey, and Juanita Broaddrick, who have previously accused Bill Clinton of sexual misconduct, and Kathy Shelton, a rape victim whose rapist had been represented in the 1970s by Hillary, an appointed public defender. Describing the conference as his \"debate prep\", Trump described the women as \"courageous\" and \"victims of the Clintons\", with each of the women repeating their grievances with the Clintons. At the conference, Trump refused to answer journalists' questions about the \"Access Hollywood\" tape. Clinton's campaign dismissed the conference as \"an act of desperation\" and denounced Trump's \"destructive race to the bottom\". First Lady Michelle Obama said referring to the controversy, \"It has shaken me to my core in a way that I couldn't have predicted.\"\n\nDuring the debate itself, co-moderator Anderson Cooper pressed Trump about whether the conversation on the tape meant that Trump had committed sexual assault. Trump said it \"was locker room talk\" and \"I'm not proud of it,\" and said he wanted to move on to other things, but finally responded \"I have not.\" It was later revealed that Trump had arranged for the women to sit in his family box and that they were to walk into the audience at the same time as Bill and confront him on live TV, but debate officials intervened and prevented the planned stunt from happening. The Associated Press later reported that Willey and Shelton had previously been financially compensated by Trump ally Roger Stone during the campaign.\n\nShortly after the story first broke on October 7, Canadian writer Kelly Oxford posted on Twitter, \"Women: tweet me your first assaults. they aren't just stats.\" Within hours, the tweet had gone viral, receiving thousands of responses, many of them relating to stories of sexual assaults on women. Over 30 million people viewed or replied to Oxford's tweet within a week.\n\nNumerous professional athletes and coaches rejected Trump's claim that what he said on the tape was \"locker room talk\", saying that such comments were not normal or acceptable. Los Angeles Clippers head coach Doc Rivers said, \"[If Trump's comments are locker room talk] that's a new locker room for me.\" Oakland Athletics pitcher Sean Doolittle tweeted, \"As an athlete, I've been in locker rooms my entire adult life and uh, that's not locker room talk.\" Kansas City Chiefs wide receiver Chris Conley tweeted, \"Just for reference. I work in a locker room (every day) ... that is not locker room talk. Just so you know ...\" Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Brett Anderson tweeted, \"What kind of fucked up locker rooms has Donald Trump been in ...\" NBA point guard Kendall Marshall tweeted, \"PSA: sexual advances without consent is NOT locker room talk.\" LA Galaxy midfielder Robbie Rogers tweeted, \"I'm offended as an athlete that @realDonaldTrump keeps using this \"locker room talk\" as an excuse.\" Olympic hurdler and sprinter Queen Harrison tweeted, \"Locker room talk,' 'Boys will be boys,' 'Harmless banter.' These are not valid excuses for behavior. Never have been, never will be.\" Atlanta Falcons tight end Jacob Tamme tweeted, \"It's not normal. And even if it were normal, it's not right.\" These responses also prompted the creation of the hashtag #NotInMyLockerRoom.\n\nEleven months after the footage was leaked, retired professional boxer Floyd Mayweather defended Trump's comments stating, \"People don't like the truth ... He speak like a real man spoke.\" He added, \"So he talking locker room talk. Locker room talk. 'I'm the man, you know what I'm saying? You know who I am. Yeah, I grabbed her by the p---y. And?'\"\n\nThe backlash from the comments prompted a \"Pussy Grabs Back\" hashtag urging women to vote against Trump on Election Day. Anti-Trump memes featuring cat imagery spread on social media. \"The Guardian\" wrote that an image of a snarling cat became a \"rallying cry for female rage against Trump\".\n\nTrump's denial that he ever kissed or groped women without consent led to more accusations by several women that Trump sexually assaulted them. Trump's campaign denied the allegations.\n\nIn response to the recording, Shannon Coulter started a viral campaign called #GrabYourWallet, which urges individuals to boycott various companies that sell Trump related products. Various companies have since dropped Trump's products in response to the boycott, including Shoes.com, Nordstrom, Bergdorf Goodman, and Neiman Marcus.\n\nOn October 9, former staffers of Trump's reality show \"The Apprentice\" and journalist Geraldo Rivera said that they both individually have more damaging tapes of Trump, but did not say if they would be released to the public. Rivera later stated that he had searched his files and that he could not find anything relevant to the scandal.\n\nSince the tape's release, Bill Pruitt, a producer of the first two seasons of the television series \"The Apprentice\", claims there is recorded behind the scenes footage of Trump saying things that are \"far worse\". NBC's news division does not have access to the archives of the series. Another \"Apprentice\" producer, Chris Nee, claimed on Twitter that Trump said \"the N-word\" in the archived footage. Nee later deleted the tweet. A GoFundMe campaign was launched on October 9 with the goal of raising $5.1 million to release more tapes. The campaign is known as the \"Trump Sunlight Campaign\". Nee wrote on Twitter to Mark Cuban that there is a $5 million penalty fee if the footage is leaked. A few days later, the campaign managed to raise just over $32,000. David Brock said he would pay the penalty to release tapes from \"The Apprentice\".\n\nIn October 2018, a Florida man was arrested and charged with abusive sexual contact, after groping a woman aboard a Southwest Airlines flight. The woman told police when the plane landed that the accused had attempted to touch her breasts twice during the trip. When questioned by police he referenced a quote [\"Grab them by the pussy\"] from the tape, and that the President of the United States says it's okay to grab women by their private parts.\n\n"}
{"id": "528107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528107", "title": "E!", "text": "E!\n\nE! (originally an initialism of Entertainment Television) is an American basic cable and satellite television channel that is owned by the NBCUniversal Cable Entertainment Group division of NBCUniversal, all owned by Comcast.\n\nAs of January 2016, E! is available to 92.4 million households in America.\n\nE! was originally launched on July 31, 1987, as Movietime, a service that aired movie trailers, entertainment news, event and awards coverage, and interviews as an early example of a national barker channel. The channel was founded by Larry Namer and Alan Mruvka. Early Movietime hosts included Greg Kinnear, Paula Abdul, Katie Wagner, Julie Moran, Suzanne Kay (daughter of Diahann Carroll), Mark DeCarlo, Sam Rubin and Richard Blade.\n\nControlling ownership was originally held by a consortium of five cable television providers (Comcast, Continental Cablevision, Cox Cable, TCI, and Warner Cable), HBO/Warner Communications, and various founding shareholders, with HBO directly programming and managing the network. In 1989, after Time-Life bought Warner Communications to fend off a takeover bid by Paramount, the new Time Warner company held four of the eight major ownership positions and took over management control of Movietime and renamed the network as E!: Entertainment Television on June 1, 1990; this name change was made to emphasize its widening coverage of the celebrity–industrial complex, contemporary film, television and music, daily Hollywood gossip, and fashion.\n\nIn 1997, Comcast, one of the minority partners, teamed up with Disney/ABC Cable Networks to buy the channel after Time-Warner had exercised their put agreement. Comcast increased the ownership stakes in the network through mergers with forerunners of TCI and Continental under various circumstances. In November 2006, Comcast acquired Disney's 39.5% share of E! for $1.23 billion to gain full ownership of the network as part of a broader programming carriage agreement between Disney/ABC and Comcast.\n\nIn January 2011, Comcast Entertainment Group, the company's television unit, became a division of the NBCUniversal Television Group, after Comcast acquired a 51% majority stake in NBCUniversal from General Electric. E!'s only sister networks prior to the NBC Universal merger were the now-defunct channels Style Network (then Esquire Network) and G4, along with Comcast's sports networks: Versus, Comcast SportsNet and Golf Channel. In the case of Versus, E! staff produced that network's \"Sports Soup\" and G4's \"Web Soup\", while the Orlando-based Golf Channel featured no crossovers with E! at all due to incompatible audiences and operations. Versus and Golf Channel were taken under the direct control of the NBC Sports division, with the former being renamed NBC Sports Network in January 2012, and are no longer connected to their former sister networks beyond advertising and in-house operations.\n\nOn July 9, 2012, the channel introduced a revised logo (the first change to its logo since the network rebranded as E! in 1990), removing the exclamation mark background behind the \"E\" but keeping the exclamation point underneath, along with a new slogan \"Pop of Culture\", which coincided with the launch of the new series \"Opening Act\". The network also started the process of introducing scripted programming (the first series, \"The Royals\", premiering in March 2015), in addition to its existing reality and documentary series. The changes were announced during E!'s programming upfront presentation on April 30, 2012.\n\nE! is one of the few U.S. general-entertainment cable channels that broadcasts a daily news program; its flagship entertainment news program is \"E! News\", which debuted on September 1, 1991. The weekday program (which also has an hour-long weekend edition) features stories and gossip about celebrities, and the film, music and television industries, and has been broadcast under various formats since its launch, even being aired live for a time during the mid-2000s. It was first hosted by Dagny Hultgreen. Steve Kmetko was a host from 1994-2002. It has been hosted by Terrence Jenkins and Giuliana Rancic since 2012 and 2006, respectively, with Ryan Seacrest (who co-anchored the program from 2006 to 2012) serving as managing editor of the news operation.\n\n\"E! News\" was the only entertainment news show on the channel for much of its history until 2006, when the channel launched \"The Daily 10\", hosted by Sal Masekela and Catt Sadler (Debbie Matenopoulos also co-hosted from the show's inception until 2008); the series was cancelled in September 2010 after E! announced that the weekday editions of \"E! News\" would be expanded to one hour starting on October 25, 2010.\n\nE! also carried a simulcast of business news channel Bloomberg Television from 2004 to January 2009, when the latter network had expanded its cable and satellite carriage to a level that allowed the discontinuation of the simulcast. During its time on E!, the 5 to 8 a.m. block was the most watched period for the network, according to Nielsen Media Research.\n\nOutside \"E! News\" telecasts, the channel runs an \"E! News\"–branded ticker displaying entertainment news headlines each half-hour during regular programming (except during airings of \"E! News\" and \"The Soup\", and the channel's early morning infomercial block) which is updated daily; fast-breaking entertainment headlines (such as a celebrity arrest or death) may also be displayed on a ticker, during any program when warranted.\n\nE! is known for its live red carpet pre-shows for the industry's three prominent award shows, the Primetime Emmy Awards, the Golden Globe Awards, and the Academy Awards, and were famous for their fashion critiques by Joan Rivers; Rivers also hosted post-awards specials under the title \"Fashion Police\", which became a regular weekly series in September 2010. In April 2017, it was announced that E! had acquired the People's Choice Awards, which will move to the network from CBS in 2018 with a new November scheduling. The network promoted that the show would be given an \"end-to-end\" experience that will leverage its existing experience in awards show coverage.\n\nThe network also produces many documentary and biographical series, most notably \"E! True Hollywood Story\"; many of E!'s original specials are entertainment-related ranging from light fare (such as \"25 Cutest Child Stars All Grown Up\") to serious fare (such as \"15 Most Unforgettable Hollywood Tragedies\"). It also produces specials centering on investigative and crime stories including \"E! Investigates\", which features topical investigative reports on subjects ranging from child prostitution to teenage pregnancy.\n\nIn recent years, the network has become known for its reality television programs. Its most popular series as of 2011 is \"Keeping Up with the Kardashians\", which has spawned three spin-offs (\"Kourtney and Khloé Take Miami\", \"Kourtney and Kim Take New York\", and \"Khloe and Lamar\"). Other original programming airing on the network included weekly version of \"Fashion Police\" (which continues as post-awards ceremony specials).\n\nE! has had three comedy programs: the late night talk show \"Chelsea Lately\", hosted by comedian Chelsea Handler, its scripted/improvised spin-off \"After Lately\", and \"The Soup\" (based on the popular 1991-2002 E! series \"Talk Soup\"), featuring clips of the previous week's TV shows with humorous commentary delivered by the host, actor/comedian Joel McHale. Handler also produced \"Love You, Mean It\", a weekly comedic look at pop culture hosted by Whitney Cummings.\n\nOver the years, E! has occasionally run acquired programming including reruns of \"Alice\", \"Absolutely Fabulous\", \"20/20\" lifestyle-based interview shows from ABC (since removed under NBCUniversal ownership), and edited 60-minute versions of \"Saturday Night Live\", though fewer of these programs currently air. The only programming currently airing on E! that it does not produce are broadcast standards-edited reruns of the former HBO series \"Sex and the City\" originally carried by HBO's sister network TBS, and feature films that air under the banner \"Movies We Love\"; the latter was part of a since-abandoned initiative by the network to use films to increase the network's ratings, though the branding remains, and low and mid-grossing female focused films from the Universal Pictures library usually receive their basic cable premiere on E!, with higher-grossing films premiering on USA Network. The network has aired same-week runs of NBC series (such as \"The Voice\", \"Fashion Star\", \"Whitney\", and \"Are You There, Chelsea?\"), and in the past aired previews of G4 programming to give that network an extended promotional platform due to their lowered carriage when it was removed from DirecTV in November 2010.\n\nE! HD is a high definition simulcast feed of E! that launched on December 8, 2008; like the rest of E!'s sister lifestyle and sports networks owned by former parent Comcast Entertainment Group and subsequently the NBC cable networks, the feed broadcasts in the 1080i resolution format. Currently, filmed program content and all of the network's post-2010 programs, along with limited pre-2010 content is carried in the format, with HD programming airing in a letterbox format on the SD channel (some films remain in 480i due to contractual or technical reasons). The HD feed is available on most cable and telco providers, along with both satellite services.\n\nDuring E!'s run as a broadcast service in Canada, the \"E! Ontario\" version of the service until the December 2008 discontinuation of the E! broadcast television system was available in HD over Hamilton, Ontario-based CHCH-TV (channel 11) on its channel 18 digital signal, though the majority of E!'s programming outside American primetime series before the shutdown of the television system was not available in the format.\n\n\"E! Online\" is the online arm of E!, featuring live updates on entertainment news stories; the website includes an online-only entertainment news bulletin titled \"E! News Now\", which is updated each weekday. The website also provides live streaming video of major red carpet events including movie premieres and award shows such as the Academy Awards and the Emmys, along with some blogs involving shows such as \"The Soup\". Columnists featured on the website include Kristin dos Santos (the \"Watch with Kristin\" television blog), Ted Casablanca (\"The Awful Truth\" gossip blog), and Marc Malkin (writer of an eponymous gossip blog and host of a daily video blog on the site).\n\nAs part of the rebrand of the cable channel on July 9, 2012, EOnline.com was redesigned for HTML5, including tablet and mobile devices.\n\nUnlike most international cable channels that have licensed an American cable channel's branding and programming, E! has existed as two separate television channels in Canada – in both broadcast and pay television forms.\n\nOn September 7, 2007, Canwest Global Communications rebranded its CH television system as E! CH originally launched on February 12, 2001 by CHCH/Hamilton, Ontario as a secondary service of the Global Television Network; the CH/E! system would later include four additional Canwest-owned stations in Quebec (CJNT/Montreal), British Columbia (CHEK/Victoria and CHBC/Kelowna) and Alberta (CHCA/Red Deer), and three affiliates owned by Jim Pattison Group in British Columbia (CKPG/Prince George and CFJC/Kamloops) and Alberta (CHAT/Medicine Hat). The E! television system shut down on September 1, 2009 due to low ratings and corporate financial difficulties that eventually led to Canwest filing for bankruptcy protection and selling its properties to Shaw Media for $6.7 million USD; the E! owned-and-operated stations experienced varied fates (CHCH and CJNT were sold to Channel Zero, CHEK was sold to an employee-led group; CHBC remained with Canwest and was converted into a Global O&O, and CHCA ceased operations outright), while the Pattison Group stations affiliated with the Rogers Media-owned Citytv system. As E!, local news and other regional programming, as well as most local community sponsorships on the O&O stations, used local branding (incorporating the callsign branding scheme common with Canadian stations not owned by a network or television system). This decision was at least partly made to avoid confusion with \"E! News\", but likely intended to ensure that local newscasts were not perceived as celebrity-oriented.\n\nThe E! brand would later return to Canada on November 1, 2010, when CTVglobemedia (whose assets are now owned by Bell Media) signed a multi-year/multi-platform agreement with Comcast to rebrand Category 2 specialty channel Star! (which had a similar format to E! U.S. and had carried some of its programming prior to the 2007 rebranding of CH) into a Canadian version of E! on November 29, 2010.\n\nE! is broadcast in Israel by cable provider HOT and by satellite provider yes.\n\nE! Philippines was launched in mid-1997 over-the-air in Metro Manila on DWKC-TV (channel 31), sharing the channel with Cinema Television. In 2000, CTV-31 Manila leased DWKC's entire broadcast day, and branded the channel as E! Philippines. It was originally broadcast 24 hours a day, but eventually reduced in 2001 to a primetime 6-midnight block, before ending in 2003. Some of E!'s programs were brought to the Philippines and remade in a local version, one of which was \"Wild On! Philippines\".\n\nThree years after the relaunch as a standalone cable channel, E! produced its very first original reality series in Asia, \"It Takes Gutz to Be A Gutierrez\" starring the Gutierrez family.\n\n"}
{"id": "40825899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40825899", "title": "ETC HQ", "text": "ETC HQ\n\nETC HQ (stylized as etcHQ) is a Philippine infotainment show that aired on ETC from September 16, 2012 to July 7, 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17046772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17046772", "title": "Fictional portrayals of psychopaths", "text": "Fictional portrayals of psychopaths\n\nFictional portrayals of psychopaths, or sociopaths, are some of the most notorious in film and literature but may only vaguely or partly relate to the concept of psychopathy, which is itself used with varying definitions by mental health professionals, criminologists and others. The character may be identified as a diagnosed/assessed psychopath or sociopath within the fictional work itself, or by its creator when discussing their intentions with the work, which might be distinguished from opinions of audiences or critics based only on a character appearing to show traits or behaviors associated with an undefined popular stereotype of psychopathy.\n\nSuch characters are often portrayed in an exaggerated fashion and typically in the role of a villain or antihero, where the general characteristics of a psychopath are useful to facilitate conflict and danger. Because the definitions and criteria in the history of psychopathy have varied over the years and continue to change even now, many characters in notable films may have been designed to fall under the category of a psychopath at the time of the film's production or release, but not necessarily in subsequent years. There are several stereotypical images of psychopathy in both lay and professional accounts which only partly overlap and can involve contradictory traits: the charming con artist, the deranged serial killer, the successful corporate psychopath, or the chronic low-level offender with juvenile delinquency. The public concept reflects some combination of fear of the mythical bogeyman, fascination with human evil, and sometimes perhaps envy of people who might appear to go through life unencumbered by the same levels of guilt, anguish or insecurity.\n\nIn the 19th century the diagnostic categories of monomania or moral insanity (the word 'moral' then meant either emotional or ethical) made their way into works of literature, covering numerous eccentricities, obsessions or breakdowns—and sometimes acts of apparently senseless criminality, occasionally violent. This period also saw the rise of crime fiction such as sensation novels, where often someone in a local community who appeared normal would turn out to be criminally insane, and detective novels, playing on increasing anxieties about the characters of people in the newly expanding and diversifying industrial cities. The term 'psychopath' came into use in the late 19th century (as did the term it would often be confused with, psychotic), and also spanned a very wide range of conditions (etymologically and originally equivalent to 'mentally ill'). Nevertheless, an early rise to prominence followed its use in a Russian trial between 1883 and 1885 concerning a child murder, contributing to the release of a probable false confessor while the original suspect was found guilty. 'Psychopaths' began to appear in vaudevilles, ditties (songs) and press articles. The psychopathy defense was reported internationally as having enabled a remorseless female child killer to go free, a usage still quoted in dictionaries today.\n\n'Degenerates' were also depicted in popular fiction of the 19th through to mid 20th century, sometimes in similar ways to the modern usages of the concept of psychopaths, sometimes being cited as a cause of psychopathy. The concept fell into disrepute due partly to its use by the Nazis to justify eradicating their opposition.\n\nThe meaning gradually narrowed, initially as 'psychopathic inferiors' covering all of what today might be called personality disorders and various other conditions, then intertwining with the terminology of the 'sociopath' (and eventually antisocial personality disorder), though psychopathy remained variously defined in both broad and narrow ways.\n\nEarly representations of psychopaths in film were often caricatured as sadistic, unpredictable, sexually depraved, and emotionally unstable (manic) characters with a compulsion to engage in random violence and destruction, usually with a series of bizarre mannerisms such as giggling, laughing, or facial tics. Up until the late 1950s, cinematic conventions usually relegated the psychopath to roles of genre villains such as gangsters, mad scientists, supervillains, and many types of generic criminals. Examples of this type are Pinkie Brown (Richard Attenborough) in \"Brighton Rock\", Tommy Udo (Richard Widmark) in \"Kiss of Death\", Cody Jarrett (James Cagney) in \"White Heat\", and Antonio 'Tony' Camonte (Paul Muni) in the 1932 version of \"Scarface\". Homosexuals were also referred to as psychopaths under the broad definition then in use; the American Psychiatric Association in the first Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders in 1952 would list it under 'sociopathic personality disturbance'.\n\nOne exceptional depiction in this period was the character of child murderer Hans Beckert (Peter Lorre) in the 1931 Fritz Lang film \"M\". Lorre portrays Beckert as an outwardly unremarkable man tormented by a compulsion to ritualistically murder children. A German film (allegedly based on the real life serial killer Peter Kürten), it was released in America in 1933 and has been seen as indicative of a turning point in American media depictions of psychopaths. Until the 1930s psychiatrists typically applied the diagnosis to unemployed males or 'hypersexual' women, but several psychiatric, cultural and economic trends, together with sex crime panics, converged to transform the popular psychopath into a violent, male, sexual deviant or criminal—a threat to innocence, gender roles and the social order.\n\nThe Ostap Bender character from novels The Twelve Chairs and The Little Golden Calf by Soviet authors Ilf and Petrov is also considered a portrait of a charming psychopath.\n\nLennie Small from Of Mice and Men, who is mentally retarded, has been described as also lacking a conscience or moral sense, a common definition of a psychopath. His inability to stay out of trouble is often attributed to this.\n\nOne of the earliest real life cases which had a pervasive influence on American movies was that of Ed Gein, arrested in 1957. A farmer who had resided with his mother until her death, he had then killed two women and dug up female bodies from the local cemetery, making various items out of their skin. Rumours spread that he was also a necrophiliac, cannibal or transvestite, though these appear to have been unsupported other than by brief affirmations from Gein to leading questions by interrogators. Gein was found mentally ill and legally insane before trial, deemed to have had schizophrenia (psychosis including delusions and hallucinations) for at least 12 years, though at least one media psychiatrist dubbed him instead a 'sexual psychopath'. Robert Bloch, a prolific pulp horror author, says his 1959 novel \"Psycho\" was based on the Gein murders and the idea of an apparently sane person in a local community committing heinous crimes, but not necessarily on Gein himself, despite numerous similarities. The villain, Norman Bates, is portrayed as an outwardly unremarkable man who murders a woman while under the control of an alternate personality that takes the form of his domineering mother, who he himself murdered. Both the novel and Alfred Hitchcock's 1960 film adaptation were influences on the popular media portrayal of psychopaths. Neither the book nor film elaborates on the term 'psycho', though it is commonly taken to refer to either psychotic or psychopath. At the end of the film, a psychiatrist describes Bates as having a split personality. Multiple personality disorder was at that time very popular (cf 1957 movie \"The Three Faces of Eve\") and is to this day commonly confused with schizophrenia. Bloch later wrote a script for the 1966 film \"The Psychopath\", the original working title for which was \"Schizo\".\n\nA different thread within fictional portrayals of psychopathy continued to focus on rebelliously antisocial characters. The title of the 1955 film \"Rebel Without a Cause\", starring James Dean, came from a 1944 book of the same name detailing the hypno-analysis of a diagnosed psychopath. In the book, psychiatrist Robert M. Lindner also discussed psychopaths in general as pointlessly selfish individuals who appear unable to accept society's rules. In Ken Kesey's 1962 novel \"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest\", Randle McMurphy, after being admitted to a mental institution, is repeatedly referred to by the authorities, other patients and himself as a possible or definite psychopath. He reads from his record: \"repeated outbreaks of passion that suggest the possible diagnosis of psychopath\", and adds that a doctor told him it means \"I fight and fuh-pardon me, ladies-means I am he put it overzealous in my sexual relations.\" The current doctor then reads out the note: \"Don't overlook the possibility that this man might be feigning psychosis\". In the script for the popular film adaptation in 1975, only the latter is retained and the term psychopath is never used. Ironically, the main authority figure in the hospital—the cold, sadistic Nurse Ratched—was later described as a psychopath under later understandings of the term.\n\nThe 1973 film \"Badlands\" involved two lead characters based loosely on Charles Starkweather and Caril Ann Fugate. While the male lead Kit (Martin Sheen) is sometimes described as a psychopath or sociopath, psychologist Robert D. Hare, a leading proponent of the assessment of psychopathy, has identified Holly (Sissy Spacek) as exemplifying his concept of a psychopath due to her poor emotional sense of the meaning of events and her attempted mask of normality. However, writer and director Terrence Malick has said he considered Kit's shallow, bitter insensitivity to be a result of suffering and neglect growing up in the Midwest, and 15-year-old Holly, though immature and mis-estimating her audience, to be a quite typical Southern girl wanting to help narrate and come off well but still give the hard facts, and not dwell on herself or on personal tragedies.\n\nThe increasing media focus of serial killers in the late 20th century, fueled by cases such as John Wayne Gacy (1978), Ted Bundy (1978) and Jeffrey Dahmer (1991), lent an additional momentum to the way psychopathy was both perceived and portrayed in film and literature, sometimes incorporating a hybrid of traditional psychopaths from early film and late-19th century literature with the high-functioning behaviors detected in some serial killers.\n\nThe psychiatrist and cannibalistic serial killer Dr. Hannibal Lecter, most notably portrayed by Anthony Hopkins in the Academy Award-winning 1991 film \"The Silence of the Lambs\", is perhaps the most infamous fictional psychopath of the 20th century. Lecter is intelligent and sophisticated (whereas psychopathy is generally associated with lower than average verbal intelligence), and his disarming charisma and wit disguise his true nature as a serial killer. He spends most of the film in a cell, taunting Clarice Starling with clues to the identity of another serial killer, Buffalo Bill, in exchange for intimate details of Starling's troubled childhood. Lecter first appeared in Thomas Harris' 1981 novel \"Red Dragon\", in which he is characterized as not fitting any known psychological profile. In the film adaptation of \"The Silence of the Lambs\", he is referred to as a \"pure psychopath\". In the later novels \"Hannibal\" and \"Hannibal Rising\", Lecter's psychopathy is portrayed as the result of seeing his sister Mischa murdered and cannibalized during World War II. In 2013 Harris revealed that he originally based the Lecter character on Alfredo Ballí Trevino, a Mexican physician who had killed and dismembered his homosexual lover, in what was called a crime of passion over a financial dispute.\n\nThe novel \"American Psycho\" tells the story of Patrick Bateman, a yuppie serial killer working on Wall Street in the 1980s. It was made into a film in 2000. Author Bret Easton Ellis has told interviewers that the book is a satire on shallow consumerist lifestyles, but also that the writing of the violent scenes was based on fictional horror and FBI material on serial killers, along with how he imagined \"a psychotic who worked on Wall Street\" would describe such incidents. Some commentary, including in scientific journals, has suggested the Bateman character appears to be a psychopath. However, Bateman also exhibits signs of psychosis such as hallucinations, and as such appears to be an unreliable narrator; it is left ambiguous whether Bateman is actually a serial killer, or is merely hallucinating about committing murder. In Ellis' 1998 novel \"Glamorama\" which features models-turned-terrorists a character also remarks \"basically, everyone was a sociopath...and all the girls' hair was chignoned.\"\n\nIn the 1993 book \"Girl, Interrupted\" and its 1999 film adaptation, the character of Lisa (played by Angelina Jolie in the film) is a rebellious, antisocial young woman who is diagnosed as a sociopath. However, it is left ambiguous whether that diagnosis is accurate.\n\nThe 1996 film \"Primal Fear\" depicts a suspected murderer who appears to suffer from multiple personality disorder, who at the end reveals that he has been faking the disorder. In the original novel by William Diehl, the psychiatrist Molly Arrington and others repeatedly explain psychopathy and psychosis as if they are the same, inherently antisocial, condition.\n\n\"Harry Potter\" author J. K. Rowling has described Lord Voldemort, the series' main villain, as \"a raging psychopath, devoid of the normal human responses to other people's suffering, and there ARE people like that in the world\".\n\nNumerous characters in television shows are informally described as psychopaths by the actors who play the parts. Examples include Natalie Buxton in \"Bad Girls\", Sean Slater and Michael Moon in \"EastEnders\", and Dexter Morgan in the American show \"Dexter.\" \n\nDavid Platt from the British TV soap \"Coronation Street\", is also known for having a serious personality disorder. His character is famous for presenting several tendencies of a sociopathic personality including, manipulation, lying, and aggression. He has served time in prison and often blames his mother for his traumatic childhood, His character has matured over the years however, the mask tends to slip from time to time and he returns to his darker side, most recently when he helped hide a dead body with a terrifying, cold-hearted attitude.\n\nDr. Gregory House, the title character in the FOX medical-thriller \"House\" is referred to as a sociopath multiple times by several characters throughout the course of the show.\n\nSherlock Holmes, the lead character in the BBC series \"Sherlock\", is referred to as a psychopath multiple times throughout the course of the show; in response to these claims, Holmes describes himself as a \"high-functioning sociopath\". He has also been described as having Asperger syndrome.\n\nThe Dan Wells novel \"I Am Not a Serial Killer\" and its sequels, \"Mr. Monster\" and \"I Don't Want To Kill You\", are narrated by John Wayne Cleaver, a teenaged diagnosed sociopath who lives by a rigid code of behavior in order to avoid becoming a serial killer.\n\nOne Chicago academic has argued in a review of TV trends that the contemporary fantasy of sociopathy/psychopathy is of someone whose emotional disconnection from others in society, rather than being the hindrance that it can represent in real clinical cases, enables them to be an amazingly successful manipulator due to a breakdown in the social contract.\n\nContemporary advice on writing psychopathic/sociopathic characters suggests that lack of a conscience and lack of empathy are always the chief characteristics, along with an ability to fool others, while the type of selfish antisocial behavior, and any secondary characteristics, can vary.\n\nIn 2013, the video console game \"Grand Theft Auto V\" was released with numerous references to psychopaths and sociopaths, including reports from a fictional psychiatrist. One of the lead characters, Trevor, is described both psychopathic and psychotic; the voice actor who played the part says he based his performance on Tom Hardy's portrayal of Charles Bronson in the film \"Bronson\".\n\nJacob M. Appel's \"The Mask of Sanity\" depicts a high-functioning sociopath, Jeremy Balint, who gains fame as a cardiologist while killing strangers..\n\nThe character Villanelle in Killing Eve refers to herself as a psychopath.. Her character portrays many of the traits from both sociopath and psychopath with a lack of empathy in her methods of murdering her victims or showing any guilt or remorse after the event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11087006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11087006", "title": "Fitts for Fight", "text": "Fitts for Fight\n\nFitts for Fight was a female duo consisting of Ellinor Aurora Aasgaard and Julie Ilona Balas from Kristiansand in Norway. They became known when it was revealed that the songs they claimed to have written themselves were made by demoscene musicians and downloaded from micromusic.net, while the two women added their own often explicit lyrics to the music. According to micromusic.net they have so far identified songs from 505 of YM Rockerz, Binärpilot, 8 Bit Weapon, Arachno, Printed Circuit, Yerzmyey, Drx of Bodenständig 2000, Jo Petrole and Stu of Drop da Bomb. After it was made public that they had copied the songs, Fitts for Fight deleted the music from their page on MySpace and they were removed from Urørt. Also the festival dropped them from the programme and they were replaced by Binärpilot. Examples of music that Fitts for Fight stole are \"Fuck off and die\" that is actually \"STereoid\" by Stu, \"CrashBurnDestroy\" that is \"Space Travel\" by Yerzmyey, and \"Monstermachine\" that is \"Otosclerosis\" by Binärpilot.\n\nStu of Drop da Bomb has been in contact with the Swiss copyright organisation SUISA who in turn would contact the Norwegian TONO.\n\n\n\n "}
{"id": "40396751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40396751", "title": "Galinha Pintadinha", "text": "Galinha Pintadinha\n\nGalinha Pintadinha, (English translation: Little Dappled Chicken) known also as \"Lottie Dottie Chicken\" is a Brazilian project for children's music, created by Juliano Prado and Marcos Luporini, and animated by \"Bromelia Produções\". The songs are originally in Portuguese and are getting millions of downloads on YouTube. Some of the songs have been already translated into Spanish and English.\n\nThe songs revolve around the title character Galinha Pintadinha, a cartoon chicken and their friends from nursery rhymes, in animated music videos made in flash animation. They were phenomena in DVD sales during the early 2010s to be released and publicized nationally by Som Livre becoming well known among children with clowns Patati Patatá.\nAlso released several products based on the characters as toys, books and apps for smartphones. \nAccording to Associação Brasileira dos Produtores de Discos, the second DVD was the 6th biggest selling in 2010 DVD and 17th best-selling in 2011 in Brazil.\n\nIn 2013 the animated music videos premiered on Netflix in several countries including in the United States, Canada and Spanish Latin American countries. In 2015 his studio occupied the 89th position as one of the 150 biggest licensed brands in the world, ranking published by the British magazine \"License! Global\".\nSince the release of their second album the character had a pretty big growth in children's media in Brazil. Many toys, backpacks, CDs, books and supplies for babies have been launched over the years. The characters also have achieved media for Smartphones with music applications and interactive games such as \"PoChickenPo\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39115042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39115042", "title": "Grand Master of Magic Award", "text": "Grand Master of Magic Award\n\nThe Grand Master of Magic® Award is a lifetime achievement award presented by the Brotherhood of Auckland Magicians Incorporated on behalf of the magicians of New Zealand. It was first awarded in 1969 and to date it has been awarded on eighteen occasions.\n\nThe criteria for the Grand Master of Magic Award was formalised in 1998 and is as follows :\n\n\"Its purpose is to honour those magicians who are acknowledged by their fellow magicians to be masters of the art and craft of magic. The recipients first and foremost must be performers of a high standard. In addition they might be originators of magical effects, or administrators giving time and expertise to running societies and conventions. They could be consistent competition winners, or have an international standing, or be known only in the New Zealand setting. But above all they are people who have served magic well, have graced our art, and made a special contribution over many years.\"\n\nAny nomination must also be measured against the standard achieved by the previous recipients.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9980550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9980550", "title": "Grotesque body", "text": "Grotesque body\n\nThe grotesque body is a concept, or literary trope, put forward by Russian literary critic Mikhail Bakhtin in his study of François Rabelais' work. The essential principle of grotesque realism is degradation, the lowering of all that is abstract, spiritual, noble, and ideal to the material level. Through the use of the grotesque body in his novels, Rabelais related political conflicts to human anatomy. In this way, Rabelais used the concept as \"a figure of unruly biological and social exchange\".\n\nIt is by means of this information that Bakhtin pinpoints two important subtexts: the first is \"carnival\" (carnivalesque), and the second is \"grotesque realism\" (grotesque body). Thus, in \"Rabelais and His World\" Bakhtin studies the interaction between the social and the literary, as well as the meaning of the body.\n\nThe Carnival is known as the feast of fools. In today's world, this is better known as Mardi Gras. Mardi Gras is a religious celebration where people consume copious amounts of food and wine and have a large party to celebrate. The grotesqueness in the carnival is seen as the abundance and large amount of food consumed by the body. There is much emphasis put on the mouth (where the body can be entered). Eating, drinking, burping from excess, etc. is all done through the mouth. Rabelais uses the Carnival to refer to politics and critique the world based on human anatomy.\n\nIn the Italian celebration of Carnival, masks play a major role as many people wear them during the celebration. Many of these masks can be seen as an exaggeration of the grotesque as they feature enlarged facial elements such as an enlarged nose (which is a part of the grotesque body). The Italian celebration of carnival is similar to that of Mardi Gras where food and alcohol are consumed in excess.\n\nBoth renditions of Carnival are celebrated immediately before the Christian season of Lent which is about a 40-day season for people of Christian (primarily Catholic) faith to cleanse themselves and become pure before Easter Sunday.\n\nExaggeration, hyperbole, and expressiveness are all key elements of the grotesque style. Certain aspects of the body are referenced when talking about the grotesque. These things include elements of the body that either protrude from the body or a part of the body that can be entered. This is because the body in many cases is seen as pure where as the outside world is not. Therefore, parts of the body that allow the outside world in or allow elements inside the body out, are seen and used as an exaggeration of the grotesque. In the article, \"Absurdity and Hidden Truth: Cunning Intelligence and Grotesque Body Images as Manifestations of the Trickster\", Koepping refers back to Bakhtin's statement, \"The themes of cursing and of laughter are almost exclusively a subject of the grotesqueness of the body.\"\n\nItalian satirist Daniele Luttazzi explained: \"satire exhibits the grotesque body, which is dominated by the primary needs (eating, drinking, defecating, urinating, sex) to celebrate the victory of life: the social and the corporeal are joyfully joint in something indivisible, universal and beneficial\".\n\nBakhtin explained how the grotesque body is a celebration of the cycle of life: the grotesque body is a comic figure of profound ambivalence: its positive meaning is linked to birth and renewal and its negative meaning is linked to death and decay. In Rabelais' epoch (1500–1800) \"it was appropriate to ridicule the king and clergy, to use dung and urine to degrade; this was not to just mock, it was to unleash what Bakhtin saw as the people’s power, to renew and regenerate the entire social system. It was the power of the people’s festive-carnival, a way to turn the official spectacle inside-out and upside down, just for a while; long enough to make an impression on the participating official stratum. With the advent of modernity (science, technology, industrial revolution), the mechanistic overtook the organic, and the officialdom no longer came to join in festive-carnival. The bodily lower stratum of humor dualized from the upper stratum.\"\n\nBefore people began to develop literature or art, leaders would sit in their halls surrounded by their warriors amusing themselves by mocking their opponents and enemies. The warriors would laugh at any weakness or defect, either physical or mental, giving nicknames which exaggerated these traits.\n\nSoon warriors sought to give a more permanent form to their ridicule, which led to rude depictions on bare rocks, or any other surface that was convenient.\n\nIn the Medieval Grotesque Carnival, emphasis is put on the nether regions of the body as the center and creation of meaning. The spirit rather than coming from above comes from the belly, buttocks, and genitals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "630966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=630966", "title": "Heckler", "text": "Heckler\n\nA heckler is a person who harasses and tries to disconcert others with questions, challenges, or gibes.\nHecklers are often known to shout disparaging comments at a performance or event, or to interrupt set-piece speeches, with the intent of disturbing performers and/or participants.\n\nAlthough the word \"heckler\", which originated from the textile trade, was first attested in the mid-15th century, the sense \"person who harasses\" was from 1885. To \"heckle\" was to tease or comb out flax or hemp fibres. The additional meaning, to interrupt speakers with awkward or embarrassing questions, was added in Scotland, and specifically perhaps in early nineteenth century Dundee, a famously radical town where the hecklers who combed the flax had established a reputation as the most radical and belligerent element in the workforce. In the heckling factory, one heckler would read out the day's news while the others worked, to the accompaniment of interruptions and furious debate.\n\nHeckling was a major part of the vaudeville theater. Sometimes it was incorporated into the play. Milton Berle's weekly TV variety series in the 1960s featured a heckler named Sidney Spritzer (German/Yiddish for 'squirter') played by Borscht Belt comic Irving Benson. In the 1970s and 1980s, \"The Muppet Show\", which was also built around a vaudeville theme, featured two hecklers, Statler & Waldorf (two old men named after famous hotels). Heckles are now particularly likely to be heard at comedy performances, to unsettle or compete with the performer.\n\nPoliticians speaking before live audiences have less latitude to deal with hecklers. Legally, such conduct may constitute protected free speech. Strategically, coarse or belittling retorts to hecklers entail personal risk disproportionate to any gain. Some politicians, however, have been known to improvise a relevant and witty response despite these pitfalls. One acknowledged expert at this was Harold Wilson, British Prime Minister in the 1960s:\n\nMartin Luther King's I Have a Dream speech was largely a response to supporter Mahalia Jackson interrupting his prepared speech to shout \"Tell them about the dream, Martin\". At that point, King stopped reading from his previously prepared speech and improvised the remainder of the speech - this improvised portion of the speech is the best-known part of the speech and frequently rated as one of the best of all time.\n\nDuring a campaign stop just before winning the Presidency in 1980, Ronald Reagan was heckled by an audience member who kept interrupting him during a speech. Reagan tried to go on with his speech three times, but after being interrupted yet again glared at the heckler and snapped \"Aw, shut up!\" The audience immediately gave him a standing ovation.\n\nIn 1992, then-Presidential candidate Bill Clinton was interrupted by Bob Rafsky, a member of the AIDS activism group ACT UP, who accused him of \"dying of ambition to be president\" during a rally. After becoming visibly agitated, Clinton took the microphone off the stand, pointed to the heckler and directly responded to him by saying, \"[...] I have treated you and all of the other people who have interrupted my rallies with a hell of a lot more respect than you treated me. And it's time to start thinking about that!\" Clinton was then met with raucous applause.\n\nOne modern political approach to discourage heckling is to ensure that major events are given before a \"tame\" audience of sympathizers, or conducted to allow restrictions on who may remain on the premises (see also, \"astroturfing\"). The downside is this may make heckling incidents even more newsworthy. This happened to Tony Blair during a photo op visit to a hospital during the 2001 general election campaign, and again in 2003 during a speech.\n\nIn 2004, American Vice President Dick Cheney was interrupted mid-speech by Perry Patterson, a middle-aged mother in a pre-screened rally audience. After various supportive outbursts that were permitted (\"Four more years\", \"Go Bush!\"), Patterson uttered \"No, no, no, no\" and was removed from the speech area and told to leave. She refused, and was arrested for criminal trespass.\n\nLater, in 2005, Cheney received some heckling that was broadcast during his trip to New Orleans, after Hurricane Katrina ravaged the area. The heckling occurred during a press conference in Gulfport, Mississippi, in an area that was cordoned off for public safety reasons, and then further secured for the press conference. Nevertheless, emergency room physician Ben Marble got close enough to the proceedings and could be heard yelling, \"Go fuck yourself, Mr. Cheney.\" Cheney laughed it off and continued speaking. The heckle was a reference to Cheney's use of the phrase the previous year, when during a heated exchange with Senator Patrick Joseph Leahy, Vermont, he said \"fuck yourself\" on the floor of the senate.\n\nOn 15 October 2005, \"The Scotsman\" reported \"Iranian ambassador Dr Seyed Mohammed Hossein Adeli... speaking at the annual Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament conference... During his speech to the CND several people were told to leave the room following protests at Iran's human rights record. Several protesters shouted \"Fascists\" at the ambassador and the organisers of the conference. Walter Wolfgang, the 82-year-old peace campaigner who was forced out of the Labour Party conference last month, was in the audience.\"\n\nSince 2005 heckling of performing artists has become more commonplace in Switzerland. Musicians of Basel and Zurich have become an increasing focus of hecklers. This shift is primarily perpetrated by foreigners and is often met with a positive response by the non-Swiss performers who welcome the audience interaction. \n\nOn Thursday, 20 April 2006, a heckler from the Falun Gong spiritual movement entered the US White House grounds as a reporter and interrupted a formal arrival ceremony for Chinese President Hu Jintao. Moments into Mr Hu's speech at the event, Wang Wenyi, perched on the top tier of the stands reserved for the press, began screaming in English and Chinese: \"President Bush stop him. Stop this visit. Stop the killing and torture.\" President Bush later apologised to his guest.\n\nOn 9 September 2009, Representative Joe Wilson (R-SC) shouted \"You lie!\" at President Barack Obama after President Obama stated that his health care plan would not subsidize coverage for illegal immigrants during a speech he was making to a joint session of Congress. Wilson later apologized for his outburst.\n\nOn 25 November 2013, Ju Hong, a 24-year-old South Korean immigrant without legal documentation, shouted at Obama to use his executive power to stop deportation of illegal immigrants. Obama said \"If, in fact, I could solve all these problems without passing laws in Congress, then I would do so.\" \"But we're also a nation of laws, that's part of our tradition,\" he continued. \"And so the easy way out is to try to yell and pretend like I can do something by violating our laws. And what I'm proposing is the harder path, which is to use our democratic processes to achieve the same goal.\"\n\nHecklers can also appear at sporting events, and usually (but not always) direct their taunts at a visiting team. Fans of the Philadelphia Eagles American football team are notorious for heckling; among the most infamous incidents were booing and subsequently throwing snowballs at a performer dressed as Santa Claus in a halftime show in 1968, and cheering at the career-ending injury of visiting team player Michael Irvin in 1999. Often, sports heckling will also involve throwing objects onto the field; this has led most sports stadiums to ban glass containers and bottlecaps. Another famous heckler is Robert Szasz, who regularly attends Tampa Bay Rays baseball games and is known for loudly heckling one opposing player per game or series. Former Yugoslav football star Dejan Savićević is involved in an infamous incident with a heckler in which during an interview, a man on the street is heard shouting off-camera: \"You're a piece of shit!\" Dejan berated the man, and went on to finish the interview, without missing a beat.\n\nIn English and Scottish football, heckling and swearing from the stands, and football chants such as who ate all the pies? are common.\n\nAustralian sporting audiences are known for creative heckling. Perhaps the most famous is Yabba who had a grandstand at the Sydney Cricket Ground named after him, and now a statue.\n\nThe sport of cricket is particularly notorious for heckling between the teams themselves, which is known as sledging.\n\nAt the NBA Drafts of recent years, many fans have gone with heckling ESPN NBA analyst and host of, Quite Frankly with Stephen A. Smith, Stephen A. Smith. Most notably, The Stephen A. Smith Heckling Society of Gentlemen heckles him with a sock puppet dubbed as Stephen A. himself.\n\nTennis fans are also fairly noted for heckling. Some may call out during a service point to distract either player. Another common heckle from tennis fans is cheering after a service fault, which is considered to be rude and unsporting.\n\nIn 2009, then Toronto Blue Jays outfielder Alex Ríos was a victim of a heckling incident outside after a fund-raising event. The incident occurred after Rios declined to sign an autograph for a young fan, the same day he went 0 for 5 with 5 strikeouts in a game against the Los Angeles Angels. An older man yelled \"The way you played today Alex, you should be lucky someone wants your autograph.\" Rios then replied with \"Who gives a fuck\", repeating it until being ushered into a vehicle. Rios did apologize the next day, but was eventually placed on waivers and claimed by the Chicago White Sox later that year.\n\nOne of the most famous heckles in music history occurred at a Bob Dylan concert at the Manchester Free Trade Hall in 1966. During a quiet moment in between songs, an audience member shouts very loudly and clearly, \"Judas!\" referencing Dylan's so-called betrayal of folk music by \"going electric\". Dylan replied: \"I don't believe you, you're a liar!\" before telling his band to \"Play it fucking loud!\" They play an acidic version of \"Like a Rolling Stone\". This incident was captured on tape and the full concert was released as volume four of Dylan's \"Live Bootleg Series\".\n\nHeckling often occurs during stand up comedy performances, particularly at open stage performances, and/or where alcoholic beverages are being consumed. It is regarded as a sign of audience members becoming impatient with what they regard as a low quality performance. Some comedians ignore the heckling and dislike the practice. In an interview for a 2011 BBC documentary, Billy Connolly said that \"I loathe hecklers. I haven't one good syllable to say about hecklers. When you've come out of the club circuit and all that and you're in the concert hall...they should be gone.\" Other stand-up comedians devise a strategy for quashing such outbursts, usually by having a store of retorts (known as \"squelches\") on hand. The idea is to get the audience laughing at the heckler for being outwitted.\n\nIn addition, live comedy venues tend to discourage heckling via signage and admissions policy, but tend to tolerate it as it creates customer loyalty. The etiquette of exactly how much heckling is tolerated differs immensely from venue to venue, however, but is generally more likely to be tolerated in blue collar or working class venues. Some cities feature 'heckle nights' where heckling is actively encouraged.\n\nThe comedy TV series \"The Muppet Show\" featured a pair of hecklers named Statler and Waldorf. These characters created a kind of meta-comedy act in which the show's official comedian, Fozzie Bear, acted as their usual foil, although they occasionally made jokes at other characters as well.\n\nAnother notable use of heckling in comedy is in the cult favorite series \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\". The series involves a man (either Joel Robinson or Mike Nelson) and two robots (Tom Servo and Crow T. Robot) sitting in a theater mocking bad B-movies. This style of comedy, coined as riffing, is continued with commentary-based series such as Rifftrax and Cinematic Titanic.\n\nIn one of Rowan Atkinson's plays \"The School Master\", a heckler interrupted his play by shouting \"Here!\" after Atkinson had read out an amusing name on his register. Atkinson incorporated it into his act by saying \"I have a detention book...\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3331089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3331089", "title": "Helpline", "text": "Helpline\n\nA helpline is a telephone service which offers help to those who call. Many helpline services now offer more than telephone support - offering access to information, advice or customer service via telephone, email, web or SMS. \nThe word \"hotline\" is also sometimes used to refer to a helpline.\nA helpline can provide emotional support to person in distress in its minimalistic form. It may help the individual\n\nServices include\n\n\n"}
{"id": "209926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209926", "title": "Humorist", "text": "Humorist\n\nA humorist is an intellectual who uses humor in writing or public speaking. Humorists are distinct from comedians, who are show business entertainers whose business is to make an audience laugh, though some persons have occupied both roles in the course of their careers.\n\nMark Twain, pen name of Samuel Langhorn Clemens (1835–1910) was called the \"greatest humorist this country has produced\" in his \"New York Times\" obituary, and William Faulkner called him \"the father of American literature\".\n\nThe United States national cultural center, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, has chosen to award a Mark Twain Prize for American Humor annually since 1998 to individuals who have \"had an impact on American society in ways similar to the distinguished 19th century novelist and essayist best known as Mark Twain\".\n\nHumor is the quality which makes experiences provoke laughter or amusement, while comedy is a performing art. The nineteenth century German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer lamented the misuse of \"humor\" (a German loanword from English) to mean any type of comedy. A humorist is adept at seeing the humor in a situation or aspect of life and relating it, usually through a story; the comedian, on the other hand, concentrates on jokes designed to invoke instantaneous laughter. The humorist is primarily a writer of books, newspaper or magazine articles or columns, stage or screen plays, and may occasionally appear before an audience to deliver a lecture or read a piece of his or her work. The comedian always performs his or her work for an audience, either in live performance, audio recording, radio, television, or film.\n\nAccording to \"Study.com\", a humorist job requires a bachelor's degree, and according to US Bureau of Labor statistics, earns a 2016 median salary of US$29.44. This is compared to the comedian, which requires a high school diploma and earns a median salary of $17.34.\n\nPhil Austin, of the comedy group the Firesign Theatre, expressed his thoughts about the difference in 1993 liner notes to the \"Fighting Clowns\" allbum:\n\nSometimes a comedian will adopt a writing career and gain notability as a humorist. Some examples are:\n\nWill Rogers (1879–1935) was a vaudeville comedian who started doing humorous political and social commentary, and became a famous newspaper columnist and radio personality during the Great Depression. He is an exception to the education rule, as he only completed a tenth grade education.\n\nGarry Moore (1915–1993), known as a television comedian who hosted several variety and game shows, after his 1977 retirement became a regular humor columnist for the newspaper \"The Island Packet\" of Northeast Harbor, Maine, with a column titled \"Mumble, Mumble\". He later released a book of his columns under the same name in the early 1980s. \n\nVictor Borge (1909–2000) was a Danish-American comedian known for bringing humor to classical music. He wrote three books, \"My Favorite Intermissions\" and \"My Favorite Comedies in Music\" (both with Robert Sherman), and the autobiography \"Smilet er den korteste afstand\" (\"The Smile is the Shortest Distance\") with Niels-Jørgen Kaiser.\n\nPeter Ustinov (1921–2004) was an English comic actor who wrote several humorous plays and film scripts.\n\nWoody Allen (born 1935), known as a comedian and filmmaker, early in his career worked as a staff writer for humorist Herb Shriner. He also wrote short stories and cartoon captions for magazines such as \"The New Yorker\".\n\nSteve Martin (born 1945), comedian and actor, wrote \"Cruel Shoes\", a book of humorous essays and short stories, in 1977 (published 1979). He wrote his first humorous play \"Picasso at the Lapin Agile\" in 1993, and wrote various pieces in \"The New Yorker\" magazine in the 1990s. He later wrote more humorous plays and two novellas.\nHugh Laurie (born 1959) is an English comic actor who worked for many years in partnership with Stephen Fry. He is a fan of the English humorist P. G. Wodehouse, and has written a Wodehouse-style novel.\n\nDespite the name, conference of the Kennedy Center's Mark Twain Prize does not make the awardee a humorist. , the center has chosen to confer the prize on nineteen comedians and one playwright; only two recipients, the comedian Steve Martin and the playwright Neil Simon, are commonly recognized as humorists in the sense of Twain.\n\nRenowned polymath Benjamin Franklin (1706–1790), as a newspaper editor and printer, became one of America's first humorists, most famously for \"Poor Richard's Almanack\" published under the pen name \"Richard Saunders\". \n\nRing Lardner (1885–1933) was a sports columnist and short story writer best known for his satirical writings about sports, marriage, and the theatre.\n\nRobert Benchley (1889–1945), best known for his work as a newspaper columnist and film actor, began writing humorously for \"The Harvard Lampoon\" while attending Harvard University, and for many years wrote essays and articles for \"Vanity Fair\" and \"The New Yorker\".\n\nH. L. Menken (1880–1956) was a journalist, satirist, cultural critic and scholar of American English. Known as the \"Sage of Baltimore\", he is regarded as one of the most influential American writers and prose stylists of the first half of the 20th century. He commented widely on the social scene, literature, music, prominent politicians and contemporary movements. He is known for dubbing the Scopes trial \"the Monkey Trial\".\n\nJames Thurber (1894–1961) was a cartoonist, author, journalist, playwright, and celebrated wit, best known for his cartoons and short stories published mainly in \"The New Yorker\".\n\nBennett Cerf (1898–1971) was one of the founders of the publishing firm Random House, known for his own compilations of jokes and puns, for regular personal appearances lecturing across the United States, and for his television appearances on the panel game show \"What's My Line?\"\n\nArt Buchwald (1925–2007) wrote a political satire op-ed column for \"The Washington Post\", which was nationally syndicated in many newspapers.\n\nGarrison Keilor (born 1942) is an author, storyteller, voice actor, and radio personality, best known as the creator and host of the Minnesota Public Radio (MPR) show \"A Prairie Home Companion\" from 1974 to 2016. He created the fictional Minnesota town Lake Wobegon, the setting of many of his books. He created and voiced the hardboiled detective parody character Guy Noir on his radio show.\n\nOscar Wilde (1854–1900) was an Irish poet and playwright known for his biting wit.\n\nJerome K. Jerome (1859–1927) was an English writer and humorist, best known for the comic travelogue \"Three Men in a Boat\".\n\nP. G. Wodehouse (1881–1975) was one of the most widely read humorists of the 20th century.\n\nTom Sharpe (1928–2013) was a satirical novelist, best known for his \"Wilt\" series, as well as \"Porterhouse Blue\" and \" Blott on the Landscape\".\n\nAlan Coren (1938–2007) could be considered the English equivalent of Bennett Cerf: a writer and satirist who was well known as a regular panelist on the BBC radio quiz \"The News Quiz\" and a team captain on BBC television's \"Call My Bluff\". Coren was also a journalist, and for almost a decade was the editor of \"Punch\" magazine.\n\nTerry Pratchett (1948–2015) was an author known for comic fantasy novels, most notably the \"Discworld\" series of 41 novels. He was strongly influenced by Wodehouse, Sharpe, Jerome, Coren, and Twain.\n\nDorothy Parker (1893–1967), a writer for \"Vanity Fair\", \"Vogue\" and other magazines, playwright, and a close friend of Benchley, was known for her biting, satirical wit.\n\nErma Bombeck (1927–1996) was a newspaper columnist and writer of 15 books who specialized in humorously describing midwestern suburban home life.\n\nFran Lebowitz (born 1950) writes sardonic social commentary from a New York City point of view.\n\nKajetan Abgarowicz (1856–1909) was an Armenian-Polish journalist, novelist and short story writer.\n\nSholom Aleichem (1859–1916) was the pen name of the leading Yiddish author and playwright Solomon Naumovich Rabinovich, on whose stories the musical \"Fiddler on the Roof\" was based.\n"}
{"id": "23416020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23416020", "title": "Ice Age (franchise)", "text": "Ice Age (franchise)\n\nIce Age is an American media franchise centering on a group of mammals surviving the Paleolithic ice age. It is produced by Blue Sky Studios, a division of 20th Century Fox, and featuring the voices of Ray Romano, John Leguizamo, Denis Leary, and Chris Wedge. Five films have been released in the series thus far with \"Ice Age\" in 2002, \"\" in 2006, \"\" in 2009, \"\" in 2012, and \"\" in 2016. It has received some criticism for making no attempt to be scientifically accurate. As of April 2016, the franchise had generated $6 billion in revenue, making it one of the highest-grossing media franchises of all time.\n\nSid, a talkative sloth, is left behind by his family and the herds of mammals journeying to the south. He meets Manny, a mammoth who travels to the north, and decides to follow him. When a humans' camp is attacked by tigers, a woman takes her baby and jumps into a river and falls over a waterfall. Before she disappears, the baby is rescued by Manny and Sid. The two animals decide to search for the father and return the baby to him. Diego, one of the tigers that attacked the humans, comes also claiming the baby, and the trio form an uneasy alliance during their journey to the humans.\n\nManny, Sid, and Diego are currently living in a large valley surrounded by an enormously high ice wall on all sides. However, the trio discovers that the ice wall is actually a wall that is barely holding a massive body of water that could flood the valley to nearly a mile underwater. A vulture tells them that there is a boat at the other end of the valley that may save them all, but they only have three days to reach it or die. Manny is also having trouble fearing the fact that he may be the last mammoth left. Along the way, they meet Ellie, a mammoth who thinks she is a possum, and her possum brothers Crash and Eddie. As they begin to travel together, Manny learns, with help from Diego and Sid, that he must move on from his past. During their journey, Scrat the sabre-toothed squirrel has his own adventure.\n\nManny and Ellie are expecting their first child, meanwhile Scrat falls in love with fellow squirrel Scratte. Meanwhile, Diego is anxious about settling down for a domestic life with Manny's new family. Sid begins to wish for a family of his own, and steals some dinosaur eggs which leads to Sid ending up in a strange underground world where his herd must rescue him. The herd also meets an insane one-eyed weasel known as Buck who aids them on their quest.\n\nTaking place several years after the events of the third film, with Peaches now a teenager, Scrat's pursuit of acorns has world-changing consequences, separating Manny, Sid and Diego from the rest of their group. As they try to return home, they come into conflict with a pirate gang led by Captain Gutt.\n\nSet after the events of \"\", Scrat's pursuit of his elusive acorn catapults him outside of Earth aboard a UFO, where he accidentally sets off a series of cosmic events that transform and threaten the planet. To save themselves from peril, Manny, Sid, Diego, and the rest of the herd leave their home and reunite with Buck, who leads them on a journey to find a way to save the planet.\n\nOn the possibility of a potential sequel to \"\", in June 2016, Galen T. Chu, co-director of the film, stated that there were some ideas for the next installment. In July 2016, Bustle noted that the potential of \"Ice Age 6\" actually being produced was relatively high even though it could largely depend on the box office performance of the fifth film. PopWrapped later commented in February 2017, on the fifth film's poor reception and how the franchise was moving further into absurdity and further away from leaving any lasting emotional impact on the audience, and stated that the sixth film could have potential to redeem the franchise by going back to its roots and reintroducing the humans from the original film, particularly the little baby named Roshan, and thereby bring the audience to remember why they loved \"Ice Age\" so much in the first place, and perhaps end the series on a high note.\n\n\"Gone Nutty\" is a 2002 animated short film, directed by Carlos Saldanha, and originally released on the \"Ice Age\" DVD. The short features the character Scrat, who is yet again having troubles with collecting his beloved acorns. The film was nominated for the 2003 Academy Award for Animated Short Film.\n\n\"No Time for Nuts\" is a 2006 animated short film, directed by Chris Renaud and Mike Thurmeier, and it was originally released on the \"Ice Age: The Meltdown\" DVD. The short follows Scrat on a chase after his nut, which has been accidentally sent back in time by a frozen time machine. \"No Time for Nuts\" was nominated for the 2007 Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film.\n\n\"Surviving Sid\" is a 2008 animated short film, directed by Galen Tan Chu and Karen Disher. It was originally released on the \"Horton Hears a Who!\" DVD and Blu-ray. Unlike the first two \"Ice Age\" short films, \"Surviving Sid\" focuses on Sid, who incompetently \"leads\" a small group of camping children.\n\n\"Scrat's Continental Crack-Up\" is the first of a 2012 two-part animated short.\n\n\"Scrat's Continental Crack-Up: Part 2\" is the second of a 2012 two-part animated short.\n\n\"Cosmic Scrat-tastrophe\" is a 2015 animated short film. The short once again follows Scrat, who discovers a flying saucer frozen in a block of ice and accidentally powers it on and ends up creating the Solar System through a series of mishaps.\n\n\"Scrat: Spaced Out\" is a 2016 animated short film. The short once again follows Scrat, trying to get back to Earth after the events in \"Cosmic Scrat-tastrophe\".\n\nIn the middle of decorating for the holiday season, Sid accidentally destroys Manny's favourite decorations. Sid, convinced by Manny that he is now on Santa's naughty list, takes off with Crash, Eddie and Peaches for the North Pole to get back on the Santa's good side. When on the North Pole, Sid and his crew accidentally destroy Santa's Workshop. When Manny, Ellie and Diego, worried over Peaches's safety, arrive at the North Pole, they must come together and save Christmas.\n\nThe special centers on a harried prehistoric bird mom who entrusts her precious, soon-to-hatch egg to Sid. When she recommends him to her neighbors—a condor mother, Cholly Bear and Gladys Glypto—business booms at his new egg-sitting service.\n\nHowever, dastardly pirate bunny Squint, who is seeking revenge on the herd, steals, camouflages and hides all the eggs. Once again, with Squint’s twin brother, Clint, assisting, Manny, Diego and the rest of the gang come to the rescue and take off on a daring mission that turns into the world’s first Easter egg hunt.\n\nCEO of 20th Century Fox Stacey Snider announced that a television series based on \"Ice Age\" is currently being developed. With the upcoming acquisition by Disney, it is possible that it will appear on one of their platforms.\n\nAll five films, produced on a total budget of $429 million, have grossed over $3.2 billion worldwide, making \"Ice Age\" the 18th highest-grossing franchise of all time, and the third highest-grossing animated franchise worldwide behind \"Despicable Me\" and \"Shrek\". The first four films were the highest-grossing animated films in each year they were released, and among the eight highest-grossing films in their respective release years.\n\n\n\"Ice Age Live! A Mammoth Adventure\" is a live arena ice show that combines ice skating, aerial arts, puppetry and film, and tells a new story based on the first three \"Ice Age\" films. The plot begins with baby mammoth Peaches being kidnapped by an evil hawk-like creature called Shadow. Her father Manny sets off to rescue Peaches, accompanied by Sid and Diego. Their mission is successful, but on the way home they encounter avalanches and rockfalls, diverting them into a fantasy underground kingdom.\n\nIt is being produced by Stage Entertainment Touring Productions, and directed by Guy Caron and Michael Curry. The music and lyrics were written by Ella Louise Allaire and Martin Lord Ferguson. With the preview shows from October 19 to 21, 2012, in Cardiff, and from October 25 to 28, 2012, in Nottingham, \"A Mammoth Adventure\" officially premiered on November 2, 2012, during its three-day tour from November 1 to 3 at Wembley Arena in London. It continued in Germany in November 2012, with a plan to visit more than 30 countries in its five-year worldwide tour. In August 2016, \"Ice Age Live! A Mammoth Adventure\" concluded its world tour and was replaced in North America by \"Ice Age On Ice\".\n\n\"Ice Age\" inspired rides and attractions will be featured at the first 20th Century Fox theme park, called 20th Century Fox World, to open in 2017 as part of Malaysia-based Resorts World Genting.\n"}
{"id": "7005781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7005781", "title": "Ice Wars", "text": "Ice Wars\n\nIce Wars was an annual elite figure skating team competition. The first Ice Wars took place in 1994. The competition format was \"Team World\" vs. \"Team USA\" or \"Team North America\". The 2005 competition was one exception, with the format changed to a \"Battle of the Sexes\" format, Men vs. Ladies. It was an unsanctioned made-for-TV professional event, meaning that skaters who participated would lose their eligibility to compete in the Winter Olympics and other events recognized by the International Skating Union.\n\nMen, ladies, pair skaters, and ice dancers have all taken part in Ice Wars, though in 2005 only single skaters competed. \n\nThe event took place in November, changing locations each year. \n\nThe 2001 competition was renamed \"World Ice Challenge\" after the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "31428210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31428210", "title": "Imitation (art)", "text": "Imitation (art)\n\nImitation is the doctrine of artistic creativity according to which the creative process should be based on the close imitation of the masterpieces of the preceding authors. This concept was first formulated by Dionysius of Halicarnassus in the first century BCE as \"imitatio\", and has since dominated for almost two thousand years the Western history of the arts and classicism; in the 18th century, Romanticism reversed it with the creation of the institution of romantic originality. In the 20th century, the modernist and postmodern movements in turn discarded the romantic idea of creativity, and heightened the practice of imitation, copying, plagiarism, rewriting, appropriation and so on as the central artistic device.\n\n"}
{"id": "3313367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3313367", "title": "Independent media", "text": "Independent media\n\nIndependent media refers to any form of media, such as radio, television, newspapers or the Internet, that is free of influence by government or corporate interests. The term has varied applications. Within the United States and other developed countries, it is often used synonymously with alternative media to refer to media that specifically distinguish themselves in relation to the mainstream media. In international development, the term independent media is used in relation to the development of new media outlets, particularly in areas where there is little to no existing media presence.\n\nIn developed countries, alternative media are media that are alternatives to the business or government-owned mass media. Proponents of alternative media argue that the mainstream media are biased. While sources of alternative media can also be biased (sometimes proudly so), the bias tends to be significantly different than that of the mainstream media, hence \"alternative\". As such, advocacy journalism tends to be a component of many alternative outlets. Because the term \"alternative\" has connotations of self-marginalization, some media outlets now prefer the term \"independent\" over \"alternative\". An independent media means that no one should control and influence its coverage of news.\n\nIn many developing countries, the only media available, particularly at the national level, are government-controlled radio and television stations and newspapers. Even if not overtly controlled by the state, outlets may have strong ties to or be influenced by the government. In such situations, it is often difficult to distinguish those outlets that are truly independent from those that are influenced by the government. For example, a newspaper may provide quality, unbiased coverage of the economy, health, and other issues, but still avoid reporting on the government. This issue is particularly compounded by issues of self-censorship, soft censorship, and other subtle government influences.\n\nSelf-censorship is the act of censoring or classifying one's own work out of fear of or deference to the sensibilities of others without an authority directly pressuring one to do so. Self-censorship is often practiced by film producers, film directors, publishers, news anchors, journalists, musicians, and other kinds of authors. In authoritarian countries, creators of artworks may remove material that their government might find controversial for fear of sanction by their governments. In pluralistic capitalist countries, self-censorship can also occur, particularly in order to conform to the expectations of the market. For example, the editor of a periodical may consciously or unconsciously avoid topics that will anger advertisers or the publication's parent company in order to protect their livelihood.\n\nSoft, or indirect, censorship is the practice of influencing news coverage by applying financial pressure on media companies that are deemed critical of a government or its policies and rewarding media outlets and individual journalists who are seen as friendly to the government. This problem goes largely unnoticed, yet can have a dramatic impact on the reporting of media outlets that can otherwise be considered independent.\n\nMany organizations engage in efforts to help the development of free and independent media in countries around the world. These efforts can take many forms, from funding the establishment of an entirely new media outlet to assisting an existing outlet in improving its professional capacity. Common efforts at independent media development include: journalist training and education; improving the legal environment for media; efforts to improve the sustainability of existing outlets; media literacy training; digital media training and integration; infrastructure development; and monitoring and evaluation efforts.\n\nSome development organizations and experts make a distinction between media development and media for development. \"Media development\" refers to efforts to directly improve the media in a society through the means mentioned above. \"Media for development\" refers to more indirect efforts at using existing media to convey messages about specific development issues. Such efforts include many ICT for Development (ICT4D) projects. Media for development has been applied to education, healthcare, business, disaster relief, corruption, minority empowerment, and local community engagement, among other development goals.\n\nWhile development of the media sector is a common activity of many development organizations, there are a small number that engage in direct media development as their primary purpose. In the U.S., the three main media development implementers are Internews, International Center for Journalists (ICFJ), and International Research & Exchanges Board (IREX). In addition, organizations like the Center for International Media Assistance, Reporters Without Borders, Article 19, and others monitor media development efforts and freedom of the press around the world.\n"}
{"id": "40849374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40849374", "title": "JFH: Justice For Hire", "text": "JFH: Justice For Hire\n\nJFH: Justice For Hire (also known as JFH, Justice For Hire, and JFH: Justice-For-Hire) is a mixed martial arts themed entertainment property that encompasses a series of comic books, films, videos, music, and animations. The \"JFH\" story follows two sons of a duo of vigilante fathers that get their family's hero-for-hire business legalized, spawning a worldwide industry of heroes, villains, and mercenaries for hire dubbed the Retribution Industry. Produced and published by Creative Impulse Entertainment, \"JFH\" remains one of the first examples of transmedia storytelling in the comic book industry.\n\n\"JFH\" was created by real-life father/son martial arts champions and comic book writers Jan C. Childress and Jan Lucanus. Lucanus appears as a regular cast member in the live action content.\n\nAs explained in an interview with Kodak's \"In Camera\" magazine, what started as a series of student films Jan Lucanus was directing from his high school and college days at the New York Film Academy and New York University grew into expanded short films and an award winning \"Justice-For-Hire\" 47-minute Featurette that doubled as both Jan's company Creative Impulse Entertainment's second narrative production and his NYU senior thesis film. The same footage from the featurette was recut into shorter episodic content, placed on four DVDs, and bundled with issues 1-4 of the \"JFH: Justice-For-Hire\" comic book series, marking the first time in the history of the comic book industry in which a physical comic book and DVD combination package was sold for an entire series run.\n\nIn 2007, \"JFH\" co-creator Jan Lucanus took an independent approach to spreading the word about his new comic series, doing a pre-release print run that debuted at the New York Comic Con, and calling upon his contacts in the martial arts community and across media to get the comics to people outside of the traditional comic book audience (the print comic book industry was notorious for marketing only to comic book readers, rather than targeting audiences outside of the niche market). \"JFH\" comics were given away in martial arts contests and at events for Warner Bros. Records, VH1, and Adidas. Later that year, marketing guru Ken Goldstein and entrepreneur Tonny Sorenson, along with partner Bob Johnson, made Jan the first Artist-in-Residence (\"AiR\") within their lifestyle brand, Von Dutch (the \"AiR\" program later transformed into the Planet Illogica agency). Before the official market release, \"JFH\" comics were distributed within the SoHo, New York and Los Angeles, California Von Dutch store fronts. On September 27, 2007, Jan co-hosted the Von Dutch-sponsored launch event for the \"JFH\" comic book - \"Justice-For-Hire Presents Fight Night at the Von Dutch\" in Los Angeles, CA. Gift bags filled with \"JFH\" comics and other sponsored items were given to a crowd of 1,100 spectators as they were presented with martial arts demonstrations and exhibition fights from Jan and his \"JFH\" fight team members, including champion fighters Hinton Wells, Ian Morgan,<ref name=\"Ian Morgan vs Gabe Dorado Muay Thai- JFH/Von Dutch event\"></ref> Maximillion Chen,<ref name=\"Maximillion Chen vs. Mercer Boffey - JFH/Von Dutch event\"></ref> Gabe Dorado, Ahmed Best, Jesse Abrescy, and Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Master John Machado,<ref name=\"John Machado BJJ demo JFH/Von Dutch\"></ref> along with Jan's father Jan C. Childress<ref name=\"Tai Chi Demo with Beatbox - JFH/Von Dutch event\"></ref> and creative partner Mercer Boffey. Other performances included an Oprah Winfrey-sponsored choir,<ref name=\"JFH/Von Dutch Fight Night - A Bloggers Recap\"></ref> and acrobatics from Cirque du Soleil troop, REALIS. Sponsors included Hollywood's Golden Apple Comics shop, Inside Kung Fu Magazine, Black Belt (magazine), Alacer Corp. (Emergen-C), 97.1 Free FM (now KAMP-FM), and martial arts promoter Tim Stell, among others. Celebrities in attendance included Seth Green, Lea Thompson, as well as a slew of martial arts masters from across California.<ref name=\"JFH/Von Dutch Fight Night Poster\"></ref>\n\nA year of independent promotions and the non-traditional packaging of comics & DVD's landed Jan's small, newly formed publishing subsidiary, Creative Impulse Publishing, a vendor deal with Diamond Comics Distributors, the worldwide monopoly for printed comics distribution. Creative Impulse Publishing officially released of the first issue of the printed \"JFH\" comic book/DVD bundles to comic shops internationally on December 26, 2007., and ran a bi-monthly release schedule into June 2008 to critical acclaim. The \"JFH\" comic book received 4 out of 4 stars from Newsarama.com, which reviewed the book as \"cinematic genius on the printed page...some of the most realistic kung-fu sequences ever drawn for a comic book\". The live action DVD content received positive reviews from several media outlets including TheComicBookPage.com podcast, which is quoted, \"the [live action] content was excellent. The basic premise for the series...absolutely brilliant\" However, the concept of \"JFH\"'s Retribution Industry has also been criticized by several media outlets including Comics Forge, \"Overall because of the moral ambiguity in the story lines, I am going to rate this 4 of 5, technically excellent, but morally questionable\", and Geeksmash.com, \"When all you need is money to get rid of a problem, the team could easily degrade into hit-men to the highest bidder. I don’t know if the creators are as concerned with these thematic messages as much as they simply want to put out a cool, tough fighting book\".\n\nAfter the initial \"JFH\" print release, Creative Impulse Entertainment was approached by comiXology to produce a \"JFH\" iPhone app that carried both the comic and the live action video. ComiXology was concurrently developing a new digital comics service and was seeking indie publishers to release their comics digitally and prove the viability of the digital comics business to larger publishers. ComiXology launched the Comics App in July 2009 with \"JFH: Justice-For-Hire\" as one of the launch titles. The \"JFH\" digital comic books spent nine consecutive weeks on the Top 25 Action/Adventure Downloads List and twelve consecutive weeks as the number one ranked Martial Arts Genre Download on comiXology's Top 25 List. \"JFH\", along with all of Creative Impulse Publishing's first wave of titles, remained on the Top 25 Martial Arts Downloads List until comiXology updated the platform's user interface in 2012, removing the Top 25 listings by genre completely. ComiXology remains the leading digital comic service in the industry. With digital distribution on all mobile and desktop devices via partnerships with comiXology, Graphic.ly, iVerse Media, and other digital distributors, \"JFH\" is one of the most downloaded martial arts comic book series on any digital comics platform.\n\nCreative Impulse Entertainment partnered with Willow Road Animation to adapt the \"JFH\" comic book series into a motion comic animation. The pilot episode, directed by Jan Lucanus, was launched in February 2012 during the \"JFH FreeFor All\" Event with digital comic network Graphicly, media outlet iFanboy, and animation software developer Reallusion. The event called upon artists from across the globe to submit drawings and animations of their favorite \"JFH\" characters as well free comics and animation software as incentives to participate. Winners were announced in April 2012. The \"JFH\" Motion Comic Animation had its premiere public screening at the 2012 San Diego Comic Con International's Superhero Kung Fu Extravaganza hosted by Ric Meyers, where Jan and Willow Road President Zach Shelton announced a live action feature film and animated series production partnership for \"JFH: Justice-For-Hire\" with Spillwall Productions. Spillwall Vice President Sam Levine was present to address the event's audience.\n\nIn 2013, the \"JFH\" motion comic pilot episode began its official film festival and industry competition run, winning the 34th Annual Silver Telly Awards highest honor for Best Use of Animation Online, a 2013 Silver Davey Award, and the Award of Merit at the 2014 Accolade Competition.\n\nAnnounced at the 2012 San Diego Comic Con International Superhero Kung Fu Extravaganza, the live-action adaptation of \"JFH: Justice-For-Hire\" is slated for production via a partnership between Jan Lucanus's company Creative Impulse Entertainment. (CIE) and the Canadian-based Spillwall Productions. Jan will co-direct and co-star as one of the main characters, \"Ebony\". The feature follows an original story conceived by Jan and developed via a partnership between CIE and Nine Dot Entertainment that will act as a prequel to the first season of \"JFH\" comics. The screenplay is co-written by Jan, award-winning screenwriter and director Aurore Barry, and Jan's father, comic book writer Jan C. Childress.\n\nIn 2013, the \"JFH\" creative team launched a successful Kickstarter campaign to shoot a short film to establish the cinematic tone for the \"JFH\" feature, as well as test out a martial arts camera system designed for the film, called \"Weapon Camera Movement\". The short, entitled \"JFH: Justice For Hire - Retribution Task Force\", brought together several characters across the \"JFH\" Universe for a common goal - stopping acts of violence against women committed by the Raskol gangs of Papua New Guinea. The film premiered at the 2014 Comic Con Superhero Kung Fu Extravaganza, and was a featured screening at the HBO/Cinemax Urban Action Showcase and Bent-Con in the same year.\n\n"}
{"id": "40484879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40484879", "title": "Kantai Collection", "text": "Kantai Collection\n\n, abbreviated as , is a Japanese free-to-play web browser game developed by Kadokawa Games. \n\nThe central theme of the game is the representation of World War II warships as cute human girls with personality characteristics reflecting the history of each ship. Originally, all of these were Japanese, but as the game has developed, ships from other nations have also been added. Gameplay involves all aspects of naval warfare, including not only combat, but also maintenance, repair, upgrading, resupply, morale, logistics and mission planning.\n\nThe game was launched on April 23, 2013. As of April 2015, the game is available in Japan only and has 3 million registered players. The game has developed into a much larger media franchise; various media including multiple manga series and light novels have been released, in addition to an officially licensed tabletop role-playing game. A PlayStation Vita game was released in February 2016, and an anime television series began airing its first season in January 2015, with an released in November 2016 as the sequel to the series.\n\nThe gameplay is centred upon building squadrons composed of individual characters represented as cards with different attributes, and then sending said squadrons out on missions. Each of the characters are moe anthropomorphisms of World War II naval warships which are depicted as cute girls, known as . These personified warships are based on real-life vessels which are explained in detail within the game; the physical characteristics, appearances and personalities of each of the girls correlate in some way to the real-life vessel (for example, ships with a larger displacement tonnage are usually depicted as young women, while smaller ships look and behave like pubescent girls, with a few exceptions). The player takes on the role of an and organises their fleets in battle in order to win. Combat is largely automated, and manual actions by the player include micromanagement such as building and repairing. The player can organise up to four different fleets.\n\nThe player progresses through the game by advancing through maps, gaining experience points through grinding, obtaining new fleet girls whilst repairing and resupplying existing ones, and fulfilling quests to obtain resources. New equipment can be crafted, allowing the fleet girls to equip different armaments depending on the situation. Acquisition of new \"kanmusu\" by the player can occur via drops on map or via crafting, and is heavily RNG-based; randomisation is also a key component of the battle mechanism, map progression and equipment development. Construction, resupply and repair of ships is reliant upon four types of resources, namely fuel, ammunition, steel and bauxite; these supplies will gradually increase automatically as time passes. Players can choose to engage in expeditions, sorties and quests to further increase their supplies as well.\n\nShips can be customised through the addition of various equipment within their empty slots, which add attribute bonuses and even provide special effects in some cases; such equipment include naval guns, anti-aircraft guns, torpedoes, torpedo bombers, dive bombers, fighter aircraft, seaplanes, recon planes, radars, steam turbines, special artillery shells, depth charges, sonars, drum canisters, searchlights and anti-torpedo bulges. The effectiveness of ships in combat depend on its attribute parameters, namely hitpoints, armour, evasion, aircraft capacity, speed, attack range, firepower, torpedo, anti-air, anti-submarine, line-of-sight, and luck.\n\n\"Kanmusu\" are capable of becoming stronger as they gain experience and level up after battles, and can also be remodeled into more advanced models once they reach a certain level. Unwanted \"kanmusu\" can also be \"fed\" to other \"kanmusu\" through a process known as , which grants attribute bonuses to one ship in exchange for losing another. Ships can become fatigued once it accumulates after sorties; fatigued ships have decreased attributes, whilst sparkling ships have increased attributes. Fatigue can be alleviated by allowing ships some time to rest, or by recovering the fleet's morale using . As ships become damaged, their icons begin to blow off smoke and their clothing become visually torn and battered; in the event when a ship's durability drops down to zero, it is considered sunk, and the player will lose the fleet girl. Players cannot resurrect fleet girls that have been lost unless they are in possession of an emergency repair item, and are only able to re-train ships that have been lost from scratch.\n\nWhilst the game is free-to-play, special premium bonuses can be obtained through prepaid game money and credit card micropayments, such as repair dock expansions, home shipyard furniture tokens, ship possession limit increases and special consumable items. Although each ship in the game has an experience level cap of Lv.99, the player is able to obtain the \"marriage papers and ring\" item with a monetary purchase priced at 700 yen or via a one-time special quest, which allows the player to \"marry\" the girl, thereby breaking the original level cap and allowing a new maximum of Lv.165, in addition to other perks such as stat boosts and decreased operating costs; this process can be repeated as many times as the player wishes, and there is no limit to the number of girls that can be \"married\".\n\nPlayers can choose to battle against the fleets of other real-life players on the same game server via the exercise maneuvers menu. Players are also able to compete with each other's scores via in-game ranking boards, with periodical prizes for top ranking players. As of January 2016, there are 20 servers that can be played on, each named after a World War II-era Japanese naval base. The game is currently intended to be played by a Japanese domestic audience only, with the interface exclusively in the Japanese language. As of present, the game cannot be played outside Japan without the use of a VPN; utilisation of such methods to circumvent country IP restrictions and access the game breach the DMM.com online game terms of use, however. From August 2013 onwards, new player registrations were only available via periodic lottery, due to the servers being overloaded by large numbers of new registrants. After July 2015, new registrants were able to join the 20th server without the need to partake in a lottery; due to excessive player numbers, however, the new server has closed on multiple occasions.\n\nUpon the debut of the game, there were a total of 94 different fleet girls available. Within an update introduced May 15–17, 2013, additional fleet girls were added. On September 11, 2013, the first non-Japanese vessel, Soviet destroyer \"Verniy\" (Верный), was introduced into the game. There were plans during the early stages to eventually bring additional ships from other countries, and in March 2014, three German Kriegsmarine vessels were added. Two Italian ships were added as part of the 2015 Spring event in April 2015, with one more added in August. The first fully non-Axis ship, the American USS Iowa (BB-61), was introduced with KanColle Kai on February 18, 2016, later becoming available in the browser game's 2016 Spring event. Presently there are 164 original girls in addition to 72 upgraded variants, bringing the total number of fleet girls to 236. The game currently holds spaces for 250 different types of fleet girls. Different fleet girls are illustrated by different artists; artists involved in the drawing of various characters include Shibafu, , , Kūrokuro, and 16 other artists. Fumikane Shimada, who was previously the lead character designer for \"Strike Witches\" and \"Girls und Panzer\", created the designs and illustrations for Japanese armored aircraft carrier \"Taihō\" and the five German vessels.\n\nThe traits of each fleet girl are based on aspects of the historical ship they are based on; for instance, frequently adds English words and phrases into her dialog as a reference to her British origins, whilst is depicted as a speedy girl in artworks and official print media, since \"Shimakaze\" was one of the fastest destroyer ships of World War II. Characters which share particular links also have similar physical traits: ships of the same class may have similar accessories or clothing, whilst all Imperial Japanese Navy submarines are depicted as wearing sukumizu.\n\nVoice actors have been employed to voice the fleet girls, with anywhere around 10 fleet girls being voiced by one actor.\n\nPrior to \"Kantai Collection\", the majority of games published by DMM.com were R-18+ adult online games. In an effort to attract customers from a wider audience, DMM.com experimented with \"Kantai Collection\" in partnership with Kadokawa Games; by November 2013, \"Kantai Collection\" accounted for 30-40% of DMM.com's total online game business.\n\nUnlike other online games in Japan, \"Kantai Collection\" was designed with the intention of not forcing the player to spend money or participate in \"gacha\" lotteries. The purpose of this stems from Kadokawa desiring a larger target market and to establish the game as a well-known name, eventually allowing for merchandising and sales of franchise works.\n\nKensuke Tanaka, who prior to \"Kantai Collection\" was involved in the production and public relations for \"Final Fantasy X\", \"XI\" and \"XIII\", wished to create a game which involves historical elements while still appealing to the regular fans of DMM.com, namely fans of anime and manga culture, and this led him to the idea of developing a game centred on anthropomorphisms of warships.\n\nA bi-monthly online web manga by Ryōta Momoi began serialization from April 23, 2013 in the \"Famitsu Comic Clear\". The manga follows a 4koma format, and features a storyline with the fleet girls enrolled in schools, where senior girls teach battle techniques to their juniors. It has been updated weekly since October 2013. Ryōta Momoi's 4koma manga will be released in print book format under the title beginning from December 14, 2013.\n\n\"Famitsu Comic Clear\" has introduced an additional manga adaptation by under the title beginning from July 9, 2013.\n\nThe Famitsu website also hosts a web comic titled by Tadashi Mizumoto which focuses on gameplay aspects of \"Kantai Collection\". It began serialization from August 23, 2013. In addition, illustrations column with multiple illustrator at the same time as the manga has also been serialized.\n\nA manga by Kensuke Tanaka and illustrated by titled began serialisation in \"Monthly Comic Alive\" in the December 2013 issue (released October 28, 2013), with a focus on an original story revolving around Tenryū and Tatsuta.\n\nIn addition, another manga series by SASAYUKi featuring the title was serialized in \"Comptiq\" from the December 2013 issue (released November 9, 2013) onwards, with a story based on the adventures of battleship Kongō. It began serialisation within the May 2014 issue of \"Comptiq\" (released April 10, 2014) and was later terminated within the November 2014 issue (released October 10, 2014).\n\nA manga titled and illustrated by began serialisation in the January 2014 issue (released November 9, 2013) of \"Comp Ace\", with the plot focusing on the Akatsuki sisters.\n\n\"Age Premium\" featured a manga publication by titled starting from the January 2014 issue (delivered December 9, 2013), with Inazuma as the main character. It was serialized until the May 2014 issue (delivered April 9, 2014).\n\nA manga series titled by Kazuma Yamazaki, Hyōbu Madoka later Kaname Yokoshima and illustrated by Kazuma Yamazaki began serialisation within the \"Dengeki Maoh\" magazine in the February 2014 issue (released December 27, 2013).\n\nA manga series by titled began serialisation in the July 2014 issue (released May 27, 2014) of \"Dengeki Daioh\", focusing on a storyline revolving around the heavy cruisers Kumano and Suzuya.\n\nKadokawa website also hosts a web comic titled by Sau Nitō and illustrated by Sōta Wakui which focuses on gameplay aspects of \"Kantai Collection\". It began serialization from March 22, 2014 in Comic Walker.\n\nKadokawa has also announced a manga series titled , created by Ōto Taguchi who was previously responsible for the \"Mobile Suit Gundam 00\" manga. However, the project was cancelled after a disagreement between the author and publisher.\n\n\"Famitsu Comic Clear\", \"DNA Comics\", \"Comptiq\" and \"Dengeki Comics\" have also published numerous series of comic compilation books which each contain a collection of various one-shot manga.\n\nA short story series featuring aircraft carriers Zuikaku and Shōkaku written by and illustrated by Matarō, titled , began serialisation within the January 2014 issue (released November 20, 2013) of \"Dragon Magazine\".\n\nA light novel based on the game with the title , written by Toshihiko Tsukiji and illustrated by NOCO, was released on November 30, 2013.\n\nA novel project featuring aircraft carriers Kaga and Akagi involving the illustrator Koruri and the authors Kei Shiide, and Dai Akagane has been announced, with the title . It was serialized in \"Comptiq\" between the January 2014 (released November 9, 2013) and August 2014 (released July 10, 2014) issues. A novel to share the view of the world, written by Kazuyuki Takami and illustrated by was released on November 2, 2014.\n\nA novel series featuring light aircraft carriers Zuihō written by and illustrated by Satoru Arikawa, titled was released on February 1, 2015.\n\nA single-player turn-based strategy game titled was announced for the PlayStation Vita during Kadokawa Games' 2013 Autumn media briefing, and following two launch delays, was finally released on February 18, 2016. The game is the second title independently created by Kadokawa Game Studio, after \"Natural Doctrine\". \"KanColle Kai\" introduces various strategy elements such as hexagonal world maps, a new resource transfer system involving the escorting of supply ships over each game turn, player-selected difficulty settings, enemy counterattacks against the player's bases, control of over up to eight fleets on the world map, and the ability to simultaneously operate two separate fleets within some sortie maps. Existing functions from the original web browser game are also present, with major user interface changes. Menu screens feature character animations, and the player will encounter a \"game over\" state if all of their territories are destroyed by the enemy. The Vita game contained the original debut of USS \"Iowa\" (BB-61) as a playable ship, prior to her seasonal event implementation within the browser game.\n\nIn March 2014, financial analyst Fukuda Sōichirō of Citigroup Global Markets Japan made the prediction in a stock investor report that the PS Vita game would ship 500,000 copies, and expects that a profit of 1 billion yen be made. He also cites the ability to charge players for in-game premium items on the PS Vita platform as an upside for Kadokawa Corporation business-wise. \"Famitsu\" gave the game a review score of 29/40. The game sold 140,757 physical retail copies within the first week of release in Japan, placing first within the Japanese software sales rankings for that particular week; \"Dengeki Online\" and \"Famitsu\" both report that between 80-100% of the initial retail batch stock was sold out within the first week.\n\nKadokawa Games has announced that the game will be no longer sold physically in retail stores or digitally in the PlayStation Store by the end of January 2017.\n\n is a trading card arcade game developed by Sega AM2 and launched on April 26, 2016. The game features fully modeled 3D characters, and involves the player taking control of the direction and speed of their ship in combat against Abyssal ships, in addition to collecting different shipgirls. The game charges players with a GP system akin to that of \"Border Break\", where money is converted into GP at a specific rate, with these points consumed for each second of play or converted in exchange for various other game elements. The game is controlled using a steering wheel and speed lever, and the player is able to organise their fleet using \"kanmusu\" cards ejected by the arcade machine. While in combat, the player can choose between using primary and secondary armaments, torpedoes and airstrikes against foes.\n\nAn official KanColle tabletop RPG has been developed; the introductory rulebook for the game was published by Kadokawa and Fujimi Shobo, and released on 18 March 2014. A first rule book written by and illustrated by , titled was released on March 18, 2014.\n\nA replay series written by Shiei Akatoki and illustrated by Yebisu Daikanyama, titled was released on July 19, 2014.\n\nA lonely replay series written by Tōichiro Kawashima and illustrated by , titled was released on January 20, 2015.\n\nAn anime television series began airing in January 2015. The series is animated by Diomedéa, and features as the main character, with the storyline based on her point of view. The show is directed by Keizou Kusakawa, with the script written by Jukki Hanada. The anime series features the voice cast from the original game.\n\nAn original game soundtrack was released on August 3, 2014. Second original game soundtrack was released on August 5, 2015.\n\nTwo vocal music collection CDs and have also been released on August 3, 2014.\n\nLimited edition versions of the \"side:Kongō\" and \"Torpedo Squadron Chronicles\" manga series \"tankōbon\" were bundled with drama CDs featuring original dialogue stories from the characters' original voice actors, titled and .\n\nAn anime television soundtrack was released on March 25, 2015. A anime television vocal music collection CD was released on March 25, 2015.\n\nIn addition, an animated film, titled , was released on November 26, 2016.\n\nWhilst the original game does not have a particular storyline, and largely focuses on gameplay, each of the official media works feature various settings with separate and differing canons. Not only do the stories differ, but also the depictions and interpretations of fleet girls and the manner in which they engage in combat. The game does not strictly define anything relating to its setting, allowing for a greater diversity of secondary literary adaptation works which cater to different audiences, and more artistic freedom among secondary works which can approach the setting of \"Kantai Collection\" differently.\n\nKadokawa has not officially announced whether any secondary work is absolute canon, nor have they released significant quantities of canonical material, with some official works even contradicting one another. For instance, some manga anthology depictions show the ship girls as ship-sized giants, while other serialised manga show them as human-sized. The television animation explains the ship girls as humans born with the ability to possess the spirits of World War II warships, while within the \"Bonds of the Wings of Cranes\" light novel, the girls refer to themselves as actual warships, and that their origin is unknown.\n\nWithin the story of \"Bonds of the Wings of Cranes\", the setting is within an alternate universe where World War II never took place. The fleet of the Abyss, consisting of monster ships, lock down access to the seas and indiscriminately fire upon vessels and aircraft, and feed on the corpses of dead sailors in the water. The large number of abyssals, along with their regenerating ability, allowed them to easily defeat the conventional navies and modern militaries of the world. Ship girls are the guardians of humanity and human-weapon hybrids that are summoned using , with female forms as the ships they represent have female souls. \"Zuikaku\", having taken a humanoid form, remembers a time where she was once a ship, however does not know the reason behind her human form.\n\nThe fleet girls live within an old-fashioned Japanese-style hotel which doubles as the girls' dormitory, and is close to a nearby factory which services combat equipment. The admiral of the fleet is a young man who behaves like a pervert, fond of groping the ship girls and playing with their skirts, although his personality does become serious when commanding the fleet. As the ship girls and abyssal fleets engage in combat, both sides are guarded by a protective barrier. The aircraft carriers \"Akagi\" and \"Kaga\" are depicted as firing archery arrows from a bow which then transform into fighter planes. Armaments are detachable equipment, and when not in combat gear the ships otherwise appear as ordinary girls.\n\nThis light novel is set within a universe based on the real world, where normal girls undergo training to become ship girls. Hundreds of warships were destroyed by abyssal forces which spontaneously emerge from anywhere under the sea, and as a result, ship girls are employed to counter the threat.\n\nA series of mini-arcs connecting a ship girl to her existing counterpart by gradually introducing characters and rotating the leads. Within this manga, ship girls are depicted as flying on the water surface whilst in combat against the abyss fleet of monster ships, and launch aircraft managed by tiny fairies in a conventional takeoff manner from their body attachments. Artillery and torpedo combat is shown to be performed at long range, whilst anti-submarine warfare takes place in close quarters.\n\nThis manga adaptation focuses on the adventures of the Tenryū class and Akatsuki class, as it follows the newly assigned Tenryū and her new squadron in solving the mystery of the Abyssal Fleet.\n\nThis manga depicts the story of a newly appointed, rookie officer by the name of Ensign Akai who arrives at the Maizuru Naval Base for duty as the assistant to the vice-admiral, however has to deal with a stubborn and difficult \"Shimakaze\" who spends most of her time alone, and does not have any friends. Multiple nations around the world have developed ship girls for their navy power, and Maizuru is one of the major bases of Japan responsible for managing them.\n\nThis slice of life 4koma depicts the everyday life of the ship girls at the fleet training school, where newly manufactured ship girls spend one year learning knowledge before setting out to sea. Most of the scenarios are taken from the point of view of \"Fubuki\", and feature the girls doing fun things with one another, which include attending school, drinking tea, celebrating various holidays like Tanabata, Halloween and Christmas, in addition to the occasional sortie. The ship girls retain memories of their previous lives from World War II, at times displaying signs of post-traumatic stress disorder. References to their personal histories and characteristics are common and usually used to comedic effect. This manga depicts the ship girls as being able to walk on the surface of the water in a manner akin to ice-skating, just like in the anime series.\n\nMerchandise based on the game have been launched as a result of the success of the online game, proliferation of derivative works, and strong interest in the franchise. PVC figurines have been released, including Nendoroid and Figma figurines of both Shimakaze and Akagi, in addition to a 1/7 scale PVC display figurine of a severely damaged Kongō designed and manufactured by Max Factory. A trading card game based on the online game released on March 28, 2014 reportedly sold 1.7 million packets within its first shipment.\n\nIn September 2013, a collaborative project between \"Kantai Collection\" and the \"Arpeggio of Blue Steel\" anime was announced. Illustrators for \"Kantai Collection\" are responsible for drawing some of the anime end cards for \"Arpeggio of Blue Steel\", which feature crossovers with \"Kantai Collection\" characters. An \"Arpeggio of Blue Steel\" in-game special event for \"Kantai Collection\" also took place from December 24, 2013 to January 8, 2014.\n\nDue to the high popularity of the game within Japan, game operators created larger numbers of servers in early 2013 to cope with the influx of players. During August 2013, the number of new players spiked by 100,000 people within one week, to a total of 600,000 people, with 350,000 daily active players. By September 2013, it was reported that there were more than 800,000 players regularly active. The total number of players broke 1,000,000 on 9 October 2013. As of April 2015, there were 3 million players. One commonly cited explanation behind the success of the game is that players aren't forced to spend money to play, unlike other popular Japanese online games; the free-to-play nature of \"Kantai Collection\" makes in-game purchases optional, and not a necessity. It is estimated that on average, \"Kantai Collection\" players spend less money on the game compared to the popular Japanese games \"Puzzle & Dragons\", \"The Idolmaster Cinderella Girls\" and \"Love Live! School Idol Festival\".\n\nInterest in \"Kantai Collection\" has significantly risen over the months following its release, to the point where it has often been compared with the fandom of \"Touhou Project\" as an emerging viral fandom. There has been a large increase in online activity and fan-created material relating to the game, such as fan-made artworks, doujinshi and other derivative content. As of April 2015, there are over 345,000 different artworks on Pixiv tagged with \"KanColle\" created by 67,000 individual artists, and KanColle-related videos on Niconico were watched 460 million times. During Comiket 85, there were 1,136 dōjin circles producing works for \"Kantai Collection\", placing third behind \"Touhou Project\" (2,272 circles) and \"Kuroko's Basketball\" (1,462 circles), and ahead of \"The Idolmaster\" and \"Vocaloid\"; this is a significant increase over the previous Comiket 84 event, which only had just over 100 circles with \"Kantai Collection\" works. Dōjin material relating to the game have also gained traction overseas; KanColle-exclusive dōjin events have been held in Shanghai on 22 February 2014, and Taipei on 29 March 2014.\n\nOn 12 December 2013, Twitter officially released the top hashtags of 2013; #艦これ was the most used hashtag among Japanese Twitter users. The game was also the eighth most searched term within Japan on Google in 2013. On 30 December 2013, GameSpark named \"Kantai Collection\" as the online game category title for its game of the year awards of 2013, ahead of runners-up \"League of Legends\", \"World of Tanks\" and \"\". A survey of 151 different prominent Japanese game developers conducted by 4gamer asked what each developer considered to be the best game of 2013; nine of these developers selected \"Kantai Collection\". Among these developers, Naoki Yoshida of Square Enix, who produced and directed \"Final Fantasy XIV: A Realm Reborn\", stated that \"Kantai Collection\" is Japan's answer to \"World of Tanks\", and that he was impressed by the business model; meanwhile, \"\" director Seiji Hayashi of Sega referred to the game as \"innovative\". \"Kantai Collection\" was named \"Rookie of the Year\" during the 2013 Awards, as a new entrant to the games market.\n\nSpeaking at a symposium held by Kadokawa ASCII Research Institute on 27 September 2013, the chairman of the board of directors of Kadokawa Group Holdings, , stated that despite the game's popularity, \"Kantai Collection\" is nearly unprofitable for the company, in part due to the game being funded by various company partnerships, such as the profit-sharing agreement made between Kadokawa Group and DMM Group, given that none of the game's development fees were paid for by Kadokawa. Kadokawa's stock price rose by 1000 yen within June 2013, following the initial rise of the game. It is expected that Kadokawa will need to rely on sales of intellectual property media works such as books and manga in order to raise profits. Kadokawa Games president Yoshimi Yasuda affirms that the free-to-play business model of the game will not change despite reports of a lack of revenue gain.\n\nMeanwhile, game distributor DMM Corporation gained 7 billion yen from the game as of June 2014, which is equivalent to 140 times the value of the game's development costs.\n\nToshihiko Tsukiji's light novel \"Kantai Collection: Kagerō, Setting Sail!\" sold 16,624 copies within its first week of release, placing 11th place within the Oricon book ranking charts. Also debuting the same week were the \"Sasebo Naval District Compilation Vol.1\" and \"Maizuru Naval District Compilation Vol.1\" comic anthologies, which sold 59,552 copies and 58,110 copies respectively. In mid-November 2013, \"Yokosuka Naval District Compilation Vol.1\" sold 48,909 copies during its first week, placing 10th place among all comic sales. The first manga volume of \"Fubuki, Ganbarimasu!\" sold 28,324 copies within its first week in December 2013. The \"KanColle White Paper\" official book published by Kadokawa placed third overall within the Oricon book charts during its debut week in October 2013, selling 46,039 copies.\n\nAn editorial within the South Korean \"Hankook Ilbo\" on 4 November 2013 accuses that the strong popularity of the game is due to a conservative political shift amongst young people in Japan following long-term economic recession and political instability, and that the game majestifies the wartime Imperial Japanese Navy. Addressing the \"Hankook Ilbo\" allegation, Akky Akimoto writing for \"The Japan Times\" disagrees with the idea that the game's design deliberately facilitates any political shift, and argues that the 1970s anime series \"Space Battleship Yamato\" was subject to similar criticisms despite having little effect on domestic politics.\n\nAnother opinion piece from the \"Asahi Shimbun\" suggests that the game's unforgiving mechanics, such as ships permanently sinking, some of them may even trace for their grandparents' military service history, so helps players understand the brutality of war given the desperate situations, that they can gain a more positive understanding of history or even oppose conflict itself. On the other hand, Jonathan Gad of \"Vice\" claims that the \"Kantai Collection\" anime television series is historically revisionist, criticising the show's depiction of the Japanese protagonists being victorious over the Battle of Midway.\n\nIn January 2015, allegations arose that the company Beijing Longzhu Digital Technology (), which runs an unofficial pirated KanColle server in Mainland China, spent () in purchasing various Chinese-language KanColle internet forums such as the KanColle subforum on Baidu Tieba; online discussion boards intended for discussing the original Japanese game were closed down or placed under new management, while the forums of the pirated bootleg Chinese KanColle remained online. This led to widespread unrest amongst Chinese players of the original game, resulting in large-scale internet raids on forums and social media, distributed denial-of-service attacks, and website defacing via SQL injection by hackers against those running the bootleg server. An article published by China Central Television referred to the incident as the largest online mass boycott and protest against intellectual property infringement in China, and a wake-up call for the Chinese gaming industry as a whole to strive for integrity and refrain from creating copycat works.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7523694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7523694", "title": "Knismesis and gargalesis", "text": "Knismesis and gargalesis\n\nKnismesis and gargalesis are the scientific terms, coined in 1897 by psychologists G. Stanley Hall and Arthur Allin, used to describe the two types of tickling. Knismesis refers to the light, feather-like type of tickling. This type of tickling generally does not induce laughter and is often accompanied by an itching sensation. Gargalesis refers to harder, laughter-inducing tickling, and involves the repeated application of high pressure to sensitive areas. While the two terms are used in academic papers, they do not appear in many dictionaries and their origin is rarely declared. The term knismesis comes from the Greek <nowiki>\"</nowiki>knismos<nowiki>\"</nowiki> meaning itching. The term gargalesis stems from the Greek <nowiki>\"</nowiki>gargalizein<nowiki>\"</nowiki> meaning to tickle. The suffix <nowiki>\"</nowiki>-esis<nowiki>\"</nowiki> is used to form nouns of action or process. \n\nThe knismesis phenomenon requires low levels of stimulation to sensitive parts of the body, and can be triggered by a light touch or by a light electric current. Knismesis can also be triggered by crawling insects or parasites, prompting scratching or rubbing at the ticklish spot, thereby removing the pest. It is possible that this function explains why knismesis produces a similar response in many different kinds of animals. In a famous example, described in Peter Benchley's \"Shark!\", it is possible to tickle the area just under the snout of a great white shark, putting it into a near-hypnotic trance.\n\nThe gargalesis type of tickle works on primates (which include humans), and possibly on other species. For example, ultrasonic vocalizations described as \"chirping\", which play into social behavior and even have therapeutic effects, are reported in rats in response to human tickling. However, adult female rats may find the tickling sensation adverse. Because the nerves involved in transmitting \"light\" touch and itch differ from those nerves that transmit \"heavy\" touch, pressure and vibration, it is possible that the difference in sensations produced by the two types of tickle is due to the relative proportion of itch sensation versus touch sensation. While it is possible to trigger a knismesis response in oneself, it is usually impossible to produce gargalesthesia, the gargalesis tickle response, in oneself. Hypergargalesthesia is the condition of extreme sensitivity to tickling.. The words knismesis and gargalesis were both used by Susie Dent in an episode of the BBC game show, Would I Lie to You? (Season 11, episode 4).\n"}
{"id": "36472390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36472390", "title": "List of Las Vegas Valley lounge artists", "text": "List of Las Vegas Valley lounge artists\n\nThis page lists Las Vegas Valley lounge music performers.\n\nThe pioneers of the Las Vegas lounge scene were The Mary Kaye Trio with Mary Kaye. Although the lounge existed in Las Vegas hotels, it was not until the trio started the \"Dusk til Dawn\" that the nightlife existed in Las Vegas. Many credit Louis Prima as the original, but the trio started it five years before Prima came to Vegas. Prima and Keely Smith followed the trio in the origins of Las Vegas nightlife.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27457063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27457063", "title": "Mascot race", "text": "Mascot race\n\nA mascot race is a promotional sports entertainment or charity competition consisting of costumed runners racing around a baseball field or race course, usually as a form of between-innings entertainment. The racers are typically anthropomorphized inanimate objects or mascots related to local culture, a sponsor's products, or sport culture. The outcomes of races can both be decided in a legitimate race or may be predetermined for purely entertainment purposes.\n\nThe world's largest ever mascot race was the Sue Ryder Mascot Gold Cup held at Wetherby Racecourse in West Yorkshire, United Kingdom, on April 26 2015. The race featured 131 mascots with 125 of them completing the distance and becoming the new Guinness World Record for most mascots in a race. The winning mascot was the Red Marauder entered by the Ingmanthorpe Racing Stables and helped to victory by Scottish international footballer Gary McAllistair. \n\nThe best known of this type of race is the Milwaukee Brewers' Sausage Race. Introduced in the early 1990s, the race features bratwurst, Polish sausage, Italian sausage, hot dog, and chorizo characters. The race takes place before the sixth inning of every home game. Players have also been involved; during a 2003 race during a Brewers–Pittsburgh Pirates game, Pirates slugger Randall Simon hit one of the sausages with a baseball bat, causing the woman in the costume to require medical care. Milwaukee police fined Simon. The incident subsequently became known as \"Sausagegate\".\n\nThe Sausage Race inspired the creation of the Great Pierogi Race in Pittsburgh. A rivalry has developed between the Sausages and the Pierogies, and the two groups compete twice yearly in relay races. Another well known mascot race is the Presidents Race of the Washington Nationals. George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Abraham Lincoln, Theodore Roosevelt, and William Howard Taft mascots compete. As a running joke, Teddy Roosevelt did not win until the Nationals made the playoffs for the first time in 2012. Like the Milwaukee Sausages, the Presidents also have a rivalry with the Pierogies.\n\nOther teams have their own versions. The Tampa Bay Rays have a race sponsored by PepsiCo, the owners of the naming rights to Tropicana Field. Their race is between large bottles of Pepsi, Pepsi Max, Aquafina, and Sierra Mist. Before 2007, these were computer-generated. As of 2010, the race is only computer-generated for certain games.\n\nThe Cleveland Indians and the Kansas City Royals have similar races involving hot dogs. The Royals' version features live runners dressed as Heinz condiments – ketchup, relish and mustard. The live racers made their first appearance during the 2007 season, with the race being limited to the video board prior to this. The Indians also started a live hot dog race in 2007 with the racers being mustard, onion, and ketchup (who wears thick glasses as a nod to Charlie Sheen's \"Wild Thing\" character from the movie \"Major League\"). In late 2007 the ketchup racer started cutting the corner at home plate to win the race, and this \"cheating\" has led to several stage skits by players, mascots, and the ground crew to slow or trip him up during the race.\n\nThe New York Mets race cardboard automobiles. As of May 29, 2016, they include an anthropomorphized police car, fire truck, yellow cab and black limo. As of May 29, 2016, Freddie the Firetruck leads the 2016 series with 9 wins, including the two most recent Sunday races. \n\nTexas Rangers games feature a live action version of the \"Dot Race\", in which three dots (Red, Green, and Blue) compete in the middle of the sixth inning. Each fan is given a coupon for Ozarka bottled water (the race sponsor) that has one of the three colors. A coupon with the \"winning color\" can be taken to a Texas store to purchase Ozarka (in actuality, the coupons do not feature the date they were presented, thus any coupon can be redeemed at any time prior to their expiration date). The \"dots\" were later joined by three action figures, all resembling figures in Texas history (Davy Crockett with his long rifle, Jim Bowie with his Bowie knife, and Sam Houston).\n\nThe Atlanta Braves race involves (Atlanta-based) Home Depot's hammer, saw (later replaced by a bucket after suffering a serious injury), paint brush, and power drill racing against each other. Before the 2009 season, the race was seen only on the scoreboard, but it now features live runners dressed in costumed versions of these tools; the race takes place on the warning track and starts in right field and ends in front of the scoreboard.\n\nIn 2009 the San Francisco Giants featured periodically a bobble head race with likenesses of announcers Duane Kuiper and Mike Krukow, but they only occasionally raced in 2009.\n\nThe Arizona Diamondbacks dress three children up in hot dog suits – one representing ketchup, one representing mustard and one representing relish. The three kids run in place in front of the Diamondbacks' dugout while the scoreboard shows a race between the three hot dogs. The winner receives a prize for their victory.\n\nThe Houston Astros' race involves Taco Bell hot sauce packets named Fire, Hot, and Mild that race from the right field corner around the outfield and up to the visitors' dugout. This race started in 2010, but starting in the 2015 season the Astros introduced their new race, the Space Race, featuring three dressed in astronauts costume; they are Apollo, Squeeze, and Doc Rocket. Also in 2010, the Arizona Diamondbacks added a \"Legends Race\" with likenesses of Randy Johnson, Mark Grace, Luis Gonzalez and Matt Williams. The race debuted on July 2. The Diamondbacks previously had a race between live runners dressed as menu items from fast-food chain and sponsor Taco Bell, including a giant cup of Pepsi. The Mark Grace figure finally won his first race August 8, 2015, on the day Randy Johnson's number was retired; Johnson let him pass him for the win. Mark Grace won another race on October 3, leading the race from beginning to end.\n\nIn 2012, the Minnesota Twins introduced “The Race at Target Field” mascot race—an evolution of their \"Race to Target Field\" animated video race which began in 2009 for the inaugural season of Target Field. The race features five Minnesota-inspired characters: Louie the loon, Wanda the walleye, Babe the blue ox, Skeeta the mosquito and Bullseye the dog (mascot of hometown company and sponsor, Target Corporation).\n\nAlso in 2012, the Miami Marlins added the Great Sea race featuring Bob the Shark, Julio the Octopus, Angel the Stone Crab and Spike the Sea Dragon.\n\nOn August 3, 2013, the Oakland Athletics held the first Hall of Famer Big Head race, featuring mascot versions of Rickey Henderson, Rollie Fingers, and Dennis Eckersley. As of 2018, it is still being run at home games.\n\n\nThe Mascot Gold Cup, originally known as the Mascot Steeplechase, was devised by The Yorkshire Federation of Young Farmers Clubs in 2006 and is held at Wetherby Racecourse, West Yorkshire, United Kingdom.\n"}
{"id": "55013970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55013970", "title": "Media Diversity Institute", "text": "Media Diversity Institute\n\nThe Media Diversity Institute (MDI) is a London based non-governmental organisation working with the media to improve reporting on ethnicity, religion, gender, sexuality and other diversity issues.\n\nThe mission of MDI is to promote \"responsible journalism as a means to improve inter-community relations, increase tolerance and encourage dialogue among individuals and groups coming from different backgrounds.\"\n\nMDI has worked with organizations such as Internews, the International Federation of Journalists, Article 19, and the European Federation of Journalists. MDI is also a member of the Ethical Journalism Network.\n\nMDI was founded in 1997 by journalist Milica Pesic, who was working at the time for NYU Center for War, Peace and the News Media. MDI works on an international scale, but has a European focus.\n\nMDI works to engage, educate and train the actors in society who have influence over media coverage of diversity. This includes media decision makers (owners, editors, managers), journalists, academics, students, Civil Society Organisations and governmental organisations. They also organize conferences on these topics.\n\nMDI's first large scale media diversity project, The Reporting Diversity Network (RDN), was launched at a conference in November 1998 with keynote speakers Michael Ignatieff and Jean-Paul Marthoz. RDN's work focused on Central and Eastern Europe as well as the newly independent former Soviet states. They have also been involved in addressing the deaths of Romani journalists and editors.\n\nOther projects that MDI have been involved in include Dune Voices, Get the Trolls Out, and Media Against Hate.\n\nThe collaboration between MDI and Twitter in developing a guide on countering hate speech was referred to in an article in the \"Financial Times\", October 17, 2016.\n\nA video broadcast produced by MDI's Dune Voices project was published on the BBC website on December 30, 2016.\n\nMDI contributed to the Journal for Applied Journalism and Media Studies in 2017. MDI’s founder Milica Pesic presented concrete and detailed examples of how MDI has worked to promote inclusive journalism and diversity in the media in many different countries and regions.\n"}
{"id": "766904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=766904", "title": "Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest", "text": "Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest\n\nThe Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest is an annual American hot dog competitive eating competition. It is held each year on Independence Day at Nathan's Famous Corporation's original, and best-known restaurant at the corner of Surf and Stillwell Avenues in Coney Island, a neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York City.\n\nThe contest has gained public attention in recent years due to the stardom of Takeru Kobayashi and Joey Chestnut. The defending men's champion is Joey Chestnut, who ate 74 hot dogs in the 2018 contest. The defending women's champion is Miki Sudo, who ate 37 hot dogs in the 2018 contest.\n\nMajor League Eating (MLE), formerly known as the International Federation of Competitive Eating (IFOCE), has sanctioned the event since 1997. Today, only entrants currently under contract by MLE can compete in the contest.\n\nThe field of about 20 contestants typically includes the following:\n\n\nThe competitors stand on a raised platform behind a long table with drinks and Nathan's Famous hot dogs in buns. Most contestants have water on hand, but other kinds of drinks can and have been used. Condiments are allowed, but usually are not used. The hot dogs are allowed to cool slightly after grilling to prevent possible mouth burns. The contestant that consumes (and keeps down) the most hot dogs and buns (HDB) in ten minutes is declared the winner. The length of the contest has changed over the years, previously 12 minutes, and in some years, only three and a half minutes; since 2008, 10 minutes.\n\nSpectators watch and cheer the eaters on from close proximity. A designated scorekeeper is paired with each contestant, flipping a number board counting each hot dog consumed. Partially eaten hot dogs count and the granularity of measurement is eighths of a length. Hot dogs still in the mouth at the end of regulation count if they are subsequently swallowed. Yellow penalty cards can be issued for \"messy eating,\" and red penalty cards can be issued for \"reversal of fortune\", which results in disqualification. If there is a tie, the contestants go to a 5-hot-dog eat-off to see who can eat that many more quickly. Further ties will result in a sudden-death eat-off of eating one more hot dog in the fastest time.\n\nAfter the winner is declared, a plate showing the number of hot dogs eaten by the winner is brought out for photo opportunities.\n\nThe winner of the men's competition is given possession of the coveted international \"bejeweled\" mustard-yellow belt. The belt is of \"unknown age and value\" according to IFOCE co-founder George Shea and rests in the country of its owner. In 2011, Sonya Thomas won the inaugural women's competition and its \"bejeweled\" pink belt.\n\nVarious other prizes have been awarded over the years. For example, in 2004 Orbitz donated a travel package to the winner. Starting in 2007, cash prizes have been awarded to the top finishers.\n\nThe Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest has been held at the original location on Coney Island most years since about 1972, usually in conjunction with Independence Day. Nathan's promoter Mortimer Matz claimed that on July 4, 1916, four immigrants held a hot dog eating contest at Nathan's Famous stand on Coney Island to settle an argument about who was the most patriotic. He also made the spurious claim that the contest has been held each year since then except 1941 (\"as a protest to the war in Europe\") and 1971 (as a protest to political unrest in the U.S.). A man by the name of Jim Mullen is said to have won the first contest, although accounts vary. One account describes Jimmy Durante (who was \"not\" an immigrant) as competing in that all-immigrant inaugural contest, which was judged by Eddie Cantor and Sophie Tucker. Another describes the event as beginning \"in 1917, and pitted Mae West's father, Jack, against entertainer Eddie Cantor.\"<ref name=\"Crown/Archetype (p. 222)\"></ref> In 2010, however, promoter Mortimer \"Morty\" Matz admitted to having fabricated the legend of the 1916 start date with a man named Max Rosey in the early 1970s as part of a publicity stunt. The legend grew over the years, to the point where \"The New York Times\" and other publications were known to have repeatedly listed 1916 as the inaugural year, although no evidence of the contest exists. As Coney Island is often linked with recreational activities of the summer season, several early contests were held on other holidays associated with summer besides Independence Day; Memorial Day contests were scheduled for 1972, 1975, and 1978, and a second 1972 event was held on Labor Day.\n\nIn the late 1990s and early 2000s, the competition was dominated by Japanese contestants, particularly Takeru Kobayashi, who won six consecutive contests from 2001-2006. In 2001, Kobayashi transformed the competition and the world of competitive eating by downing 50 hot dogs—smashing the previous record of 25.5. The Japanese eater introduced advanced eating and training techniques that shattered previous competitive eating world records. The rise in popularity of the event coincided with the surge in popularity of the worldwide competitive eating circuit.\n\nOn July 4, 2011, Sonya Thomas became the champion of the first Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest for Women. Previously, women and men had competed against each other, except for one all-female Memorial Day competition held in 1975. Eating 40 hot dogs in 10 minutes, Thomas earned the inaugural Pepto-Bismol-sponsored pink belt and won $10,000.\n\nIn recent years, a considerable amount of pomp and circumstance have surrounded the days leading up to the event, which has become an annual spectacle of competitive entertainment. The event is presented on an extravagant stage complete with colorful live announcers and an overall party atmosphere. The day before the contest is a public weigh-in with the mayor of New York City. Some competitors don flamboyant costumes and/or makeup, while others may promote themselves with eating-related nicknames. On the morning of the event, they have a heralded arrival to Coney Island on the \"bus of champions\" and are called to the stage individually during introductions. In 2013, six-time defending champion Joey Chestnut was escorted to the stage in a sedan chair.\n\nThe competition draws many spectators and worldwide press coverage. In 2007, an estimated 50,000 came out to witness the event. In 2004 a three-story-high \"Hot Dog Eating Wall of Fame\" was erected at the site of the annual contest. The wall lists past winners, and has a digital clock which counts down the minutes until the next contest. Despite substantial damage suffered at Nathan's due to Hurricane Sandy in October 2012, the location was repaired, reopened, and the 2013 event was held as scheduled.\n\nESPN has long enjoyed solid ratings from its broadcast of the Hot Dog Eating Contest on Independence Day, and on July 1, 2014, the network announced it had extended its agreement with Major League Eating and will broadcast the contest through 2024. The event continues to be recognized for its power as a marketing tool.\n\nControversies usually revolve around supposed breaches of rules that are missed by the judges. For example, NY1 television news editor Phil Ellison reviewed taped footage of the 1999 contest and thought that Steve Keiner started eating at the count of one, but the judge, Mike DeVito—himself the champion of the 1990, 1993, and 1994 contests—was stationed directly in front of Keiner and disputed it, saying it was incorrect. Keiner ate 21 1/2 dogs, as shown on the Wall of Fame located at Nathan's flagship store at the corner of Surf and Stillwell avenues in Coney Island. This controversy was created by George Shea, the chief publicist for Nathan's, because it created much more publicity for the contest. Shea assured Keiner at the end of the contest that he would clear the confusion up but never did. Keiner never participated in any advertising or contests set up by Shea because of this.\n\nAnother controversy occurred in 2003 when former NFL player William \"The Refrigerator\" Perry competed as a celebrity contestant. Though he had won a qualifier by eating twelve hot dogs, he ate only four at the contest, stopping after just five minutes. Shea stated that the celebrity contestant experiment will likely not be repeated.\n\nAt the 2007 contest, the results were delayed to review whether defending champion Takeru Kobayashi had vomited (also known as a \"Roman method incident\" or \"reversal of fortune\") in the final seconds of regulation. Such an incident results in the disqualification of the competitor under the rules of the IFOCE. The judges ruled in Kobayashi's favor. A similar incident occurred involving Kobayashi in 2002 in a victory over Eric \"Badlands\" Booker.\n\nTakeru Kobayashi has not competed in the contest since 2009 due to his refusal to sign an exclusive contract with Major League Eating, which is the current sanctioning body of the contest. In 2010, he was arrested by police after attempting to jump on the stage after the contest was over and disrupt the proceedings. On August 5, 2010, all charges against Kobayashi were dismissed by a judge in Brooklyn. Despite his six consecutive victories in their annual event, Nathan's removed Kobayashi's image from their \"Wall of Fame\" in 2011. Kobayashi again refused to compete in 2011, but instead conducted his own hot dog eating exhibition, claiming to have consumed 69 HDB, seven more than Joey Chestnut accomplished in the Nathan's contest. The sports website Deadspin deemed Kobayashi's solo appearance \"an improbably perfect 'up yours' to the Nathan's hot dog eating contest.\"\n\n The 1990 competition ended in a tie.\n\nIn 2003, ESPN aired the contest for the first time on a tape-delayed basis. Starting in 2004, ESPN began airing the contest live. Since 2005, Paul Page has been ESPN's play-by-play announcer for the event, accompanied by color commentator Richard Shea. In 2011, the women's competition was carried live on ESPN3, followed by the men's competition on ESPN. In 2012, ESPN signed an extension to carry the event through 2017. In 2014, ESPN signed an agreement to carry the competition on its networks for 10 years until 2024.\n\nThe Nathan's contest has been featured in these documentaries and TV programs:\n\n\nNews sources typically use puns in head-lines and copy referring to the contest, such as \"'Tsunami' is eating contest's top dog again,\" \"couldn't cut the mustard\" (A.P.), \"Nathan's King ready, with relish\" (Daily News) and \"To be frank, Fridge faces a real hot-dog consumer\" (ESPN).\n\nReporter Gersh Kuntzman of the \"New York Post\" has been covering the event since the early 1990s and has been a judge at the competition since 2000. Darren Rovell, of ESPN, has competed in a qualifier.\n\nEach contestant has his or her own eating method. Takeru Kobayashi pioneered the \"Solomon Method\" at his first competition in 2001. The Solomon method consists of breaking each hot dog in half, eating the two halves at once, and then eating the bun.\n\n\"Dunking\" is the most prominent method used today. Because buns absorb water, many contestants dunk the buns in water and squeeze them to make them easier to swallow, and slide down the throat more efficiently.\n\nOther methods used include the \"Carlene Pop,\" where the competitor jumps up and down while eating, to force the food down to the stomach. \"Buns & Roses\" is a similar trick, but the eater sways from side to side instead. \"Juliet-ing\" is a cheating method in which players simply throw the hot dog buns over their shoulders.\n\nContestants train and prepare for the event in different ways. Some fast, others prefer liquid-only diets before the event. Takeru Kobayashi meditates, drinks water and eats cabbage, then fasts before the event. Several contestants, such as Ed \"Cookie\" Jarvis, aim to be \"hungry, but not too hungry\" and have a light breakfast the morning of the event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9988", "title": "Outline of entertainment", "text": "Outline of entertainment\n\nThe following outline provides an overview of and topical guide to entertainment and the entertainment industry:\n\nEntertainment is any activity which provides a diversion or permits people to amuse themselves in their leisure time, and may also provide fun, enjoyment, and laughter. People may create their own entertainment, such as when they spontaneously invent a game; participate actively in an activity they find entertaining, such as when they play sport as a hobby; or consume an entertainment product passively, such as when they attend a performance.\n\nThe entertainment industry (informally known as show business or show biz) is part of the tertiary sector of the economy and includes a large number of sub-industries devoted to entertainment. However, the term is often used in the mass media to describe the mass media companies that control the distribution and manufacture of mass media entertainment. In the popular parlance, the term \"show biz\" in particular connotes the commercially popular performing arts, especially musical theatre, vaudeville, comedy, film, and music. It applies to every aspect of entertainment including cinema, television, radio, theatre, and music.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20194611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20194611", "title": "Philogelos", "text": "Philogelos\n\nPhilogelos () is the oldest existing collection of jokes.\n\nThe collection is written in Greek, and the language used indicates that it may have been written in the 4th century AD, according to William Berg, an American classics professor. It is attributed to Hierocles and Philagrius, about whom little is known. Because the celebration of a thousand years of Rome is mentioned in joke 62, the collection perhaps dates from after that event in 248 AD. Although it is the oldest existing collection of jokes, it is known that it was not the oldest collection, because Athenaeus wrote that Philip II of Macedon paid for a social club in Athens to write down its members' jokes, and at the beginning of the 2nd century BC, Plautus twice has a character mentioning books of jokes.\n\nThe collection contains 265 jokes categorised into subjects such as teachers and scholars, and eggheads and fools.\n\nIn 2008, British TV personality and comedian Jim Bowen tested the material on a modern audience. One of the jokes in \"Philogelos \"has been described as \"an ancestor of Monty Python's famous Dead Parrot comedy sketch.\" Comedian Jimmy Carr has said that some of the jokes are \"strikingly similar\" to modern ones.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1797969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797969", "title": "Pink Floyd pigs", "text": "Pink Floyd pigs\n\nInflatable flying pigs were one of the staple props of Pink Floyd's live shows. The first was a sow, but a very obviously male pig appeared in the 1980s. Pigs appeared numerous times in concerts by the band, promoting concerts and record releases, and on the cover of their 1977 album \"Animals\".\n\nThe image rights for the pigs passed to Roger Waters when he split from the rest of the group, though the pigs continued to be used by both post-Roger Waters Pink Floyd and Roger Waters in their gigs.\n\nThe original Pink Floyd pig was designed by Roger Waters and built in December 1976 by the artist Jeffrey Shaw with help of design team Hipgnosis, in preparation for shooting the cover of the \"Animals\" album. Plans were made to fly the , helium-filled balloon over Battersea Power Station on the first day's photo-shoot, with a marksman prepared to shoot the pig down if it broke free. However, the pig was not launched.\n\nOn the second day, the marksman wasn't present because no one had told him to return. The pig broke free due to a strong gust of wind on the third day, gaining a lot of press coverage. It disappeared from sight within five minutes, and was spotted by airline pilots at thirty thousand feet in the air. Flights at Heathrow Airport were cancelled as the huge inflatable pig flew through the path of aircraft, eastwards from Britain and out over the English Channel, finally landing on a rural farm in Kent that night.\n\nThe pig was recovered and repaired for the resumption of photography for the album cover, but the sky was cloudless and blue, thus \"boring\". However, the pictures of the sky from the first day were suitable; eventually, the album cover was created using a composite of photos from the first and third days.\n\nThe pig that was originally floated above Battersea Power Station was called \"Algie\".\n\nAfter the album \"Animals\" was released in 1977, Pink Floyd began their \"In the Flesh\" tour. During concerts, the pig appeared around the PA stacks in a cloud of black smoke during performances of \"Pigs (Three Different Ones)\".\n\nThe pig also appeared during each of Pink Floyd's \"The Wall\" concerts, black instead of pink, with a crossed hammers logo on its side. Waters would occasionally refer to it directly before \"Run Like Hell\" (the pig appeared during the end of the previous song, \"In the Flesh\"). A short speech in reference to either the pig or the song was given in every show, with each speech being different; this oddity is used by bootleggers to identify which date a recording of the Wall tour was made on. At the Berlin concert, it was only the head and it had fangs and red eyes.\n\nFor the 1987/88/89 tour, the band added testicles to the pig. David Gilmour has said this was an attempt to get around Roger Waters having the image rights for the pig.\n\nPink Floyd added a 'deflated' pig to Roger Waters's auction of animation art from the film \"The Wall\" at Christie's London on 21 September 1990, the lot was withdrawn before the auction started.\n\nDuring the 1994 tour, two warthog-like pigs with protruding tongues were shown at the top of the stage side's speaker towers, sometimes just deflated, sometimes dropped on the ground after \"One of These Days\". This was also during Pulse, but for the VHS, Laserdisc and DVD releases, footage of the pigs falling was edited out.\n\nThe pig made another appearance before the release of \"\", when Capitol Records flew a replica of the original pig from \"Animals\" over the Capitol Records Tower in Hollywood, California.\n\nOne damaged inflatable pig, believed to be from the 1988 Pink Floyd tour, was repaired by Nga Keith and flown again over a concert by the band The String Cheese Incident in Austin, Texas on 20 September 2003. Reportedly purchased by The String Cheese Incident manager Mike Luba from a former Pink Floyd stagehand, the 40-foot pig flew again over the Austin City Limits Music Festival audience during a cover of Pink Floyd's \"Another Brick in the Wall (Part II)\".\n\nDuring their Live 8 reunion with Waters, footage of Algie, over Battersea Power Station, was shown on a giant video screen behind the band.\n\nA replica of Algie was tethered above Battersea Power Station on 26 September 2011 to promote the Why Pink Floyd...? campaign, involving the reissue of the band's first 14 studio albums.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13534451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13534451", "title": "Rosario + Vampire", "text": "Rosario + Vampire\n\n, a continuation of the series, was serialized from the November 2007 issue of \"Jump Square\" to the March 2014 issue, with an epilogue chapter in April. The series is licensed in North America and in the United Kingdom by Viz Media, and in Australia and New Zealand by Madman Entertainment. The series also spanned three CD dramas, two visual novels, a novel adaptation, and two internet radio shows.\n\nA 13-episode anime adaptation of \"Rosario + Vampire\" aired in Japan between January and March 2008. A second season of the series, \"Rosario + Vampire Capu2\", aired in Japan between October and December 2008. The anime is licensed in North America by Funimation, who released both seasons on December 20, 2011. The anime is also licensed in Australia and New Zealand by Madman Entertainment, who released both seasons in 2012.\n\nTsukune Aono is an average teenager who is unable to get into any local high schools due to his poor grades. As a last ditch effort to secure his education, his parents enroll him in a private school called Yokai Academy, which he discovers is a boarding school for monsters. The school teaches monsters how to coexist with humans, including disguising as them, but any real humans found on campus are to be killed. Although he fears for his life, Tsukune befriends a beautiful vampire girl named Moka Akashiya, who enjoys his company and especially the taste of his blood. During a fight with a school bully, Tsukune accidentally removes the rosario around Moka's neck, and discovers that she transforms into a powerful vampire with a completely different personality.\n\nBecause of Moka, Tsukune decides to stay at Yokai. He befriends formerly antagonistic students, including a succubus Kurumu Kurono and a child prodigy witch Yukari Sendo. They join the school's Newspaper Club and wind up fighting a variety of students and teachers, who use their monstrous powers to bully or to control one or more of the members for their own selfish or destructive ends. On a club trip to the human world, they meet a witch, Ruby Tojo, who defends a field of sunflowers from being torn down by developers. They meet Mizore Shirayuki, a snow fairy student who becomes Tsukune's \"stalker\". A group of \"Monstrels\" harass the club, causing Moka to transfuse blood into Tsukune to the point where he turns into a ghoul. Ruby, having recovered from injuries, joins the school's staff as the Headmaster's assistant. An evil group called the Anti-Schoolers threaten to break down the barrier between the human and monster worlds. When Tsukune's cousin manages to sneak onto the school grounds, the club has a hard time keeping the monster school a secret. When the school is temporary closed because of damage, Tsukune returns home to the human world only to have Moka, Kurumu, Yukari, and Mizore follow him and hide in his room.\n\nIn \"Rosario+Vampire: Season II\", Moka's younger sister Koko Shuzen enrolls. She, Ruby, and Mizore join the Newspaper Club. On an excursion to Mizore's homeland, they learn of a dangerous organization called Fairy Tale, which seeks to destroy the human world. The Newspaper Club visits the human world where they meet San Otonashi, a former club member, and run into trouble with adversaries from Fairy Tale's 7th Branch office. Chinese transfer student Fangfang Huang tries to recruit Tsukune to join his mafia family. When Moka spends a school day as her inner personality, she is unable to return to the seal, so the Newspaper Club heads to China to get her rosario fixed.\n\nAt Hong Kong, Tsukune and the gang learn the truth about Moka's identity: she was infused with First Ancestor blood by her mother Akasha Bloodriver, who sacrificed herself to protect them from Alucard, the original First Ancestor vampire. Moka's eldest sister Aqua infiltrates the Huang manor and captures Moka to bring to Fairy Tale, which suspects that Moka is the key to reviving Alucard. While his friends train their powers, Tsukune has his body altered by Tohofuhai to handle the upcoming challenges.\n\nTsukune and the gang infiltrate the Hanging Garden: a sky fortress that serves as Fairy Tale's headquarters. They face opposition from their leader and matriarch of the Shuzen family Gyokuro Shuzen, who sends the leaders of the Fairy Tale Branches after them for a series of fights. The group eventually reaches Moka, but must face her sisters Aqua and Kalua. Gyokuro snatches Moka's rosario in order to control Alucard. A character called the Masked King reveals himself to be a clone of Alucard's original vampire form. He reveals that he has manipulated both Fairy Tale and its opposition to determine whether the rosario could control him, and then merges with his monster self, who goes on a rampage in Tokyo.\n\nMoka is mortally wounded, but Tsukune revives her by removing all his holy locks and transforming himself into a First Ancestor vampire. They beat down Alucard, but he revives and reveals that he has hatched eggs in Japan's major cities. Tsukune's friends and allies, along with the two other Dark Lords, band together to fight Alucard and his clones. Tsukune puts Moka's rosario on Alucard, which awakens Akasha inside his monster body. Akasha tells Alucard to give up the fight, and they cast a self-disintegration spell. Now that the existence of monsters is known in the human world, coexistence is now even harder to achieve, however, Tsukune is confident that he and his friends can do it.\n\nIkeda drew inspiration from the monster manga series \"Kaibutsu-kun\" and has incorporated some references later into the first serialization of the \"Rosario+Vampire\" manga. In an interview at Lucca Comics 2012, Ikeda said he is a big fan of Tim Burton and was inspired by his works, including \"The Nightmare Before Christmas\", and particularly \"Edward Scissorhands\" because the monster has a sensitive soul. His first character design was Moka, a beautiful girl vampire with a crucifix around her neck; he then created the school of monsters and Tsukune afterwards. He credits the beautiful girls for the series' popularity and added the fighting elements. After the series ended in \"Monthly Shōnen Jump\" but was going to be featured in \"Jump Square\", he retitled the second series to give it a sense of renewal.\n\n\"Rosario + Vampire\" began serialization in the August 2004 issue of \"Monthly Shonen Jump\", and ended on the September 2007 issue. The first \"tankōbon\" was released in Japan by Shueisha on October 4, 2004 and sold ten volumes until October 4, 2007 under its \"Jump Comics\" imprint, spanning 39 chapters during its initial run. An extra chapter was serialized in the September 2007 issue of \"Weekly Shonen Jump\", and was bundled with the final volume of the manga. The manga is licensed in North America and in the United Kingdom by Viz Media, releasing them between June 8, 2008 and November 3, 2009 under its \"Shonen Jump Advanced\" imprint, and in Australia and New Zealand by Madman Entertainment.\n\n\"Rosario + Vampire: Season II\", a continuation to the series, began serialization in the November 2007 issue of \"Jump Square\", the successor to the now-defunct \"Monthly Shonen Jump\". The first \"tankōbon\" was released by Shueisha on June 4, 2008. The final chapter appeared in the March 2014 issue of \"Jump Square\", with an epilogue chapter in April. Like the first series, \"Season II\" is licensed in North America and the UK by Viz Media, and in Australia and New Zealand by Madman Entertainment, with fourteen volumes currently available.\n\nA 13-episode anime adaptation produced by Gonzo and directed by Takayuki Inagaki aired in Japan from January 3, 2008, to March 27, 2008, on Tokyo MX, Chiba TV, and TV Kanagawa, with later runs on TV Saitama, TV Osaka, TV Aichi, Aomori Broadcasting Corporation, and Kids Station. Six DVD compilation volumes were released between April 25 and September 26, 2008, and a DVD/Blu-ray box set was released on January 29, 2010. The anime quickly became notorious for its excessive use of fanservice in the form of panty shots, leading the series to be censored on certain channels during its TV broadcast. \n\nA second 13-episode season, , aired on TV Osaka between October 2 and December 24, 2008, with subsequent runs on Tokyo MX, Mie TV, Chiba TV, TV Kanagawa, TV Saitama, Gifu Broadcasting System, Inc., Aomori Broadcasting Corporation, and Kids Station. Six DVD volumes were released between December 21, 2008, and May 22, 2009, and a DVD/Blu-ray box set was released on March 19, 2010.\n\nThe opening theme for the first season is \"Cosmic Love\" and the ending theme is called \"Dancing in the Velvet Moon\". For the second season, the opening theme is \"DISCOTHEQUE\" and the ending theme is \"Trinity Cross\"; all songs in the series are performed by Nana Mizuki, the voice actress for Moka Akashiya in the series.\n\nThe anime is licensed in North America by Funimation, and released both seasons on December 20, 2011. Funimation initially encountered production issues from the Japanese licensors, causing a series of delays with their release date. Originally intended for release on March 19, 2011, the release date was pushed back to May 17, 2011, and later to July 19, 2011. The anime is also licensed in Australia and New Zealand by Madman Entertainment, who already holds licensing rights to the manga, and will release both seasons in 2012. MVM holds the anime license in the United Kingdom and is due to release the first season of Rosario Vampire on 10 September 2012.\n\nA series of character singles for the first season of the anime were released by King Records. The first set of singles, featuring Moka Akashiya (Nana Mizuki), Kurumu Kurono (Misato Fukuen) and Yukari Sendo (Kimiko Koyama), were released on February 14, 2008. The second set of singles, featuring Mizore Shirayuki (Rie Kugimiya) and Ruby Tojo (Saeko Chiba), were released on March 26, 2008, along with a compilation album called . An original soundtrack was released on December 25, 2008.\n\nA set of character singles for the second season were also released by King Records. The first set of singles for Moka Akashiya, Kokoa Shuzen (Chiwa Saito), Kurumu Kurono, and Yukari Sendo were released on October 29, 2008, while the second set of singles featuring Mizore Shirayuki and Ruby Tojo were released on November 26, 2008, along with another \"The Capucchu\" compilation album. A \"Best Of\" album entitled was released on February 18, 2009.\n\nA drama CD of \"Rosario + Vampire\" was released by Shueisha on August 31, 2006. A second drama CD was later released by Shueisha on December 14, 2007, and a third drama CD based on the anime adaptation was released by Marine Entertainment on July 25, 2008. Most of the voice actors from the CDs were carried on to the anime series.\n\nAn internet radio show promoting the anime entitled aired on Onsen between December 27, 2007 and March 27, 2008. Another radio show promoting the second anime called also aired on Onsen between October 23, 2008 and April 23, 2009. The shows are hosted by Misato Fukuen and Kimiko Koyama, the voices of Kurumu Kurono and Yukari Sendo, respectively. A CD for the first radio show was released by Sony Music Entertainment on August 6, 2008, and a CD for the second radio show was released on June 24, 2009.\n\nA novelization of \"Rosario + Vampire\" written by Fumihiko Shimo was released by Shueisha on April 4, 2008 under their \"Jump j-Books\" imprint.\n\nA visual novel entitled was developed by Capcom and was released on March 30, 2008 for the Nintendo DS. Another visual novel entitled was developed by Compile Heart and was released for the PlayStation 2 on July 23, 2009. The player assumes the role of Tsukune Aono in both games, and both games features new characters exclusive to the series.\n\nVolumes of the series commonly rank in listings of top selling manga in Japan.\n\nIn North America, the second volume of \"Rosario + Vampire\" was featured on BookScan's Top 20 Graphic Novels, ranking at #6 in August 2008 and #16 in September 2008, with the fifth volume ranking at #7 in February 2009. Season II Volume 8 reached number 5 on BookScan and was the top manga in April 2012 Season II Volume 11 ranked number 10, and Season II Volume 12 reached number 3.\n\nCarlo Santos of Anime News Network gave the first volume of \"Season II\" a C rating and the second volume a B- rating. When he gave volume 1 a C, he stated that \"you could do a lot worse\". He felt that \"Season II\" has all the things that made the series good, but the attempt to reboot the series for the new semester caused it to lack intense feeling, reintroducing all the characters and going against weak enemies once again. For the second volume, Santos was more pleased with the introduction of a major villain and the fanservice artwork in the lighter story, but lamented the lack of any visually threatening monster.\n\nMatthew Warner of Mania.com gave volumes 1 through 3 of \"Season II\" ratings between B+ and A-. In his review for volume 1, he felt the first part was a bit weak with \"predictable and bland stories,\" but remarked positively on the volume's cover art and artwork in general, especially the character artwork. For the second volume, he said it was better focusing on two stories and while noting the second story with Kokoa was weaker, it still delivers “quite a few solid laughs\" and helps develop her character. In his review for volume 3, he stated while it starts out slow, he really enjoyed the story with Mizore, specifically the character development and seeing the characters put aside their disagreements for a common goal: to save Mizore.\n\nLeroy Douresseaux of Comic Book Bin gave volumes of \"Season II\" an A- rating. He opined the emphases on sexual innuendo, comparing it to \"Strawberry 100%\", and that the series is like \"The Addams Family\" mixed with \"X-Men\": \"cool, creepy folks at a secret school where they can live and learn in a place free of the prejudice against them.\" In volume 11, he changed his overall view and deemed it solidly a battle manga.\n\nYALSA included \"Rosario + Vampire, Vol.1\" in its list of the 2013 Popular Paperbacks for Young Adults under the subcategory Boarding Schools to Summer Camps: Leaving home to find yourself.\n\n"}
{"id": "28270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28270", "title": "Shaggy dog story", "text": "Shaggy dog story\n\nIn its original sense, a shaggy dog story or yarn is an extremely long-winded anecdote characterized by extensive narration of typically irrelevant incidents and terminated by an anticlimax or a pointless punchline.\n\nShaggy dog stories play upon the audience's preconceptions of joke-telling. The audience listens to the story with certain expectations, which are either simply not met or met in some entirely unexpected manner. A lengthy shaggy dog story derives its humour from the fact that the joke-teller held the attention of the listeners for a long time (such jokes can take five minutes or more to tell) for no reason at all, as the end resolution is essentially meaningless. The nature of their delivery is reflected in the English idiom \"spin a yarn\", by way of analogy with the production of yarn.\n\nThe commonly believed archetype of the shaggy dog story is a story that concerns a shaggy dog. The story builds up, repeatedly emphasizing how shaggy the dog is. At the climax of the story, someone in the story reacts with, \"That dog's not so shaggy.\" The expectations of the audience that have been built up by the presentation of the story, that the story will end with a punchline, are thus disappointed. Ted Cohen gives the following example of this story:\n\nHowever, authorities disagree as to whether this particular story is the archetype after which the category is named. Eric Partridge, for example, provides a very different story, as do William and Mary Morris in \"The Morris Dictionary of Word and Phrase Origins\".\n\nAccording to Partridge and the Morrises, the archetypical shaggy dog story involves an advertisement placed in the \"Times\" announcing a search for a shaggy dog. In the Partridge story, an aristocratic family living in Park Lane is searching for a lost dog, and an American answers the advertisement with a shaggy dog that he has found and personally brought across the Atlantic, only to be received by the butler at the end of the story who takes one look at the dog and shuts the door in his face, saying, \"But not so shaggy as \"that\", sir!\" In the Morris story, the advertiser is organizing a competition to find the shaggiest dog in the world, and after a lengthy exposition of the search for such a dog, a winner is presented to the aristocratic instigator of the competition, who says, \"I don't think he's so shaggy.\"\n\nA typical shaggy dog story occurs in Mark Twain's book about his travels west, \"Roughing It\". Twain's friends encourage him to go find a man called Jim Blaine when he is properly drunk, and ask him to tell \"the stirring story about his grandfather's old ram.\" Twain, encouraged by his friends who have already heard the story, finally finds Blaine, an old silver miner, who sets out to tell Twain and his friends the tale. Blaine starts out with the ram (\"There never was a bullier old ram than what he was\"), and goes on for four more mostly dull but occasionally hilarious unparagraphed pages.\n\nAlong the way, Blaine tells many stories, each of which connects back to the one before by some tenuous thread, and none of which has to do with the old ram. Among these stories are: a tale of boiled missionaries; of a lady who borrows a false eye, a peg leg, and the wig of a coffin-salesman's wife; and a final tale of a man who gets caught in machinery at a carpet factory and whose \"widder bought the piece of carpet that had his remains wove in ...\" As Blaine tells the story of the carpet man's funeral, he begins to fall asleep, and Twain, looking around, sees his friends \"suffocating with suppressed laughter.\" They now inform him that \"at a certain stage of intoxication, no human power could keep [Blaine] from setting out, with impressive unction, to tell about a wonderful adventure which he had once had with his grandfather's old ram — and the mention of the ram in the first sentence was as far as any man had heard him get, concerning it.\"\n\nIn the collection of stories by Isaac Asimov titled \"Buy Jupiter and Other Stories\", is a story titled \"Shah Guido G.\" In his background notes, Asimov identifies the tale as a shaggy dog story, and explains that the title is a play on \"shaggy dog\".\n\n\nComedians Buddy Hackett and Norm Macdonald are famous for telling shaggy dog stories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34844048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34844048", "title": "Slapping the Table in Amazement", "text": "Slapping the Table in Amazement\n\nSlapping the Table in Amazement () is a collection of vernacular short stories, written by Ling Mengchu (1580–1644). It was composed in the middle of the 17th century during the end of Ming Dynasty. It involves 78 stories in all and is divided into two parts: the first and the second (Er Pai for short) . There are forty stories in each part. \"Slapping the Table in Amazement\" contains many different stories, such as folk legends, romances and unofficial history.\n\nThanks to the prosperity of commodity economy and social progress. \"Er Pai\" expresses mercantilism, and open values of love and marriage. At the same time, there are many out dated ideas in this book, such as feudalism and superstition, comeuppance and ideas of fatalism, along with some explicit love scenes. Moreover, the author attacked the peasant uprisings toward the end of Qing Dynasty in some articles.The novel is remarkable not only for its stunning storylines, but also for its precise and detailed observation of the life and social structures typical of 17th-century Chinese aristocracy.\n\n\"Er Pai\" together with the three masterpieces of Feng Menglong (1574–1646; a Chinese vernacular writer and poet of the late Ming Dynasty) is called \"San Yan Er Pai\". They are representative works of the stories of Ming Dynasty. \"San Yan\" is distinguished by its strong artistic charm, while \"Er Pai\" vividly describes public life and expresses civil consciousness.\n\nThe original copy of this volume has been lost, however the earliest and most complete print copy (尚友堂刊本, missing the 23rd episode) is safely treasured at a temple in Japan (日本栃木県日光市輪王寺慈眼堂). Amazing Tales-Second series, urged by Ling’s publican and published after completion in 1932, contains 39 stand-alone short stories (1 from Chunqiu Time, 14 from Song Dynasty, 3 from Yuan Dynasty, 19 from Ming Dynasty, and the final 2 remained unknown) and 1 performance script (Zaju, a type of performance originated in Tang Dynasty) . Due to the loss of the 23rd episode in the first volume, modern publicans replaced it with the same numeric numbered episode from the second volume, when combined, the two volumes together contain a total of 78 short stories plus 1 performance script. Note that the English publicans only translated a few so-found the greatest-hit episodes in each volume, and their commercial release is not a complete collection of the Er Pai.\n\nSlapping the Table in Amazement vividly represented life at that time, created in 1627. The sales volume reached an all-time high.\nIn art, he by the succinct writing style, has portrayed vivid characters, narrated twists and turns of details. He thought: people nowadays just know that ghosts and monsters, which can’t be seen or heard, were astounding. But they ignore that, in our daily life there are many spooky things, which can be detected, but can’t be explained with common sense. Capturing extraordinary things in ordinary life, by absorbing readers, is the key to his success.\n\n“script for story-telling （话本）”originated from “story-telling（说话）” in Tang Dynasty, which means telling stories, and it prevailed in Song Dynasty. Script for story-telling played as the outline of the story for the storyteller to tell the whole story to the audience. The readers and listeners were all the common people, so it was the literary catered to ordinary people. “Er Pai”, as a vernacular novel, was more close to the public life and ideas at that time\nHe expressed his profound ideas about the society in a vivid way. What is more, opposition of the shackles of personality and praise of the pursuit of the young for love are the themes.\n\nBased on the foundation of traditional aesthetics, \"Er Pai\" also keeps on trying to explore the new way of art. It has shown a unique, individual artistic face, that makes itself a treasure of ancient colloquial short stories.\nThe novel is composed in written vernacular Chinese rather than classical Chinese.\n\nThe ancient narrative literature, as the Medieval Literature, describe the emperor and hero’s deeds. While, in many chapters of \"Er Pai\", the most described are the merchants of Huizhou, person carrying loads, hawkers, prostitutes, people, who are playing Chinese chess, thieves, and such lower figures. It reflects the new change of social ethics with the development of commodity economy.\nIt also describes the licentious stories of many Taoists and Buddhists.\nThe author put emphasis on the social effect of his work. He selected material from the common events in the public life, so as to reveal the true and the false and ugly. In such a society of that time where there was more evil than good, it helped people to get psychological balance, when they found in the novel that bad person did not get good results. For example, in the very beginning of the eighth volume: People are all afraid of robbers, but it’s a pity that everywhere we can find them. If an official does not correctly use his power, bringing calamity to the country and people, while enjoying high salary, isn’t he a robber? That’s why his work was so popular among the ordinary people.\n\nIn Chinese ancient literature, the meaning of existence of every single person can be confessed only by his social relationships. For all his psychologys, wills, desires are considered into a common framework, it is hard to describe anything disordinary about the cockles of the heart of hero. Therefore, a passport to an excellent character is to descript actions, instead of depicting psychological processes. Placing emphasis on plots, drawing figures’ descriptions in a straightforward style, focusing attentions by complex stories, are important marks of Chinese ancient novels and storiettes.\nWhen it comes to structure, usually, the beginning and the ending are corresponding with each other. The appearance of a character is always accompanied with introductions of his place of origin and personal identity, and his parents’ origins and identities. At the end the author would clear the endings of the hero and his offspring. Almost all these literature aimed at expression the theme, plots unfolds in of sequence, ignoring falling into the stereotypes.\n\nSlapping the Table in Amazement and The second collection of striking the Table in Amazement of Ling MengChu (凌濛初) in thought and artistic style tendency are the same. People used to call these two books \"Er Pai\". The \"Er Pai\" as eponymous as the \"San Yan\"( three books of Feng MengLong (冯梦龙) : \"Yu Shi Ming Yan\" (喻世明言) 、\"Jing Shi Tong Yan\" (警世通言) 、 \"Xing Shi Heng Yan\" (醒世恒言) ) . \"Er Pai\" was made a big difference by \"San Yan\" . Withal, Ling MengChu made no attempt to conceal the truth, he said:\" works only by Feng MengLong were the most artistic, and broke corrupt customs of the society in that time. \" Ling MengChu wrote \"Er Pai\" as well as broke corrupt customs of the society in that time.\n\n\"Er Pai\" and \"San Yan\" are still different. \"San Yan\" collected and processed scripts for story-telling (in Song、Yuan and Ming dynasty folk literature). Though there were scripts of Feng MengLong in \"San Yan\", the proportion was very small.\"Er Pai\" mainly wrote by Ling MengChu. His works were abbreviated and based on fact, but more lively and decorative than \"San Yan\".\n\n\nTranslated titles in this table follow those by Shuhui Yang and Yunqin Yang in Titles used by other translators are listed as bullet points.\n"}
{"id": "50493521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50493521", "title": "Slow media", "text": "Slow media\n\nSlow Media is a media consumption movement that opposes the high rate of media production and consumption in the digital age. It advocates for media that is thoroughly researched and widely accessible, not limited by the time necessary to produce or observe the work.\n\nSlow media developed in response to complex media formats and instant communication methods characteristic of digital culture, in which \"high volumes of information are updated in real-time and are perpetually at your fingertips.\" (Jolly, 2014) Supporters of slow media criticize the spheres in which media is produced, shared, and consumed as valuing tempo and dramatic presentation over the substance and credibility of a work, in order to draw the attention of consumers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "170593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170593", "title": "Stage management", "text": "Stage management\n\nStage management is a broad field that is generally defined as the practice of organization and coordination of an event or theatrical production. Stage management may encompass a variety of activities including the overseeing of the rehearsal process and  coordinating communications among various production teams and personnel. Stage management requires a general understanding of all aspects of production and offers organisational support to ensure the process runs smoothly and efficiently.\n\nA Stage Manager is an individual who has overall responsibility for stage management and the smooth execution of a theatrical production. Stage management may be performed by an individual in small productions, while larger productions typically employ a stage management team consisting of a head stage manager, or \"Production Stage Manager\", and one or more Assistant Stage Managers.\n\nThe title of Stage Manager was not used until the 18th century. Though the concept and need for someone to fill the area of stage management can be seen with the Ancient Greeks. The playwrights were usually responsible for production elements. Sophocles is the first known stage technician, supported by his employment as a scenic artist, playwright, musician, and producer.\n\nMoving into the Middle Ages there is evidence of a Conducteurs De Secrets, who oversaw collecting money at the door and serving as a prompter on stage. The prompter held the script and was prepared to feed performers their lines, this was a common practice of the time. \n\nBetween the Renaissance and 17th century the actors and playwright handled stage management aspects and stage crew. During the Elizabethan and Jacobean Theatre there were two roles that covered the stage management: Stage Keeper and Book Keeper. The Stage Keeper was responsible for the maintenance of the theater, taking props on and off stage, and security of performance space. The Book Keeper was responsible for the stage script, obtaining necessary licenses, copying/providing lines for the performers, marking entrances and exits, tracking props, marking when sound effects come in, and cueing props and sound effects. \n\nBetween the Renaissance and the 16th century, actors and playwrights took upon themselves the handling of finances, general directorial duties, and stage management. Stage management first emerged as a distinct role in the 17th century during Shakespeare's and Molière's time. During Shakespeare’s time the roles of stage management were left to apprentices, young boys learning the trade. There is still evidence of a prompter at this time.\n\nThough it wasn't until the 18th century in England that the term Stage Manager was used. This was the first time a person other than actors and playwright was hired to direct or manage the stage. Over time, with the rise in complexity of theatre due to advances such as mechanized scenery, quick costume changes, and controlled lighting, the stage manager's job was split into two positions—\"director\" and \"stage manager\".\n\nMany playwrights, directors, and actors have previously worked as an assistant stage manager. Writer and director Preston Sturges, for example, was employed as an ASM on Isadora Duncan's production of \"Oedipus Rex\" at the age of 16 and a half:\n\nWhen one is responsible for giving an offstage cue, even the simplest ones, like the ring of a telephone or a birdcall, demand considerable sangfroid, and the job is nervewracking. One is very much aware that everything depends on the delivery of the cue at exactly the right microsecond. One stands there, knees slightly bent, breathing heavily...\n\nSturges didn't last long in this job, due to his calling for thunder and then lightning instead of lightning and then thunder, but 16 years later Brock Pemberton hired him as an ASM on Antoinette Perry's production of \"Goin' Home\", which led to the first mounting of one of Sturges' plays on Broadway, \"The Guinea Pig\", in 1929.\n\n\n\nThe stage management kit can be as expansive as a huge tackle box, or a smaller bag containing only the absolute essentials. Some common items in a kit include:\n\n\n\nOther items may be needed specifically during the rehearsal period, such as:\n\nIt is important to keep lines of communication open between the stage manager and all other departments of the production.\n\nThe prompt book contains the script from which the SM calls the show, labeled with light and sound cues. It may also contain:\n\nIn the United States, \"Stage Manager\" is a generic title that may be applied to anyone who performs stage management functions. On small shows, one person typically performs all the tasks of stage management, and is simply referred to as \"the stage manager\". Larger shows often need two or more stage managers. In such cases the head stage manager is titled Production Stage Manager (commonly abbreviated PSM), and working under the PSM is one or more Assistant Stage Managers (commonly abbreviated ASM). Shows that employ three stage managers have a PSM and two ASMs, though the program credits may list them as \"Production Stage Manager\" (first or head stage manager), \"Stage Manager\" (second stage manager), and \"Assistant Stage Manager\" (third stage manager).\n\nSome professional stage managers on plays and musicals may choose to be represented by a union known as the Actors' Equity Association, which also represents performers. In addition to performing their typical stage management duties (e.g., maintaining the prompt book and calling performances), Equity stage managers are also required to uphold the union's rules and rights for Equity artists. Union stage managers for opera, ballet, and modern dance are represented by the American Guild of Musical Artists and perform most of the same duties as their counterparts in plays and musicals.\n\nIn the UK, the structure of a stage management team depends on the type and size of the production. It can consist of stage manager (overseeing the running of the show), deputy stage manager (commonly called DSM), and assistant stage manager (commonly called ASM). A fringe theatre show may employ one stage manager to carry out the tasks of an entire team, whereas a West End theatre show in London might employ multiple ASMs. Professional stage managers are represented by the British Actors' Equity Association, which also represents performers.\n\nThe DSM prompts actors and will usually cue technical crew members and sometimes cast, while following the orders of the director and stage manager. The DSM calls actors to hold while technical problems are sorted out during rehearsal, and determines where in the script to restart halted scenes. The deputy stage manager (DSM) is a separate position in some theatres, while in others the responsibilities of the DSM may be assumed by the stage manager or assistant stage manager.\n\nThe assistant stage manager (ASM) has varied responsibilities, which are assigned by the stage manager. The ASM assists in finding and maintaining props during rehearsals and the run of the show. The ASM may take attendance or estimate audience size, may manage the backstage technicians, may act as a liaison between crew, cast and management, and may call some cues. Mundane tasks such as mopping the stage and brewing coffee or tea may fall to the ASM. If the stage manager is unable to perform his or her duties, the ASM must be able to fill in. The assistant may also be in charge of one wing of the stage, while the stage manager is on the other wing.\n\nMany live shows around the world are produced with the forehand knowledge that they will have a very long run, often measured in years. These are usually known quantities that are very expensive productions and have a guaranteed audience because of their location. Often, they are on cruise ships, in theme parks, Las Vegas or at destination resorts. These shows warrant very long-range development and planning and use stage managers to run almost all technical elements in the show, without many of the other traditional crew members, such as sound, lighting and rigging operators. In these cases, show control systems are installed and connected to all other technical systems in the theatre, which are specifically designed to be controlled by show control and to operate safely with minimal supervision. Stage managers working these shows usually have the additional responsibility for programming the show control system, and often the other control systems as well.\n\nThe role of stage manager evolved from an amalgamation of various positions in theater over several centuries and is still generally known for its integral relationship with theater. Many other types of productions and events have incorporated the position of stage management, however. Some of the most common are Opera, Music and Dance concerts and, Film and Television.\n\nFor music concerts, stage management includes a large variety of responsibilities depending on both the venue and the size and expertise of the musical group coming into the venue. Some of the responsibilities of a concert stage manager include overseeing the schedule for load in and out of equipment, seeing to the comfort of the group which can include arranging refreshments and or transportation, sometimes arranging how and where merchandise is to be sold at the venue, and above all, as with all areas of stage management, watching out for the safety of all participants in the experience including performers, audience, and any crews required.\n\nWith being a Stage Manager you also need to know what unions you will be working with. Some of the things that a Stage Manager needs to know about working with a union is how often do they take breaks, and who is represented by which union. \nCommonly referred to as Actors Equity (AEA). Actors Equity represents the stage actors and stage managers in the live theatre industry. The AEA works to negotiate and provide performers and stage managers quality living conditions, livable wages, and benefits.\nInternational Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IATSE) represents the stage hands in the theatre.\nUnited Scenic Artist also known as United Scenic Artists of America. It organizes designers, artists and craftspeople in the entertainment and decorative arts industries.<ref>United Scenic Artists is affiliated with International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees since 1999.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "57063406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57063406", "title": "Starship Troopers (franchise)", "text": "Starship Troopers (franchise)\n\nStarship Troopers is an American military science-fiction media franchise based on the novel of the same name by Robert A. Heinlein.\n\n\nIn December 2011, film producer Neal H. Moritz announced plans to produce a reboot of the Starship Troopers film franchise. In November 2016, Columbia and Moritz announced the writing team of Mark Swift and Damian Shannon had been signed to pen the screenplay. Verhoeven expressed skepticism at the proposed remake, citing reports that it draws heavily from the original militaristic 1959 novel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33840714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33840714", "title": "Strange as It Seems", "text": "Strange as It Seems\n\nStrange as It Seems appeared as a syndicated cartoon feature in 1928 and became a familiar brand to millions around the globe for its comic strips, books, radio shows and film shorts. Created by John Hix, \"Strange as It Seems\" was distinguished for its adherence to Hix's standard that every published fact be verified by a minimum of three sources. In Hix's words, \"Strange as It Seems\" is a library of \n\nThe \"Strange as It Seems\" syndicated comic strips were printed daily in newspapers from 1928 to 1970. They were originally created by John Hix. \"Strange as It Seems\" was distinguished for its adherence to Hix's standard that every published fact be verified by a minimum of three sources.\n\nIt was syndicated domestically by McClure Newspaper Syndicate and internationally by United Press International. At its peak the strip was printed in 1,300 newspapers. The cartoons competed in newspapers with \"Ripley's Believe It or Not!\" cartoons. Other similar strips at the time included Ralph Graczak's \"Our Own Oddities\" and \"It Happened in Canada\" by Gordon Johnston.\n\nBy 1953, the strip's syndication was down to 175 newspapers. The demise of multiple newspapers in cities and the changing taste of readers led to the strip ending in 1970.\n\nThe cartoon strip was written and drawn by John Hix from 1928 until his health began to deteriorate in the early 1940s and Dick Kirby began drawing the strip, although Hix continued to oversee and approve all content.\n\nJohn Hix died of myocarditis on June 6, 1944 (which was also D-Day). His brother, Ernest Hix, took over producing the feature. The cartoons were drawn by Dick Kirby from 1944 to 1946, then by Doug Heyes from 1946 to 1948. After Ernest Hix's death in the crash of a private plane on September 18, 1948, in Los Angeles, the writing of the strip was taken over by his wife Elsie Huber Hix. Ms. Hix had two young children at the time, Ernest Harmon Hix Jr. and Dixie Ann Hix. Dick Kirby returned to draw the strip from 1948 until 1949, then George Jahns took over and continued as the feature's artist until 1970 when the strip was discontinued. Ms. Hix continued to write the stories for the comics until 1963, when she turned the work over to her son, Ernest Hix, Jr. He wrote and produced the strip with his wife Phyllis until 1970 when the feature went out of syndication.\n\n\"Strange as It Seems\" was a radio program of strange and unusual tales about fantastic people and events, based on the daily syndicated newspaper cartoon panels of John Hix of the same name. \"Strange as It Seems\" began as a 15-minute radio program on March 22, 1935. It was broadcast over the Columbia – Don Lee Coast radio network. The schedule was 3 nights a week - Sunday, Wednesday and Friday at 7:45 PM (6:45 during summer daylight saving time). The sponsor was Ex‐Lax. In late September 1935 the show changed to two shows per week, dropping the Sunday show. In late September 1936 the schedule changed again to Tuesday and Friday nights. A 1936 booklet of the \"Strange as It Seems\" stories was sponsored by Ex-Lax and given away as a free promotion of the radio program by writing to the station. The show was hosted by Gayne Whitman, produced and directed by Cyril Armbrister and the music was composed and directed by Felix Mills. Whitman had been the announcer on the \"Strange as It Seems\" movie shorts from 1930–1934. The programs included two or three segments of dramatized events in mini plays with dramatic, fanfare music interspersed in the show between segments. After the opening line, an Ex-Lax commercial would follow. Then two or three strange stories would be presented. The show would conclude with a preview of the next show's stories, an Ex-Lax commercial, a strange fact of trivia, such as \"butterflies smell with their feet\" and finally a short musical ending. There were occasionally live interviews with unusual personalities, such as the World's Fastest Talker. Many of the programs were distributed on 16\" 33 RPM records with one 15 minute show on each side. Many sources list at least 39 of these records with a total of 78 programs recorded. This run of the shows concluded at the end of January 1937, after over 210 shows. The show began again in January 1938 as a 15-minute once a week program, airing on Sunday afternoons at 3:00 (2:00 during daylight saving time). The show ended at the end of December 1938, with 53 shows in this run.\n\nThe \"Strange as It Seems\" radio program was picked up as a 30-minute network program on the Columbia Broadcasting System from August 17, 1939 to December 26, 1940 on Thursdays at 8:30 P.M. (7:30 P.M. during the summer daylight saving time). There were 72 broadcasts of these 1⁄2 hour broadcasts. The sponsor was Palmolive Shave Cream and the host was Alois Havrilla. Havrilla was the announcer on the \"Stranger Than Fiction\" movie shorts beginning in 1934 and continuing in that role until the shorts were ended in 1942. \"Stranger Than Fiction\" was the successor to the \"Strange as It Seems\" movie shorts that ran from 1930 until 1934.\n\nThe program had one final run in its original 15 minute format from Nov. 10, 1946 to April 13, 1947, airing at 7:30 PM on Sunday nights. There were 22 episodes aired in this run. In the newspaper story about the death of John Hix on June 6, 1944, Ernest Hix stated there were over 600 radio programs produced, indicating there were other shows than those so far identified.\n\nAlfred Vosburgh was born March 19, 1890 in Chicago, Illinois. He first used the stage name of Alfred Whitman when he began acting in silent films in 1917. He later used the stage name Gayne Whitman, beginning in 1925. He was an American radio and film actor. On radio, he played the title role in Chandu the Magician and was an announcer on other programs. He appeared in 213 films between 1904 and 1957. His wife was the former Estelle Allen. Whitman died on August 31, 1958 in Los Angeles, CA of a heart attack.\n\nGordon 'Felix' Mills was born on July 28, 1901 in Fort Collins, Colorado. He was a highly successful composer-arranger-conductor during the Golden Age of Radio in the 1930s and 1940s. He was the musical director for \"The Mickey Mouse Theater of the Air\", a Disney radio show of the 1930s. Mills created a \"gadget band\" with wild instruments for Donald Duck to direct on some episodes.\n\nHe was also the musical director for CBS Radio's \"Silver Theater\" from 1937 to 1947. Choosing to retire rather than fire a few band members during the Red Inquisition, he built a home in Morro Bay, California to pursue his favorite hobbies, sailing and slide photography. Mills died on April 5, 1987 at Morro Bay, California.\n\nCyril Edward Armbrister was born on Cat Island, Bahamas on August 24, 1896. His ancestors had been British loyalists during the Revolutionary War and immigrated to the Bahamas in the late 1700s. His father, William Armbrister, married for a second time at the age of 76 to Eugenie Bode and Cyril was born of this marriage. His father died when Cyril was 12 and he and his mother moved to Canada. Cyril was educated in England and was a captain in the Canadian Militia during World War I. He later moved to Hollywood and became a director. He directed \"Chandu the Magician\", \"Terry and the Pirates\", and \"Land of the Lost\", among other radio programs. He married the actress Frances Fintel and they split their time between California and the family plantation on Cat Island, Bahamas. Cyril's son Tony developed the family plantation into the resort, Fernandez Bay. Cyril died on September 18, 1966 in Nassau, Bahamas.\n\nAlois Havrilla was born June 7, 1891 in Presov, Slovakia. He arrived in the United States as a small child, speaking no English. He worked hard to perfect his English. He began his radio career as a baritone singer. In 1921, he recorded, \"Tancuj, Tancuj,\" a well-known Slovak folk song. He then worked as an announcer on the \"Palmolive Hour\" on NBC from 1927 to 1931. He also worked as an announcer on several other radio programs, including \"The Jack Benny Program\" in 1934–1935 and the Paul Whiteman radio program. In 1935, he received an award from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, the prestigious Medal for Good Diction and was named as the country's best radio announcer. He also worked as a narrator for Universal, Paramount Pictorial and Pathe Motion Picture Studios. Havrilla worked at a number of New York-area radio stations as a news commentator, announcer, narrator, and host of musical programs. He died on December 7, 1952 in Englewood, New Jersey.\n\nWarner Brothers released a series of short films beginning in May 1930 based on Robert Ripley's \"Ripley's Believe it or Not!\" cartoon series. Universal Studios responded by signing John Hix to a contract to create short films based on his cartoon strip \"Strange as It Seems\". There were 39 short subjects released between August 22, 1930 and May 5, 1934, coming out on average about once per month. The films were produced by Jerry Fairbanks & Manny Nathan, scripted by John Hix and narrated by Gayne Whitman. The first 21 released in 1930 were produced in Multicolor. Beginning in September, 1932, the remaining 17 shorts were filmed in Black & White. The shorts played in over 6,000 movie theaters. When Jerry Fairbanks left Universal for rival Paramount, (starting their \"Popular Science (film)\" films, his \"Strange as It Seems\" series was taken over by the Universal Studios newsreel staff with Thomas Mead and Joseph O'Brien in charge and renamed \"Stranger Than Fiction\". The first of these films was released on June 28, 1934 and came out about every 2 to 3 weeks. They were also filmed in black and white and were directed by Charles E. Ford and narrated by Alois Havrilla & James Wallington. Beginning on Sept. 18, 1940, the films were directed by Henry Clay Bate and narrated by Alois Havrilla. The last of the \"Stranger Than Fiction\" short films was released on August 31, 1942, for a total of 110 \"Stranger Than Fiction\" short films and a total of 149 short films, including the \"Stranger than Fiction\" series. Columbia Studios brought back the \"Strange as It Seems\" shorts in 1937. CBS bundled 8 of these shorts in a package to their television affiliates in 1949.\n\nThe first \"Strange as It Seems\" book was published in 1931 and reprinted many of the cartoons from the three-year run of the newspaper feature. In December 1936, Eastern Color Printing published the \"John Hix Scrapbook\". In 1937, Eastern released a second volume.\n\nThere was also a hardback written by Elsie Huber Hix in 1945 and a follow-up paperback. Each sold over 500,000 copies. She published two more paperbacks, with the final one published in 1962.\n\nComic books were a natural medium for these cartoons. The first of these comic books appeared in 1932. Promotional comic books were created for Ex-Lax (as a promotional giveaway on the radio program they sponsored) and United Airlines (as a handout for passengers to read on the flights). A series of comics began in 1939, with issues 2 – 9 being published.\n\nThe California Pacific International Exposition in San Diego opened in May 1935. But by that fall, the promoters knew they needed to make changes. Areas like Gold Gulch (a replica of an 1849 Gold Rush town) and the Zoro Garden Nudist Colony were getting out of hand and generating bad publicity while the \"Ripley's Believe It Or Not!\" exhibit was deemed to be too gruesome, so the exhibitors contacted Ernest and John Hix about opening their own exhibit to replace Ripley's in the 1936 season of the fair. Their exhibit opened in February 1936 and was very popular. John Hix drew from his large collection of oddities for the Exhibition in the large building in the center of the Fun Zone. Then in 1939, the Hix brothers aced out Robert Ripley for an exhibition at the 1939 New York World's Fair. Ripley responded with his own exhibition near the Fair and named it \"Ripley's Believe It Or Not Odditorrium\". A series of the Odditoriums would eventually be created around the world. A 1938 newspaper article described the groundbreaking of the exhibit at the World's Fair \"61 Year old Shovel. Auspiciously performing groundbreaking ceremonies for the John Hix \"Strange as It Seems\" show at the New York World's Fairground on December 30, 1938, Grover Whalen, President of the Fair, used a shovel invented 61 years before – on April 16, 1878 – by G. B. DeForest, embodying construction principles still in use. Betty Broadbent was one of the persons at the Hix's attraction. Her body was covered almost entirely with over 450 tattoos.\n\nThe \"Strange as It Seems\" archives are maintained by Jeff Hix, grandnephew of John Hix and the son of Ernest Harmon Hix, Jr. and are currently being digitized by HistoriVision, LLC. to be made available to the public for reference as well as for use in the \"Strange as It Seems\" productions currently published on their website and YouTube channel. According to the \"Strange as It Seems\" website, the archives are a \"40 year treasure trove of fascinating letters and photos from the world over confirming the strange and unusual stories in sports, science, popular culture, history and nature delivered daily to its faithful readership throughout the 1930's, 40's, 50's & 60's.\"\n\nRobert Ripley of \"Ripley's Believe It Or Not!\" and John Hix of \"Strange as It Seems\" competed on many media fronts in acquiring and accumulating the most original and strange facts for their projects. There was always a friendly rivalry between Ripley and Hix in their various media offerings: \n\nThey also competed in book and comic book publishing as well.\n\nJohn McCary Hix was born on June 17, 1907 in Huntsville, Alabama, to John Harmon Hix and Viola Ann McCary Hix. His brother Ernest Harmon Hix was born on September 13, 1902. Before World War I, the family first located to Nashville, Tennessee, then Spartanburg, South Carolina. John Harmon Hix was a traveling salesman and moved his family to Greenville, South Carolina, where their third child, a daughter, Elizabeth Jane, was born in August 1918.\n\nAt an early age, John McCary Hix had a strong urge to draw. He drew unflattering caricatures of his teachers which often got him into trouble. Eventually his cartooning paid off and his drawings appeared in the \"Nautilus\", the Greenville High School newspaper. While in school, John took a job with the \"Greenville Daily News\" as a staff artist for $5 a week.\nHe was also a delivery boy on his bicycle, which earned him $7 a week. His dog Pal, a shaggy black and white half-collie and half-Water spaniel, followed him everywhere on his deliveries. John trained Pal to drop papers on the doorsteps of one side of street while he delivered the other. He got up every morning at 3:00 AM and was at the newspaper office by 4:00 AM. He was also the local agent for several magazines, selling them as well. \n\nHe studied cartooning through a correspondence course, since there were no art schools nearby. When his father died on March 5, 1926 of heart failure, John was in his senior year of school. After graduation from Greenville High School in May 1926 (he has a plaque on the Greenville High School Wall of Fame), John decided he wanted bigger things and applied to the \"Washington Herald\" newspaper as an editorial cartoonist. He got the job and moved to Washington, D.C., where he was paid $15 a week. While in Washington D.C., he attended a few classes at the Corcoran School of Art. \n\nHe also started a daily one-column comic strip called \"Hicks by Hix\", featuring various wise-cracking hick characters. It was syndicated by King Features Syndicate. The strip did very well and was syndicated to several newspapers. This success lead to a job with McClure Newspapers in New York City. He illustrated a new strip called \"Young Frank Merriwell\", written by Gilbert Patten. It debuted on March 26, 1928 and ran for 6 months (the comic strip was resurrected in July 1931 as \"Frank Merriwell's Schooldays\" and ran for three years, this time illustrated by Jack Wilhelm). He also created a strip called \"O. Henry's Short Stories\". During this time he attended a few classes at the National Academy of Design in New York. His dream was to attend the Yale School of Art where several of his art school classmates were attending, but there was not the money for that so most of John's art training was learned on the job.\n\n\"Ripley's Believe it or Not!\", drawn by Robert Ripley began syndication in 1918. It contained many fantastic claims, which were not always verified. In 1927, John conceived the idea of \"Strange as It Seems\" and in December of that year, he signed a contract with The McClure Newspaper Syndicate in New York City, making him the nation's youngest nationally syndicated artist at only 20 years old. The cartoon was announced for syndication by McClure in February 1928 and debuted on March 28, 1928 in about 50 newspapers, the same day \"Young Frank Merriwell\" debuted. The cartoon was one panel with several illustrations of strange and unusual people, places and events. The feature required much more than just drawing as countless hours of research were required for the ideas and to verify their authenticity. Hix advertised widely that all of his claims were verified by at least three sources. He even included a notation on his cartoons, \"If you doubt this, write for proof to the author.\" In the May 20, 1929 issue of \"Time\" magazine, it was erroneously reported that the comic had debuted the previous week. A letter to the editor three weeks later from Harold Matson, Managing Editor of the syndicate, corrected the timing of the cartoons publication dates. \"Time\" compared Hix to Ripley with this observation: \"Cartoonist Hix does not seem quite so able with his pencil as Cartoonist Ripley. Astounder Ripley, after nine years, does not seem quite so astounding as fresh Astounder Hix.\"\n\nIn the January 4, 1930 edition of \"Editor & Publisher\" magazine, Hix announced that in early February 1930, \"Strange as It Seems\" would be expanded to include a full page Sunday color edition. The comic was being carried in over 80 newspapers by this time. John was now drawing a daily panel plus a Sunday color panel, a full 365 cartoons a year. As the cartoon grew in popularity and distribution spread into more papers, fans began mailing John ideas for the feature. To verify the story ideas, John would correspond with educators, scientists, civic workers and historians from around the world for photographs and documentation of authenticity. The \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that Hix rarely traveled for his ideas, but relied on correspondence for verification and had built a repository of 50,000–60,000 usable ideas ready to be incorporated into his cartoons. The claim that drew the most requests for proof of authenticity was that George Washington was the eighth president of the United States and that he was born on February 11, not February 22. The cartoons were often accompanied by several paragraphs of explanation in an article next to the cartoon.\n\nJohn Hix continued to live in Washington D.C. and is listed in the 1930 U.S. Census as living on New Hampshire Avenue, a couple of houses down from the rest of his family.\n\"Strange as It Seems\" became immensely popular and there were many opportunities for expanding the feature. John's brother Ernest Hix became his business manager and together they recognized the possibilities of turning the \"Strange as It Seems\" cartoons into a multi-media empire, especially after Ripley's \"Believe It Or Not!\" cartoons were transformed into live action movie shorts for Paramount Studios beginning in May 1930. \n\nUniversal Studios offered John Hix an opportunity to create movie shorts for their studio and the first \"Strange as It Seems\" short was released on August 22, 1930. The shorts would eventually play in over 6,000 movie theaters across the country. Like the Disney brothers a decade before them, the Hix brothers relocated their feature to Hollywood, California, in 1931. In 1931, a hardback book of the cartoon stories was released. The first of many comic books with the cartoons in them appeared in 1932. In May 1932, the cartoon was in over 150 newspapers. By November 1932, the cartoons were appearing in England, China and Japan.\n\nIn the spring of 1935, John Hix turned his cartoons into a successful 15-minute radio program on the Columbia – Don Lee network. Beginning on Sept. 13, 1936, \"The John Hix Scrapbook\" was released as half of the syndicated Sunday Color full page cartoon. In September 1939, the radio show became a 30-minute program broadcast weekly over the CBS network for 72 weeks. Over 600 radio programs were eventually created. The California Pacific International Exposition in San Diego opened in May 1935 with an exhibit of \"Ripley's Believe It Or Not!\". But by the end of that year, exhibit was deemed to be too gruesome. So the exhibitors contacted Ernest and John Hix about opening their own exhibit to replace Ripley's in the 1936 season of the fair. Their exhibit opened in February 1936 and was immensely popular. In 1939, the Hix brothers outmaneuvered Ripley for an exhibit at the 1939 New York World's Fair. \n\nIn its heyday, it was reported that the \"Strange as It Seems\" comic strip was syndicated in over 1,300 newspapers. John Hix enjoyed people questioning the authenticity of his stories and continued to invite them to write for proof in each cartoon, a feature that became the centerpiece for many of his promotional newspaper articles. During World War II, John worked with the Office of Emergency Management to incorporate 70 ideas they supplied into his comics to help the war effort.\n\nJohn's health began failing in the early 1940s and Dick Kirby took over the drawing of \"Strange as It Seems\", but Hix still reviewed all of the cartoons prior to publication.\n\nOn Monday evening, June 5, 1944, John Hix collapsed against a car, gashing his head in front of a hotel on Ivar Ave. He was taken to his home by his physician and died the following morning, June 6, 1944 (D-Day). The cause of death was a heart attack caused by myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle due to a viral infection). He was only 11 days shy of his 37th birthday. On June 8, 1944, the \"Los Angeles Times\" announced that there would be a private service coordinated by Forest Lawn Mortuary. John was buried at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale, CA. His plot is in The Great Mausoleum, Memorial Terrace, Hall of Memory, Columbarium of Memory, Niche 19608. He had no wife or children.\n\nErnest Harmon Hix, Sr. was born September 13, 1902 in Huntsville, Alabama. After he moved to Washington D.C. with his family in the 1920s, he met and married Elsie Huber in 1932. Ernest became the business manager of the \"Strange as It Seems\" business and helped to create a multi-media empire of cartoons, movies shorts, books, comics, radio programs and exhibitions. He relocated with his brother, mother, sister and wife to Los Angeles in the 1930s. In 1942, he shared an office with his brother, John, at 6362 Haywood Blvd, Los Angeles, CA and his residence was on Canyon Drive, Los Angeles, CA. Ernest took over the \"Strange as It Seems\" creative business after John Hix died suddenly in 1944. Besides continuing to write the daily syndicated cartoon, Ernest revived the radio show, as a transcribed 15 minute program in 1947. The program ran until his death on September 18, 1948 in a private plane crash, shortly after take-off from the Newhall Airport north of Los Angeles.\n\nThe plane's owner, Eugene Joseff, had been warned not to take off until a fog lifted, but he took off anyway. The plane crashed and burst into flames after circling the field. Beside Ernest Hix and Eugene Joseff, there were two other persons killed in the plane crash: John M. Lacey, the pilot and Wilmer F. Pemberton, a designer.\nJoseff was the maker and supplier of about 90% of the ornate jewelry used in motion pictures at the time. After his death, Hix's wife Elsie took over the \"Strange as It Seems\" work.\n\nElsie Elizabeth Huber was born Nov. 11, 1902 in Allentown, PA. Her parents were John and Anna Lowe Huber, both born in Germany. They immigrated separately to the United States in their twenties and were married in Pennsylvania in 1894. Elsie Huber graduated from Cedar Crest College in 1928. From 1928 to 1930, she taught secretarial courses at Virginia Intermont College in Bristol, VA. In 1930, she became the Office Business Manager of Remington Rand Co. in Washington, D.C. She held this position until her marriage in 1932 to Ernest Harmon Hix, Sr. After the family moved to Los Angeles in the 1930s, from 1939 until 1964, she was the Executive Secretary to George E. Kinsey, a Los Angeles real estate investor, philanthropist and former president of the Los Angeles Coliseum Commission. After the death of her husband in 1948 in a private plane crash, she took over the work of \"Strange as It Seems\". She was the writer of the comic strip for 15 years until 1963, when she turned it over to her son, Ernest Harmon Hix, Jr. In 1964, she married Donald Lee Chamberlin. They were married until his death in 1976. From 1985 she lived in Glendora, CA. She died on December 9, 1995 in Glendale, CA and is buried in the Forest Lawn Memorial Park cemetery in Glendale.\n\nErnest Harmon Hix, Jr. is the son of Ernest Harmon Hix Sr. and Elsie Elizabeth Huber Hix. He wrote and produced the \"Strange as It Seems\" comic strip with his wife Phyllis from 1963 until the feature ceased production in 1970.\n\nJeffrey David Hix is the son of Ernest Harmon Hix Jr. and Phyllis Hix and is curator of the \"Strange as It Seems\" archives. Hix is reviving the \"Strange as It Seems\" brand for the digital age.\n\n"}
{"id": "2886821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2886821", "title": "Sukisho", "text": "Sukisho\n\n, also known as Sukisho! or \"Sukisyo!\" is a light novel that has since expanded into a Boys' Love game (a type of Visual Novel), an anime series and OVA. The title translates into English as \"I like what I like, so it can't be helped\", or \"I like what I like, so there!\" The best known of the versions is the BL game, which features mild BL, and, in the original PC release, hardcore BL. The story is owned by SOFTPAL and Platinum Label, and the illustrations to the novels and games is by Tsutae Yuzu.\n\nHigh-school student Sora Hashiba was hospitalized after falling from the fourth floor of the school building. On his first night back in the dormitory, he wakes to find a strange boy addressing him by the name \"Yoru\". The stranger identifies himself as \"Ran\" and says he's Sora's new roommate. The next day, Sora's childhood friend and dorm manager, Matsuri Honjou, informs Sora that the other boy, whom Matsuri identifies as Sunao Fujimori or \"Nao-kun,\" is actually another childhood friend of Sora. Sora doesn't remember meeting Sunao before. In fact, Sora can't remember much of anything regarding his past, and the series follows his quest to regain his memory.\n\nSora soon learns why Sunao identified himself as \"Ran\" that first night: he and Sora have alternate personalities. Sora's is Yoru, a powerful protector and the lover of the more dependent, feminized Ran. The existence of these alternate personalities, and the relationship between them, has some mysterious connection with Sora's fall from the window and his forgotten past. The alternate personalities' passionate relationship is a far cry from the hostility and distrust between Sora and Sunao. Because Yoru and Ran possess them arbitrarily, Sora and Sunao frequently find themselves in embarrassing situations when they regain control of their minds.\n\nOther comical situations arise from Matsuri's efforts to draw Sora and Sunao into his moneymaking schemes, known as the group \"The School Do-It-Alls\" and from such minor characters as a bishōnen ghost and three younger boys who resemble the trio. No parents are ever mentioned, and the only authority figures are school nurse Kai Nanami and math teacher Shin-ichirou Minato, but it is known that Sora and Sunao are both orphans. Both have some connection with Sora and Sunao's dark past, which also involves one of the older students at the school, Kai Nagase, and a mysterious doctor named Aizawa.\n\nThe main character of \"Sukisho\". Sora can't remember his past and at first doesn't know he has an alternate personality named Yoru. Sora has spiky blue hair, blue eyes, and is usually easy going, and also loves to eat. As a dominant male, he has a complicated and occasionally hostile relationship with his roommate and former childhood friend Sunao Fujimori. Normally, he refers to Sunao by his last name, Fujimori. Sora also seems to be the character most often harmed in the anime. \nSora's alternate personality. Unlike Sora, Yoru is both shrewd and flirtatious. He is considered the seme of the couple. Yoru loves Ran, but he isn't above flirting with anyone. He loves Ran and will often show it when in bed with him (which embarrasses Sunao in the aftermath). However, Yoru will protect Sora when he feels a need. In the game, he also likes to joke around with Sora by placing images of Sora's friends in odd positions (including Sunao and Ran, Hiromu, Nanami, and oddly enough, Yoru himself). Yoru can be distinguished from Sora by his slightly darker hair, increased height, deeper voice and a glowing amber left eye. He is also usually seen with a long white piece of cloth tied to his right arm. In one of the drama CDs it is said that he tried to kill himself because he left Ran in the lab, and wears the white cloth as a memento. \nSunao is Sora's childhood friend and current roommate. Sunao has long pink hair usually tied with a long piece of red ribbon and pink eyes, and an alternate personality named Ran. Easily angered, he isn't above punching anyone who makes him lose his temper, especially Sora, who he punches a few times in the beginning of the anime series. At first, he claims he hates Sora, but he becomes closer to Sora with each game/episode, eventually consummating his relationship with Sora. Just as Sora calls Sunao by his last name, Sunao refers to Sora as Hashiba; in some episodes, Sunao calls Sora by the childhood nickname of \"Kuu-chan\" instead. \nJust as Sora has Yoru, Sunao also has an alternate personality, named Ran (蘭), which is Japanese for orchid. Ran is dependent, demanding and in some cases more feminine than Sunao. Ran is the uke of the pairing, and loves Yoru to the point of an obsession. He will occasionally flirt with Sora only to bring out Yoru. Ran can be distinguished from Sunao by his slightly brighter pink hair color (in the game), higher voice, and red eyes; in the anime, the red eyes are the only feature the two personalities don't share. Unlike Yoru, Ran never harasses Sunao, though he will attempt to seduce anyone else. Note that Kappei Yamaguchi is the voice actor for Ran in the Drama CD and games, but the same voice actor (Hoshi Souichirou) plays both Sunao and Ran the anime. \nA close childhood friend of both Sora and Sunao, Matsuri has long blond hair and green eyes. The dorm manager and head of the Do-It-All Club (in the anime), Matsuri always carries a camera, frequently taking fun (if embarrassing for Sora) snapshots. He's an upbeat person who likes to tease his friends, often inventing elaborate plans usually revolving around getting Sora and Sunao together, or making money. Sora and Sunao rarely like any of Matsuri's ideas, but the pair tends to go along with Matsuri despite that. Note that the Jack-of-All-Trades club that Matsuri establishes in the anime does not exist in the games. Also, he resembles Saotome Haruna from \"Mahou Sensei Negima\" in both image (Long hair with antennae) and \"Paru sama\" personality + Kazumi paparazzi.\nThe school nurse. Nanami is possibly the most feminine character in Sukisho (second most feminine would probably be Ran). The perfect housewife, Nanami cooks and cleans with a smile on his face. He lives with Shin-ichirou, whom he is in love with (they are seen sharing the same bed in the anime and the dramas show them to be married). He is very nice and easy to talk to, although he is constantly haunted with guilt because of his past where he worked with Aizawa conducting immoral experiments on humans in an effort to help Shin-ichiro with his own mental condition. There is hardly any difference between the games and the anime when concerning Nanami, but in the games he tends to be slightly more high strung (he can and WILL punch Shin-ichirou when he feels the need for it). Nanami has brown shoulder length hair (may be slightly longer) and blue eyes. \nThe school math teacher. He loves Nanami and cares very much for Sora and Sunao (who often refer to him as 'nii-chan'or \"brother\" though they are not blood related). Usually, Shin-ichirou is very easy going and somewhat immature, though caring. He will often flirt with Nanami, but most of the time in a playful way. He is, however, very prone to jealousy and he also has another side of him often referred to as 'Minato' or 'Minato-sensei'. As Minato, he is very flirtatious and will attempt to force people into sex (often Sora or Nanami). Usually, Nanami just has to mess up Minato's hair or punch him to bring back Shin-ichirou. In White Flower, Minato acts more evil and becomes Aizawa's slave after being brainwashed. Shin-ichirou has black spiky hair and blue eyes. As Minato, his hair is a lot more tidy and sometimes his eyes are pitch black. \nSora's friend, he is a year younger than Sora. He has a crush on Nagase Kai, manager of the Chemistry labs. He seems to be always happy, and he tries to help his friend any way he can. A sincere boy of pure feelings, Sora says that \"He expresses four times more his feelings than the majority of the people\". In the game \"Mou Matte\", Gaku is given the position of main character and must choose to either continue his relationship with Nagase (as the uke, or bottom) or start a new one with Shiina (as the seme, or top). \nHe is the chemistry lab manager. A quiet, serious and mysterious man, yet he is very intelligent and has gotten his thesis printed in numerous science magazines. Gaku is in love with him, admires him and is always praising him whenever he can. Nagase knows this, and takes advantage of this when needed. But finally, he changed because of Gaku's true love. He is the son of Professor Aizawa, the main antagonist. \n\nThree children who have become attached to Sora, Sunao, and the rest. It is unknown if Sei and Shiina have parents, but Kitamura has become Hano Yoshihiro's stepbrother (which he resents in the anime). Sei resembles Sora while Shiina resembles a young Nanami. Kitamura does not really resemble anyone, but fans have said he somewhat resembles Sunao due to his hot pink hair. After episode 3, they are never seen apart and seem to act identical for most of the series (except in episode 13, the OVA). In the games, their personalities are a lot more diverse and they are very similar Sora, Sunao, and Matsuri when they were in school. Sei acts the most immature of three (Sora), Kitamura comes up with various plans and likes to joke around (Matsuri), and Shiina tends to be the more effeminate tsundere (Sunao). They also live together in the same dorms. In the games and their teacher is Sora. Although not exactly related, Sei is sometimes seen as Sora and Sunao's child. In the games, Shiina also has a crush on Gaku and whether or not he ends up with Gaku depends on the player's choice (in both White Flower and Mou Matte). Kitamura can also end up with Gaku, but only in Mou Matte. In the game Sei is Sora's clone. He cannot speak first, but starts to trust Sunao and Sora after a while. After White Flower, the three of them are like a family. Ren (蓮) or (恋) means 'lotus' or 'romance, love' in Japanese. \n\nThe adopted child of Ayano. He is really shy and unexpressive, seems to be a chibi-Gaku as Sei-kun to Sora (chibi-Sora). The first time he smiled was when Ayano used his favourite plushie (a pink rabbit) to talk to him. Since then, Ayano always brings it with him. In the games and novels, Aizawa made Kano out of DNA from Gaku Ichikawa as he admired Gaku's cheerfulness. \n\nOccasionally appears in the game and makes brief appearances in the anime. Soushi is a lawyer who loves to flirt with Nanami. Most of the time, he playfully flirts with Nanami just to anger Shin-ichirou. Compared to most of the character, he acts a lot more refined, but he will occasionally get mad (especially if children are making too much noise). In the games, there are scenes where he and Sora have sex (depending on the choices the player makes). The PS2 game and the Drama CDs show that Soushi and Matsuri could become a couple. He is also the middle brother of Shin-ichirou Minato and Ryouya Kozuki. \n\nShin-ichirou's and Soushi's older brother. He has a psychiatric clinic and he does double-personalities-analysis to Sora and to Sunao (with Soushi's and Nanami's approval, though the same can not be said for Sora and Sunao). He brings always with him a pink rabbit and does ventriloquism with it to his adopted child, Kano-kun (seemingly a bit unexpressive and shy enough). Smiles often and loves children. In the games, he originally worked for Aizawa. \n\nA young boy who loves Sora (later on he loves Sunao in the game). He gets into an accident that puts him into the hospital. He then becomes a wandering spirit, but what he does differs between the anime and the games. In the anime, Hiromu haunts the halls of the school to find Sora. In the games, he possesses Sunao and tries to spend time with Sora (this is indicated by Sunao's sudden hair color change to white and the playful tune in the background). Hiromu acts very innocent and playful. Eventually, his spirit returns to his body. In First Limit, Sora can end up with Hiromu if the players makes the right choices. \n\nGaku Ichikawa's classmate, and is also close to Fuuta Kitamura. He is cheerful and enjoys chemistry, just like Gaku, and is the step brother of Fuuta Kitamura. In the games and novels, he has an obsession with putting pink bows in his hair. \n\nA character appearing only in the games and the OVA, he is a young boy who works at a nearby church and has a very close relationship with Sora Hashiba. In Target Nights, he became friends with Sora, but ended almost killing Sora and Sunao because he said that Sora was possessed. Later, it is revealed that Aizawa manipulated his feelings to get revenge on Nanami (who was Chris real target) to which Chris apologies. Chris also has a love interest in Nanami, the two where close friends when Nanami worked for Aizawa in the laboratory. On the next games, he became a recurring character and a real friend of Sora and his friends. \n\nAizawa is the main antagonist in Sukisho. He is a professor at the university which Sunao attends after the games, and the chemistry department advisor. Aizawa is obsessed with studying medicine and cloning and even invented medicine that can control the mind and emotions of human beings. Aizawa grew up with and became friends with Shin-ichirou Minato and Kai Nanami. Aizawa struggled with psychological issues, unable to function properly in public, and had issues handling his emotions. Aizawa had begun falling in love with Shin-ichirou Minato but failed to cope with such emotions. As he entered high school, he switched schools and Kai Nanami wound up working and studying under him by college so he can help Shin-ichirou with his schizophrenia but left after Aizawa attacked him. Aizawa became obsessed with causing Nanami pain and shortly after, kidnapped Sora Hashiba and Sunao Fujimori and had performed grotesque experiments on them when they were children. Aizawa has three \"sons\" whom are all clones by the names Nagase Kai, Cano, and Ren Shiina. Aizawa cannot also feel pain physically. Despite Aizawa being cold and collective, he is usually hyper and fun around Gaku Ichikawa and Nagase Kai. Aizawa deeply cares about the people around him, but due to his emotional disability, has issues showing so. Shin-ichirou's brother Ayano winds up working for him, claiming Aizawa was very depressed and lonely. Most of Aizawa's hate towards Nanami is mostly due to jealousy. By the end of the games, Aizawa redeems himself and happily works as a professor again, leaving the main characters alone. It's implied him and Ayano become a couple. \n\nOpening Theme: \"Just A Survivor\", performed by Tatsuhisa Suzuki. <BR>\nEnding Theme: \"Daydreamin'\", performed by Kishō Taniyama.\n\n\nCurrently, there are four games and one spin-off in the \"Sukisho\" series. The games were originally point-and-click visual novels released for PC, containing sexual content, though certain body parts are censored (as is all pornographic material in Japan).\n\nThree of the games have been released on the Sony PlayStation 2. The PS2 versions have been heavily edited and many new CG scenes have been added. In addition, they feature the voice acting from the Drama CD cast, which were absent in the PC release. These games do not yet have an official English translation.\n\nThe first game in the series. Sora Hashiba was put into the hospital for quite some time after falling from one of the school buildings. He didn't receive any major injuries, but he has lost some of his memories in the process. However, he continually sees a vision of him being carried through several dark corridors and the voice of someone calling out to him. After being released from the hospital, Sora heads back to the dorms to find that a new boy by the name of Sunao Fujimori, who will now be his roommate. He is told that Sunao is his childhood friend, but he cannot recall spending his childhood with Sunao. As he spends time with Sunao, he notices some strange things about him, including his transformation into his alternate personality Ran. On top of that, the spirit of a hospitalized schoolmate possesses Sunao and confesses his love for him. Depending on the player's decisions, Sora can either end up with Sunao, Hiromu, Ran, or Minato.\n\nAfter spending some time in Shin-ichirou and Nanami's place, Sora and Sunao come across a mysterious cosplaying bandit known only by the number 416. He claims that he has come to take away something precious from Sora. Meanwhile, Sora and Sunao meet Chris, who works at the nearby church. While he seems harmless, he begins to spend more time with Sora. To top it all off, Sora begins to realize that there are times when he and Sunao are mysteriously in bed together. He already knows about Sunao's connection with his alternate personality Ran, but could that mean he has his own alternate personality as well? Depending on the choices of the player, Sora will either end up with Sunao, Chris, Ran, Matsuri, or Minato. Also, obtaining all the CGs rewards the player with a special ending involving bandits 416, 773, and most recently 848.\n\nPossibly the turning point in the series. Sora and Sunao continue their life in school. All seems normal until Sora notices a child that looks very similar to himself. Also, some of his schoolmates are beginning to act a little strange. Even Sora begins to notice that something odd about his connection to Sunao and the relationship between their alternate personalities Yoru and Ran. Depending on the choices of the player, Sora may end up with Sunao, Matsuri, Soushi, or Minato. Collecting all the CGs allows the player to access secret endings that involve Sora, Sunao, Matsuri, Shin-ichirou, and Nanami banding together as cosplaying bandits 848, 370, 332, 416, and 773.\n\n\"Sukisho\" cast's status prior to \"White Flower\":\n\n\nThe final game in the series. Taking place a couple of years after \"Rain\", many changes have been made to the school. Not only is it no longer an all-boys school, several of the former students are now working as teachers while others move onto other jobs. Sora, as one of the teachers, has been living a fairly normal life as he takes Minato's place as teacher. However, he realizes that it won't stay normal for long when he sees that Sunao, who he has not seen since the events in \"Rain\", reappears in one of the halls. This game finally wraps up the story between Sora and Sunao and ends their conflict with Professor Aizawa. Depending on the player's choices, Sora can either end up with Sunao, Nanami, Hiromu, Matsuri, Soushi, or Minato. There are two hidden endings in this game. The Yoru/Ran ending is received when achieving the true ending, while the Kaito ending is obtained when all the CGs are collected.\n\nA spin off of the \"Sukisho\" games. Takes place some time in between \"Rain\" and \"White Flower\". The player now controls Gaku Ichikawa, one of Sora's friends who worked in the Chemistry Lab. Gaku must now choose whether to continue his relationship with Kai Nagase or start a new one with Ren Shiina. Depending on the player's choice, Gaku may end up with Shiina, Nagase, or Kitamura. Most of the main cast from the previous \"Sukisho\" games are visibly absent, including Sora and Sunao. Of the original cast, only Gaku, Nagase, Shiina, Kitamura, Nanami, Nakahara, and Hano make appearances.\n\n"}
{"id": "31186643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31186643", "title": "The Hunger Games", "text": "The Hunger Games\n\nThe Hunger Games is a trilogy of young adult dystopian novels written by American novelist Suzanne Collins. The series is set in \"The Hunger Games\" universe, and follows young characters Katniss Everdeen and Peeta Mellark.\n\nThe novels in the trilogy are titled \"The Hunger Games\" (2008), \"Catching Fire\" (2009), and \"Mockingjay\" (2010). The novels have all been developed into films starring Jennifer Lawrence, with the film adaptation of \"Mockingjay\" split into two parts. The first two books in the series were both \"New York Times\" best sellers, and \"Mockingjay\" topped all US bestseller lists upon its release. By the time the film adaptation of \"The Hunger Games\" was released in 2012, the publisher had reported over 26 million \"Hunger Games\" trilogy books in print, including movie tie-in books.\n\n\"The Hunger Games\" universe is a dystopia set in Panem, a country consisting of the wealthy Capitol and 12 districts in varying states of poverty. Every year, children from the districts are selected to participate in a compulsory televised battle royale death match called The Hunger Games.\n\nThe novels were all well received. In August 2012, the series ranked second, exceeded only by the \"Harry Potter\" series in NPR's poll of the top 100 teen novels, which asked voters to choose their favorite young adult books. On August 17, 2012, Amazon announced \"The Hunger Games\" trilogy as its top seller, surpassing the record previously held by the \"Harry Potter\" series. , the trilogy has sold more than 65 million copies in the U.S. alone (more than 28 million copies of \"The Hunger Games\", more than 19 million copies of \"Catching Fire\", and more than 18 million copies of \"Mockingjay\"). \"The Hunger Games\" trilogy has been sold into 56 territories in 51 languages to date.\n\n\"The Hunger Games\" trilogy takes place in an unspecified future time, in the dystopian, post-apocalyptic nation of Panem, located in North America. The country consists of a wealthy Capitol city, located in the Rocky Mountains, surrounded by twelve (originally thirteen) poorer districts ruled by the Capitol. The Capitol is lavishly rich and technologically advanced, but the districts are in varying states of poverty. The trilogy's narrator and protagonist Katniss Everdeen, lives in District 12, the poorest region of Panem, located in Appalachia, where people regularly die of starvation. As punishment for a past rebellion against the Capitol (called the \"Dark Days\"), in which District 13 was supposedly destroyed, one boy and one girl from each of the twelve remaining districts, between the ages of 12 and 18, are selected by lottery to compete in an annual pageant called the Hunger Games. The Games are a televised event in which the participants, called \"tributes\", are forced to fight to the death in a dangerous public arena. The winning tribute and his/her home district are then rewarded with food, supplies, and riches. The purposes of the Hunger Games are to provide entertainment for the Capitol and to remind the districts of the Capitol's power and lack of remorse,\nforgetfulness, and forgiveness for the failed rebellion of the current competitors' ancestors.\n\nEach book in \"The Hunger Games\" trilogy has three sections of nine chapters each. Collins has said this format comes from her playwriting background, which taught her to write in a three-act structure; her previous series, \"The Underland Chronicles\", was written in the same way. She sees each group of nine chapters as a separate part of the story, and comments still call those divisions \"act breaks\".\n\nCollins says she drew inspiration for the series from both classical and contemporary sources. Her main classical source of inspiration is the Greek myth of Theseus and the Minotaur, in which, as a punishment for past crimes, Minos forces Athens to sacrifice seven youths and seven maidens to the Minotaur, which kills them in a vast labyrinth. Collins says that even as a child, she was stunned by the idea since \"it was just so cruel\" to force Athens to sacrifice its own children.\n\nCollins also cites as a classical inspiration the Roman gladiator games. She feels three key elements create a good game: an all powerful and ruthless government, people forced to fight to the death, and the game's role as a source of popular entertainment.\n\nA contemporary source of inspiration was Collins' recent fascination with reality television programs. She says they are like \"The Hunger Games\" because the Games are not just entertainment but also a reminder to the districts of their rebellion. On a tired night, Collins says that while she was channel-surfing the television, she saw people competing for some prize and then saw footage of the Iraq War. She described how the two combined in an \"unsettling way\" to create her first ideas for the series.\n\n\"The Hunger Games\" is the first book in the series and was released on September 14, 2008.\n\n\"The Hunger Games\" follows 16-year-old Katniss Everdeen, a girl from District 12 who volunteers for the 74th Hunger Games in place of her younger sister Primrose Everdeen. Also selected from District 12 is Peeta Mellark. They are mentored by their district's only living victor, Haymitch Abernathy, who won 24 years earlier and has since led a solitary life of alcoholism.\n\nPeeta confesses his longtime secret love for Katniss in a televised interview prior to the Games. This revelation stuns Katniss, who harbors feelings for Gale Hawthorne, her friend and hunting partner. Haymitch advises her to feign feelings for Peeta in order to gain wealthy sponsors who can provide crucial supplies to the \"star-crossed lovers\" during the Games.\n\nIn the arena, Katniss allies with Rue, a young tribute from District 11 who reminds Katniss of her kid sister. When Rue is killed, Katniss places flowers around her body as an act of defiance toward the Capitol. Then the remaining tributes are alerted to a rule change that allows tributes from the same district to win as a team. Katniss finds a seriously wounded Peeta and nurses him back to health. When all of the other tributes are dead, the rule change is abruptly revoked. With neither willing to kill the other, Katniss comes up with a solution: a double suicide by eating poisonous berries. This forces the authorities to concede just in time to save their lives. During and after the Games, Katniss develops genuine feelings for Peeta and struggles to reconcile them with what she feels for Gale.\n\nHaymitch warns her that the danger is far from over. The authorities are furious at being made fools of, and the only way to try to allay their anger is to pretend that her actions were because of her love for Peeta. On the journey home, Peeta is dismayed to learn of the deception.\n\n\"Catching Fire\" is the second installment in the series, released on September 1, 2009.\n\nIn \"Catching Fire\", which begins six months after the conclusion of \"The Hunger Games\", Katniss learns that her defiance in the previous novel has started a chain reaction that has inspired rebellion in the districts. President Snow threatens to harm Katniss' family and friends if she does not help to defuse the unrest in the districts and marry Peeta. Meanwhile, Peeta has become aware of Katniss' disingenuous love for him, but he has also been informed of Snow's threats, so he promises to help keep up the act to spare the citizens of District 12. Katniss and Peeta tour the districts as victors and plan a public wedding. While they follow Snow's orders and keep up the ruse, Katniss inadvertently fuels the rebellion, and the mockingjay pin she wears becomes its symbol. District by district, the citizens of Panem begin to stage uprisings against the Capitol. Snow announces a special 75th edition of the Hunger Games—known as the Quarter Quell—in which Katniss and Peeta are forced to compete with other past victors, effectively canceling the wedding. At Haymitch's urging, the pair teams up with several other tributes, and manages to destroy the arena and escape the Games. Katniss is rescued by the rebel forces from District 13, and Gale informs her that the Capitol has destroyed District 12, and captured both Peeta and their District 7 ally, Johanna Mason. Katniss ultimately learns—to her surprise—that she had inadvertently been an integral part of the rebellion all along; her rescue had been jointly planned by Haymitch, Plutarch Heavensbee, and Finnick Odair, among others. After some hesitation Katniss joins the rebels.\n\n\"Mockingjay\", the third and final book in \"The Hunger Games\" series, was released on August 24, 2010.\n\nMost of the districts have rebelled against the Capitol, led by District 13 and its President Alma Coin. The Capitol lied about the district being destroyed in the Dark Days. After a Mexican standoff with the Capitol, the District 13 residents took to living underground and rebuilding their strength. The District 12 survivors find shelter with them. Katniss, after seeing first-hand the destruction wrought on her district, agrees to become the \"Mockingjay\", the symbol of the rebellion. She sets conditions, however. Peeta, Johanna Mason, Annie Cresta, and Enobaria, fellow Games victors captured by the Capitol, are to be granted immunity. Katniss also demands the privilege of killing Snow, but Coin only agrees to flip for the honor.\n\nFor her sake, a rescue mission is mounted that succeeds in rescuing Peeta, Johanna and Annie. However, Peeta has been brainwashed to kill Katniss, and he tries to choke her to death upon their reunion. He undergoes experimental treatment to try to cure him.\n\nAfter she recovers, Katniss and a team known as the Star Squad, composed of Gale, Peeta, Finnick, a camera crew, and various other soldiers, are assigned to film propaganda in relatively quiet combat zones. Katniss, however, decides to go to the Capitol to kill Snow, pretending that Coin gave her that mission. Most of the squad are killed along the way, including recently married Finnick. As Katniss approaches Snow's mansion, she sees a group of Capitol children surrounding it as human shields. Suddenly a hovercraft drops silver parachutes on the children, who reach for them, hoping they bear food. Some of the parachutes explode, creating carnage. The advancing rebels send in medics, including Prim. Then the rest of the parachutes blow up, killing Prim, just as she spots her sister.\n\nLater, Katniss, also injured, awakens from a coma to learn that the rebels have won, and Snow is awaiting execution at her hands. When she meets Snow by chance, he claims that it was Coin who secretly ordered the bombings in order to strip away the support of his remaining followers. Coin then asks the surviving victors to vote on a final Hunger Games, involving the children of high-ranking Capitol officials (including Snow's granddaughter). Katniss and Haymitch cast the deciding votes in favor of the scheme. However, at what is supposed to be Snow's execution, Katniss instead kills Coin with her bow. Snow laughs, then dies.\n\nKatniss is tried, but the jury believes she was mentally unfit, and she is sent home to District 12. Both Katniss' mother and Gale take jobs in other districts. Peeta regains his sanity. Katniss settles down with him, and after many years of persuasion by him, she finally agrees to have children. They have a girl and then a boy.\n\nAll three books have been favorably received. Praise has focused on the addictive quality, especially of the first book, and the action. John Green of \"The New York Times\" compared \"The Hunger Games\" with Scott Westerfeld's \"The Uglies\" series. \"Catching Fire\" was praised for improving upon the first book. \"Mockingjay\" was praised for its portrayal of violence, world building, and romantic intrigue.\n\nThe series received criticism regarding its reality TV \"death game\" theme being derivative of works such as \"Battle Royale\", \"The Running Man\", \"The Long Walk\", and \"\". The series was also criticized for the romantic plotline: Rollie Welch of Ohio's \"The Plain Dealer\" criticized the characters' lack of resolute behavior, and Jennifer Reese of \"Entertainment Weekly\" stated that there was little distinction between Peeta and Gale and the series lacked the \"erotic energy\" seen in the \"Twilight\" series.\n\nJ.C. Maçek III of \"PopMatters\" stated \"While the film saga does capture the action of \"The Hunger Games\", the novels are most assuredly the heart of the story. They are nothing less than 'The Writer’s Cut' of the films themselves.\"\n\nThe last book, \"Mockingjay\", was criticized by Dan Shade of \"SF Site\", who felt that Katniss is a weaker character than her comrades and less resolute in her journey to the Capitol, and that with respect to her vendetta against President Snow, her actions in the finale are inconsistent with her established character.\n\n\nLionsgate Entertainment acquired worldwide distribution rights to a film adaptation of \"The Hunger Games\", produced by Nina Jacobson's Color Force production company. Collins adapted the novel for film herself, along with director Gary Ross. The cast included Jennifer Lawrence as Katniss, Josh Hutcherson as Peeta, and Liam Hemsworth as Gale. The first film began production in Spring 2011, and was released in March 2012. For \"\", Ross was replaced as director by Francis Lawrence; the film was released in November 2013. Lawrence then directed \"Mockingjay\", parts 1 and 2, released in November 2014 and November 2015.\n\nA gesture (a raised up hand with three middle fingers pressed together) used in \"The Hunger Games\" trilogy to express unity with people striving to survive, was used in 2014 by anti-government protestors in Thailand, at least seven of whom were arrested for it.\n\n"}
{"id": "16736415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16736415", "title": "The Mummy (franchise)", "text": "The Mummy (franchise)\n\nThe Mummy is the title of several horror-adventure film series centered on an ancient Egyptian priest who is accidentally resurrected, bringing with him a powerful curse, and the ensuing efforts of heroic archaeologists to stop him.\n\nThe original series of films consisted of six installments, which starred iconic horror actors such as Boris Karloff (only in the original one, as Imhotep); Tom Tyler and Lon Chaney Jr. as Kharis; and lastly Eddie Parker, who played Klaris, a cousin of Kharis. The series of films is part of the larger Universal Monsters series.\n\nIn 1959, the British Hammer Film Productions began its own \"The Mummy\" series of films. These include the following:\n\nOriginally a proposed remake of \"The Mummy\" would have been directed by horror filmmaker/writer Clive Barker. Barker’s vision for the film was violent, with the story revolving around the head of a contemporary art museum who turns out to be a cultist trying to reanimate mummies. Barker's take was \"dark, sexual and filled with mysticism\", and that, \"it would have been a great low-budget movie\".\n\nIn 1999, Stephen Sommers wrote and directed a remake of \"The Mummy\", loosely based on the original film of 1932. This film switches genres from the emphasis on horror to adventure, concentrating more on action sequences, special effects, comedy, and a higher element of Egyptian lore. The film became a box office success spawning two sequels, several video games, a spin-off series, and an animated television series. The first two films received mixed reviews, while the third one received mostly negative reviews.\n\n\nAfter \"\" was released, actress Maria Bello stated that another \"Mummy\" film will \"absolutely\" be made, and that she had already signed on. Actor Luke Ford was signed on for three films as well. But in 2012, Universal Pictures announced that they had cancelled the film and were focusing on a reboot.\n\nThis spin-off series follows the adventures of Mathayus, who would later be known as the Scorpion King and, eventually, become a foe in \"The Mummy Returns\". The films are as follows:\n\nOn April 4, 2012, Universal Studios announced that they are developing a reboot of the series, with Jon Spaihts to write the film and Sean Daniel who produced the three films, will be returning as producer. On May 1, 2012, Universal signed on with Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman a two-year deal to produce the \"Mummy\" reboot through their K/O Paper Products banner. On September 24, 2012, it was announced that Universal has set Len Wiseman to direct the film. In December 2012, it was being said that \"The Mummy\" reboot will be different from the classic trilogy, it'll be a completely new take on the mythology, and it will be set in present day. On February 14, 2013, Universal set \"The Hunger Games'\" writer Billy Ray to write a competitive draft for the \"Mummy\" reboot against Spaihts written script. On July 31, 2013, director Wiseman has left the film project due of schedule conflicts. On September 13, 2013, news reported that \"Mama\"'s director Andrés Muschietti is in talks to direct the film.\n\nIn October 2013, Orci spoke to IGN, hinted that both \"The Mummy\" and \"Van Helsing\" reboots will have a shared universe. On November 27, 2013, Universal has set the film for an April 22, 2016, release. On May 6, 2014, director Muschetti left the film due to creative differences, which Spaihts wrote the latest draft of the script, which reimagined \"The Mummy\" in modern-day with new characters not seen in previous iterations and a protagonist imbued with a human personality. On July 16, 2014, Universal announced that they had tapped Alex Kurtzman and Chris Morgan to develop all classic movie monsters which include Frankenstein, Dracula, The Wolf Man, Creature from the Black Lagoon, The Invisible Man, Bride of Frankenstein, and The Mummy. The first film they will develop together will be \"The Mummy\", for which they had begun the meetings. So on July 30, Kurtzman was set to direct the film. Next day, the film's release date was pushed back to March 27, 2017, when Universal announced the April 22 for its new film \"The Huntsman\". The film's plot is set in Iraq and follows a Navy SEAL and his team that battle mummies led by Ashurbanipal.\n\nOn October 14, 2015, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" reported that Kurtzman and Spaihts has two scripts with a male and a female mummy villain. On November 24, 2015, Variety reports that Tom Cruise is in talks to star in the film. Variety also reports that Cruise isn’t expected to produce, but he will play a major part in development. On December 8, 2015, The Hollywood Reporter has reported that Sofia Boutella is in talks for the female Mummy role in the reboot. It was announced that Cruise and Boutella will star in the reboot with a June 9, 2017, release date. In March 2016, Variety and The Hollywood Reporter has reported that Annabelle Wallis and Jake Johnson are in talks for a role of an archaeologist and a member of the military. The film began production in April 2016 located in Oxford, England.\n\n<div class=\"overflowbugx\" style=\"overflow:auto; width:100%;\">\n\nList indicator(s)\n\nTwo video game adaptations of \"The Mummy\" (1999) were developed by Rebellion Developments and published by Konami in 2000: an action-adventure game for the PlayStation and PC as well as a Game Boy Color puzzle game. Dreamcast version was announced but later cancelled in the late 2000. \"The Mummy Returns\" released in late 2001 for the PlayStation 2 and developed by Blitz Games, the Game Boy Color version was developed by GameBrains, both versions were published by Universal Interactive. \"\" was released in 2008, developed by Eurocom for the PlayStation 2 and the Wii, the Nintendo DS released was developed by A2M, all versions were published by Sierra Entertainment. In March 2012, a massive multiplayer online game known as \"The Mummy Online\" was released.\n\nIn May 2001, Chaos! Comics released the first of a three-issue series inspired by the film, titled \"The Mummy: Valley of the Gods\". The plot was supposed to take place between the first film and \"The Mummy Returns\". Rick and Evelyn are on their honeymoon in Egypt and end up embarking on yet another adventure where they must unravel the mysteries of the Orb of Destiny and discover the location of the Valley of the Gods hidden beneath the sands. However, the second and third issues were never published.\nThis was most likely due to Chaos later filing bankruptcy in 2002 and selling the rights to all their titles at that time.\nYears later in 2008, another Mummy comic series was released by IDW Publishing, spanning four issues. This series was titled \"The Mummy: The Rise and Fall of Xango's Ax\". Unlike the preceding comic series, all of the planned issues were published.\n\nFrom 2001 until 2003, an animated series simply titled \"The Mummy\" was made by Universal Animation Studios where it was based on the Stephen Sommers series of films. The series was later renamed in the second season as \"The Mummy: Secrets of the Medjai\".\n\nThe film also inspired a roller coaster ride named \"Revenge of the Mummy: The Ride\" in Universal Studios Theme Parks, Florida. Similar rides can also be found in Hollywood and Singapore.\n"}
{"id": "2854621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2854621", "title": "Themed Entertainment Association", "text": "Themed Entertainment Association\n\nThe Themed Entertainment Association (TEA) is an international non-profit association that represents creators, developers, designers and producers of themed entertainment. Its mission, as stated in its bylaws, is to facilitate dialogue and communication among its members, to stimulate knowledge and professional growth, and to expand the size, diversity and awareness of the themed entertainment industry. Every year since 2007, the TEA has hosted SATE (Story + Architecture + Technology = Experience), a lecture-based industry conference.\n\nThe TEA was founded in 1991 by Monty Lunde, a former special effects designer for Disney who had gone on to start the special effects company Technifex with his business partner Rock Hall. Lunde was finding it difficult to negotiate contracts with large corporations and wanted to organize small businesses in the industry to share best practices, establish common contracts, and facilitate better dialogue with customers.\n\nThe TEA annually presents Thea Awards to projects that exemplify the highest standards of excellence and achievement, including individuals, parks, attractions, exhibits, and experiences in the themed entertainment industry. The Thea Awards began in 1994 with a single honoree: Harrison “Buzz” Price, the first recipient of the TEA Lifetime Achievement Award. That award is now called the Buzz Price Thea Award for a Lifetime of Outstanding Achievements in his honor. The second recipient was Marty Sklar in 1995.\n\nIn 1996, the Awards for Outstanding Achievement (AOA) were introduced, and ten were distributed. In the years since, additional special categories of AOA have been created, ensuring a multi-award event. Anyone can nominate a project, but judging is conducted by a committee that includes all past lifetime achievement honorees, one board liaison, and nine members-at-large appointed to three-year terms. Award recipients are announced in November and formally presented the following spring.\n\nIn 2016, Theas were awarded to the following:\n\n\nIn 2015, Theas were awarded to the following:\n\n\nIn 2014, Theas were awarded to the following:\n\n\nIn 2013, Theas were awarded to the following:\n\n\nIn 2012, Theas were awarded to the following:\n\n\nIn 2011, Theas were awarded to the following:\n\n\nIn 2010, Theas were awarded to the following:\n\n\nIn 2009, Theas were awarded to the following:\n\n\nIn 2008, Thea Awards for Outstanding Achievement were awarded to the following:\n\n\nIn 2007, Theas were awarded to the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50226584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50226584", "title": "United States Telephone Herald Company", "text": "United States Telephone Herald Company\n\nThe United States Telephone Herald Company, founded in 1909, was the parent corporation for a number of associated \"telephone newspaper\" companies, located throughout the United States, that were organized to provide news and entertainment over telephone lines to subscribing homes and businesses. This was the most ambitious attempt made to develop a distributed audio service prior to the rise of radio broadcasting in the early 1920s.\n\nAt least a dozen associate companies were chartered, but despite initial optimism and ambitious goals, only two systems ever went into commercial operation — one based in Newark, New Jersey (New Jersey Telephone Herald, 1911-1912) and the other in Portland, Oregon (Oregon Telephone Herald, 1912-1913). Moreover, both of these systems were shut down after operating for only a short time, due to economic and technical issues.\n\nCorporation activity peaked in 1913, but the lack of success caused the company to suspend operations, and the corporation charter for the United States Telephone Herald Company was repealed in early 1918.\n\nThe United States Telephone Herald Company was an authorized offshoot of the Telefon Hírmondó audio service of Budapest, Hungary. The Telefon Hírmondó programming, transmitted to subscribers over telephone wires, consisted of an extensive selection of news during the day, followed by instruction and entertainment during the evening. This \"news-teller\" service began operation in February 1893, shortly before the death of its inventor, Tivadar Puskás.\n\nFollowing a visit to Hungary, Cornelius Balassa procured the U.S. patent rights to the Telefon Hírmondó technology. (Later reports state that the company also held the rights for Canada and Great Britain. Another group obtained the rights for Italy, where in 1910 they established the service under the name Araldo Telefonico). The formation of a parent U.S. company, initially operating under a New York state charter as the \"Telephone Newspaper Company of America\", was announced in October 1909, with organizing directors Manley M. Gillam (president), William H. Alexander (secretary and treasurer), and Cornelius Balassa, all of New York City. In March 1910, the parent company was reorganized as the \"United States Telephone Herald Company\", now operating as a Delaware-chartered corporation.\n\nAn initial demonstration transmission was given at the company headquarters, located at 110 West Thirty-fourth Street in New York City, in early September 1910. The equipment used was similar to that which was employed in Budapest. As in Hungary, announcers were called \"stentors\", and because vacuum tube technology had not been developed yet, there were limited methods for amplification, so to compensate the stentors had to speak as loudly as possible into oversized dual-microphones. The lack of amplification also meant that subscribers needed to listen through headphones instead of loudspeakers. On February 14, 1911 , describing \"a telephone system... adapted for supplying innumerable subscribers... general news, musical compositions, and operas, sermons, correct or standard time and other happenings at stated intervals of day and night\" was granted to Árpád Németh, and assigned to the company.\n\nRegionally-based Telephone Herald affiliates were authorized for the purpose of creating local \"telephone newspaper\" systems, with \"the parent company to receive a royalty on every instrument installed\". But ultimately the parent company and its affiliates proved financially unsuccessful, and the United States Telephone Herald Company began winding down operations. Its Delaware business charter was repealed on January 28, 1918, for failure to pay state corporate taxes for two years.\n\nAt least twelve Telephone Herald associate companies were formed, although in only two cases was a telephone newspaper service successfully launched: the New Jersey Telephone Herald (1911-1912) and the Oregon Telephone Herald (1912-1913). (In some cases the service was also referred to as the \"telectrophone\".)\n\nEach associate company was established by local owners operating under a state-granted business charter. Publicity for these services commonly stated that the telephone newspaper subscriptions would cost 5 cents a day. (For comparison, at this time a copy of the daily \"Oregonian\" newspaper in Portland also cost 5 cents.) However, a majority of the associate companies got no further than the promotion or demonstration stages.\n\nIn addition to twelve known associate companies, early company publicity stated that installations would also be set up in Chicago, Scranton, Pennsylvania and Montreal, Canada, but systems do not appear to have been established at any of these locations. Also, a December 14, 1912 advertisement for the Central California Telephone Herald listed associate Telephone Herald companies with company names starting with New York, Chicago, New Orleans, Seattle-Tacoma, Columbia (British Columbia and Alberta, Canada), Los Angeles and Oakland, but there is no information for these either.\n\nOf the two Telephone Herald affiliates which launched commercial services, the New Jersey Telephone Herald was both the first and most publicized. The company had been incorporated in October 1910 in the state of New Jersey by Eugene Gorenflo, Duncan McIsaac and Nicholas J. Surgess.\n\nThe original plan was to begin operations in March 1911, however, the New York Telephone Company, which operated the Newark telephone system franchise, initially refused to lease telephone lines to the Telephone Herald, on the grounds that their charter did not permit it. It required a ruling by the Public Utility Commission to compel the telephone company to provide the needed wires. The hiring process for the stentors, who worked as the news readers, was competitive and rigorous. According to one of the original stentors, the position was restricted to \"college men\" with strong voices and extensive vocabularies. Throughout the day four stentors announced during rotating shifts of 15 minutes each, and did staff work when they were not announcing.\n\nOn October 24, 1911, an ambitious daily service, closely patterned after the Telefon Hírmondó's, was launched to a reported fifty receivers located in a department store waiting room, plus five hundred Newark homes. The company's central offices, studio, and switch rooms were located in the Essex Building on Clinton Street in Newark. Condit S. Atkinson, who had extensive newspaper experience, headed the service's news department.\n\nThe company reported that there were many persons eager to sign up with the innovative service, and it soon had more potential subscribers than could be supported. One young listener later remembered that \"it was a great thrill to pick up the small receiver and hear a voice telling about world events\", moreover, \"It was such a novelty that I could scarcely wait to get home from school and listen to it. It fascinated me. I would listen as long as it was operative, or until I was called to do my homework.\" One of the program features was a series of original \"Trippertrot\" stories, written by local children's author Howard R. Garis, which were later assembled into two book collections: \"Three Little Trippertrots\" and \"Three Little Trippertrots on Their Travels\", published in 1912.\nDespite the enthusiastic response, the company soon ran into serious technical and financial difficulties. Due to a revenue crisis, which resulted in employees walking off the job due to missed paychecks, the service was suspended in late February 1912. A replenishment of funding resulted in a temporary revival in late May, with the primary company officials now consisting of Percy Pyne (president), William E. Gunn (vice-president and general manager), and C. E. Danforth (secretary-treasurer), with C. S. Atkinson renewing his editor functions. However, this would only be a temporary respite, and the telephone newspaper transmissions shut down for good in December 1912.\n\nA later review suggested that the primary issue was technical, as the twisted pair phone lines used for the Newark operation had different electrical characteristics than the wiring used by the original Telefon Hírmondó plant. Following the permanent suspension of services, the New Jersey Telephone Herald's business charter was declared null and void on January 18, 1916.\n\nAlthough less well known than the New Jersey affiliate, the second Telephone Herald company to implement an ongoing telephone newspaper service was the Oregon Telephone Herald Company. But like its predecessor, it also soon faced financial difficulties and was short-lived. The company was incorporated in Oregon, and headquartered at 506 Royal Building (Seventh and Morrison) in Portland. Extensive demonstrations were begun in May 1912, and advertisements the next month said commercial service would start \"around October 1st\".\n\nA January 1913 solicitation for home subscribers for \"The Talking Newspaper and Amusement Purveyor\" listed the hours of operation as 8:00 AM to midnight. Later advertisements referred to the service as the \"Te-Lec-Tro-Phone\", and in April saw the introduction of the reporting of local Portland Beavers baseball games. (In December, a Northwestern League representative complained that the service had hurt attendance, and supported \"the ousting of the various telephone herald and signalling systems from the ball parks\"). A promotion the following month offered the chance to hear election results for free at twenty-five business sites. In May, the Portland Hotel advertised that diners could listen to \"the latest baseball, business and other news by Telephone-Herald\" with their meals.\nThere appears to have been a company reorganization in early 1913, and in March two representatives from the parent company, including chief electrical engineer Árpád Németh, were reported in town to give technical advice. But as with its New Jersey predecessor, the Portland enterprise was in trouble. During the summer, Oregon Corporation Commissioner R. A. Watson stepped in, and, under provisions of the state's \"Blue Sky Law\", barred the Oregon Telephone Herald from doing business, stating that \"There was no question about the honesty of this concern, but the scheme isn't practical, and while it might be popular for a short time it would be a failure in the end; therefore, we refused them a permit to sell stock.\"\n\nThe final advertisements for the company appeared in June 1913, and the state corporation charter was terminated on January 16, 1917, for failure to file statements or pay fees for two years.\n\nNone of the other ten Telephone Herald associate companies launched their proposed telephone newspaper systems, although there were widely varying levels of plans and activities.\n\nIncorporated in Massachusetts on April 23, 1913, by Ladislaus de Doory (president), John M. Grosvenor, Jr. (treasurer), and Jesse W. Morton. De Doory was also a promoter with the parent company. However, the syndicate does not appear to have made any demonstrations or other significant development, and its business charter was dissolved on February 21, 1916.\n\nThis was the first of two companies that were headquartered in San Francisco, California. The company received a California business charter in February 1911, issued to G. S. Holbrook, W. A. Whelan, W. B. Heckmann, A. H. Vorrath, R. M. Graham, R. Boreman, William T. Newverth, A. C. Gould and A. Jacoby.\n\nDemonstrations were conducted in September 1911 at 821, 822, 823 Head Building, but no further progress appears to have been made, and the company charter was declared forfeited and repealed for non-payment of taxes in February 1915.\n\nIncorporated in California in February, 1912 by C. J. Ward, F. W. Bresse and S. H. Whisner. Demonstrations were begun on April 2, 1912 from 4th Floor of the Elks' Building. In late 1913, provisions were made to lease a local theater, the Diepenbrock, to serve as a source for programming. However, there was an abrupt change of plans, and instead the owners decided to merge their operations with the Pacific Telephone Herald Company. The telephone newspaper service never became operational, either before or after the Pacific Telephone Herald merger. The company's charter was declared forfeited and repealed for non-payment of taxes in February 1915.\n\nThis company was chartered in Delaware in August 1912 by R. R. Cooling, C. J. Jacobs and H. W. Davis of Wilmington, Delaware. There is no additional information, other than the fact that its corporation charter was repealed on January 24, 1916.\n\nThe company was incorporated in California. Demonstrations were made at H. C. Capwell Company's Store beginning in February 1913 which lasted through at least April. The original corporate offices were at 303-304-305 Union Savings Bank Building in Oakland, prior to a relocation to 1741 Franklin Street.\n\nThe company's secretary-treasurer, J. B. Whited died in September 1913, and the company president, William Angus, was killed in a mining accident in October 1914. In addition, the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company initially refused to lease telephone lines to the company, resulting in a complaint filed before the Railroad Commission of the State of California. This case was dismissed on November 5, 1913 after the two sides reached a settlement.\n\nIn November 1913, a major expansion was announced, with the purchase from the parent company of the rights to operate in twenty-one western U.S. states and \"the greater part of southwestern Canada\", and the next month saw a merger with the Central California Telephone Herald Company of Sacramento. But despite the ambitious expansion plans, it does not appear that any regular service was ever established, and the state business charter was forfeited on March 4, 1916 for failure to pay the state license tax.\n\nIncorporated in the state of Delaware on December 30, 1911 by Frank Vernon, Ivor B. Blaiberg, and Albert D. Miller. Although there was a limited amount of corporate activity reported in 1912-1913, nothing of significance appears to have resulted. The corporation charter was repealed on January 25, 1917 for two years taxes unpaid.\n\nIncorporated in California in August 1911 by H. A. Schmidt (president), M. N. Schmidt and G. Stephens. The principals were inspired by the reported success of the concept in San Francisco, and promotional advertisements were run in the fall of 1911, but the enterprise never began operations.\n\nThis was second San Francisco-based Telephone Herald company, following the earlier California Telephone Herald Company. It was incorporated in the state of California on October 29, 1912, with founding the directors of W. H. Dohrmann, J. F. Dohrmann, A. J. Beecher, F. W. Beecher, Thomas R. White, C. E. Youngblood, Rudolph Schlueten, Clarence Eppstein and E. L. Manner.\n\nDemonstrations were given at 687 Market Street in early January 1913, but no further progress appears to have been made. The corporation charter was forfeited November 30, 1913, for failure to pay the state license tax.\n\nOne of the first associate companies to be formed, this was also, due to fraud, one of the first to fail. It was chartered in California in May 1911, led by Peter Archbold Gordon Grimes, who turned out to be a con man. Grimes soon ran off with company funds, and was next seen impersonating an aviator in Hawaii. The corporation charter was forfeited on November 30, 1911 for failure to pay its state license tax.\n\nThis affiliate, capitalized with $500,000 of common stock, was chartered in the state of Washington in June, 1911. The officers were Sherwood Gillespy, president; B. J. Klarman, vice president; and N. R. Solner, secretary and treasurer. It was also announced that demonstrations were being conducted at the company headquarters at 339-340-341 Henry building. The company soon faced financial difficulties, and in October was forced into receivership due to a salary dispute. The company charter was cancelled sometime during the biennial reporting period of October 1, 1912 to September 30, 1914, for failure to pay the annual state license fee.\n\nThere were a few other early attempts to set up telephone-based news and entertainment systems in the United States, including the Tellevent, which conducted demonstrations and experimental work in Michigan from 1906-1908, and the Automatic Electric Company's Musolaphone, which operated a short-lived entertainment system in Chicago in 1913. However, these efforts were no more successful than the Telephone Herald companies.\n\nBoth the Hungarian Telefon Hírmondó and the Italian Araldo Telefonico survived long enough for their operations to be combined with radio broadcasting in the 1920s. The same did not occur in the United States, and the Telephone Herald companies were the last early effort to offer nationwide audio programming over telephone lines. Although the concept of home audio entertainment was attractive to potential U.S. subscribers, the lack of signal amplification and other technical limitations, such as the need to maintain a telephone line infrastructure, and having to listen over headphones, made the technology unprofitable.\n\nLess than a decade after the failure of the Telephone Herald companies, radio broadcasting was developed, which had the significant advantage that it could dispense with the need to use telephone lines. Moreover, radio programming could be provided free of subscription fees, because selling airtime to advertisers, the financing method most commonly adopted in the United States, provided sufficient revenue for ongoing operations.\n"}
{"id": "95673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95673", "title": "Voice acting", "text": "Voice acting\n\nVoice acting is the art of performing voice-overs or providing voices to represent a character or to provide information to an audience or user. Examples include animated, off-stage, off-screen or non-visible characters in various works, including feature films, dubbed foreign language films, animated short films, television programs, commercials, radio or audio dramas, comedy, video games, puppet shows, amusement rides, audiobooks and documentaries. Voice acting is also done for small handheld audio games.\n\nPerformers are called voice actors or actresses, voice artists or voice talent. Their roles may also involve singing, although a second voice actor is sometimes cast as the character's singing voice. Voice acting is recognised in Britain as a specialized dramatic profession, chiefly owing to the BBC's long tradition of radio drama.\n\nVoice artists are also used to record the individual sample fragments played back by a computer in an automated announcement.\n\nThe voices for animated characters are provided by voice actors. For live action productions, voice acting often involves reading the parts of computer programs, radio dispatchers, or other characters who never actually appear on screen. With a radio drama or Compact Disc drama, there is more freedom in voice acting, because there is no need to match a dub to the original actors, or to match an animated character.\n\nProducers and agencies are on the look out for many styles of voices such as booming voices, which maybe perfect for more dramatic productions or cute, young sounding voices that are perfect for trendier markets.\n\nSome just sound like regular, natural, everyday people and all of these voices have their place in the Voiceover world, provided they are used correctly and in the right context.\n\nIn the context of voice acting, narration is the use of spoken commentary to convey a story to an audience. A narrator is a personal character or a non-personal voice that the creator of the story develops to deliver information to the audience, particularly about the plot. The voice actor who plays the narrator is responsible for performing the scripted lines assigned to the narrator.\n\nIn traditional literary narratives (such as novels, short stories, and memoirs), narration is a required story element; in other types of (chiefly non-literary) narratives, such as plays, television shows, video games, and films, narration is merely optional.\n\nOne of the most common uses for voice acting is within commercial advertising. The voice actor is hired to voice a message associated with the advertisement. This has different subgenres; television, radio, cinema, and web-advertising. The subgenres are all different styles in their own right. For example, television commercials tend to be voiced with a narrow, flat inflection pattern (or prosody pattern), whereas radio (especially local radio) commercials tend to be voiced with a very wide inflection pattern in an almost over-the-top style. \n\nMarkerters and advertisers use voiceover all over their projects, from radio, to TV, to online and more! Total advertising spend in the UK is forecast to be £21.8 billion in 2017.\n\nVoiceover used in commercial adverts also is the only area of voice acting where de-breathing is used. De-breathing means artificially removing breaths from the recorded voice. This is done to stop the audience being distracted in any way from the commercial message that is being put across.\n\nDub localization is a type of voice-over. It is the practice of voice-over translation altering a foreign language film, art film or television series by voice actors.\n\nVoice-over translation is an audiovisual translation technique, in which, unlike in Dub localization, actor voices are recorded over the original audio track, which can be heard in the background. This method of translation is most often used in documentaries and news reports to translate words of foreign-language interviewees.\n\nAutomated dialogue replacement (ADR) is the process of re-recording dialogue by the original actor after the filming process to improve audio quality or reflect dialogue changes (also known as \"looping\" or a \"looping session\"). ADR is also used to change original lines recorded on set to clarify context, improve diction or timing, or to replace an accented vocal performance. In the UK, it is also called \"post-synchronization\" or \"post-sync\".\n\nVoice artists are also used to record the individual sample fragments played back by a computer in an automated announcement. At its simplest, each recording consists of a short phrase which is played back when necessary, e.g. the \"Mind the gap\" announcement introduced by London Underground in 1969. In a more complicated system, such as a speaking clock, the announcement is re-assembled from fragments such as \"minutes past\" \"eighteen\" and \"p.m.\" For example, the word \"twelve\" can be used for both \"Twelve O'Clock\" and \"Six Twelve.\"\n\nAutomated announcements can also include on-hold messages on phone systems and location-specific announcements in tourist attractions.\n\n occupations include performing roles in anime, audio dramas and video games, performing voice-overs for dubs of non-Japanese movies, and providing narration to documentaries and similar programs. Because the animation industry in Japan is so prolific, voice actors in Japan are able to have full-time careers as voice-over artists. Japanese voice actors are able to take greater charge of their careers than voice actors in other countries. Japan has approximately 130 voice acting schools and troupes of voice actors, who work for a specific broadcast company or talent agency. They often attract their own appreciators and fans, who watch shows specifically to hear their favorite actor or actress.\n\nMany Japanese voice actors frequently branch into music, often singing the opening or closing themes of shows in which their character stars, or become involved in non-animated side projects such as audio dramas (involving the same characters in new story lines) or image songs (songs sung in character that are not included in the anime but which further develop the character).\n\nFrom 1988 to 1994, the United Kingdom banned broadcasting of the voices of people linked to violence in Northern Ireland; television circumvented this using actors' voices synchronized to footage of prohibited people speaking.\n\nAlthough voice acting is criticized heavily in Brazil, most of the films in the theaters are dubbed in Portuguese, and most Brazilians prefer watching movies in their native language. Voice acting in Brazil has been highly acclaimed by other countries. Many voice actors are also dubbing directors, people that direct other voice actors, and translators. To become a voice actor in Brazil, you need to be a professional actor and attend dubbing courses. Celebrities in Brazil have done voice acting, although Brazilians generally do not like when celebrities who are not actors do voice acting.\n\nAs Colombian Spanish is considered one of the most clear forms of Spanish , a great deal of Spanish language voice acting is in Colombia using local voice talent. Colombia voice over services are one of the most popular followed by synchronization and subtitling, according to Alexander Torrenegra .\n\nAcross many of the main game-manufacturing countries, in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, and Japan, actors often lend their voices to characters in games and some have made a career of it. Their names have sometimes been linked to a particular character they have voiced. Among the many noted video-game voice actors are Maaya Sakamoto (the Japanese voice for the \"Final Fantasy XIII\" character Lightning), Tatsuhisa Suzuki (the voice of Noctis Lucis Caelum in \"Final Fantasy XV\"), Miyu Irino (the Japanese voice of Sora in the \" Kingdom Hearts \" series), Troy Baker (English Snow Villiers, Joel in \"The Last of Us\"), David Hayter (Solid Snake and Big Boss of the \"Metal Gear\" series), Steve Downes and Jen Taylor (Master Chief and Cortana from the \"Halo\" series), Nolan North (Nathan Drake from the \"Uncharted\" games and Desmond Miles from the \"Assassin's Creed\" game series), Charles Martinet (the voice of Mario, Luigi, Baby Mario, Baby Luigi, Wario, and Waluigi in Nintendo's \"Mario\" franchise), Liam O'Brien (the voice of Caius Ballad in \"Final Fantasy XIII-2\" and War in \"Darksiders\"), and Jonell Elliot (the voice of Lara Croft from 1999-2003). Other actors more linked with the film, radio or television industry have also voiced video game characters. These actors include Mark Hamill (The Joker, Wolverine and the Watcher from \"Darksiders\"), Michael Dorn (various characters from \"World of Warcraft\" and Gatatog Uvenk from \"Mass Effect 2\"), Claudia Black (Chloe Frazer from the second and third entries in the \"Uncharted\" series, Morrigan from Dragon Age), Camilla Luddington (the voice of Lara Croft in 2013), Kristen Bell (Lucy Stillman in the first three mainline entries in the \"Assassin's Creed\" franchise), DB Cooper (\"BioShock 2\", \"Grand Theft Auto\" series), and Ikue Ōtani (the voice of Pikachu).\n"}
{"id": "12278232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12278232", "title": "Voice casting", "text": "Voice casting\n\nVoice casting is a vital pre-production process for selecting the voice talent for radio and television commercials, documentary and corporate narrations, audiobooks and online tutorials. It involves a series of auditions in front of a producer/director.\n\nThere has been a shift to online voice over casting in recent years. With many professional voice talent utilizing home studios, clients are able to cut out traditional bricks and mortar agents. Websites devoted exclusively to pre-screened professional voice over talent are servicing international clients often faster and cheaper than the traditional casting process of voice talent physically being required to be in a studio.\n"}
{"id": "57746048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57746048", "title": "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory (disambiguation)", "text": "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory (disambiguation)\n\nWilly Wonka and the Chocolate Factory may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34137", "title": "XFL", "text": "XFL\n\nThe XFL was a professional American football league that played its only season in 2001. As originally conceived, the XFL was operated as a joint venture between the World Wrestling Federation (now known as WWE) and NBC. The XFL was conceived as an outdoor football league that would take place during the NFL off-season, and was promoted as having fewer rules and encouraging rougher play than other major leagues. The league had eight teams in two divisions, including major markets and those not directly served by the NFL, such as Birmingham, Las Vegas, Memphis, and Orlando. The XFL operated as a single entity (unlike most other professional sports leagues, which operate under the franchise model), with all teams centrally owned by the league.\n\nCo-owner NBC served as the main broadcaster of XFL games, along with UPN and TNN. The presentation of XFL games featured sports entertainment elements inspired by professional wrestling, including heat and kayfabe (although the games and their outcomes were legitimate), suggestively-dressed cheerleaders, and occasional usage of WWF personalities (such as Jesse Ventura, Jim Ross, and Jerry Lawler) as part of on-air commentary crews alongside sportscasters and veteran football players. The telecasts also featured extensive usage of aerial skycams and on-player microphones to provide additional perspectives of the games.\n\nThe first night of play brought higher television viewership than NBC had projected, but ratings quickly nosedived. The league garnered a negative reputation due to its connections to professional wrestling and the WWF, the overall quality of play, and a presentation that differed starkly from network football telecasts of the era (albeit with technical and on-air innovations that would later become commonplace). Lorne Michaels, executive producer of NBC's long-running \"Saturday Night Live\", was also critical of the XFL when a game going into double overtime caused the show to be delayed until after midnight on the east coast (prompting moves to speed up play, if not pre-empt the conclusion of a game entirely if it did not finish by a specific time, in order to minimize disruptions to \"SNL\").\n\nNBC and the WWF both lost $35 million on their $100 million investment in the league's inaugural season. Although committing to broadcast two seasons, NBC pulled out of its broadcast contract for the XFL after the inaugural season, citing the poor viewership. While WWF owner Vince McMahon initially stated that the XFL would continue without NBC, and proposed the addition of expansion teams, unfavorable demands of the league by UPN hastened the XFL's demise, and the league ceased operations entirely in May 2001 a month after the championship game. The Los Angeles Xtreme were the XFL's first and only champions. McMahon conceded that the league was a \"colossal failure\".\n\nMcMahon maintained control of the XFL brand after the league ceased operations, and on January 25, 2018, he announced the return of the XFL with a target relaunch date of 2020. The revival will be owned by McMahon's Alpha Entertainment, a company separate from WWE.\n\nCreated as a 50–50 joint venture between NBC and WWF-owned subsidiary WWE Properties International, Inc. under the company name \"XFL, LLC\", the XFL was created as a \"single-entity league;\" instead of the franchise model used by the NFL and other major leagues, or the hybrid model where investors in the league are given operations over teams (as used in Major League Soccer), the XFL uniformly owned and operated all of its teams as one corporation, with no individual owners. Vince McMahon's original plan was to purchase the Canadian Football League (after the CFL initially approached him about purchasing the Toronto Argonauts) and \"have it migrate south,\" while NBC, who had lost their long-held broadcast rights to the NFL's American Football Conference (AFC) to CBS in 1998, was moving ahead with Time Warner to create a football league of their own.\n\nThe concept of the league was first announced by league commissioner Tyler Schueck on February 3, 2000. The XFL was originally conceived to build on the success of the NFL and professional wrestling. It combined the scoring system of the NFL with the kayfabe and stunts of the WWF. As WWF was, at the time, in the midst of its Attitude Era, the XFL's presentation likewise would reflect that approach toward football, with its emphasis on sex and violence. It was hyped as \"real\" football without penalties for roughness and with fewer rules in general. The games would feature players and coaches with microphones and cameras in the huddle and in the locker rooms. Stadiums featured trash-talking public address announcers and scantily-clad cheerleaders who were encouraged to date the players. Instead of a pre-game coin toss, XFL officials put the ball on the ground and let a player from each team scramble for it to determine who received the kickoff option. The practice was dubbed \"The Human Coin Toss\" by commentators, and one player famously separated his shoulder on the first scramble, missing the rest of the season.\n\nThe XFL featured extensive television coverage, with three games televised each week on NBC, UPN, and TNN. To accommodate this, it placed four of its teams in the four largest U.S. media markets: New York City/North Jersey, Chicago, the San Francisco Bay Area, and Greater Los Angeles (this was during the NFL's 21-year absence from the Los Angeles metro area). The remaining four teams were placed in markets that had previously hosted teams in second-tier and/or rival major leagues: Birmingham, Memphis, Las Vegas, and Orlando. All of the XFL's markets except Las Vegas had hosted teams in the United States Football League in the 1980s; Las Vegas, along with Birmingham and Memphis, had hosted short-lived CFL teams in the 1990s.\n\nThe XFL chose unusual names for its teams, most of which either referenced images of uncontrolled insanity (Maniax, Rage, Xtreme, Demons) or criminal activity (Enforcers, Hitmen, Outlaws, and the Birmingham Blast). After outrage from Birmingham residents who noted that Birmingham had a history of notorious \"blasts\", including the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing in 1963 and Eric Rudolph's 1998 bombing of a local abortion clinic, the XFL changed the name of the Birmingham team to the more benign \"Birmingham Thunderbolts\" (later shortened to \"Bolts\").\n\nContrary to popular belief, the \"X\" in XFL did not stand for \"extreme\", as in \"eXtreme Football League\". When the league was first organized in 1999, it was originally supposed to stand for \"Xtreme Football League\"; however, there was already a league in formation at the same time with that name, and so promoters wanted to make sure that everyone knew that the \"X\" did not actually stand for anything (though McMahon would comment that \"if the NFL stood for the 'No Fun League', the XFL will stand for the 'extra fun league'\"). The other Xtreme Football League, which was also organized in 1999, merged with the Arena Football League's minor league AF2 before ever playing a single game.\n\nThe only main draft for the league took place over a three-day period from October 28, 2000 to October 30, 2000. A total of 475 players were selected initially, with 65 additional players then selected in a supplemental draft on December 29, 2000.\n\nEastern Division\n\nWestern Division\n\nThe XFL's opening game took place on February 3, 2001, one year after the league was announced, less than one week following the NFL's Super Bowl. The first game was between the New York/New Jersey Hitmen and the Las Vegas Outlaws at Sam Boyd Stadium in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nThe league's regular season structure was set up so that each team played teams in its own division twice in the season, home and away (the same as the National Football League) and played against teams in the other division once. The season ran ten weeks, with no bye weeks.\n\nThe league's western division was far more competitive than the east, with the four teams' records ranging from 7–3 (for eventual champion Los Angeles) to 4–6 (Las Vegas, who finished last after losing its last three games to end up one game out of a playoff spot). In the East, New York and Chicago both were hampered by slow starts and ineffective starters before making personnel changes that improved their play, while Orlando, under quarterback Jeff Brohm, who owned the league's highest QB rating at 99.9 during the 2001 XFL season, soared to first place, winning its first six games before Brohm suffered a career-ending injury and the team regressed (the team went 2–2 in his absence). Birmingham started the season 2–1 before a rash of injuries (and tougher competition, as its two wins were against New York and Chicago) led to the team losing the last seven games. Injuries were a major problem across the league: only three of the league's eight Opening Day starting quarterbacks —Los Angeles's Tommy Maddox, San Francisco's Mike Pawlawski and Memphis's Jim Druckenmiller—were still starters by the end of the season. Birmingham and Las Vegas were both on their third-string quarterbacks by the end of the ten-week season.\n\nThe top two teams in each division qualified for the playoffs. To avoid teams having to play each other three times in a season, the league set up the semifinal round of the playoffs so that the games would feature teams from opposite divisions: the east division champion (Orlando) hosted the west division runner-up (San Francisco), and likewise for the west champion and east runner-up (Los Angeles and Chicago, respectively). Los Angeles and San Francisco each won their playoff games to advance to the XFL championship.\n\nThe opening game ended with a 19–0 victory for the Outlaws, and was watched on NBC by an estimated 14 million viewers. During the telecast, NBC switched over to the game between the Orlando Rage and the Chicago Enforcers, which was a closer contest than the blowout taking place in Las Vegas. The opening night drew a 9.5 Nielsen rating.\n\nAlthough the opening-week games actually delivered ratings double those of what NBC had promised advertisers (and more viewers than the 2001 Pro Bowl), the audience declined sharply to a 4.6 in just one week, and eventually dropped to minuscule levels.\n\nA further problem was that the XFL itself was the brainchild of Vince McMahon, a man who was ridiculed by mainstream sports journalists due to the stigma attached to professional wrestling as being \"fake\"; many journalists even jokingly speculated whether any of the league's games were rigged, although nothing of this sort was ever seriously investigated.\n\nEven longtime NBC sportscaster Bob Costas joined in the mocking of the league. Dick Ebersol purposely allowed Costas and other NBC Sports veterans to opt out of the network's coverage of the league (hence with the exception of long-departed \"NFL on NBC\" analyst Mike Adamle, its coverage was helmed mostly by younger unknowns and professional wrestling figures), and Costas in particular did not like McMahon's approach to the sport. In an appearance on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" in February 2001, after the league's second week of play, Costas joked: \"It has to be at least a decade since I first mused out loud, 'Why doesn't somebody combine mediocre high school football with a tawdry strip club?' Finally, somebody takes my idea and runs with it.\" Costas interviewed McMahon for an episode of his HBO show \"On the Record\" as the league was in decline; McMahon's defiant attitude toward Costas was later cited as hastening the league's demise.\n\n\n\n\n The Citrus Bowl, which had a total capacity of 65,438 at the time, had its upper decks closed off for XFL games.\n\nDespite boasts of a \"rules-light\" game and universally negative reviews from the mainstream sports media early on, the XFL played a brand of 11-man outdoor football that was recognizable, aside from the opening game sprint to determine possession and some other changes, some modified during the season as it progressed. The league's coaches vetoed a proposal to eliminate ineligible receivers (allowing any player to receive a forward pass) midway through the season, on account that the change would be too radical.\n\nThe league deliberately avoided placing teams in stadiums with artificial turf, which at the time had a bad reputation both for being unsightly as well as being more hazardous to play on compared to natural turf. The league's requirement for grass fields automatically ruled out the use of domed stadiums since no such stadium capable of accommodating a grass football field existed in the U.S. in 2001 (the only retractable roof stadiums complete at the time were used exclusively for Major League Baseball; the first retractable roof stadium for NFL use was not completed until Reliant Stadium opened for the expansion Houston Texans in 2002). Furthermore, every XFL field was designed identically, with no individual team branding on the field. Each end zone and 50-yard line was decorated with the XFL logo, with the endzones also being painted black.\n\nMost of the league's stadiums were football-specific facilities, the only exception being San Francisco's Pacific Bell Park (home of the San Francisco Giants) which was built primarily for baseball, but (unlike many newer baseball-specific stadiums) can accommodate football. Two XFL stadiums (Giants Stadium and Soldier Field) were also then-current NFL stadiums, while two others (Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum and the Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium) had previously hosted NFL games; the NFL would return to the Coliseum when Rams returned to Los Angeles in 2016. The remaining fields were in regular use as college football venues at the time.\n\nThe home team in every stadium was required to occupy the sideline opposite the press box in order to be visible to the television cameras. Due to the odd field dimensions in San Francisco, teams playing there were permitted to occupy the same sideline (a similar arrangement existed in the NFL when the Green Bay Packers played at Milwaukee County Stadium).\n\nThe all-grass field stipulation caused the league to skip over several of the country's largest markets, including Houston and Philadelphia, since they lacked a large grass stadium in 2001. In the league's two northernmost markets, Chicago and New York/New Jersey (the latter of which played in Giants Stadium during a brief window in which the stadium's usual artificial turf had been replaced by natural grass), the combination of the all-grass requirement, midwinter playing season and the fact that the XFL followed shortly after the NFL had used both fields for a full season (in Giants Stadium's case, two full seasons, since the Giants and Jets shared the stadium; the Giants also hosted two playoff games following the 2000 season) caused significant damage to the playing fields; at Chicago's Soldier Field, the wear and tear on the field was such that by midseason, the midfield logo of the Enforcers' cross-league rivals the Chicago Bears was clearly visible amid a stretch of dirt and dead grass.\n\nWithin a year of the XFL's demise, \"next generation\" artificial surfaces (which much more closely mimicked grass in appearance, feel and player safety) would be introduced in professional football. Giants Stadium would have a next generation artificial surface installed in 2003; Soldier Field was renovated extensively in 2002 but retained its grass field.\n\nReplacing the coin toss at the beginning of each game was an event in which one player from each team fought to recover a football 20 yards away in order to determine possession. Both players lined up side-by-side on one of the 30-yard lines, with the ball being placed at the 50-yard line. At the whistle, the two players would run toward the ball and attempt to gain possession; whichever player gained possession first was allowed to choose possession (as if he had won a coin toss in other leagues). The XFL's first injury infamously resulted from the opening scramble; Orlando free safety Hassan Shamsid-Deen suffered a separated shoulder prior to the Rage's 33–29 season-opening win over the Chicago Enforcers at Florida Citrus Bowl Stadium on February 3. He ended up missing the remainder of the campaign.\n\nAfter touchdowns there were no extra point kicks, due to the XFL's perception that an extra-point kick was a \"guaranteed point.\" To earn a point after a touchdown, teams ran a single offensive down from the two-yard line (functionally identical to the NFL/NCAA/CFL two-point conversion, but for just a single point). By the playoffs, two-point and three-point conversions had been added to the rules. Teams could opt for the bonus points by playing the conversion farther back from the goal line. However, touchdowns were still worth 6 points.\n\nThis rule, as originally implemented, was similar to the WFL's \"Action Point\", and was identical to a 1968 \"Pressure Point\" experiment by the NFL and American Football League, used only in preseason interleague games that year.\n\nIn 2015, the NFL, CFL and other professional leagues would address the \"guaranteed point\" concerns by moving the extra point kick back to the 15-yard and 25-yard lines, respectively, thus making the length of the kick the same distance (taking into account the NFL's position of the goalposts on the end line, and the CFL's goalposts being positioned on the goal line).\n\nTies were resolved in similar fashion to the NCAA and in the CFL today, with at least one possession by each team, starting from the opponent's 20-yard line. There were differences: there were no first downs – teams had to score within four downs, and the team that had possession first in overtime could not attempt a field goal until fourth down. If that team managed to score a touchdown in fewer than four downs, the second team would only have that same number of downs to match or beat the result. If the score was still tied after one overtime period, the team that played second on offense in the first OT would start on offense in the second OT (similar to the rules of college football overtime). The process was repeated until a winner was determined – unlike the CFL and NFL, but like college football, games could not end in ties even in the regular season.\n\nThe XFL allowed full bump and run coverage early in the season. Defensive backs were allowed to hit wide receivers any time before the quarterback released the ball, as long as the hit came from the front or the side.\n\nFollowing the fourth week of the season, bump and run was restricted to the first five yards from the line of scrimmage (similar to NFL and CFL) in an effort to increase offensive production.\n\nUnlike the NFL, but like the World Football League and Arena Football League before it, the XFL allowed one offensive player to move toward the line of scrimmage once he was outside the tackles.\n\nThe XFL imposed a number of restrictions on punting that are not present in most other leagues' rules, the net effect of which made punts in the XFL operate under rules more akin to kickoffs. The purpose of these provisions was to keep play going after the ball was punted, encouraging the kicking team to make the ball playable and the receiving team to run it back. To this effect:\n\n\nFor the initial weeks of the season, the XFL forbade all players on the kicking team from going downfield before a kick was made from scrimmage on that down, similarly to a rule the NFL considered in 1974. For the rest of the season the XFL modified it to allow one player closest to each sideline downfield ahead of the kick, the same modification the NFL adopted to their change just before their 1974 exhibition games started.\n\nAllowing the kicking team to recover a punt did encourage noticeably more quick kicks over the course of the XFL's lone season than was typically seen in the NFL over the preceding decades.\n\nThe XFL used a 35-second play clock, five seconds shorter than the contemporary NFL play clock of 40 seconds (but still longer than the CFL's 20 seconds), in an effort to speed up the game.\n\nThe XFL limited each team to an unusually low 38 players, as opposed to 53 on NFL teams and 80 or more on unlimited college rosters. This was similar to the CFL, which had a comparable 40-man roster limit in 2001. This resulted, most commonly, in each team only carrying two quarterbacks and one kicker who doubled as the punter.\n\nThe XFL paid standardized player salaries. Quarterbacks earned US$5,000 per week, kickers earned $3,500, and all other uniformed players earned $4,500 per week, though a few players got around these restrictions (Los Angeles Xtreme players Noel Prefontaine, the league's lone punting specialist, and Matt Malloy, a wide receiver) by having themselves listed as backup quarterbacks. Players on a winning team received a bonus of $2,500 for the week, $7,500 for winning a playoff game. The team that won the championship game split $1,000,000 (roughly $25,000 per player). Players did not receive any fringe benefits, and had to pay for their own health insurance.\n\nThe XFL allowed its players to wear a nickname on the back of their jersey, as opposed to the legal last name most professional sports leagues have required since the 1960s. Players could change the nickname any time they wanted, and a few players chose to change the nicknames on a weekly basis depending on their opponent. (Two teams, Orlando and Birmingham, imposed policies that forbade players from using nicknames.) The league's intent to use backfield camera angles gave these nicknames even greater exposure.\n\nRod Smart, a running back who played in the first XFL nationally televised game, was the first player to gain notice from his nickname, \"He Hate Me.\"\n\nAlthough the XFL was not the first football league to feature the \"sky cam\", which enables TV viewers to see behind the offensive unit, it helped to popularize its unique capabilities. For the first several weeks, the league used the sky cam and on-field cameramen (nicknamed the \"Bubba Cam\" after WWE's cameraman, Bubba, who ironically refused to cover the XFL) extensively, giving the television broadcasts a perspective similar to video games such as the \"Madden\" series.\n\nAfter the XFL's failure, the sky cam was adopted by the NFL's broadcasters; the device has subsequently come into use on all major networks. NBC in particular switched back to the XFL camera angles in 2017, when traditional cameras were too far away to cut through thick fog and smoke on some of the \"Sunday Night Football\" games that year; response was so positive that the network opted to use two of its \"Thursday Night Football\" games to experiment with intentionally broadcasting most of the game through that angle.\n\nAt the beginning of the season, NBC showed a feature game at 8 p.m. Eastern Time on Saturday nights, also taping a second game. The second game, in some weeks, would air in the visiting team's home market and be put on the air nationally if the feature game was a blowout (as was the case in week one) or encountered technical difficulties (as was the case in week two). Two games were shown each Sunday: one at 4 p.m. Eastern on TNN and another at 7 p.m. Eastern on UPN. The XFL also had a fairly extensive local radio presence, often using nationally recognized disc jockeys. The morning radio duo of Rick and Bubba, for instance, was the radio broadcast team for the Birmingham Thunderbolts. Super Dave Osborne was a sideline reporter for Los Angeles Xtreme broadcasts on KLSX; WMVP carried Chicago Enforcers games.\n\nUnusually for a professional league, the XFL did not feature a studio wraparound. The network offered \"XFL Gameday\", a pregame show featuring radio shock jocks Opie and Anthony for the first four weeks of the season, but the show was not carried nationwide and most affiliates joined in just before the game. Halftime consisted mostly of live look-ins into the player locker rooms, as coaches discussed their strategy and halftime adjustments with their players, as well as cheerleader performances. The XFL also, at McMahon's request, followed a somewhat different format than traditional professional football telecasts: the announcers more closely followed the model of professional wrestling where the color commentator had a villain-like role, while the sideline reporters (who were predominantly male, a rare example of the XFL being more \"conservative\" than the NFL at the time, which was incorporating attractive female sideline reporters) were former players and experienced sportscasters who were relied upon for more expert analysis than usual.\n\nIn the third week of the season, the games were sped up through changes in the playing rules, and broadcasts were subjected to increased time constraints. The reason was the reaction of Lorne Michaels, creator and executive producer of \"Saturday Night Live\", to the length of the Los Angeles Xtreme versus Chicago Enforcers game that went into double overtime. The double overtime periods combined with a power outage earlier in the game due to someone not fueling a generator before the game delayed the contest, causing the start of \"Saturday Night Live\" to be pushed back from 11:30 p.m. Eastern Time to 12:15 a.m. Sunday morning. This angered Michaels, who expected high ratings with Jennifer Lopez as the show's host. For the rest of the season, the XFL cut off coverage at 11:00 Eastern Time, regardless of whether or not the game was over. NBC Sports has retained this policy for other sports it runs in Saturday night time slots since the XFL's closure; in 2018, a National Hockey League telecast was cut off under similar circumstances.\n\nIn the face of declining ratings, NBC and the XFL aggressively promoted that the week 6 game between the Orlando Rage and Las Vegas Outlaws would feature a behind-the-scenes visit into the locker room of the Rage's cheerleaders at halftime. The heavily promoted event was, in fact, a publicity stunt: instead of showing an entry into the room, viewers instead saw a sketch in which the cameraman knocked himself unconscious by running into the locker room door, followed by a dream sequence with little implied nudity, various fetish-related scenes, and a surprise cameo from Rodney Dangerfield. The \"New York Daily News\" reported that the scene would likely be the \"[last] salacious WWF-style stunt for the rest of the season\", citing internal sources indicating that NBC wished to pivot the telecasts back towards a football-oriented product, including hiring NFL alumni as analysts, and reinstating Vasgersian as the lead commentator.\n\n\nIt was believed that the willingness of Las Vegas bookmakers to take bets on XFL games established their legitimacy, dispelling concerns that the league was using predetermined storylines as in professional wrestling. However, the league was panned by critics as boring football with a tawdry broadcast style, although the broadcasts on TNN and to a lesser extent UPN and the Matt Vasgersian–helmed NBC coverage were considered comparatively professional.\n\nThe WWF and NBC each lost a reported $35 million, only recuperating 30% of their combined initial $100 million investment. On April 21, 2001, the season concluded as the Los Angeles Xtreme defeated the San Francisco Demons 38–6 in the XFL Championship Game (which was originally given the moniker \"The Big Game at the End of the Season\", but was later dubbed the Million Dollar Game, after the amount of money awarded to the winning team).\n\nThough paid attendance at games remained respectable, if unimpressive (overall attendance was only 10% below what the league's goal had been at the start of the season), the XFL ceased operations after just one season due to low TV ratings. Facing stiff competition from the NCAA Basketball Tournament, the NBC telecast of the Chicago/NY-NJ game on March 31 received a 1.5 rating, at that time the lowest ever for any major network primetime weekend first-run sports television broadcast in the United States.\n\nDespite initially agreeing to broadcast XFL games for two years and owning half of the league, NBC announced it would not broadcast a second XFL season; the network no longer had a full season of Saturday nights to offer the league because it had acquired the rights to the 2002 Winter Olympics, even if the XFL had been more successful or profitable. WWF Chairman Vince McMahon initially announced that the XFL would continue, as it still had UPN and TNN as broadcast outlets. In fact, expansion teams were being explored for cities such as Washington, D.C. and Detroit. However, in order to continue broadcasting XFL games, UPN demanded that \"WWF SmackDown!\" broadcasts be cut from two hours to one and a half hours. McMahon found these terms unacceptable and he announced the XFL's closure on May 10, 2001. McMahon's chief adviser, a perplexed Nathan Livian, was quoted as saying \"the situation is, indeed, very bad\".\n\nOne reason for the failure of the league to catch on, despite its financial solvency and massive visibility, was the lack of respect for the league in the sports media. XFL games were rarely treated as sports contests, but rather more like WWF-like sensationalized events. With few NFL-quality players, save Tommy Maddox, the league's MVP, and with little thoughtful analysis or even consideration by sports columnists, the XFL never gained the necessary recognition to be regarded as a viable league. The fact that the league was co-owned by NBC made ESPN (which was part of the same corporation as ABC) and Fox Sports Net (owned by Fox TV) disinclined to report on the XFL, though Time Warner properties such as \"Sports Illustrated\", as well as the Associated Press, devoted coverage to the league (\"Sports Illustrated\" even featured the XFL on the cover of its February 12, 2001, edition, albeit with the description of it being \"sleazy gimmicks and low-rent football\"). Many local TV newscasts and newspapers (even in XFL cities) did not report league scores or show highlights. This led to many football fans treating the XFL as a joke, rather than competition to the NFL. Other problems included the scantily-clad cheerleaders, trash-talking announcers, and the lack of penalties for roughness.\n\nThe XFL ranked No. 3 on \"TV Guide\"s list of the TV Guide's worst TV shows of all time in July 2002, as well as No. 2 on ESPN's list of biggest flops in sports, behind Ryan Leaf. In 2010, TV Guide Network also listed the show at No. 21 on their list of \"25 Biggest TV Blunders\".\n\nMany stories recapping the history of the XFL show photos of the crash of its promotional blimp in Oakland, California, portraying it retrospectively as an ill-omen for the league. The incident occurred a month before the opening game on Tuesday, January 9, 2001. The blimp was in Oakland as the league had flown it over the between the Oakland Raiders and Miami Dolphins and intended to do the same with the following week's AFC Championship, also in Oakland. The pilots lost control of the airship and were forced to evacuate. The ground crew were unable to secure the vehicle and the \"unattended blimp then floated five miles north over the Oakland Estuary, at one point reaching 1,600 feet, until its gondola caught on a sailboat mast in the Central Basin marina. It draped over the roof of the Oyster Reef restaurant—next to where the boat was moored—and a nearby power line.\" While the pilot was hospitalized, no other major injuries were reported. The blimp needed $2.5 million in repairs, the sailboat and restaurant had only minor damages.\n\nBefore the season started, a fictional XFL game appeared in the 2000 film \"The 6th Day\", set in 2015.\n\nNBC continued airing professional league football beyond the demise of the XFL, starting with the Arena Football League television coverage from 2003 to 2006. In 2006, NBC returned to coverage of NFL games with \"NBC Sunday Night Football\", eventually adding \"Thursday Night Football\" to its coverage in 2016. McMahon and Ebersol later took credit for the more intimate approach to televising football, with innovations such as the Skycam, miked-up players, and sideline interviews that were later used in NFL broadcasts.\n\nXFL team names and logos sometimes appear in movies and television where professional football needs to be dramatized, as licensing for NFL logos may be cost prohibitive (such as in the Arnold Schwarzenegger starring sci-fi film \"The 6th Day\").\n\nThe United Football League later placed all four of its inaugural franchises in former XFL markets and stadiums. However, the UFL drew far fewer fans than the XFL average: for example, the XFL's San Francisco Demons drew an average of 35,000 fans, while the UFL's California Redwoods drew an average of 6,000, despite both playing in the same ballpark. Three of the four charter teams, including the Redwoods, moved to other markets by the time of the UFL's third season.\n\nESPN produced a documentary surrounding the league, \"This Was the XFL\", as part of its anthology series \"30 for 30\". The film discusses the longtime friendship between McMahon and Ebersol, as seen through the eyes of Dick's son, Charlie Ebersol, who directs the film. McMahon, Dick Ebersol, Dick Schanzer, Rusty Tillman, Al Luginbill, Rod Smart, Tommy Maddox, Paris Lenon, league President Basil DeVito, costume designer Jay Howarth, Jesse Ventura, Matt Vasgersian, Jonathan Coachman, Bob Costas and Jerry Jones all provided interviews for the film. It debuted at Doc NYC November 11, 2016, and premiered on ESPN on February 2, 2017.\n\nNotable players included league MVP and Los Angeles quarterback Tommy Maddox, who signed with the NFL's Pittsburgh Steelers after the XFL folded (Maddox later became the starting quarterback for the Steelers in 2002 and led them to that year's playoffs, as well as continuing to start for them into 2004). Los Angeles used the first pick in the XFL draft to select a former NFL quarterback, Scott Milanovich. Milanovich lost the starting quarterback job to Maddox, who was placed on the Xtreme as one of a handful of players put on each team due to geographic distance between the player's college and the team's hometown. Another of the better-known players was Las Vegas running back Rod Smart, who first gained popularity because the name on the back of his jersey read \"He Hate Me.\" Smart, who was only picked 357th in the draft, later went on to play for the Philadelphia Eagles, Carolina Panthers, Oakland Raiders and the Edmonton Eskimos of the CFL. His Panther teammate Jake Delhomme named his newborn horse \"She Hate Me\" as a reference to him. Smart played in Super Bowl XXXVIII becoming one of seven XFL players to play in a Super Bowl. Receiver Yo Murphy also achieved this as a member of the St. Louis Rams in Super Bowl XXXVI along with winning the 95th Grey Cup with the Saskatchewan Roughriders in 2007. Tommy Maddox played for a Super Bowl team (with the Pittsburgh Steelers) in Super Bowl XL in Detroit, (although Maddox, by then a third-string quarterback, did not play in the game, which turned out to be his last appearance in uniform before retiring). Lastly, Las Vegas Outlaws DB Kelly Herndon played in Super Bowl XL with the Seattle Seahawks in 2005, where he is remembered for intercepting a pass and returning it a then-record 76 yards. Although he did not play for an NFL team after the XFL's lone season, former Las Vegas Outlaw offensive guard Isaac Davis also had a notable NFL career, playing in 58 games over a six-year career. Davis started for the San Diego Chargers in Super Bowl XXIX. John Avery went on to play for both the Edmonton Eskimos and the Toronto Argonauts where he was an All Star selection in 2002 and won a Grey Cup in 2004.\n\nThe last active player to have played in the XFL is Canadian placekicker Paul McCallum, who retired as a member of the BC Lions prior to the start of the 2016 CFL season, but returned to the team as their place kicker during the final regular season game of the 2016 season.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nXFL games are now part of the WWE Video Library.\n\nIn September 2012, WWE attempted to file a new XFL trademark for use in wrestling and football which was previously filed in 2009 under XFL LLC. The application is still pending since WWE has not put together a \"Statement of Use\" for the trademark. WWE could consider abandoning the old application and filing the new one under WWE Inc. In July 2015, the XFL's first trademark extension was granted.\n\nOn December 15, 2017, it was reported that McMahon was seriously considering a revival of the XFL. WWE didn't confirm or deny the rumors, but released a statement that McMahon is launching a new company known as Alpha Entertainment, that is looking to expand into sports and entertainment properties \"including professional football\", and that WWE itself wasn't returning to professional football.\n\nNoted wrestling journalist Dave Meltzer speculated that McMahon was starting a shell corporation with his own money to protect WWE shareholders on a potential XFL revival. A revival of the XFL would air either on traditional TV or the WWE Network, and would be toned down compared to its original incarnation due to CTE concerns in football that surfaced in the early 2010s. On December 22, 2017, McMahon sold $100 million worth of WWE shares, which required notification to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission; the SEC reported that it was done so that McMahon could fund Alpha Entertainment. WWE shares did in fact decline slightly due to the report, with Citigroup downgrading WWE shares from \"buy\" to \"neutral\".\n\nOn January 25, 2018, Alpha Entertainment announced an XFL revival planned for 2020.\n\n\n"}
