{"id": "1265342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1265342", "title": "Academic dishonesty", "text": "Academic dishonesty\n\nAcademic dishonesty, academic misconduct, academic fraud and academic integrity are related concepts that refer to various actions on the part of students that go against the expected norms of a school, university or other learning institution. Definitions of academic misconduct are usually outlined in institutional policies.\n\nExamples of academic dishonest include:\n\n\nAcademic dishonesty has been documented in every type of educational setting from elementary school to graduate school. Throughout history this type of dishonesty has been met with varying degrees of approbation.\n\nIn antiquity, the notion of intellectual property was thought of differently than it is today. Ideas were the common property of the literate elite. Books were published by hand-copying them. Scholars shared digests or commentaries on other works, which could contain as much or as little original material as the author desired. There was no standard system of citation at this time. Scholars were an elite and small group who knew and generally trusted each other. This system continued through the European Middle Ages. Education was in Latin and occasionally Greek. Some scholars were monks, who used much of their time copying manuscripts. Other scholars were in urban universities connected to the Catholic Church. \n\nAcademic dishonesty dates back to the first tests. Scholars note that cheating was prevalent on the Chinese civil service exams thousands of years ago, even when cheating carried the penalty of death for both examinee and examiner. Bribery of examiners was also common, as represented in works such as the Ming-dynasty story collection \"The Book of Swindles\" and Qing-dynasty novel \"Rulin waishi\" [The Unofficial History of the Scholars].\n\nStandards for citation and referencing began at the end of the 19th century with the emergence of guidance provided by scholarly societies that developed discipline-specific expectations for referencing such as the MLA and the APA. About the same time, scholars began researching issues related to cheating, with some early research dating back to the late 19th century and early 20th centuries, when cheating was identified as a widespread problem at college campuses in the United States.\n\nIt has been estimated that as many as two-thirds of students cheated at some point of their college careers at the turn of the 20th century. Fraternities often operated so-called essay banks, where term papers were kept on file and could be resubmitted over and over again by different students, often with the only change being the name on the paper.\n\nThe issue of academic dishonesty became more prominent in the latter half of the twentieth century, as universities shifted towards more democratic approaches to admission.\n\nAcademic dishonesty does not have a universal definition. Educational institutions in different regions understand and act on academic dishonestly in different ways. Below are some examples of specific contexts.\n\nIn the United States, one study has shown that 20% of students started cheating in the first grade. Similarly, other studies reveal that currently in the U.S., 56% of middle school students and 70% of high school students have cheated. A large-scale study in Germany found that 75% of the university students admitted that they conducted at least one of seven types of academic misconduct (such as plagiarism or falsifying data) within the previous six months.\n\nStudents are not the only ones to cheat in an academic setting. A study among North Carolina school teachers found that some 35% of respondents said they had witnessed their colleagues cheating in one form or another. The rise of high-stakes testing and the consequences of the results on the teacher is cited as a reason why a teacher might want to inflate the results of their students.\n\nThe first scholarly studies in the 1960s of academic dishonesty in higher education found that nationally in the U.S., somewhere between 50–70% of college students had cheated at least once. While nationally, these rates of cheating in the U.S. remain stable today, there are large disparities between different schools, depending on the size, selectivity, and anti-cheating policies of the school. Generally, the smaller and more selective the college, the less cheating occurs there. For instance, the number of students who have engaged in academic dishonesty at small elite liberal arts colleges can be as low as 15–20%, while cheating at large public universities can be as high as 75%. Moreover, researchers have found that students who attend a school with an honor code are less likely to cheat than students at schools with other ways of enforcing academic integrity. As for graduate education, a recent study found that 56% of MBA students admitted cheating, along with 54% of graduate students in engineering, 48% in education, and 45% in law.\n\nCheating in high schools is growing in the United States at an exponential rate. There is also a great difference in students' perceptions and the reality of their own ethical behavior. In a 2008 survey of 30,000 students in high school carried out by the Josephson Institute for Youth Ethics, 62 percent of students polled said they \"copied another's homework two or more times in the past year.\" Yet, on the same survey, 92 percent said they were \"satisfied with their personal ethics and character.\" Hence, there is generally a discrepancy between actual behavior and self-image of high school students' character.\n\nAs more students take courses and assessments online, there is a persistent perception that it is easier to cheat in an online class than a face-to-face course. Moreover, there are online services that offer to prepare any kind of homework of high school and college level and take online tests for students. While administrators are often aware of such websites, they have been unsuccessful in curbing cheating in homework and non-proctored online tests, resorting to a recommendation by the Ohio Mathematics Association to derive at least 80% of the grade of online classes from proctored tests. In addition, colleges and universities are increasingly turning to online proctoring services to oversee tens of thousands of exams per year.\n\nWhile research on academic dishonesty in other countries is less extensive, anecdotal evidence suggests cheating could be even more common in countries like Japan and Philippines.\n\nA typology of academic misconduct has been devised by Perry (2010). Perry's typology presents a two dimensional model of academic misconduct with one dimension measuring the degree to which rules are understood and the other dimension measuring how closely these rules are followed. According to the typology only those students who understand the rules but fail to adhere to the rules are classified as 'cheats'.\n\nIn Australia, academic dishonesty is addressed by the Tertiary Education Quality Standards Agency, which is a government agency.\n\nIn the UK, the Quality Assurance Agency is responsible for quality assurance in higher education. It has produced several policy and guidance documents for policy makers, educators and the general public.\n\nIn Canada, academic misconduct is handled by individual post-secondary institutions, though research into the topic has lagged behind that of other countries. Research has shown that the incidence of academic dishonesty in Canada is similar to that of the United States.\n\nBribery is an act of giving money or gift giving that alters the behavior of the recipient. Bribery constitutes a crime and is defined by \"Black's Law Dictionary\" as the offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting of any item of value to influence the actions of an official or other person in charge of a public or legal duty.\n\nThe bribe is the gift bestowed to influence the recipient's conduct. It may be any money, good, right in action, property, preferment, privilege, emolument, object of value, advantage, or merely a promise or undertaking to induce or influence the action, vote, or influence of a person in an official or public capacity.\n\nCheating can take the form of crib notes, looking over someone's shoulder during an exam, or any forbidden sharing of information between students regarding an exam or exercise. Many elaborate methods of cheating have been developed over the years. For instance, students have been documented hiding notes in the bathroom toilet tank, in the brims of their baseball caps, up their sleeves, along their thighs or in their cleavage. Also, the storing of information in graphing calculators, pagers, cell phones, and other electronic devices has cropped up since the information revolution began. While students have long surreptitiously scanned the tests of those seated near them, some students actively try to aid those who are trying to cheat. Methods of secretly signalling the right answer to friends are quite varied, ranging from coded sneezes or pencil tapping to high-pitched noises beyond the hearing range of most teachers. Some students have been known to use more elaborate means, such as using a system of repetitive body signals like hand movements or foot jerking to distribute answers (i.e. where a tap of the foot could correspond to answer \"A\", two taps for answer \"B\", and so on).\n\nCheating differs from most other forms of academic dishonesty, in that people can engage in it without benefiting themselves academically at all. For example, a student who illicitly telegraphed answers to a friend during a test would be cheating, even though the student's own work is in no way affected. Another example of academic dishonesty is a dialogue between students in the same class but in two different time periods, both of which a test is scheduled for that day. If the student in the earlier time period informs the other student in the later period about the test; that is considered academic dishonesty, even though the first student has not benefited himself.\n\nOne other method is taking advantage of time zones, particularly in exams administered worldwide. Those who take the exam first (likely in Oceania) can then post answers for those about to take the exam (in a time zone behind like Europe).\n\nDeception is providing false information to a teacher/instructor concerning a formal academic exercise. Examples of this include taking more time on a take-home test than is allowed, giving a dishonest excuse when asking for a deadline extension, or falsely claiming to have submitted work. This type of academic misconduct is often considered softer than the more obvious forms of cheating, and otherwise-honest students sometimes engage in this type of dishonesty without considering themselves cheaters. It is also sometimes done by students who have failed to complete an assignment, to avoid responsibility for doing so.\n\nFabrication is the falsification of data, information, or citations in any formal academic exercise. This includes making up citations to back up arguments or inventing quotations. Fabrication predominates in the natural sciences, where students sometimes falsify data to make experiments \"work\". It includes data falsification, in which false claims are made about research performed, including selective submitting of results to exclude inconvenient data to generating bogus data.\n\nBibliographical references are often fabricated, especially when a certain minimum number of references is required or considered sufficient for the particular kind of paper. This type of fabrication can range from referring to works whose titles look relevant but which the student did not read, to making up bogus titles and authors.\n\nThere is also the practice of \"dry-labbing\"—which can occur in chemistry or other lab courses, in which the teacher clearly expects the experiment to yield certain results (which confirm established laws), so the student starts from the results and works backward, calculating what the experimental data should be, often adding variation to the data. In some cases, the lab report is written before the experiment is conducted—in some cases, the experiment is never carried out. In either case, the results are what the instructor expects.\n\nImpersonation is a form of cheating whereby a different person than the student assigned an assignment or exam completes it. Different from regular cheating, the academic work is totally 'outsourced' to another person or organization, usually for pay.\n\nPlagiarism, as defined in the 1995 \"Random House Compact Unabridged Dictionary\", is the \"use or close imitation of the language and thoughts of another author and the representation of them as one's own original work\". In academia, this can range from borrowing without attribution a particularly apt phrase, to paraphrasing someone else's original idea without citation, to wholesale contract cheating.\n\nThe modern concept of plagiarism as immoral and originality as an ideal emerged in Europe only in the 18th century, while in the previous centuries authors and artists were encouraged to \"copy the masters as closely as possible\" and avoid \"unnecessary invention\". The 18th century new morals have been institutionalized and enforced prominently in the sectors of academia (including academic science, education, engineering etc.) and journalism, where plagiarism is now considered academic dishonesty and a breach of journalistic ethics, subject to sanctions like expulsion and other severe career damages. Not so in the arts, which have resisted in their long-established tradition of copying as a fundamental practice of the creative process, with plagiarism being still hugely tolerated by 21st-century artists. Lawmaking is a professional field which is not structured around the concept of originality and for which plagiarism is less relevant.\n\nPlagiarism is not a crime but is disapproved more on the grounds of moral offence. It may be a case for civil law if it is so substantial to constitute copyright infringement.\n\nSince 2000, discussions on the subjects of student plagiarism have increased with a major strand of this discussion centring on the issue of how best students can be helped to understand and avoid plagiarism. Given the serious consequences that plagiarism has for students there has been a call for a greater emphasis on learning in order to help students avoid committing plagiarism.\n\nProfessorial misconduct includes improper grading of students' papers and oral exams, grade fraud, deliberate negligence towards cheating or assistance in cheating. This can be done for reasons of personal bias towards students (favoritism) or a particular viewpoint (intellectual dishonesty), for a bribe, or to improve the teacher's own perceived performance by increasing the passing rate. It is still occasionally done for matters of ego or to procure sexual favors (sexual harassment).\n\nSabotage is when a student or professor prevents others from completing their work. This includes cutting pages out of library books, deleting data off of classmate's computer or otherwise willfully disrupting the experiments of others. Sabotage is usually only found in highly competitive, cutthroat environments, such as at extremely elite schools where class rankings are highly prized.\nPoor behavior and the low level disruption of other students' learning, however, is extremely common in all educational settings.\nSome medical-school librarians have noted that important articles—required reading for key courses—are frequently missing from bound journals—sliced out with razor blades, scalpels, or other sharp blades. Other journals will be marked up in crayon. \n\nThere are a variety of causes of academic misconduct. Researchers have studied the correlation of cheating to personal characteristics, demographics, contextual factors, methods of deterring misconduct, even stages of moral development.\n\nSome scholars contend that there are students who have a pathological urge to cheat. The writer Thomas Mallon noted that many scholars had found plagiarism in literature (Samuel Taylor Coleridge and Charles Reade being two notable examples) to often be perpetrated in a way similar to kleptomania (a psychological disease associated with uncontrollable stealing, even when it is against the interests of the thief). On the other hand, Mallon concludes it is probable that most \"cheaters\" make a rational choice to commit academic misconduct. A common reason for unethical behavior is the desire to \"gain a competitive advantage in the race for position or power\".\n\nRichard Fass puts forward the possibility that business scandals in the real world make students believe dishonesty is an acceptable method for achieving success in contemporary society. Academic dishonesty, in this case, would be practice for the real world. For some students, there would be a dichotomy between success and honesty, and their decision is that: \"It is not that we love honesty less, but that we love success more.\" Conversely, other scholars consider that with the recent rise in corporate ethics related dismissals in the business world, this approach to cheating may be losing its appeal, if it ever really had any. However, it has been shown that the expected benefits of cheating as well as student's morality plays an important role for the engagement in dishonest behavior.\n\nRecent studies have indicated that there is no clear link between academic dishonesty and academic success. One study showed that students given an unexpected opportunity to cheat did not improve their grades significantly from the control group. Another study showed that students who were allowed to bring cheat sheets to a test did not improve their grades. While this may conflict with the common perception of cheating (one survey found only 13% of males and 46% of females think that cheating does not help grades,) it is often apparent to professors and members of academic conduct committees when a paper has been plagiarized by its inferior quality. \n\nIn the USA, William Bowers reported that, on average, one third of grade A students cheated in 1964. And asserts that academic dishonesty acts as a shortcut, so even grade A students might be tempted to cheat. He contends that even if a plagiarized paper receives a relatively low grade, that grade is actually high, given how much time and effort went into the paper. In the study mentioned above (in which students were allowed to bring crib sheets to a test but did not improve their scores), the researcher concluded that the students used the crib notes as alternatives to studying, rather than as complements to studying, and thus spent less time preparing for the exam.\n\nThe federal government of the United States has mandated high-stakes testing as part of the No Child Left Behind Act, signed into law in 2002. Schools and teachers are held accountable for the results. According to Steven Levitt and Stephen Dubner, co-authors of \"Freakonomics\", teachers are known to \"teach to the test\": while not teaching the actual answers, they teach the questions and similar ones, and they neglect any topic that will not be tested on. Levitt also states that teachers may inflate the results of tests given in their classroom. Teachers and librarians can have a significant proactive impact on doing honest work.\n\nResearch has identified a number of demographic characteristics that appear to be important influences on cheating, including age, gender and grade point average. Older students, females, and students with higher academic achievement are less likely to cheat, whereas students involved with many extra-curricular activities are more likely to do so. Students involved in extra-curricular activities may be less committed to their studies, or may have more demands on their time, which interfere with their studies, creating a greater incentive to cheat. It has been found that younger students are somewhat more likely to cheat: one study finding the highest incidence of cheating occurs during sophomore year at college. Although cheating might be expected to decline with greater moral development, one experiment found that there was no relationship between how a student performed on a morality test and his likelihood of cheating (that is, students at a pre-conventional stage of morality are as likely to cheat as those at a post-conventional stage). Higher academic procrastination was also found to increase the frequency of seven different forms of academic misconduct (using fraudulent excuses, plagiarism, copying from someone else in exams, using forbidden means in exams, carrying forbidden means into exams, copying parts of homework from others, and fabrication or falsification of data) as well as the variety of academic misconduct. This German panel study among thousands of university students argues that academic misconduct might be a coping-strategy to overcome the negative consequences of academic procrastination such as lower performance.\n\nRace, nationality, and class all show little correlation with academic misconduct. There is also no correlation between how religious someone is and the likelihood that that person will cheat. A comparison between students of different religions yielded similar results, although the study did show that Jews tend to cheat less than members of other religions. One of the strongest demographic correlations with academic misconduct in the United States is with language. Students who speak English as a second language have been shown to commit academic dishonesty more and are more likely to be caught than native speakers, since they will often not want to rewrite sources in their own words, fearing that the meaning of the sentence will be lost through poor paraphrasing skills. In the University of California system, international students make up 10% of the student body but comprise 47% of academic dishonesty cases. In British universities, students from outside of the European Union make up 12% of the student body but comprise 35% of academic dishonesty cases.\n\nAcademic misconduct is more easily traced to the academic and social environment of students than to their background. These contextual factors can be as broad as the social milieu at school to as narrow as what instructions a teacher gives before an exam.\n\nContextual factors that individual teachers can affect often make the least difference on cheating behavior. A study found that increasing the distance between students taking an exam has little effect on academic misconduct, and that threatening students before an exam with expulsion if they cheat actually promotes cheating behavior. Indeed, increased exam proctoring and other methods of detecting cheating in the classroom are largely ineffective. According to one survey of American college students, while 50% had cheated at least once in the previous six months, and 7% had cheated more than five times in that period, only 2.5% of the cheaters had been caught. As teachers invent more elaborate methods of deterring cheating, students invent even more elaborate methods of cheating (sometimes even treating it as a game), leading to what some teachers call a costly and unwinnable arms race. Increased punishment for academic misconduct also has little correlation with cheating behavior. It has been found that students with markedly different perceptions of what the severity of the punishment for cheating were all equally likely to cheat, probably indicating that they thought that increased penalties were immaterial since their cheating would never be discovered. However, if a professor makes clear that he disapproves of cheating, either in the syllabus, in the first class, or at the beginning of a test, academic dishonesty can drop by 12%. Some professors may have little incentive to reduce cheating in their classes below a point that would otherwise be obvious to outside observers, as they are rated by how many research papers they publish and research grants they win for the college, and not by how well they teach.\n\nTeachers can, however, accidentally promote cheating behavior. A study found a correlation between how harsh or unfair a professor is perceived as and academic misconduct, since students see cheating as a way of getting back at the teacher. Also, students who see themselves in a competition, such as when the teacher is using a grade curve, are more likely to cheat.\n\nResearch has also shown a correlation between goal orientation and the occurrence of academic cheating. Students who perceive their classroom to have high mastery goals are less likely to engage in cheating than those who perceive their classroom to emphasize performance goals. In other words, students who are encouraged to learn for the sake of learning and who exhibit an intrinsic value of education are less likely to cheat than those who are encouraged primarily by grades and other extrinsic rewards.\n\nThe most important contextual causes of academic misconduct are often out of individual teachers' hands. One very important factor is time management. One survey reported two-thirds of teachers believed that poor time management was the principal cause of cheating. Often social engagements are to blame. It has been found that there is a strong correlation between extracurricular activities and cheating, especially among athletes, even those on intramural teams. It has also been found that student cheating rates rise significantly the more time students spend playing cards, watching television, or having a few drinks with friends. Relatedly, fraternity or sorority membership is also strongly correlated with academic misconduct.\n\nOne of the most important causes of academic misconduct is the contextual factor of an environment of peer disapproval of cheating, that is, peer pressure. Psychologists note that all people tend to follow the norms of their peer group, which would include norms about academic dishonesty. Thus, students who believe that their peers disapprove of cheating are less likely to cheat. Indeed, multiple studies show that the most decisive factor in a student's decision to cheat is his perception of his peers' relationship with academic dishonesty. For instance, on average 69% of students cheat at colleges with low community disapproval of academic misconduct, whereas only about 23% of students cheat at colleges with strong community disapproval of academic misconduct. Peer pressure works both ways, as a study found that there is a 41% increase in the probability of a student cheating if he or she has seen someone else cheat. However, even if most students strongly disapprove of cheating, there has to be a community in order for those norms to be enforced via peer pressure. For instance, larger schools, which usually have much higher cheating rates than small schools, tend to have a weaker community, being more split up into different peer groups that exert little social pressure on each other. Another measure of a college community, how many students live on campus, further shows a significant relation with a school's cheating rate. Relatedly, many professors argue that smaller classes reduce cheating behavior.\n\nNo matter what the demographic or contextual influences are on a student who decides to engage in cheating behavior, before they can cheat they must overcome their own conscience. This depends both on how strongly someone disapproves of academic dishonesty and what types of justifications the student uses to escape a sense of guilt. For instance, students who personally do not have a moral problem with academic misconduct can cheat guilt-free. However, while many students have been taught and have internalized that academic dishonesty is wrong, it has been shown that on average a third of students who strongly disapprove of cheating have in fact cheated. People who cheat despite personal disapproval of cheating engage in something called \"neutralization\", in which a student rationalizes the cheating as being acceptable due to certain mitigating circumstances. According to psychologists of deviant behavior, people who engage in neutralization support the societal norm in question, but \"conjure up\" reasons why they are allowed to violate that norm in a particular case. Neutralization is not a simple case of \"ex post facto\" rationalization, but is rather a more comprehensive affair, occurring before, during, and after the act of cheating. Researchers have found four major types of neutralization of academic dishonesty, which they categorize by type of justification. \"Denial of responsibility\" – that is, the accusation that others are to blame or that something forced the student to cheat – is the most common form of neutralization among college students who cheated, with 61% of cheaters using this form of justification. \"Condemnation of condemner\" – that is, that the professors are hypocrites or brought it on themselves – is the second most common form of college student neutralization at 28%. The third most popular form of neutralization among college students is the \"appeal to higher loyalties,\" where the student thinks their responsibility to some other entity, usually their peers, is more important than doing what they know to be morally right. About 6.8% of cheaters in higher education use this form of neutralization. \"Denial of injury\" – thinking that nobody is worse off for the cheating – is the fourth most popular kind of neutralization at 4.2% of cheaters.\n\nCheating in academics has a host of effects on students, on teachers, on individual schools, and on the educational system itself.\n\nFor instance, students who engage in neutralisation to justify cheating, even once, are more likely to engage in it in the future, potentially putting them on a road to a life of dishonesty. Indeed, one study found that students who are dishonest in class are more likely to engage in fraud and theft on the job when they enter the workplace. Students are also negatively affected by academic dishonesty after graduation. A university diploma is an important document in the labor market. Potential employers use a degree as a representation of a graduate's knowledge and ability. However, due to academic dishonesty, not all graduates with the same grades actually did the same work or have the same skills. Thus, when faced with the fact that they do not know which graduates are skilled and which are the \"lemons\" (see \"The Market for Lemons\"), employers must pay all graduates based on the quality of the average graduate. Therefore, the more students who cheat, getting by without achieving the required skills or learning, the lower the quality of the average graduate of a school, and thus the less employers are willing to pay a new hire from that school. Because of this reason, all students, even those that do not cheat themselves, are negatively affected by academic misconduct.\n\nAcademic dishonesty also creates problems for teachers. In economic terms, cheating causes an underproduction of knowledge, where the professor's job is to produce knowledge. Moreover, a case of cheating often will cause emotional distress to faculty members, many considering it to be a personal slight against them or a violation of their trust. Dealing with academic misconduct is often one of the worst parts of a career in education, one survey claiming that 77% of academics agreed with the statement \"dealing with a cheating student is one of the most onerous aspects of the job\".\n\nAcademic misconduct can also have an effect on a college's reputation, one of the most important assets of any school. An institution plagued by cheating scandals may become less attractive to potential donors and students and especially prospective employers. Alternatively, schools with low levels of academic dishonesty can use their reputation to attract students and employers.\n\nUltimately, academic dishonesty undermines the academic world. It interferes with the basic mission of education, the transfer of knowledge, by allowing students to get by without having to master the knowledge. Furthermore, academic dishonesty creates an atmosphere that is not conducive to the learning process, which affects honest students as well. When honest students see cheaters escape detection, it can discourage student morale, as they see the rewards for their work cheapened. Cheating also undermines academia when students steal ideas. Ideas are a professional author's \"capital and identity\", and if a person's ideas are stolen it retards the pursuit of knowledge.\n\nIf never formally retracted, fraudulent publications can remain an issue for many years as articles and books remain on shelves and continue to be cited. The case of S. Walter Poulshock, a 1960s early-career historian whose work was found to contain wholly fabricated material, was exposed in 1966 with the \"American Historical Review\" providing a warning on the topic. Nonetheless, his book was never removed from the shelves of many university libraries and (together with his related thesis) was still being cited in 2013, 47 years after it was intended to have been withdrawn by its publisher.\n\nAll parties involved in the dishonesty—not just the individual whose grade is increased by it—can be punished.\n\nHistorically the job of preventing cheating has been given to the teacher. It used to be that in college the professor acted \"in loco parentis\" and was able to regulate student behavior as a parent. Thus, professors who discovered cheating could assign essentially any punishment they deemed appropriate. Students often had no mechanism for appeal. Generally, proctors were hired to patrol exams. If a case was particularly serious, a dean or other top-level administrator might have been involved. Against this inconsistent and paternalistic system, students at some schools rebelled and demanded to be treated as adults.\n\nFirst at the College of William and Mary in 1779, and then followed by schools like the University of Virginia in the 1850s and Wesleyan University in 1893, the students, with the agreement of faculty who declared themselves dedicated to ideals of democracy and human character, created honor codes. B. Melendez of Harvard University defined an honor code as a code of academic conduct that includes a written pledge of honesty that students sign, a student controlled judiciary that hears alleged violations, unproctored examinations, and an obligation for all students help enforce the code. This system relied on student self-enforcement, which was considered more becoming of young gentlemen than the policing by proctors and professors that existed previously. Of interest, the military academies of the US took the honor code one step further than civilian colleges, disallowing \"tolerance\", which means that if a cadet or midshipman is found to have failed to report or outright protected someone engaged in academic dishonesty (as well as other dishonesties or stealing), that individual is to be expelled along with the perpetrator.\n\nHowever, many people doubted the advisability of relying on an abstract notion of honor to prevent academic dishonesty. This doubt has perhaps led to the reality that no more than a quarter of American universities have adopted honor codes. Moreover, many professors could not envisage a student run trial process that treated faculty accusers fairly. In response to these concerns, in the middle of the twentieth century, many schools devised mixed judicial panels composed of both students and faculty. This type of academic integrity system was similar to the traditional faculty control system in that it relied on professors to detect cheating, except in this system cheaters were brought before centralized boards of students and faculty for punishment. By the 1960s over a quarter of American universities had adopted this system of mixed judicial boards. Still, though, over half of American universities continued to use faculty-centered control systems.\n\nStarting in the 1960s, the U.S. Supreme Court began chipping away at the \"in loco parentis\" doctrine, giving college students more civil liberties such as the right of due process in disciplinary proceedings (\"Dixon v. Alabama Board of Education,\" 1961). In \"Cooper v. Blair\" (1973), specifically academic misconduct was ruled to require due process, being a disciplinary matter and not an educational matter. The due process rights of students in academic misconduct cases is not to the same degree as in a court of law. For instance, the student has no right to representation and the burden of proof is not necessarily stringent. In the \"General Order on Judicial Standards of Procedure and Substance in Review of Student Discipline in Tax Supported Institutions of Higher Education\", (1968) student due process rights were laid out as follows:\n\nThese new rules put an end to the old faculty-based system of policing academic dishonesty, now students were entitled to an impartial hearing. While schools using the old honor code method or the mixed judicial system were not affected by these decisions, schools using the faculty based system generally instituted systems that relied on a committee of faculty and administrators or a dean to run the academic misconduct hearings.\n\nRecently, Donald L. McCabe and Linda Klebe Trevino, two experts in the field of academic dishonesty, have proposed a new way of deterring cheating that has been implemented in schools such as the University of Maryland. Modified honor codes put students in charge of the judicial hearing process, making it clear that it is the students' responsibility to stop cheating amongst themselves, but at the same time students still have proctored exams and are not allowed to take pledges of good conduct in place of professor oversight. The researchers who advocate this type of code seem to think that the normal honor code is something of a special case that is not applicable to many schools. According to supporters of this system, schools with a large student body, a weak college community, or no history of student self-governance will not be able to support a full honor code. However, while modified honor codes seem to be more effective than faculty or administration run integrity codes of conduct, research shows that schools with modified codes still have higher rates of cheating than schools with full honor codes.\n\nResearch has shown that there is a strong correlation between forms of academic integrity system and levels of cheating at a school. Several studies have found students who attend schools with honor codes are less likely to cheat than students at schools with traditional integrity codes. Another study found that only 28% of schools with honor codes have high levels of cheating, whereas 81% of schools with mixed judicial boards have high rates of cheating. Whereas faculty or administration run codes of conduct tend to rely on policing and punishment to deter students from cheating, honor codes tend to rely on and cultivate student senses of honor and group peer pressure to deter academic misconduct. As mentioned above in the section on causes of cheating, increased enforcement or punishment is rarely effective at discouraging cheating, whereas there is a high correlation between peer pressure and academic honesty. The modified honor code attempts to cultivate peer disapproval of cheating while maintaining the traditional proctor system, although critics argue that the proctor system undermines the creation of an atmosphere of student self-policing, reducing the effectiveness of the honor code, possibly explaining why modified honor codes have not been as effective as the original version.\n\nThere are limitations to relying on the faculty to police academic dishonesty. One study found that up to 21% of professors have ignored at least one clear cut case of cheating. Another study revealed that 40% of professors \"never\" report cheating, 54% \"seldom\" report cheating, and that a mere 6% act on all cases of academic misconduct that confront them. A third survey of professors found that while 79% had observed cheating, only 9% had penalized the student. According to a manual for professors on cheating,\n\nThere are other reasons as well. Some professors are reluctant to report violations to the appropriate authorities because they believe the punishment to be too harsh.\n\nSome professors may have little incentive to reduce cheating in their classes below a point that would otherwise be obvious to outside observers, as they are rated by how many research papers they publish and research grants they win for the college, and not by how well they teach.\n\nOthers do not report academic misconduct because of postmodernist views on cheating. Postmodernism calls into question the very concepts of \"authorship\" and \"originality.\" From the perspective of cultural studies and historicism, authors themselves are simply constructs of their social surroundings, and thus they simply rewrite already written cultural stories. Moreover, in the field of composition studies, students are being encouraged more and more to do group work and participate in ongoing collective revision. The postmodernist view is that \"the concept of intellectual malpractice is of limited epistemological value. Under the ironic gaze of postmodernism, the distinctions between guilt and innocence, integrity and deceit permeating the scandal debates appear irrelevant.\" However, there is an argument that postmodernism is just moral relativism, therefore cheating is condoned as a valid academic method, even if it is morally and legally wrong. One professor wrote in an article in \"The English Journal\" that when he peeked in on an unproctored class taking a test and saw several students up and consulting with one another, he decided that they were not cheating, but were using non-traditional techniques and collaborative learning to surmount the obstacles teachers had put in their way. Issues of cultural relativism also affect professors' views on cheating; the standard objection being that \"students from certain Middle Eastern, Asian, and African cultures are baffled by the notion that one can 'own' ideas, since their cultures regard words and ideas as the property of all rather than as individual property\".\n\nAnother issue teachers may have with deterring cheating is that they may decide that it is not their job. The argument that \"they're professors, not policemen\" is often heard in academia. In economic terms, some professors believe they are being paid to provide learning, and if the student loses that learning through cheating, he is only cheating himself out of the money he paid.\n\nWith the advancement of the internet, there are now several tools available to aid in the detection of plagiarism and multiple publication within biomedical literature. One tool developed in 2006 by researchers in Harold Garner's laboratory at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas is Déjà Vu, an open-access database containing several thousand instances of duplicate publication.\n\n"}
{"id": "3153225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3153225", "title": "Academic tenure", "text": "Academic tenure\n\nA tenured appointment is an indefinite academic appointment that can be terminated only for cause or under extraordinary circumstances, such as financial exigency or program discontinuation. Tenure is a means of defending the principle of academic freedom, which holds that it is beneficial for society in the long run if scholars are free to hold and examine a variety of views.\n\nThe modern conception of tenure in US higher education originated with the American Association of University Professors' (AAUP) 1940 Statement of Principles on Academic Freedom and Tenure. Jointly formulated and endorsed by the AAUP and the Association of American Colleges and Universities (AAC&U), the 1940 Statement is endorsed by over 250 scholarly and higher education organizations and is widely adopted into faculty handbooks and collective bargaining agreements at institutions of higher education throughout the United States. This statement holds that, \"The common good depends upon the free search for truth and its free exposition\" and stresses that academic freedom is essential in teaching and research in this regard.\n\nUnder the tenure systems adopted by many universities and colleges in the United States and Canada, some faculty positions have tenure and some do not. Typical systems (such as the widely adopted \"1940 Statement of Principles on Academic Freedom and Tenure\" of the American Association of University Professors) allow only a limited period to establish a record of published research, ability to attract grant funding, academic visibility, teaching excellence, and administrative or community service. They limit the number of years that any employee can remain employed as a non-tenured instructor or professor, compelling the institution to grant tenure to or terminate an individual, with significant advance notice, at the end of a specified time period. Some institutions require promotion to Associate Professor as a condition of tenure. An institution may also offer other academic positions that are not time-limited, with titles such as Lecturer, Adjunct Professor, or Research Professor, but these positions do not carry the possibility of tenure and are said to not be \"tenure track.\" Typically, they have higher teaching loads, lower compensation, little influence within the institution, few if any benefits, and little protection of academic freedom.\n\nAcademic tenure was eliminated in the United Kingdom in 1988. In its place there is the distinction between permanent and temporary contracts for academics. A permanent lecturer in UK universities usually holds an open-ended position that covers teaching, research, and administrative responsibilities.\n\nResearch lecturers (where they are permanent appointments) are the equivalent in rank of lecturers and senior lecturers, but reflect a research-intensive orientation. Research lecturers are common in fields such as medicine, engineering, and biological and physical sciences.\n\nAcademics are divided into two classes. On the one hand, professors (C2/W2 positions in the old/new system of pay grades) are employed as civil servants of the state and hold tenure as a highly safeguarded employment for life. On the other, there is a much bigger group of \"junior staff\" on fixed-term contracts, research grants, fellowships, and part-time jobs. In 2010, 9% of academic staff were professors, 66% were \"junior staff\" (including doctoral candidates on contracts), and 25% were other academic staff in secondary employment. Permanent research, teaching and management positions below professorship as an \"Akademischer Rat\" (a civil service position salaried like high school teachers) have become relatively rare compared to the 1970s and 1980s and are often no longer refilled after a retirement. In order to attain the position of Professor an academic must usually complete a \"Habilitation\" (a kind of broader second PhD thesis), after which she or he is eligible for tenureship. This means that, compared to other countries, academics in Germany obtain tenure at a relatively late age, as on average one becomes an Academic Assistant at the age of 42. In 2002 the \"Juniorprofessur\" position (comparable to an assistant professor in the US, but rarely endowed with a tenure track) was introduced as an alternative to \"Habilitation\". However, the degree of formal equivalence between a \"Habilitation\" and a successfully completed \"Juniorprofessur\" varies across the different states (\"Bundesländer\"), and the informal recognition of having served as a \"Juniorprofessur\" as a replacement for the \"Habilitation\" in the appointment procedures for professorships varies greatly between disciplines.\n\nDue to a university system that guarantees universities relative academic freedom, the position of professor in Germany is stronger and more independent than, for instance, in France. As civil servants, professors have a series of attendant rights and benefits, yet this status is subject to discussion; for example, the question of relating professorial pay to performance rather than merely to age is now being considered.\n\nMany argue, among other things, that the job security granted by tenure is necessary to recruit talented individuals into professorships, because in many fields private industry jobs pay significantly more. \n\nSome have argued that modern tenure systems diminish academic freedom, forcing those seeking tenured positions to profess conformance to the level of mediocrity as those awarding the tenured professorships. For example, according to physicist Lee Smolin, \"...it is practically career suicide for a young theoretical physicist not to join the field of string theory.\" \n\nEconomist Steven Levitt, who recommends the elimination of tenure in order to incentivize higher performance among professors, also points out that a pay increase may be required to compensate faculty members for the lost job security.\n\nSome U.S. states have considered legislation to remove tenure at public universities. \n\nA further criticism of tenure is that it rewards complacency. Once a professor is awarded tenure, he or she may begin putting reduced effort into their job, knowing that their removal is difficult or expensive to the institution.\n"}
{"id": "10713145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10713145", "title": "Agostini v. Felton", "text": "Agostini v. Felton\n\nAgostini v. Felton, 521 U.S. 203 (1997), is a landmark decision of the Supreme Court of the United States. In this case, the Court overruled its decision in \"Aguilar v. Felton\" (1985), now finding that it was not a violation of the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment for a state-sponsored education initiative to allow public school teachers to instruct at religious schools, so long as the material was secular and neutral in nature and no \"excessive entanglement\" between government and religion was apparent. This case is noteworthy in a broader sense as a sign of evolving judicial standards surrounding the First Amendment, and the changes that have occurred in modern Establishment Clause jurisprudence.\n\nIn 1965, Congress enacted Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act with the goal of providing adequate education to all children in the United States, regardless of individual economic conditions. This service, abbreviated as Title I, distributed federal funds to state governments, which, in turn, disbursed the funds to local education agencies. This funding was to be put towards providing remedial education services for low-income students who were at significant risk of failing to meet state academic performance standards. By law, these education services were to be provided to eligible students, whether enrolled in public school or not. Further, the services offered to children attending private schools were to be \"equitable in comparison\" to the services offered to children attending public school. All educational services were to be of a secular, neutral, and non-ideological nature.\n\nIn 1966, the Board of Education of the City of New York (\"Board\") applied for Title I funding. In the eligible districts in New York City, 10% of schoolchildren attend private school, and of those 10%, 90% attended schools of a particular religious ideology. To prevent First Amendment complications, the Board arranged to bus private school attendees to public schools for after-school instruction. This plan failed, and another one was adopted, which failed as well. The Board then moved on to a plan whereby public school teachers would be permitted to provide instruction in the private school buildings themselves. A number of stipulations were attached to this, aimed at preventing a violation of the Establishment Clause, including mandatory surprise visits by state-employed supervisors and removal of all religious articles from the room to be used for Title I instruction. This plan was reviewed by the Supreme Court in \"Aguilar v. Felton\", where it was deemed to create a constitutionally impermissible \"entanglement\" between government and religion. The District Court, on remand, issued an injunction, enjoining the Board from following a Title I plan that violated the decision.\n\nAfter the Court's decision in Aguilar, the Board had to devise a new plan to provide Title I services without creating a conflict between Church and State. This plan involved spending over $100,000,000 in leasing property and vehicles to provide areas for public school teachers to instruct their students. This money, incurred annually over a series of years, had to be deducted from the Title 1 grant before the grant money was to be used for actual services provided, resulting in a net decrease in available funds for remedial education. In 1995, the Board, along with a group of parents of eligible parochial school attendees, filed motions in District Court, seeking an exemption from the Aguilar decision under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b). This rule states, in part, that an exemption from a final judgment may be granted if it is found that it is, \"no longer equitable that the judgment should have prospective application.\" They argued that cases decided by the Supreme Court between Aguilar and 1995 had eroded the meaning of Aguilar, and that it was no longer good law. The District Court appeared sympathetic, and said that they were pursuing the appropriate method of relief, but denied the motion, noting that Aguilar was still in effect and it was unable to offer the exemption the Board sought. The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the denial of the motion. The Supreme Court granted certiorari and heard arguments on April 15, 1997. Chief Corporation Counsel Paul Crotty argued on behalf of New York City, marking the last time that the city's chief attorney has appeared before the nation's highest court.\n\nThe petitioners argument for relief revolved around three primary points.\n\n\nOn June 23, 1997, Justice O'Connor delivered the opinion of the court. The decision was generally divided along ideological lines, with Chief Justice Rehnquist and Justices Scalia, Thomas, and Kennedy joining the majority, and Justices Stevens, Souter, Ginsburg and Breyer dissenting.\n\nThe Court accepted the respondents' argument that there was no substantial change in factual circumstances. While there was obviously an increase in Board expenditures in maintaining their program, the Court noted that cost increases were not only predicted in Aguilar, they had been practically guaranteed. Furthermore, since the applicable case law had not changed since the Aguilar decision, there was nothing the Court could see as constituting a substantial change in factual circumstances.\n\nOn the second argument, the Court again sided with the respondents. It noted that, indeed, five of the Justices had advocated a reconsideration of Aguilar when deciding another case. However, the Court said, this did not necessarily mean there had been a change in their jurisprudence or reasoning, because Aguilar's propriety was not in question when those comments were made. The Court stated that the views of its members, outside of a judgment to this effect, did not constitute a change in Establishment Clause law.\n\nThe third argument is given the most examination by the Court. In order to determine if decisions subsequent to Aguilar have actually undermined it or the basis for its findings, the Court examines the cases and the changes in views since that decision was made. The Court notes that it has moved away from the idea that a public employee teaching in a parochial school will necessarily inculcate some of the religious messages inherent in their pervasively sectarian environment. It notes, for example, that in \"Zobrest v. Catalina Foothills School Dist.\" the Court ruled that it was permissible for a deaf student to have a state-sponsored interpreter attend his Catholic high school in the performance of her duties. In this vein, the Court concludes that to consider a public employee's presence in a religious school inappropriate in and of itself would put far too much emphasis on form over substance.\n\nAnother change in the Court's approach was that it no longer considered impermissible the use of government money to directly aid the educational functions of a religious school. As long as the money was given without government stipulations as to how it was spent, it was acceptable for such funding to be made available. Citing \"Witters v. Washington Dept. of Servs. for Blind\", the Court noted that it was not impermissible for the government to give vocational grants, even if the grant would be used to train for some religious job in the future, as long as there was an intervening \"genuinely independent and private\" choice of where the money would be spent. The Court compared this with a government employee receiving his paycheck, noting that it was certainly acceptable for the government to pay this employee even if it were clear he was going to donate a large portion of it to a religious organization.\n\nThe idea of a public employee teaching in a religious school, the Court went on to say, was no longer commonly considered to foster a \"symbolic union\" between Church and State. Noting that the Dissent believed that, in fact, this did foster such a symbolic union, the Court countered by stating that it cannot be shown that such a symbolic union would vanish once the students and teachers were moved off campus. Taking that reasoning to its logical conclusion, it would forbid Title I entirely, as the union would be unavoidable. Further, the Court rejected the idea that Title I would be financing religious indoctrination if instruction could be conducted on religious campuses; Title I specifically notes that it is designed to \"supplement, not supplant\" the school's curriculum.\n\nApplying these rationales to the Board's case, the Court determined that the program, previously found unconstitutional in Aguilar, was neither aiding nor inhibiting religion in an impermissible fashion. Reasoning that the aid was distributed according to secular criteria, and offered to all eligible students regardless of school choice, the system of distributing aid was neutral with respect to religion. The program as enacted by the Board did not give any incentive for anyone to alter their religious views.\n\nThe Court ultimately overruled Aguilar. It noted that, while stare decisis is an important doctrine, the Court is not prohibited by precedent to review changes in law or making alterations to previous decisions. It concluded that prevailing Establishment Clause law had changed significantly since Aguilar was decided, making Aguilar no longer good law. In summarizing its position, the Court notes:\n\nNew York City's Title I program does not run afoul of any of three primary criteria we currently use to evaluate whether government aid has the effect of advancing religion: it does not result in governmental indoctrination; define its recipients by reference to religion; or create an excessive entanglement. We therefore hold that a federally funded program providing supplemental, remedial instruction to disadvantaged children on a neutral basis is not invalid under the Establishment Clause when such instruction is given on the premises of sectarian schools by government employees pursuant to a program containing safeguards such as those present here. The same considerations that justify this holding require us to conclude that this carefully constrained program also cannot reasonably be viewed as an endorsement of religion.\n\nIn closing, the Court reversed the judgment of the Court of Appeals, remanding the case down to them, and giving the lower court instructions to vacate its injunction. Because Aguilar was no longer good law, and the plan constructed by the Board did not create an excessive entanglement with religion, the Court concluded that the Board was entitled to the relief it had sought; moreover, the relief was not simply based on a federal rule, the decision removed the need for the Board to seek the exemption at all.\n\nJustice Souter authored a dissent, in which Justices Stevens, Ginsburg and Breyer joined.\n\nThe dissent was somewhat formalistic in its objections to the majority finding. It stated that the principle of stare decisis was of too great weight to overrule a previous decision so easily, and that the case presented appeared to be more of a re-hearing of Aguilar than a new proceeding. The Dissent cited the Supreme Court's guidelines surrounding rehearings, accusing the Court of veiling its decision as a \"rethinking\" instead of a reversal of Aguilar. The Dissent summarized its own position, remarking:\n\nThat cause lies in the maintenance of integrity in the interpretation of procedural rules, preservation of the responsive, non agenda setting character of this Court, and avoidance of invitations to reconsider old cases based on \"speculat[ions] on chances from changes in [the Court's membership].\n\nIn short, the Dissent felt that the ruling in this case was contrary to the integrity and stability of the Court, and did not comport with the apolitical nature of the judiciary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24586655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24586655", "title": "Al-Azhar English Training Centre", "text": "Al-Azhar English Training Centre\n\nThe Al-Azhar English Training Centre (AAETC) is an English language teaching facility at Al-Azhar University in Cairo funded by Al Azhar University with the support of the British government. The centre opened in February 2008 and is managed by the British Council. The centre aims to give students the skills to \"discuss and explain Islam\", especially to non-Muslims, as well as training Egyptian teachers in methodology, mentoring and management.\n\n"}
{"id": "36704035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36704035", "title": "Azra Naheed Medical College", "text": "Azra Naheed Medical College\n\nThe Azra Naheed Medical College (, abbreviated as ANMC), established in 2011 and named after Azra Naheed, is a private college of medicine, pharmacy and allied health professions. It is located in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan. The college is affiliated with University of Health Sciences and accredited by the Pakistan Medical and Dental Council (PMDC) for MBBS degree. It is a constituent college of the Superior University. \"Surayya Azeem Hospital\" , and \"Ch. M. Akram Hospital\" are teaching hospitals of the college for training.\n\n"}
{"id": "389487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=389487", "title": "Bachelor of Business Administration", "text": "Bachelor of Business Administration\n\nThe Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA or B.B.A.) is a bachelor's degree in commerce and business administration.\n\nIn the United States, the degree is conferred after four years of full-time study in one or more areas of business concentrations. In Europe, the degree is conferred after three years of full-time study in one or more areas of business concentrations. The BBA program usually includes general business courses and advanced courses for specific concentrations.\n\nThe degree is designed to give a broad knowledge of the functional aspects of a company and their interconnection, while also allowing specialization in a particular area. B.B.A. programs thus expose students to a variety of \"core subjects\" and generally allow students to specialize in a specific academic area; see aside. \n\nThe degree also develops the student's practical, managerial and communication skills, and business decision-making capability. Many programs incorporate training and practical experience, in the form of case projects, presentations, internships, industrial visits, and interaction with experts from the industry. \n\nGeneral educational requirements emphasize humanities and social sciences (history, economics, and literature). Coverage of mathematics is generally business related, and is often limited to \"Quantitative Applications for Business\" or, alternatively, courses in Calculus for business or Calculus 101, and business- or general-statistics.\n\nThe B.S.B.A., Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, is a quantitative variant on the BBA. General educational requirements are relatively mathematics intensive; further, the general focus may also be more analytic, often allowing additional quantitative optional coursework.\n\nParticularly in the United States, undergraduate Business Administration programs may be accredited, thus indicating that the school's educational curriculum meets specific quality standards. \n\n"}
{"id": "30046267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30046267", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Gujranwala", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Gujranwala\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Gujranwala (BISE Gujranwala) is a body corporate under section 3(2) of Punjab Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Act 1976. The Gujranwala city is located on the famous GT road 68 km on north side from Lahore and 220 km on southern side from the capital city of Islamabad & Rawalpindi.The campus of Board is 1 km away from Lohianwala Bypass, GT road. This Board conducted its first examination in 1976.\n\nBoard started functioning by obtaining buildings on rent. These building were actually residential houses in the area of Satellite Town, Gujranwala. First building acquired on rent was 162-D satellite town Gujranwala. Then during the tenure of Qari Ghulam Sadiq Chairman with his devoted team Ch. Nisar Ahmad Secretary and Mr. Abdul Sattar Rashid Security Officer acquired a piece of land comprising 231 kanals or 28.8 acres near sialkot bypass, Lohianwala under Punjab Land Acquisition Act 1894 and started construction of its own campus. The boundary wall was completed during the tenure of Prof. Muhammad Amin, Chairman and under his supervision a team composed of Ch. Muhammad Ahsan, Secretary, Mr. Fazal Karim Engineer and Mr. Abdul Sattar Rashid Security Officer completed the task to take over the area with construction of a boundary wall around the campus. Then services of a famous consultant M/s Elire H.N. Murat Khan and Associates were hired for supervision of construction of the campus. The main office building was constructed by M/s Alicon (Pvt) Limited under the technical supervision of the consultant during the tenure of Dr. Sardar Muhammad Mian and Dr. Abdul Qayyum Khan Lodhi, Chairman with the help of their team composed of Ch. Muhammad Sharif Abid, Secretary, Mr. Najeeb Ashraf Warraich, Estate Officer, Mr. Abdul Sattar Rashid, Security Officer and Mr. Fazal Karim Engineer. The offices were shifted during December 1992 to March 1993. \n\nThe jurisdiction of the Gujranwala Board includes following districts:\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education conducts Matriculation and Intermediate Exams every year within its jurisdiction. Matriculation and Intermediate Exams are mostly held in March and April respectively and the result of both exams is mostly announced in July and August or in the start of September.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20509727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20509727", "title": "Capitation fee", "text": "Capitation fee\n\nCapitation fee refers to an illegal transaction whereby an organisation that provides educational services collects a fee that is more than what is approved by regulatory norms.\n\nIn the context of Indian law, a capitation fee refers to the collection of payment by educational bodies not included in the prospectus of the institution, usually in exchange for admission to the institution.\n\nThe Prohibition of Unfair Practices in Technical Educational Institutions, Medical Institutions and Universities Bill 2010 defines it as any amount that\n\n\nA submission by counsel, F.S. Nariman, in the P.A. Inamdar case (August 2005) defines capitation fee as \"something taken over and above what the institution needs by way of revenue and capital expenditure plus a reasonable surplus.\") Other definitions for capitation fee also include \"any amount, by whatever name called, paid or collected directly or indirectly in excess of the fee prescribed...\", \"any amount by whatever name called whether in cash or in kind paid or collected or received directly or indirectly in addition to the fees determined\" and \"any amount, by whatever name called, whether in cash or kind, in excess of the prescribed or, as the case may be, approved, rates of fees...\"\n\nThis practice is widely prevalent in private colleges and universities in India, especially those that grant baccalaureate degrees in engineering, IT and the sciences for which the demand for admissions exceeds the supply, though a number of technical educations has been closing down in recent years and many seats go vacant. Ample evidence to the collection of capitation fee exist.\n\nCapitation fee has been one of the major contributors to corruption in education and society. Those who complete their course by paying capitation fee are looking for a \"return on investment\". This attempt to recover the investment fuel unethical practices. Capitation fee has been considered to be one of the reason for the exorbitant hike in healthcare costs and deteriorating medical standards.\n\nCapitation fee comes as a surprise to the student when the student may have forsaken admission deadlines at other institutions. Choosing not to pay additional fee may even lead to a form of extortion, by withholding the degree from students. Parents often pay so that there is no ill bearing that affects their wards scores or standing.\n\nThe fee might not be uniformly applied. The donation money is often not accounted, and its usage and allocation are mismanaged and not reported to income tax. In such cases of malpractice, students overpay for substandard education.\n\nStudents are also misguided. Some institutions add the capitation fee along with the fee approved by regulatory norms. This combined fee is projected as the actual fee to the students.\n\nCapitation fees are generally seen as a main revenue generator that private institutions may charge, which contend that admissions that cater to affordable sections of society somehow affects the overall number of students educated. The government also controls the seat allocation, number and ratio of management, payment and free seats. That limits the institutions' ability to raise money through tuition, leaving institutions in need for money. Collecting donations becomes a side effect of the government laws that disallow institutions from setting their fees, but some parents genuinely donate to improve the infrastructure of their wards' college.\n\nThe practice of charging capitation fees by various institutions and universities has been subjected to criticism on various grounds. It has been often referred as 'killing of merit'. In its emphatic judgement in the Mohini Jain V/s State of Karnataka case, Supreme Court declared that charging of capitation fee was arbitrary, unfair, and in violation of the fundamental right to equality in Article 14 of the Constitution. The Prohibition of Unfair Practices in Technical Educational Institutions, Medical Institutions and Universities Bill 2010 recognized capitation fee as a cognizable offence.\n\nOn the other hand, various private colleges have defended capitation fee on the ground that it avails institutions with funds to reinvest in the institution to impart quality education. V Raghunathan, former professor, IIM-Ahmedabad said \"For engineering colleges in most states, the permitted fee for unaided private colleges is in the vicinity of Rs 30,000 per student per annum. Given that even most kindergarten schools charge a higher fee in the cities, one wonders exactly how the private institutions are expected to provide high quality technical education for this fee\". Faking News has written an article 'School Principal elected for the coveted 'Business Person of the Year' award' acknowledging the practices of some of the private schools in India, while also noting that \"a school principal winning a business award created unrest among the top business leaders in India\". However, institutions (business schools, engineering colleges, medical colleges) that take capitation fee also receive significant amount of funding from governmental funding agencies like AICTE, DST, UGC and various ministries under central government and state government. The funds support infrastructure ranging from faculty laptops, printers, lab facilities and trading rooms in business schools.\n\nEducational regulatory agencies, at the national level and also at the regional level, has mandated that an institution should include the fee in the prospectus. Institutions has been charging fee from students under various categories, that the fee regulatory committee of Karnataka Government has listed 99 different categories through which the institutions may be collecting fee from the students. While fee regulatory agencies fix a fee that cover expenses incurred by an institution along with a basic surplus, many institutions has been charging a fee that makes the venture profiteering. The National Policy on Education \"encourages non-governmental and voluntary efforts in Education, while preventing the establishment of institutions which intend to commercialize Education\". While education is not meant to be a commercial practice, corruption in educational institutions has made a noble endeavor such as education into a \"notorious business\" that has been repeatedly raided by governmental authorities, resulting in identification and seizure of unaccounted wealth.\n\nVarious renowned and prestigious private schools and colleges across India have been found demanding capitation fee. It was found that sum of Rs 500,000 was allegedly paid by a student through a demand draft to Sri Venkateswara College of Engineering (SVCE), a private college in Pennalur, Sriperumbudur, near Chennai. The incident came into light through a surprise check drive initiated by the government in Tamil Nadu at 142 self-financing engineering colleges in the state.\n\nAnother scam exposed by a popular news channel, Times Now, suggested that Information and Broadcasting Minister for State Jagathrakshakan was allegedly associated with the Shree Balaji Medical College in malpractices in admissions. The minister later denied having associated with the college. Jagathrakshakan said, \"I have never been the Chairman. Once I was a trustee. Before election I quit. I have absolutely no connection with the college or the trust\". In February 2002, students filed a case against Mercedes Benz International School, a prestigious school in Pune for allegedly collecting 'capitation fees' under the guise of a building donation fund.\n\nIncome Tax Department has been conducting raids on some of the organisations that take capitation fee. Arrests have been made related to cheating associated with admissions.\n\nThe Prohibition of Unfair Practices in Technical Educational Institutions, Medical Institutions and Universities Bill 2010 was introduced as a strict measure to bring about the transparency in the educational system regarding the fee structures and other crucial issues. Charging or accepting capitation fee is considered as violation of Provision 6, which prohibits any institution from demanding or accepting capitation fee, directly or indirectly. If found guilty, the institution will be liable to a penalty of up to Rs.5,000,000 and maximum imprisonment for three years. The bill has been criticized by various private institutions essentially for restricting the autonomy of the institution in such matters. J Philip, President, Xavier Institute of Management Education, Bangalore and former director, IIM – Bangalore, said, \"The Bill promises to be beneficial. But it also runs the risk of curbing the autonomy and the freedom of institutions and challenge dynamic functioning. Again, it could be misused by students or anyone trying to settle scores\". However, this bill lapsed, before it became a law.\n\nMedia reports indicate that black money in education in India is generating more than 40,000 crores, while black money generation in medical education would be more than 10,000 crores. The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing into black money practices in India has started its probe into the area, which was outside the ambit of SIT.\n\nConcerns have been raised on how capitation fee has been charged in the name of donations. In August 2014, the Supreme Court appointed Mr Salman Khurshid, former Union Law Minister, as an amicus curiae and asked him to come out with suggestions and methodologies to end this practice.\n\nIn addition to stringent legal actions, other practices that government can adopt to curb the practice include the following:\n\n(1) Audited financial statements of educational institutions, and the 'charitable trusts' that owns these institutions, to be made available in the website of these institutions and trusts, on an annual basis. \n\n(2) Funding organisations like DST, UGC, AICTE, Ministry of Education and other ministries under the central and state governments should stop funding research projects and programmes in institutions taking capitation fee.\n\n(3) Revoking exemptions/ canceling registrations of these organisations that take capitation fee\n\n(4) Legal measures against \"minority institutions\" - linguistic, religious etc. - that operates in an illegal manner.\n\n(5) Articles in a leading international medical journal discussing about the capitation fee practices in medical colleges in India suggested that those who complete their courses from capitation fee taking colleges should not be allowed for postings abroad.\n\n(6) Instituting a maximum fee limit has been on discussions. For example, Sri Krishna committee has recommended a fee band for professional colleges, with an upper limit for the fee that can be taken.\n\n(7) A centralised fee collection process, with a time-bound mechanism to channelise the collected fee to the institutes.\n\n(8) A single common entrance exam for each of the courses (medicine, engineering, pharmacy, hotel management, business management, law and other courses).\n\nAll India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), the regulatory body for technical education in India, has called \"upon the students, parents and the general public not to pay any capitation fee or any other fee other than that mentioned in the Prospectus of the Institutions for consideration of admission.\". AICTE also mentions that the fee charged from students, including for programs such as PGDM, has to be approved by the fee regulatory committee of the state, and the institute should mention the fee in its website. As per AICTE norms, the business schools are not meant to charge a fee higher than what is mentioned in the prospectus. Educational regulatory agencies, at the national level and also at the regional level, has mandated that an institution should include the fee in the prospectus.\n\nCentral Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) states that a school should be run as a service and not as a business and that commercialization does not take place in the school. The Board has mentioned that \"No capitation fee or voluntary donations for gaining admission in the school or for any other purpose should be charged/collected in the name of the school. In case of such malpractices, the Board may take drastic action leading to disaffiliation of the school\". The school is also punishable with fine which may extend to ten times the capitation fee charged. CBSE has issued notification/s asking schools affiliated to CBSE to mention fee details in the school website, and also in the CBSE website. Similar notifications have been released by regional educational departments.\n\n"}
{"id": "5167218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5167218", "title": "Careerscope", "text": "Careerscope\n\nCareerScope is a standardized and timed interest and aptitude assessment for education and career guidance. The system is used in schools, job training programs, corrections, and in vocational rehabilitation. CareerScope delivers an objective assessment (as opposed to subjective self-report assessment) that is written at a fourth-grade reading level. The process is student or client self-administered and takes one hour. The system generates counselor and client/student report versions. Career recommendations can be generated that are consistent with the Guide for Occupational Exploration, the Dictionary of Occupational Titles, O*NET as well as the U.S. DOE Career Clusters and Pathways. It was developed by the nonprofit Vocational Research Institute, and is based on the US Department of Labor's General Aptitude Test Battery (G.A.T.B.).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40200808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40200808", "title": "Certificate in Quantitative Finance", "text": "Certificate in Quantitative Finance\n\nThe Certificate in Quantitative Finance (CQF) is a Financial Engineering program and a offered by the CQF Institute. CQF provides in-depth, practical training in Mathematical Finance, Financial Modeling, Derivatives and Risk Management. It is a half-year in duration and is offered as a class through Fitch Learning—a London-based provider of training for the financial services industry, owned by the Fitch Group; it is also offered via E-learning. \n\nCQF is designed for in-depth training for individuals working in, or intending to move into Derivatives, Quantitative Trading, Model Validation, Risk Management, Insurance or IT. The CQF is unique in its approach and commitment to the field of real-world quantitative finance.\n\nAt all times the program's focus is on practical implementation of techniques and on the questioning and analysis of models and methods.The CQF was founded in 2003 by Course Directors Paul Wilmott and Paul Shaw. The CQF comprises two levels, each level consisting of three modules; the detail per the side-bar. CQF offers alumni lifelong Learning containing a library of over 600 hours of lectures. CQF alumni have permanent, unrestricted access to their CQF lectures and the Lifelong Learning library.\n\nCQF consists of two levels, each taking approximately three months to complete:\n\n"}
{"id": "27812828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27812828", "title": "Classical education movement", "text": "Classical education movement\n\nThe classical education movement advocates a form of education based in the traditions of Western culture, with a particular focus on education as understood and taught in Classical antiquity and the Middle Ages. The curriculum and pedagogy of classical education was first developed during the Middle Ages by Martianus Capella and systematized during the Renaissance by Petrus Ramus. Capella's original goal was to provide a systematic, memorable framework to teach all human knowledge. The term \"classical education\" has been used in Western culture for several centuries, with each era modifying the definition and adding its own selection of topics. By the end of the 18th century, in addition to the trivium and quadrivium of the Middle Ages, the definition of a classical education embraced study of literature, poetry, drama, philosophy, history, art, and languages.\n\nIn the 20th and 21st centuries, it has been used to refer to a broad-based study of the liberal arts and sciences, as opposed to a practical or pre-professional program.\n\nThere exist a number of informal groups and professional organizations which undertake the classical approach to classical education in earnest. Within the secular classical movement, in the 1930s Mortimer Adler and Robert Hutchins set forth the \"Great Books\" of Western civilization as center stage for a classical education curriculum. Also some public schools (primarily charters) have structured their curricula and pedagogy around the trivium and integrate the teaching of values (sometimes called \"character education\") into the mainstream classroom. There are several major societies and associations within the classical Christian education movement, including the Society for Classical Learning, the Association of Classical and Christian Schools, Trinity Schools, and the CiRCE Institute.\n\nThe University of Pennsylvania seal (1894) depicted the trivium as a stack of books providing the foundation for a 'modified' quadrivium of mathematics, natural philosophy (empirical science), astronomy, and theology.\nClassical education developed many of the terms now used to describe modern education. Western classical education has three phases, each with a different purpose. The phases are roughly coordinated with human development, and would ideally be exactly coordinated with each individual student's development.\n\n\nIn classical terms, primary education was the \"trivium\" comprising grammar, logic, and rhetoric.\n\nLogic and rhetoric were often taught in part by the Socratic method, in which the teacher raises questions and the class discusses them. By controlling the pace, the teacher can keep the class very lively, yet disciplined.\n\nGrammar consists of language skills such as reading and the mechanics of writing. An important goal of grammar is to acquire as many words and manage as many concepts as possible so as to be able to express and understand clearly concepts of varying degrees of complexity. Classical education traditionally included study of Latin and Greek to reinforce understanding the workings of languages and allow students to read the Classics of Western Civilization untranslated. In the modern renaissance of classical education, this period refers to the upper elementary school years.\n\nLogic (dialectic) is the process of correct reasoning. The traditional text for teaching logic was Aristotle's Logic. In the modern renaissance of classical education, this logic stage (or dialectic stage) refers to the junior high or middle school aged student, who developmentally is beginning to question ideas and authority, and truly enjoys a debate or an argument. Training in logic, both formal and informal, enables students to critically examine arguments and to analyze their own. The whole goal is to train the student's mind not only to grasp information, but to find the analytical connections between seemingly different facts/ideas, to find out why something is true, or why something else is false (in short, reasons for a fact).\n\nRhetorical debate and composition are taught to somewhat older (often high school aged) students, who by this point in their education have the concepts and logic to criticize their own work and persuade others. According to Aristotle \"Rhetoric is the counterpart of dialectic\", concerned with finding \"all the available means of persuasion.\" The student now learns to articulate answers to important questions in his/her own words, to try to persuade others with these facts, and to defend ideas against rebuttal. The student learns to reason correctly in the Logic stage so that they can now apply those skills to Rhetoric. Traditionally, students would read and emulate classical poets in learning how to present their arguments well.\n\nSecondary education, classically the \"quadrivium\" or \"four ways,\" consist of arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy. Arithmetic is Number in itself, which is a pure abstraction; that is, outside of space and time. Geometry is Number in space. Music is Number in time, and Astronomy is Number in space and time. Sometimes architecture was taught alongside these, often from the works of Vitruvius.\n\nHistory was always taught to provide a context and show political and military development. The classic texts were from ancient authors such as Herodotus, Thucydides, Livy, Cicero, and Tacitus.\n\nBiographies were often assigned as well; the classic example being Plutarch's \"Lives\". Biographies help show how persons behave in their context, and the wide ranges of professions and options that exist. As more modern texts became available, these were often added to the curriculum.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, these were the best available texts. In modern terms, these fields might be called history, natural science, accounting and business, fine arts (at least two, one to amuse companions, and another to decorate one's domicile), military strategy and tactics, engineering, agronomy, and architecture.\n\nThese are taught in a matrix of history, reviewing the natural development of each field for each phase of the trivium. That is, in a perfect classical education, the historical study is reviewed three times: first to learn the grammar (the concepts, terms and skills in the order developed), next time the logic (how these elements could be assembled), and finally the rhetoric, how to produce good, humanly useful and beautiful objects that satisfy the grammar and logic of the field.\n\nHistory is the unifying conceptual framework, because history is the study of everything that has occurred before the present. A skillful teacher also uses the historical context to show how each stage of development naturally poses questions and then how advances answer them, helping to understand human motives and activity in each field. The question-answer approach is called the \"dialectic method,\" and permits history to be taught Socratically as well.\n\nClassical educators consider the Socratic method to be the best technique for teaching critical thinking. In-class discussion and critiques are essential in order for students to recognize and internalize critical thinking techniques. This method is widely used to teach both philosophy and law. It is currently rare in other contexts. Basically, the teacher referees the students' discussions, asks leading questions, and may refer to facts, but never gives a conclusion until at least one student reaches that conclusion. The learning is most effective when the students compete strongly, even viciously in the argument, but always according to well-accepted rules of correct reasoning. That is, fallacies should not be allowed by the teacher.\n\nBy completing a project in each major field of human effort, the student can develop a personal preference for further education and professional training.\n\nTertiary education was usually an apprenticeship to a person with the desired profession. Most often, the understudy was called a \"secretary\" and had the duty of carrying on all the normal business of the \"master.\" Philosophy and Theology were both widely taught as tertiary subjects in Universities, however.\n\nThe early biographies of nobles show probably the ultimate form of classical education: a tutor. One early, much-emulated classic example is of this tutor system is of Alexander the Great, who was tutored by Aristotle.\n\nThere exist a number of modern groups and professional organizations which take the classical approach to education seriously, and who undertake it in earnest.\n\nThere are several major societies and associations within the classical Christian education movement, including the Society for Classical Learning, the Association of Classical and Christian Schools, Trinity Schools, the Classic Learning Test, and the CiRCE Institute. \n\nThese schools tend to rely for upon one or more of the visions of classical education represented by Dorothy Sayers essay \"The Lost Tools of Learning\", Mortimer Adler's Paideia Proposal, Alfred North Whitehead's \"The Aims of Education,\" or Susan Wise Bauer's \"The Well Trained Mind\".\n\nMost classical Christian schools employ the trivium as three stages of learning which are linked to child development:\n\n\nClassical Christian schools vary in their approach to the sectarian integration of Christian thinking. Some schools ask parents to sign a statement of faith before attending, some do not require this of parents but are clear in their sectarian teaching, others are consciously ecumenical. In the 1970s, as a response to the campus riots and sexual revolution of the 1960s, many small classical Catholic colleges began to incorporate, e.g. the Thomas More College of Liberal Arts in Merrimack, New Hampshire (est. 1978), Thomas Aquinas College in Sao Paulo, California, and Christendom College in Front Royal, Virginia. \n\nThere exist a number of classical schools in the public/secular sector. These schools, primarily charter schools, also structure their curricula and pedagogy around the trivium and integrate the teaching of values (sometimes called \"character education\") into the mainstream classroom without involving any particular religious perspectives.\n\nMethods of classical education have also often been integrated into homeschooling, particularly due to the publication of:\n\"The Well-Trained Mind: A Guide to Classical Education at Home,\" by Jessie Wise and Susan Wise Bauer (W.W. Norton, 1999), is a modern reference on classical education, particularly in a homeschool setting. It provides a history of classical education, an overview of the methodology and philosophy of classical education, and annotated lists of books divided by grade and topic that list the best books for classical education in each category.\n\nMortimer Adler and Robert Hutchins, both of the University of Chicago set forth in the 1930s to restore the \"Great Books\" of Western civilization to center stage in the curriculum. St. John's College is an example of this type of classical education at the college level. Although the standard classical works—such as the Harvard Classics—most widely available at the time, were decried by many as out of touch with modern times, Adler and Hutchins sought to expand on the standard \"classics\" by including more modern works, and by trying to tie them together in the context of what they described as the \"Great Ideas,\" condensed into a \"Syntopicon\" index and bundled together with a new \"five foot shelf\" of books as \"The Great Books of the Western World.\" They were wildly popular during the 1950s, and discussion groups of aficionados were found all over the USA, but their popularity waned during the 1960s, and such groups are relatively hard to find today. Extensions to the original set are still being published, encompassing selections from both current and older works which extend the \"great ideas\" into the present age and other fields, including civil rights, the global environment, and discussions of multiculturalism and assimilation.\n\nA more traditional, but less common view of classical education arises from the ideology of the Renaissance, advocating an education grounded in the languages and literatures of Greece and Rome. The demanding and lengthy training period required for learning to read Greek and Latin texts in their original form has been crowded out in most American schools in favor of more contemporary subjects.\n\nThe revival of \"Classical Education\" has resulted in Latin being taught at Classical Schools, but less often Greek. It is worth noting that the Association of Classical and Christian Schools does require Latin for accreditation, and New Saint Andrews College requires both Latin and Greek to graduate with a 4-year degree. A new group of schools, the Classical Latin School Association, does require Latin to be taught as a core subject.\n\nSuch an approach—an education in the classics—differs from the usual approach of the Classical education movement, but is akin to an education on \"The Great Books\" followed by St. John's College.\n\nIn India, the classical education system is based upon the study and understanding of the ancient texts the Vedas, a discipline called Vedanga, and subjects based upon that foundation, referred to as Upaveda and incorporating medicine (Ayurveda), music, archery and other martial arts.\n\nSimilarly, in China, the fulcrum of a classical education was the study and understanding of a core canon, the Four Books and Five Classics.\n\nIn Taiwan, Classical Chinese takes up 35% of Chinese education in junior high school (7-9th grade, compulsory), and 65% in senior high school (10-12th grade).\n\n\n\"For classical Islamic education see:\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27408374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27408374", "title": "Computers in the classroom", "text": "Computers in the classroom\n\nComputers in the classroom include any digital technology used to enhance, supplement, or replace a traditional educational curriculum. As computers have become more accessible, inexpensive, and powerful, the demand for this technology has increased, leading to more frequent use of computer resources within classes, and a decrease in the student-to-computer ratio within schools.\n\nCollege campuses used computer mainframes in education since the initial days of this technology, and throughout the initial development of computers. The earliest large-scale study of educational computer usage conducted for the National Science Foundation by The American Institute for Research concluded that 13% of the nation's public high schools used computers for instruction, although non-users still outnumbered users at a ratio of 2 to 1. The study also concluded that computers proved to be very popular with students, and that applications run on early models included sports statistic managers, administration tools, and physics simulators.\n\nIn 1975, Apple Inc. began donating Apple 1 model computers to schools, and mainframes began to lose their former dominance over academic research. Computer usage continued to grow rapidly throughout this era. In 1977, it was estimated that over 90% of students at Dartmouth College had used computers at some point in their college careers. Walter Koetke, the director of a Lexington, Massachusetts school system commented that, \"It's still possible for a student to get through here without using the computer, but he would certainly have to try to do it\".\n\nComputer-aided instruction gained widespread acceptance in schools by the early 1980s. It was during this period that drilling and practice programs were first developed for exclusive classroom use. Schools became divided over which computer manufacturers they were willing to support, with grade schools generally using Apple computers and high schools preferring DOS based machines. Hardware shortages in schools became a major issue, leaving many teachers unable to provide enough computers for students to use. Despite this, by 1989 computer usage shifted from being a relative rarity in American public schools, to being present in nearly every school district.\n\nThe early 1990s marked the beginning of modern media technology such as CD-ROMs as well as the development of modern presentation software such as Microsoft PowerPoint. Other computer-based technology including the electronic whiteboard and the laptop computer became widely available to students. In 1990, the Methodist Ladies' College became the first campus to require every student to purchase a laptop. Governments around the world began to take notice of the effectiveness of this policy, and began financial initiatives to significantly increase the use of laptop computers in other colleges as well. In 1996, Bill Clinton made over $2 billion in grants available in the Technology Literacy Challenge Fund, a program which challenged schools to make computers available to every student, connected to the outside world, and engaging. This marked a significant increase in the demand for computer technology in many public school systems throughout the globe.\n\nCorrelating with the development of modern operating systems like Windows 98 and the continuing support of government funding, the prevalence of educational computer usage boomed during this era. Between 1997 and 1999, the ratio of students to multimedia computers decreased from 21 students per machine to less than 10 students per machine. Colleges began creating specialized classrooms designed to provide students with access to the utilization of the most modern technology available. Classrooms such as the \"Classroom 2000\" built at Georgia Tech in 1999 which featured computers with audio and video equipment designed to capture detailed recordings of lectures as a replacement for traditional note taking began to become more common. By 2000, the student to computer ratio at some schools in the US decreased to only 5 students per school computer.\n\nAs collaborative classroom environments became mainstream, more schools as a whole began to invest in powerful networks and faster Internet connections. By 2010, many school districts implemented or encouraged \"1:1 learning programs\" which would ensure that all students in grade school would be provided with a personal laptop. Computers have significantly changed traditional teaching methodology into a more \"hands-on\" approach, with Forbes predicting that, \"Instead of parking themselves in a lecture hall for hours, students will work in collaborative spaces, where future doctors, lawyers, business leaders, engineers, journalists and artists learn to integrate their different approaches to problem solving and innovate together.\"\n\nExperience has shown, however, that excessive use of computers can be detrimental to a student's basic academic skills. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has compared average student literacy, numeracy and science skills in 31 countries (considering three large cities in China separately). It also compared the levels of student computer use in those same countries. The study's conclusion, after correcting for social backgrounds and student demographics, was that moderate use of classroom computers produces the best educational outcomes.\n\nThe shift in worldwide computer usage and the need for computer skills in today's workforce have pushed the United States government to create guidelines for educators to ensure that students are prepared to meet the demands of the 21st century. The Core Curriculum Content Standards for education are aimed at preparing students with such skills demanded of those entering the 21st century learning environment as well as the 21st century and work environment.\n\nChanges such as this, along with the changes in the ways that 21st century learners communicate, have impacted the ways that classroom computers are utilized. Currently, teachers are tapping into the enhanced abilities of current classroom computer technology by utilizing various Web 2.0 tools to enhance their instruction. Such tools are also being used to extend classroom communication outside of the campus through online collaborative tools. Centered primarily on collaboration and sharing, Web 2.0 computer applications encourage student self-expression; interaction with peers, and opportunity for authentic learning experiences Through the implementation and integration of Web 2.0 computer technologies into the classroom setting, authentic and meaningful learning experiences are now able to occur in ways that have been previously unimaginable. Currently, the learning that is taking place is not simply about typical concepts or facts as laid out in school curricula. Instead, it is about the process of building connections As a result, the awareness of the importance and the value of communication is becoming instilled into children. Today, with a single laptop, Webcam, projector, and an Internet connection, a teacher can broadcast and begin collaboration with any other classroom. As groups of learners coalesce around shared passions online, they experience something that is difficult to replicate in physical space.\n\nClassroom computer access to Web 2.0 applications such as online learning communities and interactive educational tools offer a more dynamic learning experience, with direct benefits to students. Web 2.0 technologies that are being utilized within the classroom have made it possible for essential learning to be introduced to students during their elementary levels of education and to be refined through their middle, high school and collegiate experiences. As classroom computer technology is being used for different types of communication—for presentation, for class interaction, and for collaboration, students are required to be readers and writers, editors and publishers; and must be willing to collaborate and co-create with others, working closely together to learn even more in the process. Web 2.0 Interaction involves not only sharing ideas or information with someone else, but also receiving feedback. The collaboration engages groups of people in not only sending and receiving feedback but working together for creating, building, and editing, These skills are a necessity for students' futures as they grow and enter the workplace.\n\nThe goal of using such computer applications is to increase peer-to-peer interactions through digital means, in order to replicate real-life 21st century communication skills. One such technology that has gained significant recognition within K-12 education is the Weblog. Weblogs, or blogs, are frequently accessed on classroom computers due to their positive effects upon students. These online journals are primarily used to support communication in the form of presentation, and they provide a useful tool for class interaction. Weblogs allow students to present their own findings and discoveries to an authentic audience. Receiving feedback about course work not just from your teacher but from your peers, or possibly from the outside world, can be very empowering to students. In their eyes, having the ability to publish their writing on a blog suddenly transforms them into authors and publishers. Blogs make students are of careful and conscientious writing. Students are no longer writing for an audience of one. Instead, their words face an audience of their peers as well as countless others whose primary goal is not only to read, but also to provide commentary, feedback and even to critique and criticize their words. By using classroom computers for such means, students become increasingly more cautious and aware of their grammar, spelling and word-choice knowing that they are the authors of a published piece of writing that will reach a wide audience.\n\nSimilarly, Wikis are commonly accessed on classroom computers due to their positive impacts. The collaborative environment that wikis facilitate can teach students much about how to work with others, how to create community, and how to operate in a world where the creation of knowledge and information is increasingly becoming a group effort. The implementations and uses of wikis range from the development of group-based writing projects, to collaborative note taking, to brainstorming. Teachers can set up wikis for groups of students, giving them the opportunity to all join in on equal footing to give feedback, to make suggestions and changes, and to jot down ideas. With a wiki, everyone is an author of the wiki at the same time. Additionally, Wikis afford students the opportunity to express themselves using multiple modalities. Therefore, children who struggle to express themselves through the written word, are now at ease due to ability to insert music, graphics, video, and photos into their writing. With the help of this technology, students who struggle with language are now able to create multimodal compositions, allowing them to communicate meanings that were once inaccessible or not fully expressed through their printed word. These ongoing collaborative efforts also reinforce the notion of careful, contentious writing. Students' words are no longer for an audience of one, but instead for an audience of countless individuals. The awareness of this global reach reminds students to be cautious with grammar, word choice and style as they know that others will be expanding upon their written ideas.\n\nBecause of their versatility, Podcasts are also commonly accessed on classroom computers. These downloadable, portable files allow listeners to subscribe to digitally recorded audio clips and replay them at their own convenience. Similarly, the use of Vodcasts has become almost as common, as they allow for students to view digitally recorded video on classroom computers. Accessing Podcasts and Vodcasts on classroom computers allows for differentiated instruction within the classroom environment. These technologies provide students with the opportunity to learn at their own pace and the freedom to go back whenever possible and as frequently as necessary in order to check their understanding. Podcasts are offering ESL students, and those with learning disabilities, the chance to review lectures at their own pace for increased comprehension. Many ELL and ESL students need additional support with defining commonly used language as well as with the pronunciation of new vocabulary. Other students, such as those with special needs have difficulty reading and reviewing complex texts. Accessing Podcasts and Vodcasts on classroom computers can easily provide helpful tools to address these students' needs.\n\nThere is very little evidence that shows that teachers are making proper use of computers in the classroom. Intrinsic barriers such as a belief in more traditional teaching practices and individual attitudes towards computers in education as well as the teachers own comfort with computers and their ability to use them all result in varying effectiveness in the integration of computers in the classroom. Even with the increased access to computers within education systems the actual use of computers in the class room lacks meaningful activities that involve the students. Teachers also appear to abandon the intended educational uses of the computers purely for communication between staff and parents as well as preparation of more traditional learning materials.\n"}
{"id": "39557807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39557807", "title": "Concept image and concept definition", "text": "Concept image and concept definition\n\nIn mathematics education, concept image and concept definition are two ways of understanding a mathematical concept.\n\nThe terms were introduced by . They define a concept image as such:\nA concept definition is similar to the usual notion of a definition in mathematics, with the distinction that it is personal to an individual:\n\n"}
{"id": "3709405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3709405", "title": "Dame school", "text": "Dame school\n\nA dame school was an early form of a private elementary school in English-speaking countries. They were usually taught by women and were often located in the home of the teacher.\n\nDame schools were small, private schools run by working class women and occasionally men in their own homes. References to dame schools can be found from the 16th century onward.\n\nDame schools often had a poor reputation and were often seen as a cheap form of daycare. The London inspector of the British and Foreign School Society in 1838 wrote that \"in the dame schools they cannot teach reading.\"\n\nIn 1861 the Newcastle Commission reported:\n\nThe number of children whose names ought (in summer 1858 in England and Wales) to have been on the school books, in order that all might receive some education, was 2,655,767. The number we found to be actually on the books was 2,535,462, thus leaving 120,305 children without any school instruction whatever.\n\nThey looked at the previous year's data and found that 2,213,694 children of the poorer classes were in elementary day schools. But of this number: \n\nMost dame schools largely closed with the implementation of the 1870 Elementary Education Act. \n\n\nIn North America, \"dame school\" is a broad term for a private school with a female teacher during the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. The education provided by these schools ranged from basic to exceptional. The basic type of dame school was more common in New England, where basic literacy was expected of all classes, than in the southern colonies, where there were fewer educated women willing to be teachers.\n\nMotivated by the religious needs of Puritan society and their own economic needs, some colonial women in 17th century rural New England opened small, private schools in their homes to teach reading and catechism to young children. An education in reading and religion was required for children by the Massachusetts School Law of 1642. This law was later strengthened by the famous Old Deluder Satan Act. According to Puritan beliefs, Satan would assuredly try to keep people from understanding the Scriptures, therefore it was deemed that all children be taught how to read. Dame schools fulfilled this requirement if parents were unable to educate their young children in their own home. For a small fee, women, often housewives or widows, offered to take in children to whom she would teach a little writing, reading, basic prayers and religious beliefs. These women received \"tuition\" in coin, home industries, alcohol, baked goods and other valuables. Teaching materials generally included, and often did not exceed, a hornbook, primer, Psalter and Bible. Both girls and boys were provided education through the dame school system. Dame schools generally focused on the four R's of education-\"Riting, Reading, Rithmetic, and Religion\". In addition to primary education, girls in dame schools might also learn sewing, embroidery, and other \"graces\". Most girls received their only formal education from dame schools because of sex-segregated education in common or public schools during the colonial period. If their parents could afford it, after attending a dame school for a rudimentary education in reading, colonial boys moved on to grammar schools where a male teacher taught advanced arithmetic, writing, Latin and Greek.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries, some dame schools offered boys and girls from wealthy families a \"polite education\". The women running these elite dame schools taught \"reading, writing, English, French, arithmetic, music and dancing\". Schools for upper-class girls were usually called\n\"female seminaries\", \"finishing schools\" etc. rather than \"dame schools\".\n\nThe first known school in Australia was founded in Sydney in 1789 by Isabella Rossen. The second known school in Australia was founded by Mary Johnson in Paramatta in 1791. Both women were convicts supervised by clergyman Rev. Richard Johnson. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "48664947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48664947", "title": "Darlington Collection", "text": "Darlington Collection\n\nThe Darlington Collection is extensive collection of rare documents, maps, and other historical material focusing on early American history, particularly that of Western Pennsylvania. The original material is housed by the Archives Services Center (ASC) of the library of the University of Pittsburgh with digitized material available at the Darlington Digital Library. The collection was inherited by Darlington's daughters Mary O'Hara Darlington and Edith Darlington. The donation of the collection was first given to the University of Pittsburgh in 1918. The rest of the collection was donated in 1925. \n\nWilliam Darlington was an attorney from Pittsburgh and spent much of his life collecting maps, books, magazines, and manuscripts. Some of these date back to the 1500s. The earliest maps of the New World are also part of the collection Devoted much of his 74 years to collecting some of the earliest printed maps of the New World. Both William and Mary researched and published about the French and Indian War and to the history of Western Pennsylvania and the Ohio Valley thereby acquiring a large amount of material on the subjects. Mr. Darlington died in 1889, his wife Mary, continued to acquire materials since she also had an interest in history and art. The Darlington's children, son O’Hara and daughters Mary and Edith, also added to the family collection. This family's interest in historical materials resulted in what was then believed to be the largest private library west of the Alleghenies. In 1918, they gave their initial donation of eleven thousand volumes to the University of Pittsburgh. The remainder of the family's library and a large part of the family's estate was bequeathed to the university in 1925. An endowment was given to the university of one million dollars to maintain the collection. \nFrom 1936 to 2009, the collection was housed in special library space on the sixth floor of the main building of the university, the Cathedral of Learning. This space was constructed and furnished with antiques that were bequeathed to the university by the Darlington family, and features moldings and green walls that are duplicated from the 18th mansion Graeme Park, a Pennsylvania colonial-era governor’s residence. The library was entered through a memorial vestibule and consisted of a central room with eight alcoves and contained, among other notable furnishings, a wrought iron entrance gate by Samuel Yellin. \n\nBeginning in 2006, the university began to digitize the materials of the collection and place them online at the Darlington Digital Library. The original, sometimes fragile, materials of the library were placed in storage for availability to researchers upon request. In 2009, following digitization and protective storage of the library's materials, the space was renovated by architect Rob Pfaffmann in order to house the university's Humanities Center which, while retaining much of the original character and furnishings, now includes office space for staff and visiting fellows.\n\nThe focus of the collection is on early American history and literature, and also includes rare maps and atlases, works on ornithology and natural history, and early travel narratives. O'Hara Darlington also contributed his collections of Victorian literature, sporting books, and works of illustrators and caricaturists. Since the Darlington's donation, the collection has been added to through gifts by other individuals and organizations, particularly its content on the history of Western Pennsylvania.\n\nThe photographic collection icontains 154 photographs taken by Edith Dennison Darlington Ammon and O'Hara Darlington taken around and in the family home in Guyasuta and the nearby community. The photographs span the years from 1885 through 1888. The photographs are bound in five albums. They recorded family, friends, and leisure activities. These photographs by Edith and O'Hara are noted for their artistic approach to photography.\n\nEdith and O'Hara were active members of the Pittsburgh Amateur Photographers’ Society. The organization also was a social club and was established in May 1885.\n\nThe Darlingtons assembled many scrapbooks of materials that they had collected.\nDarlington collected personal letters authored by General James O'Hara to his wife and contemporaries that describe the conditions of Fort Pitt in the 1790s. One of these includes a description of the colonists' interactions with the surrounding Native American tribes. Some papers document the business dealings of James O'Hara's land from 1785. General James O'Hara's diary is part of the collection and documents his opinions on immigration and glassworks that he built.\n\nIncluded in the collection are thirty-six rare maps, eight of which show various iterations of the world, including Gerhard Mercator’s world view created in 1613. Some maps are large and unbound. Others are included in rare books. These maps were part of a June 12, 2015 exhibition at Hillman Library conducted to commemorate the 200th anniversary of William Darlington’s birth on May 1, 1815.\n\nHistorical lithographs illustrating buildings and people are part of the collection.\n\nThe ASC presented content from the Darlington collection that consisted of original Audubon prints on November 16, 2013. These were not reproductions but some of the original sized and printed editions by John James Audubon. One of these has been an exhibition highlighting the ASC's holdings related to map makers and cartography. The collection houses some of the oldest maps known that document cartography in the New World. Other pieces of art collected are also archived.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10518721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10518721", "title": "Direct instruction", "text": "Direct instruction\n\nDirect instruction (DI) is a general term for the explicit teaching of a skill-set using lectures or demonstrations of the material to students. A particular subset of direct instruction, denoted by capitalization as Direct Instruction, refers to a specific example of the approach developed by Siegfried Engelmann and Wesley C. Becker. DI teaches by explicit instruction, in contrast to exploratory models such as inquiry-based learning. DI includes tutorials, participatory laboratory classes, discussion, recitation, seminars, workshops, observation, active learning, practica, or internships.\n\nDI relies on a systematic curriculum design, delivered by implementation of a prescribed behavioral script. On the premise that all students can learn and all teachers successfully teach if given effective training in specific techniques, teachers may be evaluated based on measurable student learning.\n\nIn some special education programs, direct instruction is used in resource rooms, when teachers assist with homework completion and academic remediation.\n\nThe term \"Direct Instruction\" applies specifically to a pedagogical model developed by Siegfried Engelmann in 1964 at the University of Illinois Institute for Research on Exceptional Children.\n\nDISTAR was a specific direct instruction model developed by Siegfried Engelmann and Wesley C. Becker. Engelmann and Becker sought to identify teaching methods that would accelerate the progress of historically disadvantaged elementary school students.\n\nDISTAR, an acronym for Direct Instruction System for Teaching Arithmetic and Reading, gained prominence during Project Follow Through, the largest educational study ever conducted in America.\n\nFeatures of DI include:\n\nDirect Instruction has been effectively delivered through peers to students with learning disabilities.\nPeer delivery offers teachers new ways to use the curriculum. The approach has also been examined as a model to assist students in a resource room with homework completion, bolster executive functioning skills and improve teacher efficiency.\n\nAnother popular direct instruction approach is the Success for All program, which uses scripted teaching to instruct elementary children in phonics intensive reading instruction program. What the teacher says is carefully scripted in the program. The program was designed by Johns Hopkins University professor Robert Slavin in the mid 1980s for failing schools in Baltimore. The program requires a dedicated 90 minutes of reading instruction each day in which the teacher must follow a pre-ordained lesson plan that has every minute filled with scripted instruction and specific activities designed to teach reading. Kozol criticized the program in his book, \"The Shame of the Nation\", for being excessively dogmatic, utilitarian, and authoritarian.\n\nDebates about the efficacy of DI have raged since before the final results of Project Follow Through were published; however, there is substantial empirical research supporting its effectiveness. A meta-analysis published by Adams & Engelmann (1996), a chief architect of the DI program, finds a \"mean effect size average per study...(as) more than .75, which confirms that the overall effect is substantial.\"\n\nIn some special education programs, it is used in a resource room with small groups of students. Some research has shown benefit with this model.\n\nDirect Instruction is used with students from every population segment (with regard to poverty, culture, and race). In Project Follow Through, the DI model was ranked first in achievement for poor students, students who were not poor, urban students, rural students, African American students, Hispanic students, and Native American students. Today, many of the Bureau of Indian Affair's highest-performing schools use Direct Instruction materials. The Baltimore Curriculum Project has many schools with Free and Reduced Lunch Rates above 75% serving student populations that are more than 90% African American. These schools have shown strong achievement gains using Direct Instruction.\n\nMeta-analysis of 85 single-subject design studies comparing direct instruction to other teaching strategies found the effects to be substantial for students with learning disabilities; however, when qualified by IQ and reading levels strategy instruction (SI) had better effects for the high IQ group. For the low-IQ discrepancy groups, higher effect sizes were yielded for a Combined DI and SI Model when compared to all competing models. With the exception of handwriting, DI's effects were all above .8 (i.e., reading and mathematics).\n\nJohn Hattie's Visible Learning: A Synthesis of Over 800 Meta-Analyses Relating to Achievement (2009) summarizes the results of four meta-analyses that examined Direct Instruction. These analyses incorporated 304 studies of over 42,000 students. Across all of these students, the average effect size was .59 and was significantly larger than those of any other curriculum Hattie studied.\n\nDirect Instruction is recognized as one of two effective models of comprehensive school reform and, in many cases, can be integrated into a tiered model system to address students with developing problems. The findings from Project Follow Through, conducted in a variety of selected communities throughout the United States, suggested that Direct Instruction is the most effective model for teaching academic skills and for affective outcomes (e.g., self-esteem) of children. Recent large-scale studies (1997–2003), such as the Baltimore Curriculum Project, show that it is possible to help schools that are in the lowest twenty percent with respect to academic achievement steadily improve until they are performing well above average. In some cases, school achievement improved from the 16th percentile to above the 90th percentile.\n\nOne three-year study of methods of teaching reading showed that highly scripted, teacher-directed methods of teaching reading were not as effective as traditional methods that allowed a more flexible approach. Urban teachers in particular expressed great concern over the DI's lack of sensitivity to issues of poverty, culture, and race.\n\nThe former president of the National Science Teachers Association (NSTA), Anne Tweed, questioned whether direct instruction was the most effective science teaching strategy. In the December 15, 2004 NSTA Reports she concluded that \"direct instruction alone cannot replace the in-depth experience with science concepts that inquiry-based strategies provide.\"\n\nSome critics also see DI as a betrayal of the humanistic, egalitarian foundations of public education, or as a \"canned\" or \"teacher proof\" curriculum deliverable via unskilled teachers.\n\nIn Australia, where DI has been used in schools among several remote Indigenous Australians communities in Queensland, DI has been criticised for its high cost in return for at best modest improvements in literacy and numeracy levels, as well as its US-centric theme which is alien to indigenous Australian cultures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2036716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2036716", "title": "Education in Papua New Guinea", "text": "Education in Papua New Guinea\n\nEducation in Papua New Guinea is managed through nineteen provinces and two district organisational units. It is tuition-free and attendance is not compulsory. With a literacy rate of 64.2%, Papua New Guinea has the lowest literacy rate in Oceania.\nThe first school in Papua New Guinea was established in 1873 by English missionaries. Missionaries would continue providing the basis for education, with English and German as primary languages. In 1914, as part of World War I, Australia took control over German New Guinea and English became the sole official language.\nThe Currie Commission was created in 1964 to investigate the establishment of higher education in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. In 1965 the first university in Papua New Guinea, the University of Papua New Guinea, was established. It was heavily influenced by the Australian education system.\n\nEducation in Papua New Guinea has been tuition-free since 2012, as one of the election promises of the People's National Congress.\nPapua New Guinea's history of missionary education has led to a large part of education being provided by religious schools. The Department of Education has estimated that 29% of the country's lower secondary education is operated by churches. 3% is operated by private international schools, while the remainder is funded by the government.\n\nPapua New Guinea has an A-to-D grading system, with D being a failing grade.\n\nThere are six universities in Papua New Guinea. These are accredited under the PNG Office of Higher Education and have establishing Acts of Parliament. The six universities and the main campus of each are, in alphabetical order:\nIn 2015, Papua New Guinean Sign Language became an official language in PNG. Based on Auslan, it is used in deaf education.\n"}
{"id": "18102746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18102746", "title": "Education in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines", "text": "Education in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines\n\nEducation in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is neither compulsory nor free, although children are usually in school until the age of 15. In 1998, the gross primary enrollment rate was 90.5 percent, and the net primary enrollment rate was 83.5 percent. \n\nPrimary school attendance rates were unavailable for St. Vincent and the Grenadines as of 2001. While enrollment rates indicate a level of commitment to education, they do not always reflect children’s participation in school. According to the government, cases in which children leave school before the age of 16 are investigated.\n"}
{"id": "5325141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5325141", "title": "Educational psychologist", "text": "Educational psychologist\n\nAn educational psychologist is a psychologist whose differentiating functions may include diagnostic and psycho-educational assessment, psychological counseling in educational communities (students, teachers, parents and academic authorities), community-type psycho-educational intervention, and mediation, coordination, and referral to other professionals, at all levels of the educational system. Many countries use this term to signify those who provide services to students, their teachers, and families while other countries use this term to signify academic expertise in teaching Educational Psychology.\n\nPsychology is a so well developed discipline that allows different specializations: a) clinical and health psychology, b) work and organizational psychology, c) educational psychology, etc. What differentiates an educational psychologist from other psychologists or specialists is constituted by an academic triangle whose vertexes are represented by three categories: teachers, students and curricula (see diagram). The use of plural in these three cases assumes two meanings: a) the traditional or official one and b) other more general derived from our information and knowledge society. The plural also indicates that nowadays we can no longer consider the average student or teacher, or a closed curriculum, but the enormous variety found in our students, teachers and curricula. The triangle vertexes are connected by two-directional arrows, allowing four-fold typologies instead of the traditional two-way relationships (e.g., teacher-student). In this way, we can find, in different educational contexts, groups of good teachers and students (excellent teaching/learning processes and products), groups of good teachers but bad students, and groups of bad teachers and good students, producing in both cases lower levels of academic achievements. In addition, we can find groups of bad teachers and bad students (school failure).\nThis specific work of an educational psychologist takes place in different contexts: micro-, meso- and macro-systems. Microsystems refer to family contexts, where atmosphere, hidden curriculum, and expectations and behaviors of all family members determine, to a large extent, the educational development of each student. The term mesosystem refers to all variety of contexts found in educational institutions, knowing that different variables such as geographical location, institution marketing or type of teachers and students, etc., can influence the academic results of students. Macrosystem has a much more general and global nature, leading us, for example, to consider the influence that the different societies or countries have on educational final products. One illustrative example of this level can be the analyses carried out on data gathered by the PISA reports. This approach would be the essence of educational psychology versus school psychology for many of U.S. educational researchers and for Division 15 of APA.\n\nThe most noteworthy function is, without a doubt, formal (rather than informal) assessment. This evaluation involves collecting information, in a valid and reliable way, about the three target groups of the triangle diagram (in their respective contexts): teachers, students and curricula. Evaluation is divided in at least two main types: diagnosis (dysfunctions detection such as physical, sensory and intellectual impairments, dyslexia, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, pervasive development disorders or autism spectrum disorders) and psycho-educational evaluation (detection of curriculum difficulties, poor school atmosphere or family problems, etc.). Evaluation implies detection, and, thanks to this, Prevention.\n\nA second function, very relevant too, is psychological counseling. This must be directed to: a) students, in their various dimensions (intellectual, obviously, but also their social, affective and professional dimensions); b) parents, as ‘paraprofessionals’ who may implement programs, selected or developed by educational psychologists, to solve their child/student problems; c) teachers, to whom will be offered psycho-educational support to face psychological difficulties that may be found when implementing and adapting curricula to diversity shown by students; d) academic authorities, who will be helped in their decision-making, regarding the teaching (teaching process) and administrative duties (providing necessary support for students with specific educational needs, decisions about promotion to the next level, and so on).\n\nA third function based on communitarian interventions, with three main facets: corrective, preventative, and optimizing interventions. If disruptive behavior occurs in particular moments and contexts, then a corrective intervention is required. If the aim is school violence reduction, then tertiary preventive intervention programs are needed. If an early diagnosis of learning difficulties is carried out, then psychologist has undertaken secondary prevention. If the aim is to use psycho-educational programs to prevent future school failure, then a primary preventative intervention program is put into practice. The complement to all of these interventions is constituted by a series of optimizing activities, meant for the academic, professional, social, family, and personal improvement of all agents in educational community, especially learners.\n\nA fourth function, or specific activity, is referral of those suffering dysfunctions to other professionals, following a previous diagnostic evaluation, with the aim to coordinate future treatment implementation. This coordination will take place with parents, teachers and other professionals, promoting collaboration among all educational agents in order to get the fastest and best case resolution. This second triangle represents the essential components of school psychology, for some European researchers or division 16 of APA.\n\nNowadays it is a specific Doctoral degree (Masters in Scotland) which generally completes the professional preparation of educational psychologists in the UK. In this Doctorate in Educational Psychology, it is essential a main course which prepares educational psychologists for carrying out diagnostic and psycho-educational assessment, psychological counseling to the educational communities, and all types of communitarian interventions (corrective, preventive and optimizing). Trainees also develop external professional practices (where the specific coordination, evaluation, counseling, and intervention functions will be put into practice) on placement in local authorities, as well as a final thesis. Equally, there are a series of theoretical areas that, due to their relevancy in the teaching/learning contexts, should be included, such as: classroom diversity, drug-dependency prevention, developmental disorders, learning difficulties, new technologies applied to educational contexts and data analysis and interpretation. In sum, taking into account all of this, perhaps educational psychologists will be able to meet adequately demands found in different educational institutions.\n\nThe following qualifications are required: an undergraduate degree in psychology (or approved postgraduate conversion course which confers the BPS Graduate Basis for Registration) and a BPS accredited Doctorate in Educational Psychology (3 years), or, for Scotland only, an accredited master's degree in Educational Psychology. Whilst teaching experience is relevant, it is no longer an entry requirement. At least one year's full-time experience of working with children in educational, childcare or community settings is required and for some courses this may be two years' experience.\n\nTo use the term Educational Psychologist in the UK, one will need to be registered with the Health Care Professionals Council (HCPC), which involves completing a course (Doctorate or Masters) approved by the HCPC.\n\nIn the most basic sense of standards for education requirements in the United States an educational psychologist needs a bachelor's degree, followed by a master's degree, and commonly finishing with a PhD or a PsyD in Educational Psychology. Specifically in California, an educational psychologist candidate (commonly referred to as a LEP or Licensed Educational Psychologist) must have a minimum of a master's degree in psychology or a related field in educational psychology. This degree must be couple with a minimum of three years of experience including two years as a credential school psychologist and one year of supervised professional experience in an accredited school psychology program. After completing these requirements a candidate will then taken an LEP examination to determine if the applicant will be approved. These requirements are widely accepted by the Board of Behavioral Sciences (BBS) and are considered the common standard. States may have varying standards but the aforementioned standards are a commonality when working in a school setting. Another route that can be followed is in the research field. It involves many of the same standards without the direct link of being in a school setting. Those with a research setting are typically employed through a university and do research based on their own and others findings. They may also teach at the university in their respective field.\n\nHandbooks, application forms, and board reviews can be found at various websites:\n\n\nThe average salary of an educational psychologist is variable dependent on where the psychologist depends on practicing. In a school setting the professional can expect to make around $68,000 a year; however, these professionals are commonly school psychologists who have a different background than educational psychologists. An educational psychologist in the research and development field could expect to make around $84,000 per year. Both of these averages could be considered inflated with another source listing the average income of an educational psychologist at around $57,000 per year. However the resounding majority seems to sit at the $67,000 per year range making the previous income average considerably modest. The latest statistics released in 2010 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics place the median annual salary at $72,540 – showing an increase over a four-year period – compared to the median household income of the United States which is currently at $51,000. Educational psychologists make approximately 40% more than the average American, making it an advantageous field of study.\n\nJob outlook in the field of educational psychology is considered in good condition. By national estimates (US) growth in the field ranges from 11–15% between 2006–2022. A report released in 2006 the rate of growth was listed as 15% from 2006–2016, and a separate report released put the growth percentage at a modest 11% from 2012–2022. Considering most job outlook growth percentages of the time, educational psychologists had the highest in the psychology field and was also considered the highest amongst all occupations at the time of its release in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "650653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650653", "title": "Electronic assessment", "text": "Electronic assessment\n\nElectronic assessment, also known as e-assessment, online assessment, computer assisted/mediated assessment and computer-based assessment, is the use of information technology in various forms of assessment such as educational assessment, health assessment, psychiatric assessment, and psychological assessment. This may utilize an online computer connected to a network. This definition embraces a wide range of student activity ranging from the use of a word processor to on-screen testing. Specific types of e-assessment include multiple choice, online/electronic submission, computerized adaptive testing and computerized classification testing.\n\nDifferent types of online assessments contain elements of one or more of the following components, depending on the assessment's purpose: formative, diagnostic, or summative. Instant and detailed feedback may (or may not) be enabled.\n\nIn education assessment, large-scale examining bodies find the journey from traditional paper-based exam assessment to fully electronic assessment a long one. Practical considerations such as having the necessary IT hardware to enable large numbers of student to sit an electronic examination at the same time, as well as the need to ensure a stringent level of security (for example, see: Academic dishonesty) are among the concerns that need to resolved to accomplish this transition.\n\ne-marking is one way that many exam assessment and awarding bodies, such as Cambridge International Examinations, are utilizing innovations in technology to expedite the marking of examinations (see: Electronic marking). In some cases, e-marking can be combined with electronic examinations, whilst in other cases students will still handwrite their exams with papers scanned in securely and uploaded into an e-marking system.\n\nE-assessment is becoming more widely used by exam awarding bodies, particularly those with multiple or international study centres and those which offer remote study courses. Industry bodies such as The e-Assessment Association (eAA), founded in 2008, as well as events run by the Association of Test Publishers (ATP) that focus specifically on Innovations in Testing, represent the growth in adoption of technology-enhanced assessment.\n\nIn psychiatric and psychological testing, e-assessment can be used not only to assess cognitive and practical abilities but anxiety disorders, such as social anxiety disorder, i.e. SPAI-B. Widely in psychology. Cognitive abilities are assessed using \"e-testing\" software, while practical abilities are assessed using \"e-portfolios\" or \"simulation\" software.\n\nOnline assessment is used primarily to measure cognitive abilities, demonstrating what has been learned after a particular educational event has occurred, such as the end of an instructional unit or chapter. When assessing practical abilities or to demonstrate learning that has occurred over a longer period of time an online portfolio (or ePortfolio) is often used. The first element that must be prepared when teaching an online course is assessment. Assessment is used to determine if learning is happening, to what extent and if changes need to be made.\n\nMost students will not complete assignments unless there is an assessment (i.e. motivation). It is the instructors role to catalyze student motivation. Appropriate feedback is the key to assessment, whether or not the assessment is graded.\n\nStudents are often asked to work in groups. With this brings on new assessment strategies. Students can be evaluated using a collaborative learning model in which the learning is driven by the students and/or a cooperative learning model where tasks are assigned and the instructor is involved in decisions.\n\nPre-testing – Prior to the teaching of a lesson or concept, a student can complete an online pretest to determine their level of knowledge. This form of assessment helps determine a baseline so that when a summative assessment or post-test is given, quantitative evidence is provided showing that learning has occurred.\n\nFormative assessment – Formative assessment is used to provide feedback during the learning process. In online assessment situations, objective questions are posed, and feedback is provided to the student either during or immediately after the assessment.\n\nSummative assessment – Summative assessments provide a quantitative grade and are often given at the end of a unit or lesson to determine that the learning objectives have been met.\n\nPractice Testing – With the ever-increasing use of high-stakes testing in the educational arena, online practice tests are used to give students an edge. Students can take these types of assessments multiple times to familiarize themselves with the content and format of the assessment.\n\nSurveys – Online surveys may be used by educators to collect data and feedback on student attitudes, perceptions or other types of information that might help improve the instruction.\n\nEvaluations – This type of survey allows facilitators to collect data and feedback on any type of situation where the course or experience needs justification or improvement.\n\nPerformance testing – The user shows what they know and what they can do. This type of testing is used to show technological proficiency, reading comprehension, math skills, etc. This assessment is also used to identify gaps in student learning.\n\nNew technologies, such as the Web, digital video, sound, animations, and interactivity, are providing tools that can make assessment design and implementation more efficient, timely, and sophisticated.\n\nElectronic marking, also known as e-marking and onscreen marking, is the use of digital educational technology specifically designed for marking. The term refers to the electronic marking or grading of an exam. E-marking is an examiner led activity closely related to other e-assessment activities such as e-testing, or e-learning which are student led. E-marking allows markers to mark a scanned script or online response on a computer screen rather than on paper.\n\nThere are no restrictions to the types of tests that can use e-marking, with e-marking applications designed to accommodate multiple choice, written, and even video submissions for performance examinations. E-marking software is used by individual educational institutions and can also be rolled out to the participating schools of awarding exam organisations. e-marking has been used to mark many well known high stakes examinations, which in the United Kingdom include A levels and GCSE exams, and in the US includes the SAT test for college admissions. Ofqual reports that e-marking is the main type of marking used for general qualifications in the United Kingdom.\n\nEarly adopters include the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate, (which operates under the brand name Cambridge Assessment) which conducted its first major test of e-marking in November 2000. Cambridge Assessment has conducted extensive research into e-marking and e-assessment. The syndicate has published a series of papers, including research specific to e-marking such as: Examining the impact of moving to on-screen marking on concurrent validity.\n\nIn 2007, the International Baccalaureate implemented e-marking. In 2012, 66% of nearly 16 million exam scripts were \"e-marked\" in the United Kingdom. Ofqual reports that in 2015, all key stage 2 tests in the United Kingdom will be marked onscreen.\n\nIn 2014, the Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA) announced that most of the National 5 question papers would be e-marked.\n\nIn June 2015, the Odisha state government in India announced that it planned to use e-marking for all Plus II papers from 2016.\n\ne-marking can be used to mark examinations that are completed on paper and then scanned and uploaded as digital images, as well as online examinations. Multiple-choice exams can be either marked by examiners online or be automarked where appropriate. When marking written script exams, e-marking applications provide markers with the online tools and resources to mark as they go and can add up marks as they progress without exceeding the prescribed total for each question.\n\nAll candidate details are hidden from the work being marked to ensure anonymity during the marking process. Once marking is complete, results can be uploaded immediately, reducing both the time spent by examiners posting results and the wait time for students.\n\nThe e-marking FAQ is a comprehensive list of answers to frequently asked questions surrounding e-marking.\n\nIt has also been noted that in regards to university level work, providing electronic feedback can be more time-consuming than traditional assessments, and therefore more expensive.\n\nIn 1986, Lichtenwald investigated the test validity and test reliability of either personal computer administration or a paper and pencil administration of the Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test-Revised (PPVT-R). His project report included a review and analysis of the literature of pre mid 1980s E-assessment systems.\n\nA review of the literature of E-assessment from the 1970s until 2000 examined the advantages and disadvantages of E-assessments.\n\nA detailed review of the literature regarding advantages and disadvantages of E-assessment for different types of tests for different types of students in different educational environment from childhood through young adulthood was completed in 2010.\n\nAcademic dishonesty, commonly known as cheating, occurs in all levels of educational institutions. In traditional classrooms, students cheat in various forms such as hidden prepared notes not permitted to be used or looking at another student's paper during an exam, copying homework from one another, or copying from a book, article or media without properly citing the source. Individuals can be dishonest due to lack of time management skills, pursuit for better grades, cultural behavior or a misunderstanding of plagiarism.\n\nOnline classroom environments are no exception to the possibility of academic dishonesty. It can easily be seen from a student's perspective as an easy passing grade. Proper assignments types, meetings and projects can prevent academic dishonesty in the online classroom. However, online assessment may provide additional possibilities for cheating, such as hacking.\n\nTwo common types of academic dishonesty are identity fraud and plagiarism.\n\nIdentity fraud can occur in the traditional or online classroom. There is a higher chance in online classes due to the lack of proctored exams or instructor-student interaction. In a traditional classroom, instructors have the opportunity to get to know the students, learn their writing styles or use proctored exams. To prevent identity fraud in an online class, instructors can use proctored exams through the institutions testing center or require students to come in at a certain time for the exam. Correspondence through the phone or video conferencing techniques can allow an instructor to become familiar with a student through their voice and appearance. Another option would be personalize assignments to students backgrounds or current activities. This allows the student to apply it to their personal life and gives the instructor more assurance the actual student is completing the assignment. Lastly, an instructor may not make the assignments heavily weighted so the students do not feel as pressured.\n\nPlagiarism is the misrepresentation of another person's work. It is easy to copy and paste from the internet or retype directly from a source. It is not only the exact wordage, but the thought or idea.\nIt is important to learn to properly cite a source when using someone else's work.\n\nTo assist sharing of assessment items across disparate systems, global standards such as the IMS Question and Test Interoperability specification (QTI) have emerged.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23210292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23210292", "title": "Elementary school", "text": "Elementary school\n\nElementary school is a school for students in their first school years, where they get primary education before they enter secondary education. The exact ages vary by country. In the United States, elementary schools usually have 6 grades with pupils aged between 6 and 12 years old, but the age can be up to 10 or 14 years old as well. In Japan, the age of pupils in elementary school ranges from 6 to 12, after which the pupils enter junior high school. \n\nElementary school is usually only one part of compulsory education, especially in Western countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "308725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=308725", "title": "Engel v. Vitale", "text": "Engel v. Vitale\n\nEngel v. Vitale, 370 U.S. 421 (1962), was a landmark United States Supreme Court case in which the Court ruled that it is unconstitutional for state officials to compose an official school prayer and encourage its recitation in public schools.\n\nThe state of New York approved a piece of legislation which encouraged students to start their school days with the Pledge of Allegiance and a prayer with the text:\n\nThe case was brought by a group of families of public school students in New Hyde Park from the Herricks Union Free School District who sued the school board president William J. Vitale, Jr. The families argued that the voluntary prayer written by the state board of regents to \"Almighty God\" contradicted their religious beliefs. Led by Steven I. Engel, a Jewish man, the plaintiffs sought to challenge the constitutionality of the state's prayer in school policy. They were supported by groups opposed to the school prayer including rabbinical organizations, Ethical Culture, and Jewish organizations. The acting parties were not members of one particular religion; despite being listed in the court papers as an atheist, plaintiff Lawrence Roth later denied that and described himself as religious but disagreed with prayer. \n\nThe plaintiffs argued that opening the school day with such a prayer violates the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution (as applied to the states through the Fourteenth Amendment), which states, in part, \"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion\". The governments of twenty-two states submitted an \"amicus curiae\" brief to the Supreme Court urging affirmance of the New York Court of Appeals decision that upheld the constitutionality of the prayer. The American Jewish Committee, the Synagogue Council of America, and the American Ethical Union each submitted briefs urging the Court to instead reverse and rule that the prayer was unconstitutional.\n\nIn a 6–1 decision, the Supreme Court held that reciting government-written prayers in public schools was unconstitutional, violating the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.\n\nIn his opinion for the Court, Justice Black explained the importance of separation between church and state by giving a lengthy history of the issue, beginning with the 16th century in England. He noted that prayer is a religious activity by the very nature of being a prayer, and that prescribing such a religious activity for school children violates the Establishment Clause.\n\nThe Court rejected the defendant's arguments that students were not asked to observe any specific established religion, that the traditional heritage of the nation was religious, and that the prayer was voluntary. The Court held that the mere promotion of a religion is sufficient to establish a violation, even if that promotion is not coercive. The Court further held that the fact that the prayer is vaguely-enough worded not to promote any particular religion is not a sufficient defense, as it still promotes a family of religions (those that recognize \"Almighty God\"), which still violates the Establishment Clause.\n\nSince its decision, \"Engel\" has been the subject of intense debate. It has become considered one of the Court's \"liberal\" decisions alongside decisions such as its sequel, \"Abington School District v. Schempp\", \"Griswold v. Connecticut\", \"Miranda v. Arizona\" and its sequel, \"in re Gault\", \"Eisenstadt v. Baird\", \"Roe v. Wade\", \"Miller v. California\" and \"Mapp v. Ohio\", and has been criticized for its broadness in holding that a showing of coercion is not required to demonstrate an Establishment Clause violation.\n\n\"Engel\" has been the basis for several subsequent decisions limiting government-directed prayer in school. In \"Wallace v. Jaffree\" (1985), the Supreme Court ruled Alabama's law permitting one minute for prayer or meditation was unconstitutional. In \"Lee v. Weisman\" (1992), the court prohibited clergy-led prayer at middle school graduation ceremonies. \"Lee v. Weisman\", in turn, was a basis for \"Santa Fe ISD v. Doe\" (2000), in which the Court extended the ban to school-organized \"student\"-led prayer at high school football games.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36926898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36926898", "title": "English Language School Board", "text": "English Language School Board\n\nThe English Language School Board or ELSB is a Canadian school district in Prince Edward Island.\n\nThe English Language School Board is an Anglophone district operating 58 public schools (gr. 1-12) in Prince County, Queens County and Kings County. It maintains offices in Stratford and Summerside with the current enrollment at approximately 20,000 students and 2,300 teachers.\n\nThe English Language School Board was created in 2012 when Eastern School District and Western School Board were merged. The Board took office on January 1, 2013.\n\nOn November 5, 2015 the PEI Government announced that it will be dissolving the English Language School Board.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3167116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3167116", "title": "Excellence", "text": "Excellence\n\nExcellence is a talent or quality which is unusually good and so surpasses ordinary standards. It is also used as a standard of performance as measured e.g. through economic indicators.\n\nIn modern public relations and marketing, \"excellence\" is frequently criticized as a buzzword that tries to convey a good impression often without imparting any concrete information (e.g. \"center for excellence in ...\", \"business excellence\", etc.).\n\nThe Ancient Greeks had a concept of \"arete\" which meant an outstanding fitness for purpose. This occurs in the works of Aristotle and Homer.\n\nAnother related concept was \"eudaimonia\" which was the happiness which resulted from a life well-lived, being prosperous and fulfilled. The equivalent concept in Muslim philosophy is \"ihsan\".\n\nStudies have shown that the most important way to achieve excellent performance in fields such as sport, music, professions and scholarships is to practice. Achievement of excellence in such fields commonly requires approximately 10 years of dedication, comprising about 10,000 hours of effort.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9998276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9998276", "title": "F1 in Schools", "text": "F1 in Schools\n\nF1 in Schools is an international STEM (science, technology, engineering, mathematics) competition for school children (aged 11–18), in which groups of 3–6 students have to design and manufacture a miniature car out of the official F1 Model Block using CAD/CAM design tools. The cars are powered by CO cartridges and are attached to a track by a nylon wire. They are timed from the moment they are launched to when they pass the finish line by a computer.\n\nThe cars have to follow extensive regulations, in a similar fashion to Formula 1 (e.g. the wheels of the car must be in contact with the track at all times). The cars are raced on a 20m long track with two lanes, to allow two cars to be raced simultaneously.\nSoftware called F1 Virtual Wind Tunnel was designed specifically for the challenge. F1 Virtual Wind Tunnel or F1 VWT uses computational fluid dynamics (CFD) to simulate air resistance on the \"cars\" made in the CAD.\n\nThe competition is currently operational in over 40 different countries. The competition was first introduced in the UK in 1999. The competition's aim is to introduce younger people to engineering in a more fun environment. The competition is held annually, with Regional and National Finals. The overall winners of the National Finals are invited to compete at the World Finals, which are held at a different location each year, usually held in conjunction with a Formula One Grand Prix. In the UK competition; there are 3 classes of entry. Formula One Class aimed at 11-to-19 year olds, Rookie Class aimed at 11-to-15 year olds from new schools and The Jaguar Primary School Challenge aimed at 5-to-11 year olds.\n\n, the F1 in Schools World Champions are Horizon, Australia.\n\nThe F1 in Schools World Record was set in 2016 by Infinitude and is 0.916 seconds. This time was set using a Launch Energy Recovery System (LERS), which has since been banned.\n\nUnion Racing International were the first team to beat the one second barrier and set a new World Record at the World Finals 2015 in Singapore of 0.977 seconds. However, one year later Infinitude from Australia broke the world record with a time of 0.916 seconds. The other teams to have broken the 1 second barrier were XLR8 from India (0.918 s), Infinite Racing from Greece, Fast Payce from Australia and Aeolus Racing from Greece.\n\nAfter safety issues concerning the use of extended canister chambers coupled with the Launch Energy Recovery System (LERS), the controversial device was banned globally from the 2017 World Finals season onwards.\n\nDenford Ltd. unveiled a new track and timing system that debuted at the 2017 World Finals. All components are now manufactured in-house, resulting in a lower overall cost in comparison to the Pitsco produced track that it succeeds. The track's launching mechanism has had numerous reliability issues since it's introduction.\n\nIn 2018, the competition's logo was updated to incorporate Formula One's updated logo. Consequently, the Bernie Ecclestone World Champions trophy was replaced, with the new World Champions trophy incorporating the new logo.\n\nSpecification judging\nSpecification judging is a detailed inspection process where the race car is assessed for compliance with the F1 in Schools Technical\nRegulations. Scrutineering is conducted within the confines of parc fermé where judges use a series of specially manufactured gauges and accurate measuring tools to check the car's compliance.\n\nAll of the rules and regulations season can be found at F1 in Schools website.\n\nEngineering judging\nThe scheduled engineering judging interview session focuses on the application of CAD CAM analysis, CAD data organisation, orthographic drawing, 3D render and use of CNC machining. This is an informal interview where judges ask the team to demonstrate their CAD / CAM work and query teams on what they have done.\n\nPortfolio & Pit Display Judging\n\nEach team of students is required to produce an enterprise portfolio, engineering portfolio as well as a pit display. The portfolios are A3 size and should contain information about the team, their car design and manufacturing process, marketing techniques, project management, teamwork and team identity.\nTeams are given an area to set up a pit display which is judged alongside their design portfolio by a panel of judges.\n\nVerbal presentation judging\nIn advance of the competition, teams prepare a timed verbal presentation to present to a panel of judges, outlining their project. Teams usually use a PowerPoint presentation as a visual aid when presenting to the judges.\nThe length of the verbal presentation varies depending on the level of the competition. At World Finals Level teams are required to prepare a 10-minute presentation.\n\nRacing\n\nTeams race their cars against each other on the official 25 metre F1 in Schools competition track. Points are awarded for reaction time racing as well as manual launch racing.\n\nAlthough regulations vary from regional to national to world finals, the basic features, resembling a real F1 car, are consistent.\n\nFront and rear wing\n\nThe cars have to include a front and a rear wing that does not cover the wheels if seen from the side or the top in the technical drawing. The front wing can not cover the wheels higher than 15mm relative to the track surface.\n\nCartridge chamber\n\nThe cars feature a chamber to hold the CO cartridge. It has to be parallel to the track surface.\n\nWheels\n\nThe cars have to include four wheels with a given scope of width and radius that are in contact with the surface of the track at all times. The wheels must be entirely visible in the technical drawing from the right or left side and from the top. There is a 15mm long exclusion zone behind the width of the wheels.\n\nCar body\n\nThe cars have to incorporate a virtual cargo hotizontal to the track surface in between the centre of the axis of the wheels. This renders many \"catamaran\" designs insufficient. Cars have to be symmetrical to a vertically oriented reference plane. Cars also have to feature side boxes big enough to hold the F1 in schools decal similar to Formula 1.\n\nF1 in Schools is an internationally recognised competition with schools participating from the following countries:\n\nGenerally, Regional Champions are invited to compete at their country's National Final, with the in-country organising authority inviting other teams to the National Final through the use of wildcards. The National Champions are invited to represent their country at the World Finals. The in-country organiser is permitted to invite up to 3 other teams to the World Final, one of which is generally either an in-country or international collaboration team. The winner receives the crystal Bernie Ecclestone F1 in Schools World Trophy. The World Final podium places and Best Engineered Car are outlined below.\n\nF1 in Schools has been featured in UK print media and on television.\n\n2012\nF1 in Schools feature on Sky Sports F1.\n\n2005\nF1 in Schools appeared in Newsround (13 January). The programme featured Mathew Hughes, from Welsh team \"Atomic Jo's\", explaining the F1 in Schools scheme. The interview was recorded at the UK National final in London 2005.\n\n2004\nF1 in Schools appeared on the BBC Politics Show (10 October), BBC Central News (3 October) and BBC Northern Ireland TV (7 January). An article on F1 in Schools was in the Education Guardian (6 January).\n\n2003\nF1 in Schools appeared on HTV News (11 December), BBC News Wales (11 December) and BBC 1 Newsround (10 January).\n\n2002\nF1 in Schools was reported by \"The Sun\" (27 November), RPM Motorsports (November) and appeared on Techno Games on BBC1 in March.\n\n2001\nF1 in Schools was reported by The Mirror (22 February) and appeared on Blue Peter in June.\n\nThe challenge has many supporters and sponsors which include the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42057983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42057983", "title": "Gamification of learning", "text": "Gamification of learning\n\nThe gamification of learning is an educational approach to motivate students to learn by using video game design and game elements in learning environments. The goal is to maximize enjoyment and engagement through capturing the interest of learners and inspiring them to continue learning. Gamification, broadly defined, is the process of defining the elements which comprise games that make those games fun and motivate players to continue playing, and using those same elements in a non-game context to influence behaviour. In other words gamification is the introduction of game elements in a non-game situation. \n\nThere are two forms of gamification, structural with no subject matter changes, and the altered content method that adds subject matter. Games applied in learning can be considered as serious games, where the learning experience is centred around serious stories. The serious story is \"impressive in quality\" and \"part of a thoughtful process\" to achieve learning goals.\n\nIn educational contexts, examples of desired student behaviour which gamification can potentially influence include attending class, focusing on meaningful learning tasks, and taking initiative.\n\nDistinguishable from game-based learning, gamification of learning does not involve students in designing and creating their own games, or in playing commercially produced video games. Within game-based learning initiatives, students might use \"Gamestar Mechanic\" or \"GameMaker\" to create their own video game, or play \"Minecraft\", for example, where they explore and create 3D worlds. In these examples, along with games such as \"Surge\" for PlayStation and \"Angry Birds\", the learning agenda is encompassed within the game itself.\n\nSome authors contrast gamification of learning with game-based learning, claiming that gamification occurs only when learning happens in a non-game context, such as a school classroom, and when a series of game elements is arranged into a system or \"game layer\" which operates in coordination with the learning in that regular classroom. Others include games that are created to induce learning.\n\nSome elements of games that may be used to motivate learners and facilitate learning include:\n\nWhen a classroom incorporates the use of some of these elements, that environment can be considered \"gamified\". There is no distinction as to how many elements need to be included to officially constitute gamification, but a guiding principle is that gamification takes into consideration the complex system of reasons a person chooses to act, and not just one single factor. Progress mechanics, which need not make use of advanced technology, are often thought of as constituting a gamified system However, used in isolation, these points and opportunities to earn achievements are not necessarily effective motivators for learning. Engaging video games which can keep players playing for hours on end do not maintain players' interest by simply offering the ability to earn points and beat levels. Rather, the story that carries players along, the chances for players to connect and collaborate with others, the immediate feedback, the increasing challenges, and the powerful choices given to players about how to proceed throughout the game, are immensely significant factors in sustained engagement. Business initiatives designed to use gamification to retain and recruit customers, but do not incorporate a creative and balanced approach to combining game elements, may be destined to fail. Similarly, in learning contexts, the unique needs of each set of learners, along with the specific learning objectives relevant to that context must inform the combination of game elements to shape a compelling gamification system that has the potential to motivate learners.\n\nA system of game elements which operates in the classroom is explicit, and consciously experienced by the students in the classroom. There is no hidden agenda by which teachers attempt to coerce or trick students into doing something. Students still make autonomous choices to participate in learning activities. The progress mechanics used in the gamified system can be thought of as lighting the way for learners as they progress, and the other game mechanics and elements of game design are set up as an immersive system to support and maximize students' learning.\n\nGamification initiatives in learning contexts acknowledge that large numbers of school-aged children play video games, which shapes their identity as people and as learners. While the world of gaming used to be skewed heavily toward male players, recent statistics show that slightly more than half of videogame players are male: in the United States, 59% male, 41% female, and 52% male, 48% female in Canada. Within games and other digital media, students experience opportunities for autonomy, competence and relatedness, and these affordances are what they have come to expect from such environments. Providing these same opportunities in the classroom environment is a way to acknowledge students' reality, and to acknowledge that this reality affects who they are as learners. Incorporating elements from games into classroom scenarios is a way to provide students with opportunities to act autonomously, to display competence, and to learn in relationship to others. Game elements are a familiar language that children speak, and an additional channel through which teachers can communicate with their students.\n\nGame designer Jane McGonigal characterizes video game players as urgent optimists who are part of a social fabric, engaged in blissful productivity, and on the lookout for epic meaning. If teachers can successfully organize their classrooms and curriculum activities to incorporate the elements of games which facilitate such confidence, purpose and integrated sense of mission, students may become engrossed in learning and collaborating such that they do not want to stop. The dynamic combination of intrinsic and extrinsic motivators is a powerful force which, if educational contexts can adapt from video games, may increase student motivation, and student learning.\n\nSome of the potential benefits of successful gamification initiatives in the classroom include: \nReferring to how video games provide increasingly difficult challenges to players, game designer Amy Jo Kim has suggested that every educational scenario could be set up to operate this way. This game mechanic which involves tracking players' learning in the game, and responding by raising the difficulty level of tasks at just the right moment, keeps players from becoming unnecessarily frustrated with tasks that are too difficult, as well as keeps players from becoming bored with tasks that are too easy. This pacing fosters continued engagement and interest which can mean that learners are focused on educational tasks, and may get into a state of flow, or deeply absorbed in learning.\n\nThree key ways in which a classroom, course, or unit can be gamified are through changing the language, adapting the grading process, and modifying the structure of the learning environment. With regard to language, instead of referring to academic requirements with the typical associated terms, game-like names may be used instead. For example, making a course presentation might be referred to as \"embarking on a quest\", writing an exam might be \"defeating monsters\", and creating a prototype might be classed as \"completing a mission\". In terms of grading, the grading scheme for a course might be adapted to make use of experience points (XP) as opposed to letter grades. Each student can begin at level one with zero points; as they progress through the course, completing missions and demonstrating learning, they earn XP. A chart can be developed to illustrate how many XP is required to earn a letter grade. For example, earning 1500 XP might translate to a C, while 2000 would earn a B, and 2500, an A. Some teachers use XP, as well as health points (HP) and knowledge points (KP) to motivate students in the classroom, but do not connect these points with the letter grades students get on a report card. Instead these points are connected with earning virtual rewards such as badges or trophies.\n\nThe structure of a course or unit may be adapted in various ways to incorporate elements of gamification; these adaptations can affect the role of the student, the role of the teacher, and role of the learning environment. The role of a student in a gamified environment might be to adopt an avatar and a game name with which they navigate through their learning tasks. Students may be organized into teams or guilds, and be invited to embark on learning quests with their fellow guild members. They may be encouraged to help other guild members, as well as those in other guilds, if they have mastered a learning task ahead of others. Students tend to express themselves as one of the following game-player types; player (motivated by extrinsic rewards), socialiser (motivated by relatedness), free spirt (motivated by autonomy), achiever (motivated by mastery) and philanthropist (motivated by purpose). The role of the teacher is to design a gamified application, embedding game dynamics and mechanics that appeal to the target group (i.e. students) and provide the type of rewards that are attractive to the motivation of the majority. Therefore, it is important teachers know their students so they are able to best design a gamififed program that not only interests the students but also one in which matches the specific learning goals that hit on elements of knowledge from the curriculum. The teacher also needs to responsibly track student achievements with a web-based platform, such as Open Badges, the WordPress plug-in GameOn or an online spreadsheet. The teacher may also publish a leaderboard online which illustrates the students who have earned the most XP, or reached the highest level of play. The teacher may define the parameters of the classroom \"game\", giving the ultimate learning goal a name, defining the learning tasks which make up the unit or the course, and specifying the rewards for completing those tasks. The other important role of the teacher is to provide encouragement and guidance for students as they navigate the gamified environment.\n\nThe role of a gamified learning environment may be structured to provide an overarching narrative which functions as a context for all the learning activities. For example, a narrative might involve an impending zombie attack which can be fended off or a murder mystery which can be solved, ultimately, through the process of learning. Learning is the focus of each gamified system. Sometimes the narrative is related to the content being learned, for example, in the case of a disease outbreak which can be stopped through learning biology. In some cases the narrative is unrelated, as in a case of music students who learn to play pieces as the means to collectively climb up to the top of a mountain, experiencing various challenges and setbacks along the way. Other ways in which gaming elements are part of the role of the learning environment include theme music played at opportune times, a continuous feedback loop which, if not instantaneous, is as quick as possible, a variety of individual and collaborative challenges, and the provision of choice as to which learning activities are undertaken, how they will be undertaken, or in which order they will be undertaken.\n\nLearning and training employees in corporates and organizations can be applied to improve performance, employee satisfaction, align employee with mandatory protocols, and on-the-job training. Corporate learning has significantly changed in the past two decades. Similarly to formal education institutions, corporates and organizations now realize that effective learning can no longer be limited to the classroom. Different methods to deliver content are constantly introduced in the market as well as new ways to track employees in their learning path. \nGamification for corporate learning is used to improve the employee experience and achieve better knowledge retention rates. These applications often feature the same common gamification elements – points, badges, leaderboards, animations, and different game narratives. Content is delivered to employees using microlearning to achieve better learning, while tracking systems can help managers see where specific employees are struggling. \nGamified corporate learning can be achieved using a separate learning system – LMS (learning management system), or it can be embedded inside commonly used software, to achieve on the spot training and be featured in an employee’s daily routine.\n\nWithout adding extra gaming elements to the classroom, schooling already contains some elements which are analogous to games. Since the 1700s, school has presented opportunities for students to earn marks for handing in assignments and completing exams, which are a form of reward points. Since the early 1900s, with the advent of psychoanalytic theory, reward management programs were developed and can still be seen in schools. For example, many teachers set up reward programs in their classrooms which allow students to earn free time, school supplies or treats for finishing homework or following classroom rules.\n\nWhile some have criticized the term \"gamification\" then, as simply a new name for a practice that has been used in education for many years, gamification does not refer to a one-dimensional system where a reward is offered for performing a certain behaviour. The gamification of learning is an approach which recently has evolved, in coordination with technological developments, to include much larger scales for gameplay, new tools, and new ways to connect people. The term gamification, coined in 2002, is not a one-dimensional reward system. Rather, it takes into consideration the variety of complex factors which make a person decide to do something; it is a multifaceted approach which takes into consideration psychology, design, strategy, and technology. One reason for the popularization of the term \"gamification\" is that current advancements in technology and, in particular, mobile technology have allowed for the explosion of a variety of gamification initiatives in many contexts. Some of these contexts include the Starbucks and Shoppers Drug Mart loyalty programs, location-based check-in applications such as Foursquare, and mobile and web applications and tools that reward and broadcast healthy eating, drinking, and exercise habits, such as Fitocracy, BACtrack and Fitbit. These examples involve the use of game elements such as points, badges and leaderboards to motivate behavioural changes and track those changes in online platforms. The gamification of learning is related to these popular initiatives, but specifically focuses on the use of game elements to facilitate student engagement and motivation to learn. It is difficult to pinpoint when gamification, in the strict sense of the term, came to be used in educational contexts, although examples shared online by classroom teachers begin appearing in 2010.\n\nThe research of Domínguez and colleagues about gamifying learning experiences suggests that common beliefs about the benefits obtained when using games in education can be challenged. Students who completed the gamified experience got better scores in practical assignments and in overall score, but their findings also suggest that these students performed poorly on written assignments and participated less on class activities, although their initial motivation was higher. The researchers concluded that gamification in e-learning platforms seems to have the potential to increase student motivation, but that it is not trivial to achieve that effect, as a big effort is required in the design and implementation of the experience for it to be fully motivating for participants. On the one hand, qualitative analysis of the study suggests that gamification can have a great emotional and social impact on students, as reward systems and competitive social mechanisms seem to be motivating for them. But quantitative analysis suggests that the cognitive impact of gamification on students is not very significant. Students who followed traditional exercises performed similarly in overall score than those who followed gamified exercises. Disadvantages of gamified learning were reported by 57 students who did not want to participate in the gamified experience. The most frequent reason argued by students was 'time availability'. The second most important reason were technical problems. Other reasons were that there were too many students and that they had to visit so many web pages and applications at the university that they did not want to use a new one.\n\nAnother field where serious games are used to improve learning is health care. Petit dit Dariel, Raby, Ravaut and Rothan-Tondeur investigated the developing of serious games potential in nursing education. They suggest that few nursing students have long-term exposure to home-care and community situations. New pedagogical tools are needed to adequately and consistently prepare nurses for the skills they will need to care for patients outside acute care settings. Advances in information and communications technologies offer an opportunity to explore innovative pedagogical solutions that could help students develop these skills in a safe environment. Laboratory simulations with high fidelity mannequins, for example, have become an integral element in many health care curricula. A recent systematic review found evidence suggesting that the use of simulation mannequins significantly improved three outcomes integral to clinical reasoning: knowledge acquisition, critical thinking and the ability to identify deteriorating patients.\n\nIn the study of Mouaheb, Fahli, Moussetad and Eljamali an American version of a serious game was investigated: Virtual University. Results showed that learning using this serious game has educational values that are based on learning concepts advocated by constructivist psycho-cognitive theories. It guarantees intrinsic motivation, generates cognitive conflicts and provides situated learning. The use of Virtual University allowed the researchers to identify the following key points: from its playfulness combined with video game technologies, the tool was able to motivate learners intrinsically; the simulation game also recreates learning situations extremely close to that of reality, especially considering the complexity, dynamism and all of the interrelations and interactions that exist within the university system. This is a major educational advantage by encouraging 1) an intense interaction that generates real cognitive or socio-cognitive conflicts, providing a solid construction of knowledge; 2) an autonomy in the learning process following a strong metacognitive activity; 3) an eventual transfer of acquired skills.\n\nGamification of learning has been criticized for its use of extrinsic motivators, which some teachers believe must be avoided since they have the potential to decrease intrinsic motivation for learning (see overjustification). This idea is based on research which emerged first in the early 1970s and has been recently made popular by Daniel Pink. Teachers may not acknowledge that extrinsic motivators are already at work in a typical classroom, or they may wish to minimize extrinsic motivation.\n\nSome teachers may criticize gamification for taking a less than serious approach to education. This may be a result of the historical distinction between work and play which perpetuates the notion that the classroom cannot be a place for games, or a place for fun. Game play has also suffered under misconceptions of being easy, irrelevant to learning, and applicable only to very young children. These negative impressions of play may translate into suspicions regarding the value of game elements which promote fun and a sense of playfulness within a learning context.\n\nTeachers who criticize the gamification of learning might feel that it is not worth their time to implement gaming initiatives, either because they themselves are stretched thin with the number of responsibilities that they already have, or because they fear that the curriculum might not be covered if any time is spent dedicated to anything other than engagement with that curriculum. Gamification of learning has been also criticized as ineffective for certain learners and for certain situations. It should be noted that proponents of gamification have never claimed that gamification is such a panacea, recognizing that it is not an appropriate strategy to motivate every learner in every circumstance. Videogame theorist Ian Bogost has criticized gamification for its tendency to take a simplistic, manipulative approach which does not reflect the real quality of complex, motivational games. Educational scenarios which purport to be gamification, but only make use of progress mechanics such as points, badges and leaderboards are particularly susceptible to such criticism.\n\n"}
{"id": "53947610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53947610", "title": "Gender mainstreaming in teacher education policy", "text": "Gender mainstreaming in teacher education policy\n\nGender mainstreaming in teacher education policy refers to efforts to examine and change processes of policy formulation and implementation across all areas and at all levels from a gender perspective so as to address and correct existing and emerging disparities between men and women. It is a strategy to change the process of policy design, implementation and evaluation by taking into consideration the gender specific and often diverse needs, priorities, interests and values of differently positioned men and women. In this context, gender mainstreaming is about awareness of the existence of gender disparities and their causes and implications, and ensures that they are addressed at each phase of the policy cycle or policy analyses and revision.\n\nThere are two situations in which Teacher Education Institutes (TEIs) can find themselves. One is that they may not have a policy at all, and the other is that they might have a policy but that the policy may not have addressed gender issues or mainstreamed gender. In the first instance, TEIs need to develop a gender-responsive policy for their institutions, and in the second they need to review their policy from gender perspectives. In this part of the module we will look at mainstreaming gender in the different phases of the policy cycle: Problem Definition, Agenda Setting, Policy Formulation, Policy Legitimation and Policy Evaluation.\n\nProblem definition explains the nature, scope and significance of the problem within the context of the current policy environment (international, regional and national legal and policy commitments). During this stage, a problem is identified and examined, and possible solutions are explored through research and discussion. It requires that the delineation of the policy problem is as clear as possible in order to help identify problems of teacher education, as well as gender issues that are relevant at the national level and that can be addressed by formulating policy in their applicable institutions. Whatever the problem identified, the TEI must be seen from the perspective of gender equality. In order to do this, the first step is to investigate gender disparities in different areas and levels among students, teaching staff and administration. In this regard, some of the following areas are analyzed:\n\nOnce a problem is identified, a decision has to be reached as to whether it requires a policy intervention. If so, efforts will be made to bring the matter and its possible solutions to the attention of relevant staff and decision-makers to make it a policy-requiring issue. Already existing policies, strategies, programmes or offices may address some of the problems. The institute may need to review the policies, programmes or office structures, and also introduce a gender equality perspective to strengthen them further and address the problems more effectively. If there are gender-responsive policies available, TEIs may need to come up with a more concrete implementation plan, while other problems may require a policy initiative. In such a situation, the problem could be presented as a policy agenda to the relevant authority for consideration.\n\nAfter defining the problem, and once the problem is considered as requiring policy intervention, goals are identified in order to address the problem. In the context of TEIs, the goals could range from increasing enrolment, addressing quality, acquiring resources, and mitigating high staff turnover to narrowing gender disparities. Policy goals need to state gender concerns specifically and visibly. Different performance indicators and sex-disaggregated data need to be considered to capture the gender dimensions. The stated goals need to take into consideration the different gender related barriers women and men face to benefit equally and equitably.\n\nPolicy formulation has two basic stages: determining the policy options and selecting the preferred option. This process may involve debate over alternative policy choices, which takes into account both the benefits and costs of each policy option. The policy alternatives are derived from a research process that investigates the problem in an in-depth manner using either primary or secondary sources of data or both. In collecting information all data, all relevant individuals and organizations have to be consulted, and all numerical data have to be disaggregated by sex. This stage may also entail analysis of existing policies. Based on the information gathered, the preferred policy options are presented, which will enable the policy objective to be effectively and efficiently reached.\n\nFor a policy to obtain a legal status, it has to be approved as an official policy document by relevant authorities in the TEI, as well as the ministry or relevant divisions within the ministry, depending on the structures and the practices of that specific country. This is an important step as it gives the policy legitimacy. Once it is approved, a policy also serves as an advocacy instrument, as well as a document that could be used to raise funds.\n\nImplementation refers to the actual practical activities that need to be carried out to realize the policy goals and objectives. A number of critical decisions are made at this stage: decisions about regulations, structures, budget and partnerships, all of which are necessary to implement the policy. Policy implementation requires a commitment. As observed from experience, many countries and organizations have very good policy instruments, but most of the time they remain on paper. After going through the process of policy development, which is very resource intensive, its implementation requires serious consideration. The first inquiry should determine the changes needed to implement the policy.\n\nEvaluation is monitoring and assessing the process and impact of policy implementation. Policy research and analysis are used as strategies to evaluate whether the policy goals were reached, and if there were any unanticipated positive or negative outcomes. The evaluation process also attempts to see the various types of impacts: direct versus indirect, and short term versus long term. The information gathered from the evaluation will be used as inputs in the next policy cycle or process. Policy monitoring and evaluation is usually a challenging step as it requires consistent follow up, information collection, and efforts to compare policy goals with the outcome of activities carried out to implement the policy. The policy goals serve as a framework for any instrument that is designed to collect and compile information for the evaluation. The instruments that are designed should ensure that gender is included as a category of analysis and that issues concerning both men and women are included in the questions. Specific women's issues, as identified in the policy problem, should be covered, and during the data collection process both men and women should be included as sources of data. In the context of TEIs the data to be gathered on enrolment, performance and achievement, in-service training, promotion, leadership and administration are to be disaggregated by sex.\n\n"}
{"id": "43572162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43572162", "title": "Humboldt's Ideal", "text": "Humboldt's Ideal\n\nHumboldt's ideal of education refers to the holistic education of the arts in conjunction with the respective study direction. This ideal goes back to Wilhelm von Humboldt, who in the time of the Prussian reforms relied on a growing educated middle-class and thereby promoted the claim on general education. Today, the term often refers to the central idea of the unity of research and teaching at universities and various other institutes of higher education (in contrast to pure teaching professorships without research obligation).\n\nHumboldt, as head of the \"ministry of culture and public education\" in the \"Prussian Interior Ministry\", incorporated this ideal into educational reforms. In the actual policy it did not extend to the Prussian elementary schools, which also came under the section next to the universities. Occasionally it is therefore alternatively referred to as \"Humboldt's university ideal\".\n\n\"Humboldt's educational ideal\" developed around two central concepts of public education: The concept of the autonomous individual and the concept of world citizenship. The university should be a place where autonomous individuals and World Citizen are produced at or more specifically, produce themselves.\n\n\nAcademic freedom describes independence of the university from outside governmental and economic constraints. The university is to evade government influence. Humboldt demands that the scientific institution of higher education should loose itself \"from all forms within the state\". Therefore, his concept of university planned, for example, that the University of Berlin should have its own goods in order to finance itself and thereby secure its economic independence. Academic freedom also demands, next to independence of the university from outside governmental and economic constraints, the independence from within; i.e. free choice of study and free organization of studies. The University should therefore be a place of permanent public exchange between all involved in the scientific process. The integration of their knowledge shall be pursued with the help of philosophy. Philosophy is supposed to represent a kind of basic science, which allows members of different scientific disciplines to bring an exchange of their discovery and to link them together. \"Humboldt's educational ideal\" formed German University History decisively for a long period, albeit it was never realized practically in its entirety or cannot be realized. Great intellectual achievements of German science is linked to it.\n\nGeorg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Karl Marx, Friedrich Nietzsche, Sigmund Freud, Theodor W. Adorno and Albert Einstein confessed themselves to it.\n\nWhile during Humboldt's time universities mainly conducted state-organized academic research, there are now in Germany's tertiary education new forms of higher education, which now all have a scientific mission to research. The demands of Humboldt's ideal of education can therefore be applied on all German universities.\n\nCritics see in many current reforms, such as the Bologna process, a departure from Humboldt's ideal towards greater occupational studies with economic interests. Furthermore, it is criticized that the freedom of teaching is restricted by the Bologna process.\n\n"}
{"id": "57694955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57694955", "title": "Instructional materials", "text": "Instructional materials\n\nInstructional Materials are any collection of materials including animate and inanimate objects and human and non-human resources that a teacher may use in teaching and learning situations to help achieve desired learning objectives. Instructional materials may aid a student in concretizing a learning experience so as to make learning more exciting, interesting and interactive.\nThey are tools used in instructional activities, which include active learning and assessment. The term encompasses all the materials and physical means an instructor might use to implement instruction and facilitate students achievement of instructional objectives.\n\nThe value of instructional materials as a pedagogical aid can be seen in Vachel Lindsay's poem \"Euclid\":\n\nInstructional materials can be classified on their types, which include prints, visuals, audiovisuals:\n\nThe Peer-Reviewed Instructional Materials Online (PRIMO) Committee \"'promotes and shares peer-reviewed instructional materials created by librarians to teach people about discovering, accessing and evaluating information in networked environments.' In doing so, it reviews librarian-created online tutorials dealing with information literacy and critical thinking skills, and highlights the highest-caliber projects through its “Site of the Month” posts on the ACRL Instruction Section blog (http://acrl.ala.org/IS/category/committees/primo).\" PRIMO's goal is to provide librarians quality tutorials for instructional use on a variety of topics in order to save time, effort and cost. PRIMO accepts non-promotional online instructional material intended for undergraduate or graduate-level audiences emphasizing quality over comprehensiveness.\n\n\"Student Achievement Partners is a nonprofit organization that assembles educators and researchers to design actions based on evidence that will substantially improve student achievement.\" The tool provided by the organization is the Textbook Alignment and Adaptations Instructional Materials Evaluation Tool. The goal of this tool is to assist in evaluation textbooks or series of textbooks for alignment to the Common Core State Standards Initiative.\n"}
{"id": "2128207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2128207", "title": "International education", "text": "International education\n\nInternational education refers to a dynamic concept that involves a journey or movement of people, minds, or ideas across political and cultural frontiers. It is facilitated by the globalization phenomenon, which increasingly erases the constraints of geography on economic, social and cultural arrangements. The concept involves a broad range of learning, covering, for instance, formal education and informal learning (e.g. training, exchange programs, cross-cultural communication). It could also involve a reorientation of academic outlook such as the pursuit of “worldmindedness” as a goal so that a school or its academic focus is considered international. For example, the National Association of State Universities prescribes the adoption of \"proper education\" that reflects the full range of international, social, political, cultural, and economic dialogue.\n\nThe emergence of international education as a discipline may be attributed to the international and intercontinental initiatives of the past, which aimed to achieve education, learning, and intellectual exchange. This is demonstrated in the formalized academic relations between countries in the form of bilateral and scientific agreements. Here, international education is considered a mechanism of international cooperation and, in some cases, it stems from the recognition that different cultures offer different outlooks and styles of learning and teaching in addition to the transfer of knowledge. \n\nThere are scholars who associate the development of international education with comparative education, which is concerned with the evaluation and scrutiny of different educational systems in various countries for the purpose of developing an education and educational structures that are global in scope and application. This concept is considered ancient, having been used in classical Greece, while the actual term was first used by William Russell in 1826. International education diverged from it as it assumed the form of more organized programs that bring together learners and teachers from different countries to learn from each other.\n\nInternational education can be seen as developing ‘international-mindedness,’ or enhancing international attitude and awareness . From an ideological perspective, international education has a focus on moral development, by influencing the creation of “positive attitudes towards peace, international understanding and responsible world citizenship”.\n\nFrom a pragmatic approach, international education can relate to economic and cultural globalization. For instance, there are increasing demands for education qualifications to be transferable between schools and education systems. Furthermore, there is a “spread of global quality standards through quality assurances procedures such as accreditation”.\n\nOverall, international education can be viewed as the following:  \n\n\n\n\n\nDirect examples of international education include facilitating students’ entry into universities outside of their home countries. Also, temporarily studying abroad is another illustration of international education.\n\nThe International Baccalaureate (IB) Program is seen as an influence in the development of international education. The IB Diploma Program encourages students to learn and understand different cultures, languages, and points of view. This idea is incorporated into elements of the program e.g. Creativity, Activity, Service (CAS) . CAS requires students to participate in activities promoting each of these three components. Through such activities, the intention is that global issues will affect students’ understanding of the world in a meaningful way. Specifically, these non-formal, non-academic experiences should enhance students’ comprehension of world issues in a manner that, for instance, reading books or participating in lessons may not .\n\nBased on student engagement and involvement, two general meanings emerge. The first refers to education that transcends national borders through the exchange of people. A good example would be students traveling to study at an international branch campus, as part of a study abroad program or as part of a student exchange program. The second is a comprehensive approach to education that intentionally prepares students to be active and engaged participants in an interconnected world.\n\nThe International Baccalaureate however, defines the term according to a certain criteria. This criteria include the development of citizens of the world in accordance with culture, language, and social cohesion, building a sense of identity and cultural awareness, encrypting recognition and development of universal human values, encouraging discovery and enjoyment of learning, equipping students with collectivist or individualistic skills and knowledge that can be applied broadly, fostering global thinking when responding to local situations, encourage diversity and flexibility in teaching pedagogic methodologies, and supply appropriate forms of assessment and international benchmarking.\n\nWhile definitions vary, international education is generally taken to include:\n\nOne of the eight millennium development goals ratified in the United Nations in the year 2000, focuses on achieving universal primary education. \n\nOther mentions of education in regard to international development:\nEducation For All (EFA):\nAn international strategy to operationalise the Dakar Framework for Action;\nThe World Education Forum (Dakar 2000) agreed to reach 6 goals by 2015:\n\nAt the end of 2015, the United Nations led another initiative to continue on the work of development goals. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) contains 17 global goals, which are more extensive than the Millenium Development Goals (MDGs). Compared to the 2015 MDGs, the SDGs tries to ensure that no one is left behind. In this regard, not only state actors, but also major private “non-state” actors and multinational companies are involved and active in global education.\n\nEducation is stated under Goal 4 of the SDGs: “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.” Furthermore, SDGs promote international education through some of the following targets:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAccording to a report from the U.N. Secretary-General on “Progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals” in 2018, official development assistance (ODA) for scholarships amounted to $1.2 billion in 2016. The largest contributors were Australia, France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain, Northern Ireland, and European Union. Education is a core aspect of the SDGs, and considered essential to their success. Hence, an international strategy has been established through the Incheon Declaration and Framework for Action. This strategy emphasizes  mobilizing national, regional, and global efforts and collaborations that aim at:\n\n\nThe UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005–2014)\nhighlighted the central role of education in the pursuit of sustainable development.\n\n\"See also\" Comparative education; and Liberalism, Realism, Power Transition Theory, International Development, as focus areas that provide insight into international phenomena relevant to \"International Education.\"\n\nThere are different lenses international education can be viewed as. For example, thinking of international education in terms of a study abroad program that can help prepare students when looking for international occupations. Another example can be that international development is a focal point that is taught in colleges and universities under the umbrella of international education.\n\nAlthough very successful programs such as Engineers Without Borders enable students in one country to obtain an international education while working on open source appropriate technology projects abroad, the cost of this approach can be prohibitive for large scale replication. Recent, work has shown that using a virtual educational exchange, can have many of the positive benefits associated with international education and cross cultural experiences, without the prohibitive costs of overseas programs.\n\nInternational Education Week is held in the United States by the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Department of Education. The choice of week for celebration is determined at each institution, but is generally the week before the week that includes U.S. Thanksgiving: –; –; –; –. The aims of this event are to provide an opportunity to celebrate the benefits of international education and global exchange.This joint initiative promotes programs that prepare Americans for a global milieu and attract future leaders from abroad to study, learn and exchange experiences in the U.S. This shows how International education is not just about physically crossing borders, but is also about thinking globally in local situations. Schools throughout the US celebrate this week through on-campus and off-campus events.\n\nInternational education has a somewhat unusual position in higher education. While recognized as an important sphere of activity, it tends to be handled by administrative offices at the top of departments of languages and literature and international affairs. The scholars involved in international education usually have their primary involvement in other teaching and research. This leads to four distinctive characteristics particular to the field of international education:\n\n\nAdditionally, one of the challenges of international students is that increasingly higher education institutions are treating them as cash cows for meeting their budget challenges. Institutions must do more to support international students in their academic and career success by providing advising, training and coaching that is culturally attuned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31680808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31680808", "title": "LIFO (education)", "text": "LIFO (education)\n\nLast in First Out (LIFO) (or otherwise known as \"Last One Hired is the First One Fired\" is a policy often used by school districts and other employers to prioritize layoffs by seniority. Under LIFO layoff rules, junior teachers and other employees lose their jobs before senior ones. Laying off junior employees first is not exclusive to the education sector or to the United States, but is perhaps most controversial there. LIFO's proponents claim that it protects teachers with tenure and gives them job stability, and that it is an easily administered way of accomplishing layoffs following a budget cut. LIFO's critics respond that it is bad for students. They prefer that the best teachers remain regardless of how long they have been teaching.\n\nLIFO and tenure were originally intended to provide college professors with academic freedom and ensure that they could research topics of their own choosing. In the K-12 sector, tenure was introduced to lower high teacher turnover rates. In 1932, over 20% of teachers were dismissed due to personal disagreements and difference of opinion. By 2010, LIFO was criticized on grounds that \"seniority based layoffs result in promising, inexperienced teachers losing their positions, while their less effective, but more senior, peers continue to teach.\" As of early 2014, 2 states provided that seniority could not be considered when deciding which teachers to layoff, 18 states and the District of Columbia left the layoff criteria to school district discretion, 20 states provided that seniority could be considered among other factors, and 10 states provided that seniority was the sole factor, or one that had to be considered.\n\nLIFO has a more severe impact in poor or high minority schools, since those schools tend to have newer and less experienced teachers. In schools where 34% or less of the students receive Free and Reduced meals, more than 82% of teachers have 4 or more years of experience. However, in schools where more than 75% of the student body receives Free and Reduced meals, only 77% of the teachers have more than 4 years of experience. Moreover, in California, it was seen that in schools in the lowest quartile of minority students, only 8 of every 100 teachers had two or less years of teaching whereas in schools with the highest quartile of minority students, 13 of every 100 teachers had two or less years of teaching, meaning that under LIFO-based layoffs, schools with larger minority populations would lose 60% more teachers. Finally, teachers in high need areas, such as secondary math and special education, are often less experienced due to the difficulty of recruiting these positions, and districts who adhere strictly to seniority based systems for layoffs face the added burden of recruiting teachers in these areas. In Los Angeles, it was noted that of the hundreds of promising new teachers cut in from the district in 2010 due to LIFO, 190 were in the top fifth overall of teachers in raising math and reading scores.\n\nResearch indicates that the effectiveness of teachers does not change after the first few years in the classroom. As a result, the implications of using LIFO rules for layoffs instead of basing layoffs on classroom effectiveness appear huge. With LIFO, more teachers must be dismissed to meet budgetary targets than with effectiveness-based layoffs because the youngest teachers are the least paid, but the teachers dismissed under the LIFO policy are only slightly below average in effectiveness. An effectiveness-based policy on the other hand leads to dramatic improvements in average teacher quality, and these improvements have lasting effects on students throughout their lives.\n\nIn many states, tenure is given to teachers after 3 years, without much indication of job performance. A value added model (VAM) could be used in tenure decisions for teachers in order to estimate teacher quality. A VAM would predict how well a teacher would do based on his or her previous experience teaching. Data shows that the VAM based on standardized test scores, is a better indicator of teacher performance than any observable attributes. \n\nSince less experienced teachers typically have lower salaries, it is estimated that if districts in the United States cut 5% of their budget through seniority based layoffs, approximately 79,000 more teachers would lose their jobs versus seniority neutral layoffs.\n\nIn a survey of New York State parents regarding teacher quality versus seniority, voters said they did not care how long a teacher had taught so long as the teacher was effective and produced good results.\n\nStarting with Arizona in 2009, certain states and districts have been passing laws which prohibit seniority from being the deciding factor in layoff decisions. Maine, Louisiana, and District of Columbia use multiple criteria in determining layoffs, and numerous other states are trending towards performance based over seniority based layoffs.\n\nMichelle Rhee, the former Chancellor of Washington, D.C. public schools, opposes the Last in First Out policy, instead suggesting performance based evaluation to determine layoffs. As Chancellor, she introduced the IMPACT evaluation for teachers, which measured teacher performance and was the primary factor for layoffs. She is the CEO of Students First, a grassroots movement \"designed to mobilize parents, teacher, students, and administrators, and citizens\" to demand a better American education system. Since its founding in 2010, Studentsfirst has been behind legislation across the country which promotes alternative teacher quality assessment methods through its \"Save Great Teachers\" Campaign. Victories from this campaign have been seen in Florida, Utah, Michigan, Nevada and Tennessee.\n\nThe 2014 court case of \"Vergara v. California\" struck down California's LIFO layoff rules as having a disproportionately negative impact on poor and minority public school students, thus violating the California Constitution. The \"Vergara\" trial judge noted that teacher layoffs prioritized solely by seniority prevented senior and ineffective teachers from being laid off before junior but effective teachers. In this situation, \"[n]o matter how gifted the junior teacher, and no matter how grossly ineffective the senior teacher, the junior gifted one . . . is separated from [the students] and a senior grossly ineffective one . . . is left in place.\" The judge concluded that \"[t]he logic of [this scheme] is unfathomable and therefore constitutionally unsupportable.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "24444919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24444919", "title": "Maimonides' rule", "text": "Maimonides' rule\n\nMaimonides' rule is named after the 12th-century rabbinic scholar Maimonides, who identified a correlation between class size and students' achievements. Today this rule is widely used in educational research to evaluate the effect of class size on students' test scores. Maimonides' rule states that a class size may rise to an upper limit of 40 students. Once this quota is reached the class is cut in half, so instead of one class with forty-one students there are now two classes: one with twenty students and one with twenty-one students.\n\nJoshua Angrist and Victor Lavy (1999) have used \"the nonlinear relationship between the local number of students and the class size predicted by Maimonides' rule to estimate the impact of class size on student performance, and evaluate the effect of being just below the number of students for whom an additional teacher would be brought up, and of being just above this number.\"\n\nTheir results have shown highly irregular patterns in class size that are precisely mirrored in student achievement. They have found that a reduction in predicted class size of ten students is associated with a 0.25 standard deviation increase in fifth-graders' test scores.\n"}
{"id": "32362461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32362461", "title": "Massive open online course", "text": "Massive open online course\n\nA massive open online course (MOOC ) is an online course aimed at unlimited participation and open access via the web. In addition to traditional course materials such as filmed lectures, readings, and problem sets, many MOOCs provide interactive courses with user forums to support community interactions among students, professors, and teaching assistants (TAs) as well as immediate feedback to quick quizzes and assignments. MOOCs are a recent and widely researched development in distance education which were first introduced in 2006 and emerged as a popular mode of learning in 2012.\n\nEarly MOOCs often emphasized open-access features, such as open licensing of content, structure and learning goals, to promote the reuse and remixing of resources. Some later MOOCs use closed licenses for their course materials while maintaining free access for students. \nBefore the Digital Age, distance learning appeared in the form of correspondence courses in the 1890s–1920s and later radio and television broadcast of courses and early forms of e-learning. Typically fewer than five percent of the students would complete a course. The 2000s saw changes in online, or e-learning and distance education, with increasing online presence, open learning opportunities, and the development of MOOCs. By 2010 audiences for the most popular college courses such as \"Justice\" with Michael J. Sandel and \"Human Anatomy\" with Marian Diamond were reaching millions.\n\nThe first MOOCs emerged from the open educational resources (OER) movement, and from work by researchers who pointed out that class size and learning outcomes had no established connection. The term \"MOOC\" was coined in 2008 by Dave Cormier of the University of Prince Edward Island in response to a course called \"Connectivism and Connective Knowledge\" (also known as \"CCK08\"). CCK08, which was led by George Siemens of Athabasca University and Stephen Downes of the National Research Council, consisted of 25 tuition-paying students in Extended Education at the University of Manitoba, as well as over 2200 online students from the general public who paid nothing. All course content was available through RSS feeds, and online students could participate through collaborative tools, including blog posts, threaded discussions in Moodle, and Second Life meetings. Stephen Downes considers these so-called cMOOCs to be more \"creative and dynamic\" than the current xMOOCs, which he believes \"resemble television shows or digital textbooks.\"\n\nOther cMOOCs were then developed; for example, Jim Groom from The University of Mary Washington and Michael Branson Smith of York College, City University of New York hosted MOOCs through several universities starting with 2011's 'Digital Storytelling' (ds106) MOOC. MOOCs from private, non-profit institutions emphasized prominent faculty members and expanded existing distance learning offerings (e.g., podcasts) into free and open online courses.\n\nAlongside the development of these open courses, other E-learning platforms emerged — such as Khan Academy, Peer-to-Peer University (P2PU), Udemy, and ALISON — which are viewed as similar to MOOCs and work outside the university system or emphasize individual self-paced lessons.\n\nAs MOOCs developed with time, multiple conceptions of the platform seem to have emerged. Mostly two different types can be differentiated: those that emphasize a connectivist philosophy, and those that resemble more traditional courses. To distinguish the two, several early adopters of the platform proposed the terms \"cMOOC\" and \"xMOOC\".\n\ncMOOCs are based on principles from connectivist pedagogy indicating that material should be \"aggregated\" (rather than pre-selected), \"remixable\", \"re-purposable\", and \"feeding forward\" (i.e. evolving materials should be targeted at future learning). cMOOC instructional design approaches attempt to connect learners to each other to answer questions or collaborate on joint projects. This may include emphasizing collaborative development of the MOOC. Andrew Ravenscroft of the London Metropolitan University claimed that connectivist MOOCs better support collaborative dialogue and knowledge building.\n\nxMOOCs have a much more traditional course structure. They are characterized by a specified aim of completing the course obtaining certain knowledge certification of the subject matter. They are presented typically with a clearly specified syllabus of recorded lectures and self-test problems. However, some providers require paid subscriptions for acquiring graded materials and certificates. They employ elements of the original MOOC, but are, in some effect, branded IT platforms that offer content distribution partnerships to institutions. The instructor is the expert provider of knowledge, and student interactions are usually limited to asking for assistance and advising each other on difficult points.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", 2012 became \"the year of the MOOC\" as several well-financed providers, associated with top universities, emerged, including Coursera, Udacity, and edX.\n\nDuring a presentation at SXSWedu in early 2013, Instructure CEO Josh Coates suggested that MOOCs are in the midst of a hype cycle, with expectations undergoing wild swings. Dennis Yang, President of MOOC provider Udemy, later made the point in an article for the \"Huffington Post\".\n\nMany universities scrambled to join in the \"next big thing\", as did more established online education service providers such as Blackboard Inc, in what has been called a \"stampede.\" Dozens of universities in Canada, Mexico, Europe and Asia have announced partnerships with the large American MOOC providers. By early 2013, questions emerged about whether academia was \"MOOC'd out.\" This trend was later confirmed in continuing analysis.\n\nThe industry has an unusual structure, consisting of linked groups including MOOC providers, the larger non-profit sector, universities, related companies and venture capitalists. \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\" lists the major providers as the non-profits Khan Academy and edX, and the for-profits Udacity and Coursera.\n\nThe larger non-profit organizations include the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the MacArthur Foundation, the National Science Foundation, and the American Council on Education. University pioneers include Stanford, Harvard, MIT, the University of Pennsylvania, Caltech, the University of Texas at Austin, the University of California at Berkeley, and San Jose State University. Related companies investing in MOOCs include Google and educational publisher Pearson PLC. Venture capitalists include Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, New Enterprise Associates and Andreessen Horowitz.\n\nIn the fall of 2011 Stanford University launched three courses. The first of those courses was \"Introduction Into AI\", launched by Sebastian Thrun and Peter Norvig. Enrollment quickly reached 160,000 students. The announcement was followed within weeks by the launch of two more MOOCs, by Andrew Ng and Jennifer Widom. Following the publicity and high enrollment numbers of these courses, Thrun started a company he named Udacity and Daphne Koller and Andrew Ng launched Coursera. Coursera subsequently announced university partnerships with University of Pennsylvania, Princeton University, Stanford University and The University of Michigan.\n\nIn January 2013, Udacity launched its first MOOCs-for-credit, in collaboration with San Jose State University. In May 2013 the company announced the first entirely MOOC-based master's degree, a collaboration between Udacity, AT&T and the Georgia Institute of Technology, costing $7,000, a fraction of its normal tuition.\n\nConcerned about the commercialization of online education, in 2012 MIT created the not-for-profit MITx. The inaugural course, 6.002x, launched in March 2012. Harvard joined the group, renamed edX, that spring, and University of California, Berkeley joined in the summer. The initiative then added the University of Texas System, Wellesley College and Georgetown University.\n\nIn September 2013, edX announced a partnership with Google to develop MOOC.org, a site for non-xConsortium groups to build and host courses. Google will work on the core platform development with edX partners. In addition, Google and edX will collaborate on research into how students learn and how technology can transform learning and teaching. MOOC.org will adopt Google's infrastructure. The Chinese Tsinghua University MOOC platform XuetangX.com (launched Oct. 2013) uses the Open edX platform.\n\nBefore 2013 each MOOC tended to develop its own delivery platform. EdX in April 2013 joined with Stanford University, which previously had its own platform called Class2Go, to work on XBlock SDK, a joint open-source platform. It is available to the public under the Affero GPL open source license, which requires that all improvements to the platform be publicly posted and made available under the same license. Stanford Vice Provost John Mitchell said that the goal was to provide the \"Linux of online learning.\" This is unlike companies such as Coursera that have developed their own platform.\n\nBy November 2013, EdX offered 94 courses from 29 institutions around the world. During its first 13 months of operation (ending March 2013), Coursera offered about 325 courses, with 30% in the sciences, 28% in arts and humanities, 23% in information technology, 13% in business and 6% in mathematics. Udacity offered 26 courses. The number of courses offered has since increased dramatically: As of January 2016, Edx offers 820 courses, Coursera offers 1580 courses and Udacity offers more than 120 courses. According to FutureLearn, the British Council's Understanding IELTS: Techniques for English Language Tests has an enrollment of over 440,000 students.\n\nEarly cMOOCs such as CCK08 and ds106 used innovative pedagogy, with distributed learning materials rather than a video-lecture format, and a focus on education and learning, and digital storytelling respectively\n\nFollowing the 2011 launch of three stanford xMOOCs, including \"Introduction Into AI\", launched by Sebastian Thrun and Peter Norvig a number of other innovative courses have emerged. As of May 2014, more than 900 MOOCs are offered by US universities and colleges. As of February 2013 dozens of universities had affiliated with MOOCs, including many international institutions. In addition, some organisations operate their own MOOCs – including Google's Power Search.\n\nA range of courses have emerged; \"There was a real question of whether this would work for humanities and social science\", said Ng. However, psychology and philosophy courses are among Coursera's most popular. Student feedback and completion rates suggest that they are as successful as math and science courses even though the corresponding completion rates are lower. \nIn January 2012, University of Helsinki launched a Finnish MOOC in programming. The MOOC is used as a way to offer high-schools the opportunity to provide programming courses for their students, even if no local premises or faculty that can organize such courses exist. The course has been offered recurringly, and the top-performing students are admitted to a BSc and MSc program in Computer Science at the University of Helsinki. At a meeting on E-Learning and MOOCs, Jaakko Kurhila, Head of studies for University of Helsinki, Department of Computer Science, claimed that to date, there has been over 8000 participants in their MOOCs altogether.\n\nOn 18 June 2012, Ali Lemus from Galileo University launched the first Latin American MOOC titled \"Desarrollando Aplicaciones para iPhone y iPad\" This MOOC is a Spanish remix of Stanford University's popular \"CS 193P iPhone Application Development\" and had 5,380 students enrolled. The technology used to host the MOOC was the Galileo Educational System platform (GES) which is based on the .LRN project.\n\n\"Gender Through Comic Books\" was a course taught by Ball State University's Christina Blanch on Instructure's Canvas Network, a MOOC platform launched in November 2012. The course used examples from comic books to teach academic concepts about gender and perceptions.\n\nIn November 2012, the University of Miami launched its first high school MOOC as part of Global Academy, its online high school. The course became available for high school students preparing for the SAT Subject Test in biology.\n\nDuring the Spring 2013 semester, Cathy Davidson and Dan Ariely taught the \"Surprise Endings: Social Science and Literature\" a SPOC course taught in-person at Duke University and also as a MOOC, with students from Duke running the online discussions.\n\nIn the UK of summer 2013, Physiopedia ran their first MOOC regarding Professional Ethics in collaboration with University of the Western Cape in South Africa. This was followed by a second course in 2014, Physiotherapy Management of Spinal Cord Injuries, which was accredited by the World Confederation of Physical Therapy and attracted approximately 4000 participants with a 40% completion rate. Physiopedia is the first provider of physiotherapy/physical therapy MOOCs, accessible to participants worldwide.\n\nIn March 2013, Coursolve piloted a crowdsourced business strategy course for 100 organizations with the University of Virginia. A data science MOOC began in May 2013.\n\nIn May 2013 Coursera announced free e-books for some courses in partnership with Chegg, an online textbook-rental company. Students would use Chegg's e-reader, which limits copying and printing and could use the book only while enrolled in the class.\n\nIn June 2013, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill launched Skynet University, which offers MOOCs on introductory astronomy. Participants gain access to the university's global network of robotic telescopes, including those in the Chilean Andes and Australia.\n\nIn July 2013 the University of Tasmania launched \"Understanding Dementia\", the world's first Dementia MOOC. With one of the world's highest completion rates (39%), the course was recognized in the journal Nature.\n\nStartup Veduca launched the first MOOCs in Brazil, in partnership with the University of São Paulo in June 2013. The first two courses were Basic Physics, taught by Vanderlei Salvador Bagnato, and Probability and Statistics, taught by Melvin Cymbalista and André Leme Fleury. In the first two weeks following the launch at Polytechnic School of the University of São Paulo, more than 10,000 students enrolled.\n\nStartup Wedubox (Finalist at MassChallenge 2013) launched the first MOOC in finance and third MOOC in Latam, the MOOC was created by Jorge Borrero (MBA Universidad de la Sabana) with the title \"WACC and the cost of capital\" it reached 2.500 students in Dec 2013 only 2 months after the launch.\n\nIn the fall 2014 Georgia Institute of Technology launched the first \"MOOD\" (massive online open degree) (Master's degree) in computer science for $7000 by partnering with Udacity and AT&T.\n\nIn September 2014, the high street retailer, Marks & Spencer partnered up with University of Leeds to construct an MOOC business course \"which will use case studies from the Company Archive alongside research from the University to show how innovation and people are key to business success. The course will be offered by the UK based MOOC platform, FutureLearn.\n\nOn 16 March 2015, the University of Cape Town launched its first MOOC, \"Medicine and the Arts\" on the UK-led platform, Futurelearn.\n\nIn July 2015, OpenClassrooms, jointly with IESA Multimedia, launches first MOOC-based Bachelor degree in multimedia project management, recognized by French state.\n\nIn January 2018, Brown University opened its first \"game-ified\" course on Edx. Titled \"Fantastic Places, Unhuman Humans: Exploring Humanity Through Literature\" by Professor James Egan. It featured a storyline and plot to help Leila, a lost humanoid wandering different worlds, in which a learner had to play mini games to advance through the course.\n\nThe Pacific Open Learning Health Net, set up by the WHO in 2003, developed an online learning platform in 2004-5 for continuing development of health professionals. Courses were originally delivered by Moodle, but were looking more like other MOOCs by 2012.\n\nBy June 2012 more than 1.5 million people had registered for classes through Coursera, Udacity or edX. As of 2013, the range of students registered appears to be broad, diverse and non-traditional, but concentrated among English-speakers in rich countries. By March 2013, Coursera alone had registered about 2.8 million learners. By October 2013, Coursera enrollment continued to surge, surpassing 5 million, while edX had independently reached 1.3 million.\n\nA course billed as \"Asia's first MOOC\" given by the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology through Coursera starting in April 2013 registered 17,000 students. About 60% were from \"rich countries\" with many of the rest from middle-income countries in Asia, South Africa, Brazil or Mexico. Fewer students enrolled from areas with more limited access to the internet, and students from the People's Republic of China may have been discouraged by Chinese government policies.\n\nKoller stated in May 2013 that a majority of the people taking Coursera courses had already earned college degrees.\n\nAccording to a Stanford University study of a more general group of students \"active learners\" – anybody who participated beyond just registering – found that 64% of high school active learners were male and 88% were male for undergraduate- and graduate-level courses.\n\nA study from Stanford University's Learning Analytics group identified four types of students: auditors, who watched video throughout the course, but took few quizzes or exams; completers, who viewed most lectures and took part in most assessments; disengaged learners, who quickly dropped the course; and sampling learners, who might only occasionally watch lectures. They identified the following percentages in each group:\n\nJonathan Haber focused on questions of what students are learning and student demographics. About half the students taking US courses are from other countries and do not speak English as their first language. He found some courses to be meaningful, especially about reading comprehension. Video lectures followed by multiple choice questions can be challenging since they are often the \"right questions.\" Smaller discussion boards paradoxically offer the best conversations. Larger discussions can be \"really, really thoughtful and really, really misguided\", with long discussions becoming rehashes or \"the same old stale left/right debate.\"\n\nMIT and Stanford University offered initial MOOCs in Computer Science and Electrical Engineering. Since engineering courses need prerequisites so at the outset upper-level engineering courses were nearly absent from the MOOC list. Now several universities are presenting undergraduate and advanced-level engineering courses.\n\nIn 2013, the Chronicle of Higher Education surveyed 103 professors who had taught MOOCs. \"Typically a professor spent over 100 hours on his MOOC before it even started, by recording online lecture videos and doing other preparation\", though some instructors' pre-class preparation was \"a few dozen hours.\" The professors then spent 8–10 hours per week on the course, including participation in discussion forums.\n\nThe medians were: 33,000 students enrollees; 2,600 passing; and 1 teaching assistant helping with the class. 74% of the classes used automated grading, and 34% used peer grading. 97% of the instructors used original videos, 75% used open educational resources and 27% used other resources. 9% of the classes required a physical textbook and 5% required an e-book.\n\nUnlike traditional courses, MOOCs require additional skills, provided by videographers, instructional designers, IT specialists and platform specialists. Georgia Tech professor Karen Head reports that 19 people work on their MOOCs and that more are needed. The platforms have availability requirements similar to media/content sharing websites, due to the large number of enrollees. MOOCs typically use cloud computing and are often created with authoring systems. Authoring tools for the creation of MOOCs are specialized packages of educational software like Elicitus, IMC Content Studio and Lectora that are easy-to-use and support e-learning standards like SCORM and AICC.\n\nDespite their potential to support learning and education, MOOCs have a major concern related to attrition rates and course drop out. Even though the number of learners who enroll in the courses tends to be in the thousands range, only a very small portion of the enrolled learners complete the course. According to the visualizations and analysis conducted by Katy Jordan (2015), the investigated MOOCs have a typical enrollment of 25,000, even though enrollment has reached a value up to ~230,000. Jordan reports that the average completion rate for such MOOCs is approximately 15%. Early data from Coursera suggest a completion rate of 7%–9%. Coffrin et al. (2012) report the completion rates are even lower (between 3 and 5%), while they say there is a consistent and noticeable decline in the number of students who participate in the course every week. Others have also shown attrition rates similar to Coffrin. One example is the course \"Bioelectricity, in the Fall of 2012\" at Duke University, where 12,725 students enrolled, but only 7,761 ever watched a video, 3,658 attempted a quiz, 345 attempted the final exam, and 313 passed, earning a certificate. Students paying $50 for a feature (designed to prevent cheating on exams) have completion rates of about 70%. Yang et al. (2013) suggest that even though there is a large proportion of students who drop out early on due to a variety of reasons, there is a significant proportion of the students who remain in the course and drop out later, thus causing attrition to happen over time.\n\nBefore analyzing some factors which is related to attrition rates and course drop out, one important thing should be keep in mind is that average completion rate for MOOCs is not a good indicator. Completion rate can not reflect the overall view of every student because different students have diverse purposes. For example, Khe Foon Hew (2016) indicates that some students take part in the MOOCs just for interest or finding extrinsic value of course. They drop the course if the course can not satisfy their purpose. However, completion rate is objective enough to reflect engagement of students.\n\nMuch research has investigated why students drop out of MOOC courses or what factors could contribute to them dropping out. For example, Rosé et al. (2014) investigate how three social factors make predictions on student attrition, for students who participated in the course discussion forum. The authors found that students who serve as authorities in the community seem to be more committed to the community and thus less inclined to drop out the course. In addition, students who actively participated in the course since the first week were 35% less likely to drop out of the course, compared with the average population. Lastly, the analysis of the patterns of attrition in a sub community showed that attrition was related to the engagement of the particular students with one another. One interpretation of this finding according to Rosé et al. (2014) is that while participating in MOOCs, students create virtual cohorts who progress and engage with the material in similar ways. Thus, if students start dropping out, then that might cause other students to drop out as they might perceive the environment as less supportive or engaging without their peers.\n\nOther studies focus on exploring how motivation and self-regulated learning could be related to MOOC dropout and attrition. Carson (2002) investigated characteristics of self-directed learning in students of grades 8–12 who took online courses through a statewide online program. Two of the hypothesis that the study explored were whether there exist underlying distinct classes (categories) of self-regulated learners and if the membership in these classes was associated with measures such significantly different online course completion, online final grade, or GPA. The results show that there exist different latent classes of self-regulated learning within the population of online students, designated as high, moderate, and low self-directed learning. In addition, the results support the hypothesis that there is an association between the self-directed learning class the student belongs to with the significantly different course completion rate or course achievement (course achievement was measured by the completion of the online courses, the final online course grade and the cumulative GPA). In other words, course completion and self-directed learning in students were found to be significantly related.\n\nOne online survey published a \"top ten\" list of reasons for dropping out of a MOOC. The list involved reasons such as the course required too much time, or was too difficult or too basic. Reasons related to poor course design included \"lecture fatigue\" from courses that were just lecture videos, lack of a proper introduction to course technology and format, clunky technology and abuse on discussion boards. Hidden costs were cited, including required readings from expensive textbooks written by the instructor that also significantly limited students' access to learning material. Other non-completers were \"just shopping around\" when they registered, or were participating for knowledge rather than a credential. Other reasons for the poor completion rates include the workload, length and difficulty of a course. In addition, some participants participate peripherally (\"lurk\"). For example, one of the first MOOCs in 2008 had 2200 registered members, of whom 150 actively interacted at various times.\n\nBesides those factors cause the low completion rate in MOOCs, the inequality on receiving knowledge affected by different characters of individual also has huge influence on the consequence of completion rate. Actually, MOOC is not as fair as we expected. Russian researchers Semenova, T.V. and Rudakova, L.M (2016), indicate that MOOC is designed to decrease the unequal access to getting knowledge, but that doesn't mean every individual can enjoy the same equality in course completion rate. From their research, there are three main factors cause the inequality, which are degree of education, experience of MOOCs and gender. The survey shows that 18% high-education students complete the course while only 3% low-education students complete. To be more visualized, 84–88% students who have completed the course are high-educational. What's more, among students who have completed the course, 65–80% students have at least one experience of using online learning platform comparing to 6–31% students who have no experience . Gender also influence the completion rate, in general, 6%–7% more men than women complete the course because women are supposed to do household in many countries, which distract women's attention in learning.\n\nThe effectiveness of MOOCs is an open question as completion rates are substantially less than traditional online education courses. Alraimi et al. (2015) explained in their research model a substantial percentage of the variance for the intention to continue using MOOCs, which is significantly influenced by perceived reputation, perceived openness, perceived usefulness, and perceived user satisfaction. Perceived reputation and perceived openness were the strongest predictors and have not previously been examined in the context of MOOCs\n\nHowever research indicates that completion rates is not the right metric to measure success of MOOCs. Alternate metrics are proposed to measure effectiveness of MOOCs and online learning.\n\nMany MOOCs use video lectures, employing the old form of teaching (lecturing) using a new technology. Thrun testified before the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) that MOOC \"courses are 'designed to be challenges,' not lectures, and the amount of data generated from these assessments can be evaluated 'massively using machine learning' at work behind the scenes. This approach, he said, dispels 'the medieval set of myths' guiding teacher efficacy and student outcomes, and replaces it with evidence-based, 'modern, data-driven' educational methodologies that may be the instruments responsible for a 'fundamental transformation of education' itself\".\n\nSome view the videos and other material produced by the MOOC as the next form of the textbook. \"MOOC is the new textbook\", according to David Finegold of Rutgers University. A study of edX student habits found that certificate-earning students generally stop watching videos longer than 6 to 9 minutes. They viewed the first 4.4 minutes (median) of 12- to 15-minute videos. Some traditional schools blend online and offline learning, sometimes called flipped classrooms. Students watch lectures online at home and work on projects and interact with faculty while in class. Such hybrids can even improve student performance in traditional in-person classes. One fall 2012 test by San Jose State and edX found that incorporating content from an online course into a for-credit campus-based course increased pass rates to 91% from as low as 55% without the online component. \"We do not recommend selecting an online-only experience over a blended learning experience\", says Coursera's Andrew Ng.\n\nBecause of massive enrollments, MOOCs require instructional design that facilitates large-scale feedback and interaction. The two basic approaches are:\n\n\nSo-called connectivist MOOCs rely on the former approach; broadcast MOOCs rely more on the latter. This marks a key distinction between cMOOCs where the 'C' stands for 'connectivist', and xMOOCs where the x stands for extended (as in TEDx, edX) and represents that the MOOC is designed to be in addition to something else (university courses for example).\n\nAssessment can be the most difficult activity to conduct online, and online assessments can be quite different from the bricks-and-mortar version. Special attention has been devoted to proctoring and cheating.\n\nPeer review is often based upon sample answers or rubrics, which guide the grader on how many points to award different answers. These rubrics cannot be as complex for peer grading as for teaching assistants. Students are expected to learn via grading others and become more engaged with the course. Exams may be proctored at regional testing centers. Other methods, including \"eavesdropping technologies worthy of the C.I.A.\" allow testing at home or office, by using webcams, or monitoring mouse clicks and typing styles. Special techniques such as adaptive testing may be used, where the test tailors itself given the student's previous answers, giving harder or easier questions accordingly.\n\n\"The most important thing that helps students succeed in an online course is interpersonal interaction and support\", says Shanna Smith Jaggars, assistant director of Columbia University's Community College Research Center. Her research compared online-only and face-to-face learning in studies of community-college students and faculty in Virginia and Washington state. Among her findings: In Virginia, 32% of students failed or withdrew from for-credit online courses, compared with 19% for equivalent in-person courses.\n\nAssigning mentors to students is another interaction-enhancing technique. In 2013 Harvard offered a popular class, \"The Ancient Greek Hero\", instructed by Gregory Nagy and taken by thousands of Harvard students over prior decades. It appealed to alumni to volunteer as online mentors and discussion group managers. About 10 former teaching fellows also volunteered. The task of the volunteers, which required 3–5 hours per week, was to focus online class discussion. The edX course registered 27,000 students.\n\nResearch by Kop and Fournier highlighted as major challenges the lack of social presence and the high level of autonomy required. Techniques for maintaining connection with students include adding audio comments on assignments instead of writing them, participating with students in the discussion forums, asking brief questions in the middle of the lecture, updating weekly videos about the course and sending congratulatory emails on prior accomplishments to students who are slightly behind. Grading by peer review has had mixed results. In one example, three fellow students grade one assignment for each assignment that they submit. The grading key or rubric tends to focus the grading, but discourages more creative writing.\n\nA. J. Jacobs in an op-ed in the \"New York Times\" graded his experience in 11 MOOC classes overall as a \"B\". He rated his professors as '\"B+\", despite \"a couple of clunkers\", even comparing them to pop stars and \"A-list celebrity professors.\" Nevertheless, he rated teacher-to-student interaction as a \"D\" since he had almost no contact with the professors. The highest rated (\"A\") aspect of Jacobs' experience was the ability to watch videos at any time. Student-to-student interaction and assignments both received \"B-\". Study groups that didn't meet, trolls on message boards and the relative slowness of online vs. personal conversations lowered that rating. Assignments included multiple choice quizzes and exams as well as essays and projects. He found the multiple choice tests stressful and peer graded essays painful. He completed only 2 of the 11 classes.\n\nWhen searching for the desired course the courses are usually organized by \"most popular\" or a \"topical scheme\". Courses planned for synchronous learning are structured as an exact organizational scheme called a chronological scheme, Courses planned for asynchronous learning are also presented as a chronological scheme, but the order the information is learned as a hybrid scheme. In this way it can be harder to understand the course content and complete, because they are not based on an existing mental model.\n\nMOOCs are widely seen as a major part of a larger disruptive innovation taking place in higher education. In particular, the many services offered under traditional university business models are predicted to become unbundled and sold to students individually or in newly formed bundles. These services include research, curriculum design, content generation (such as textbooks), teaching, assessment and certification (such as granting degrees) and student placement. MOOCs threaten existing business models by potentially selling teaching, assessment, or placement separately from the current package of services.\n\nPresident Barack Obama has cited recent developments, including the online learning innovations at Carnegie Mellon University, Arizona State University and Georgia Institute of Technology, as having potential to reduce the rising costs of higher education.\n\nJames Mazoue, Director of Online Programs at Wayne State University describes one possible innovation:\nBut how universities will benefit by \"giving our product away free online\" is unclear.\nPrinciples of openness inform the creation, structure and operation of MOOCs. The extent to which practices of Open Design in educational technology are applied vary.\n\nIn the freemium business model the basic product – the course content – is given away free. \"Charging for content would be a tragedy\", said Andrew Ng. But \"premium\" services such as certification or placement would be charged a fee – however financial aids are given in some cases.\n\nCourse developers could charge licensing fees for educational institutions that use its materials. Introductory or \"gateway\" courses and some remedial courses may earn the most fees. Free introductory courses may attract new students to follow-on fee-charging classes. Blended courses supplement MOOC material with face-to-face instruction. Providers can charge employers for recruiting its students. Students may be able to pay to take a proctored exam to earn transfer credit at a degree-granting university, or for certificates of completion. Udemy allows teachers to sell online courses, with the course creators keeping 70–85% of the proceeds and intellectual property rights.\n\nCoursera found that students who paid $30 to $90 were substantially more likely to finish the course. The fee was ostensibly for the company's identity-verification program, which confirms that they took and passed a course.\n\nIn February 2013 the American Council on Education (ACE) recommended that its members provide transfer credit from a few MOOC courses, though even the universities who deliver the courses had said that they would not. The University of Wisconsin offered multiple, competency-based bachelor's and master's degrees starting Fall 2013, the first public university to do so on a system-wide basis. The university encouraged students to take online-courses such as MOOCs and complete assessment tests at the university to receive credit. As of 2013 few students had applied for college credit for MOOC classes. Colorado State University-Global Campus received no applications in the year after they offered the option.\n\nAcademic Partnerships is a company that helps public universities move their courses online. According to its chairman, Randy Best, \"We started it, frankly, as a campaign to grow enrollment. But 72 to 84 percent of those who did the first course came back and paid to take the second course.\"\n\nWhile Coursera takes a larger cut of any revenue generated – but requires no minimum payment – the not-for-profit edX has a minimum required payment from course providers, but takes a smaller cut of any revenues, tied to the amount of support required for each course.\n\nMOOCs are regarded by many as an important tool to widen access to Higher Education (HE) for millions of people, including those in the developing world, and ultimately enhance their quality of life. MOOCs may be regarded as contributing to the democratisation of HE, not only locally or regionally but globally as well. MOOCs can help democratise content and make knowledge reachable for everyone. Students are able to access complete courses offered by universities all over the world, something previously unattainable. With the availability of affordable technologies, MOOCs increase access to an extraordinary number of courses offered by world-renowned institutions and teachers.\n\nThe costs of tertiary education continue to increase because institutions tend to bundle too many services. With MOOCs, some of these services can be transferred to other suitable players in the public or private sector. MOOCs are for large numbers of participants, can be accessed by anyone anywhere as long as they have an Internet connection, are open to everyone without entry qualifications and offer a full/complete course experience online for free.\n\nMOOCs can be seen as a form of open education offered for free through online platforms. The (initial) philosophy of MOOCs is to open up quality Higher Education to a wider audience. As such, MOOCs are an important tool to achieve Goal 4 of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.\n\nCertain lectures, videos, and tests through MOOCs can be accessed at any time compared to scheduled class times. By allowing learners to complete their coursework in their own time, this provides flexibility to learners based on their own personal schedules.\n\nThe learning environments of MOOCs make it easier for learners across the globe to work together on common goals. Instead of having to physically meet one another, online collaboration creates partnerships among learners. While time zones may have an effect on the hours that learners communicate, projects, assignments, and more can be completed to incorporate the skills and resources that different learners offer no matter where they are located.\n\nThe MOOC Guide suggests six possible challenges for cMOOCs:\n\nThese general challenges in effective MOOC development are accompanied by criticism by journalists and academics.\n\nRobert Zemsky (2014) argues that they have passed their peak: \"They came; they conquered very little; and now they face substantially diminished prospects.\" Others have pointed to a backlash arising from the tiny completion rates.\n\nSome dispute that the \"territorial\" dimensions of MOOCs have received insufficient discussion or data-backed analysis, namely: 1. the true geographical diversity of enrolls in/completes courses; 2. the implications of courses scaling across country borders, and potential difficulties with relevance and knowledge transfer; and 3. the need for territory-specific study of locally relevant issues and needs.\n\nOther features associated with early MOOCs, such as open licensing of content, open structure and learning goals, and community-centeredness, may not be present in all MOOC projects.\n\nEffects on the structure of higher education were lamented, for example, by Moshe Y. Vardi, who finds an \"absence of serious pedagogy in MOOCs\", and indeed in all of higher education. He criticized the format of \"short, unsophisticated video chunks, interleaved with online quizzes, and accompanied by social networking.\" An underlying reason is simple cost-cutting pressures, which could hamstring the higher education industry.\n\nThe changes predicted from MOOCs generated objections in some quarters. The San Jose State University philosophy faculty wrote in an open letter to Harvard University professor and MOOC teacher Michael Sandel:\n\nCary Nelson, former president of the American Association of University Professors claimed that MOOCs are not a reliable means of supplying credentials, stating that \"It’s fine to put lectures online, but this plan only degrades degree programs if it plans to substitute for them.\" Sandra Schroeder, chair of the Higher Education Program and Policy Council for the American Federation of Teachers expressed concern that \"These students are not likely to succeed without the structure of a strong and sequenced academic program.\"\n\nWith a 60% majority, the Amherst College faculty rejected the opportunity to work with edX based on a perceived incompatibility with their seminar-style classes and personalized feedback. Some were concerned about issues such as the \"information dispensing\" teaching model of lectures followed by exams, the use of multiple-choice exams and peer-grading. The Duke University faculty took a similar stance in the spring of 2013. The effect of MOOCs on second- and third-tier institutions and of creating a professorial \"star system\" were among other concerns.\n\nAt least one alternative to MOOCs has advocates: Distributed open collaborative courses (DOCC) challenge the roles of the instructor, hierarchy, money and massiveness. DOCC recognizes that the pursuit of knowledge may be achieved better by not using a centralized singular syllabus, that expertise is distributed throughout all the participants and does not just reside with one or two individuals.\n\nAnother alternative to MOOCs is the Self-Paced Online Course (SPOC) which provides a high degree of flexibility. Students can decide on their own pace and with which session they would like to begin their studies. According to a report by Class Central founder Dhawal Shah, more than 800 self-paced courses have been available in 2015.\n\nAlthough the purpose of MOOCs is ultimately to educate more people, recent criticisms include accessibility and a Westernized curriculum that lead to a failure to reach the same audiences marginalised by traditional methods.\n\nMOOCs have been criticized for a perceived lack of academic rigor as well as the monetization strategies adopted by providers. In \"MOOCs: A University Qualification in 24 Hours?\" Michael Shea writes \"By offering courses that are near-impossible to fail and charging up front fees for worthless certificates, Coursera is simply running a high-tech version of the kind of scams that have been run by correspondence colleges for decades.\"\n\nLanguage of instruction is one of the major barriers that ELLs face in MOOCs. In recent estimates, almost 75% of MOOC courses are presented in the English language, however, native English speakers are a minority among the world's population. This issue is mediated by the increasing popularity of English as a global language, and therefore has more second language speakers than any other language in the world. This barrier has encouraged content developers and other MOOC stakeholders to develop content in other popular languages to increase MOOC access. However, research studies show that some ELLs prefer to take MOOCs in English, despite the language challenges, as it promotes their goals of Economic, Social, and Geographic mobility. This emphasizes the need to not only provide MOOC content in other languages, but also to develop English language interventions for ELLs who participate in English MOOCs.\n\nAreas that ELLs particularly struggle with in English MOOCs include MOOC content without corresponding visual supporting materials (e.g., an instructor narrating instruction without text support in the background), or their hesitation to participate in MOOC discussion forums. Active participation in MOOC discussion forums has been found to improve students grades, their engagement, and leads to lower dropout rates, however, ELLs are more likely to be spectators than active contributors in discussion forums. \n\nResearching studies show a “complex mix of affective, socio-cultural, and educational factors” that are inhibitors to their active participation in discussion forums. As expected, English as the language of communication poses both linguistic and cultural challenges for ELLs, and they may not be confident in their English language communication abilities. Discussion forums may also be an uncomfortable means of communication especially for ELLs from Confucian cultures, where disagreement and arguing one’s points are often viewed as confrontational, and harmony is promoted. Therefore, while ELLs may be perceived as being uninterested in participating, research studies show that they do not show the same hesitation in face to face discourse. Finally, ELLs may come from high power distance cultures, where teachers are regarded as authority figures, and the culture of back and forth conversations between teachers and students are not a cultural norm. As a result, discussion forums with active participation from the instructors may cause discomfort and prevent participation for students from such cultures.\n\n"}
{"id": "35289504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35289504", "title": "Multi-age classroom", "text": "Multi-age classroom\n\nMulti-age classrooms or composite classes are classrooms with students from more than one grade level. They are created because of a pedagogical choice of a school or school district. They are different from split classes which are formed when there are too many students for one class - but not enough to form two classes of the same grade level. Composite classes are more common in smaller schools; an extreme form is the one-room school.\n\nStudies of the performance of students in composite classes shows their academic performance is not substantially different from those in single-grade classrooms; instead, outcomes tend to be a function of the teacher's performance.\n\nFor a given number of students, composite classes allow greater administrative flexibility in allocating students to classes. This allows gender balancing, matching of student needs to teaching expertise, and balancing class sizes. By allocating children to classes according to specific learning needs, it is possible to arrange classes with narrower ranges of abilities.\n\nSchools composed exclusively of composite classes are increasingly common in Australian primary school education; they are not uncommon in New Zealand.\n\nComposite classes often meet resistance, with parents often believing that their child is disadvantaged by being in one. This perception is often regardless of whether their child would be in the younger or older cohort.\n\nAdvocates of multi-age classrooms point to the lack of age stratification in workplaces, families or other social environments as a reason to create a similar environment in the classroom.\n\nSocial benefits often cited are:\n\nEducational benefits often cited are:\n\n\nAt any one time, both composite and single-level classes have groups of students at a variety of levels. This is part of the normal delivery of the curriculum. Education expectations are set at curriculum levels which span across two years; for example, see the Victorian Essential Learning Standards. Contemporary teaching and learning materials are developed for multi-age classes. By using them, teachers can introduce core concepts to the whole classroom, and then differentiate instruction for the range of learners in the classroom.\n\nOTHER CONSIDERATIONS\n\nThe students will be of a greater range of size, age and maturity which can have both positive and negative implications particularly in class sporting activities and playground interaction.\n\n"}
{"id": "15232107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15232107", "title": "Nation (university)", "text": "Nation (university)\n\nStudent nations or simply nations ( meaning \"being born\") are regional corporations of students at a university. Once widespread across Europe in medieval times, they are now largely restricted to the oldest universities of Sweden and Finland, in part because of the violent conflicts between the nations in university towns in other countries. Medieval universities were large metropolitan centres with students from many different domestic and foreign regions. Students who were born within the same region usually spoke the same language, expected to be ruled by their own familiar laws, and therefore joined together to form the nations. The most similar comparison in the Anglo-world to the nation system is in the collegiate system of older British universities or fraternities at American universities; however, both of these comparisons are imperfect. In Portugal and Brazil, there are fraternities called \"\", but this has nothing to do with the \"natio\" original concept of nations (they are created for lodgement purposes).\n\nIn the University of Paris there were the French, Normans, Picards, and the English, and later the Alemannian nation. Jean Gerson was twice elected procurator for the French \"natio\" (i.e. the French-born students at the university) in 1383 and 1384, while studying theology at Paris. Also at Paris, Germanic speakers were grouped into a single nation.\n\nThe various nations in Paris often quarreled with one another; Jacques de Vitry wrote of the students:\n\n\"They affirmed that the English were drunkards and had tails; the sons of France proud, effeminate and carefully adorned like women. They said that the Germans were furious and obscene at their feasts; the Normans, vain and boastful; the Poitevins, traitors and always adventurers. The Burgundians they considered vulgar and stupid. The Bretons were reputed to be fickle and changeable, and were often reproached for the death of Arthur. The Lombards were called avaricious, vicious and cowardly; the Romans, seditious, turbulent and slanderous; the Sicilians, tyrannical and cruel; the inhabitants of Brabant, men of blood, incendiaries, brigands and ravishers; the Flemish, fickle, prodigal, gluttonous, yielding as butter, and slothful. After such insults from words they often came to blows.\"\n\nThe students who attended the medieval university in Oxford arranged themselves into two nations who quarrelled constantly. These two nations were called the \"australes\" and the \"boreales\". The \"australes\" originated from south of the River Trent and was the more powerful of the two nations. The Welsh were also considered part of the \"australes\", along with scholars from the Romance lands. The \"boreales\" came mainly from the north of England and Scotland.\n\nThe nations at Oxford were eventually disbanded in 1274 in an effort to maintain peace in the town. This measure was largely unsuccessful and conflicts between the nations continued. One such as on 29 April 1388 when Welsh students, who were according to the chronicler Henry Knighton \"semper inquieti\", fought with their northern counterparts. The following year the \"boreales\" ran amok in the town chanting 'war, war, war, slay, slay, slay the Welsh dogs' killing and looting as they went, before rounding up the remaining Welsh students and urinating on them as they kissed the town's gateposts 'goodbye'.\n\nA similar division of students had been adopted at the Charles University in Prague, where from its opening in 1347 the studium generale was divided among Bohemian (for local students), Bavarian, Saxon, and Polish \"nations\". When there was not a \"natio\" of a student's birth territory, students were assigned to another nation.\n\nWhen the University of Leipzig was established in 1409 by scholars from the University of Prague, the new university replicated the organisation of the \"nationes\" from Prague, replacing the Bohemian \"natio\" with one for local students from the Margravate of Meissen, becoming the \"Natio Misnensium\" with the other \"nationes\" remaining those of the Saxonum (Saxony), Bavarorum (Bavaria), and Polonorum (Poland).\n\nIn medieval Bologna, there existed three separate universities. Two for the study of law, one for students from Italy (but not Bologna) the \"universitas citramontanorum\" and another for students from outside the peninsula the \"universitas ultramontanorum\". The final school was for the study of arts and medicine \"universitas artisarum et medicorum\". The \"ultramontane\" university was divided into fourteen different nations as early as 1265, such as the Gauls, Picards, Burgundians, Norman, Catalan, Hungarian, English, Gascon \"et al.\" whereas the \"citramontane\" university was split into three nations; the Romans, Tuscans and Lombards.\nThe most important and powerful of the \"ultramontane\" University of Bologna was the German nation. One of its most famous members was Nicolaus Copernicus who, in 1496, enrolled into the \"Natio Germanorum\" (Natio of the Germans). a privileged university organization that included German-speaking students from many regions of Europe.\n\nStudents in the University of Padua were divided in 22 nations, which referred to the different territories ruled by the Republic of Venice, to the biggest states of Italy, and to the main states of Europe. Nations were: German (also called Alemannian), Bohemian, Hungarian, Provençal, Burgundian, Spanish, Polish, English, Scottish, Venetian, Overseas (Venetian Greek Islands), Lombard (East Lombardy and West Veneto), Trevisan (North and East Veneto), Friulian, Dalmatian, Milanese, Roman, Sicilian, Anconitan, Tuscan, Piedmontese and Genoan.\n\nIn Finland, student nations () exist at the University of Helsinki and Aalto University School of Science and Technology, where they are legally sanctioned and established in the mid-1600s and 1800s, respectively. Named after regions in Finland, students had to join according to their own geographical roots before membership became voluntary in 1937. Today, students can usually choose to join any nation. Both Finnish and Swedish speaking nations exist. Organizations termed \"nations\" exist also at other universities, although they are legally considered \"associations\". In Finland, student nations co-exist with a wide range of other student organizations, such as Student Unions.\n\nNations exist in some of the ancient universities in Scotland, although their significance has largely been forgotten. Nations never existed at the University of Edinburgh, and were abolished at St Andrews following discussions at the Royal Commission on the Universities of Scotland, which later led to the Universities (Scotland) Acts. Student nations continued into modern times at the University of Aberdeen and the University of Glasgow for the specific purpose of electing a Rector of the university.\n\nWhen Uppsala University was founded in 1477, the system of 'nationes' was copied from Sorbonne in Paris where a Scandinavian nation had existed. At the Swedish universities of Uppsala and Lund, a system of student nations (\"nationer\") remains, and until June 30, 2010 students were required to enroll in a nation. Historically, also Tartu University, founded in 1632 in then Swedish Estonia had nations. It is now voluntary, but still most of the students choose to remain members. The nations are named on regional lines, where the nations in Lund take their names from provinces and areas in southern Sweden, and those in Uppsala take their names from all over Sweden, except for the Scanian lands, the traditional catchment area for Lund, which was founded in 1666 to provide higher education for the youth in the newly conquered areas. (Until 2010, there was a \"Skånelandens nation\" in Uppsala, but it had no activity, and only existed as a legal fiction for those students who did not wish to take part in the activities of the other nations.)\n\nTraditionally, students were required to be members of the nations whose area one came from, but with one exception (Södermanlands-Nerikes nation at Uppsala, though international students are an exception to this), this requirement is now voided. The nations are in charge of the kinds of social activities which are at other universities normally handled by the student unions, such as bars, clubs, theatre companies, orchestras, sports societies, and also some housing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312809", "title": "National Association for the Education of Young Children", "text": "National Association for the Education of Young Children\n\nThe National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) is a large nonprofit association in the United States representing early childhood education teachers, para-educators, center directors, trainers, college educators, families of young children, policy makers, and advocates. NAEYC is focused on improving the well-being of young children, with particular emphasis on the quality of educational and developmental services for children from birth through age 8.\n\nIn the 1920s, concern over the varying quality of emerging nursery school programs in the United States inspired Patty Smith Hill to gather prominent figures in the field to decide how to best ensure the existence of high-quality programs. Meeting in Washington, DC, the group negotiated the issue of a manual, called \"Minimum Essentials for Nursery Education,\" that set out standards and methods of acceptable nursery schools. Three years later, the group cemented the existence of a professional association of nursery school experts named the National Association for Nursery Education (NANE). NANE changed its name to NAEYC in 1964.\n\nThe association has existed for over 80 years. Its holds two national early childhood conferences per year, the NAEYC Annual Conference & Expo and the NAEYC National Institute for Early Childhood Professional Development. The NAEYC Annual Conference & Expo is the largest early childhood education conference in the world. The association publishes periodicals, books, professional development materials, and resources, all of which relate to the education of young children. The association is also active in public policy work. The association is well known for accrediting high-quality child care/preschool centers, and more than 10,000 centers, programs and schools have earned NAEYC Accreditation.\n\nNAEYC accredits early childhood programs according to health, safety and education standards it first launched in 1985 and reinvented and released in September 2006.\nThe new standards were intended to provide a more reliable and accountable accreditation system and to encourage the field of early childhood education to strive for a new level of excellence.\n\nNAEYC also accredits academic degree programs for early childhood educators.\n\nNAEYC has a structure of state and local Affiliates that are semi-autonomous but that are required to contribute part of the membership dues to the national organization. The Office of Affiliate Relations provides direct services to NAEYC State Affiliates, Local Affiliate Chapters, and Affiliate Alliances to support them in their efforts to build capacity and become high-performing, inclusive organizations.\n\nNAEYC provides many different programs to assist professionals who work to educate young children. They are a leading publisher of educational resources, which include books, videos and posters that can assist in the teaching of young children. NAEYC also publishes two scholarly journals to help early childhood professionals and parents stay informed about the latest research on educating children age 0-8. These journals are \"Young Children\" and \"Early Childhood Research Quarterly.\" In 2007, NAEYC also developed \"Teaching Young Children\", a magazine written for preschool teachers. The magazine provides useful, research-based ideas that teachers can use in their classrooms. Every year the NAEYC offers several conferences where participants can learn about and receive professional development in their field as well as focus on the improvements that have been made in the practices, policies and research.\n\nNAEYC goes beyond publications, conferences and videos, and offers a program called “Supporting Teachers, Strengthening Families” that is designed to assist in the fight to prevent child abuse and promote healthy social and emotional development in young children. This program works by teaching the educators how to better communicate with the families of their students. Another important program sponsored by the NAEYC is the “Week of the Young Child”. This is a week-long promotion every spring that brings public awareness to the importance of early childhood development and education.\n\nNAEYC encourages its supporters to be informed of current issues and legislation that affect the lives of young children. At the NAEYC Children's Champions Action Center, individuals can find information about the federal legislative process, learn how to contact members of Congress, and see the daily agenda for the House and the Senate.\n\nNAEYC believes that our nation is at a crossroads. An integrated system of early childhood care and education that includes comprehensive approaches that directly involve families and communities in program design, implementation, and evaluation must be developed. NAEYC believes Americans can invest now in our children and families and enjoy long-term savings, with a more vibrant nation of healthy, achieving children and more stable families. Or, they can fail to make the investment and pay the price: increased delinquency, greater educational failures, lowered productivity, less economic competitiveness, and fewer adults prepared to be effective, loving parents to the next generation of children.\n\nFederal, state and local government, communities, parents, and the private sector must share in the responsibility of ensuring the well-being of children and families.\n\nIn order to keep the programs going, NAEYC members must pay dues for funding of the programs they run. In September 2012, the NAEYC members at that time received a letter/e-mail regarding a due increase. This was the first time since 2000 that there was an increase in dues.\n\nThe following periodic publications are released and sponsored by NAEYC:\n\nYoung Children\n\n\"Young Children\" is a peer reviewed journal published bi-monthly by the National Association for the Education of Young Children. In this journal, issues are organized around topical clusters that devote special attention to issues in the field of early childhood education.\n\nTeaching Young Children\n\n\"Teaching Young Children\" is a magazine specifically designed for preschool teachers. It highlights current thinking on best practices in early childhood education, innovations in the field, research and its implications, and interesting ideas for and from preschool teachers. The articles and other features reinforce the accreditation criteria for the NAEYC Early Childhood Program Standards on Relationships and Teaching and encourage effective teaching in the preschool years.\n\nEarly Childhood Research Quarterly\n\n\"Early Childhood Research Quarterly\" is a research journal that is published four times a year, and contains current research in early childhood.\n\nIn addition to these periodicals, NAEYC produces formal position statements from time to time to \"state the Association's position on issues related to early childhood education practice, policy, and/or professional development for which there are controversial or critical opinions.\" These position statements are typically produced by NAEYC to include in-depth discussion of specific issues such as Early Learning Standards, Teacher Certification or Media Violence. In a few instances, NAEYC has issued position statements jointly with other authorities. A recent example is the 2012 position statement titled \"Technology and Interactive Media as Tools in Early Childhood Programs Serving Children from Birth through Age 8\", produced jointly with the Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning and Children's Media at Saint Vincent College.\n\nCaring for Children in Low-Income Families: A Substudy of the National Child Care Survey, 1990\n\n\"Caring for Children in Low-Income Families\" is a study that NAEYC conducted with The Urban Institute in 1990 on affordable child care facilities for low- income families. This book explores multiple different aspects of the lives of low-income children and day care. The study also examines aspects of the family lives. For example, whether a home has a single parent, two parents, unemployed parents, or other odd family situations and how that effects the children and their abilities to receive proper education. This was a very thorough and detailed study conducted by NAEYC and it helped them to better suit their own child care facilities to adapt to the needs of low-income families.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10367850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10367850", "title": "Nawojka", "text": "Nawojka\n\nNawojka (pronounced: ; 14th-century – 15th-century) was a legendary medieval Polish woman known to have dressed as a boy in order to study at the University of Kraków in the 15th century. She later became a nun. She is considered to be the first female student and teacher in Poland.\n\nThe story of her was first told by the abbot Martin of Leibitz (d. 1464) in Vienna in about 1429. There are several different versions of the legend.\n\nAccording to one version, she was a daughter of a teacher in a church school in Gniezno, schooled by her father, who decided to continue her studies using any means necessary. According to another version, she was a girl who inherited a fortune when orphaned. In yet another variant of the story(\"[this] claim is as well documented as any other\") she came from Dobrzyń nad Wisłą.\nIn any case, dressed as a boy, she enrolled at the University of Kraków in the name of Andrzej (or Jakub; two versions of the name she used are reported). At that time it was forbidden for women to attend universities.\n\nNawojka successfully fooled everyone and studied for two years, making herself a name as a great scholar and a serious student. According to a possibly later addition to the story,\nshe was offered work as a domestic assistant to one of the professors, but declined: at the time servants were expected to accompany their masters to the public bath.\n\nOne day, she was exposed as a woman. The versions differ here again: according to one, two soldiers wagered that the student walking by was in fact a woman, and exposed her; according to the second, she was found by a son of wójt from Gniezno who joined the school; according to the third one, she fell ill and a doctor examining her found out the truth.\n\nWhen she was brought before the authorities to explain why she had disguised her gender, she simply answered: \"For the will of learning\". When they interrogated her fellow-students and professors they could find no one to accuse her of immoral conduct. Her record as a student was excellent. She was not convicted of any crime, but the judges did not want to acquit her entirely. According to Martin of Leibitz, she asked to be taken to a convent. She took her vows there, became a teacher and a leader of the convent school, and eventually the abbess.\n\nThis story may or may not be true. Some historians say that if it is true, her time at the university was about 1407-1409.\n\nThe Jagiellonian University did not allow women to study until 1897\n, and to hold academic positions until 1906. The university's first women's dormitory, opened in 1936, was named after Nawojka. One of the streets in Kraków is also named after her.\n\n"}
{"id": "37444456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37444456", "title": "OER Commons", "text": "OER Commons\n\nOER Commons is a freely accessible online library that allows teachers and others to search and discover open educational resources (OER) and other freely available instructional materials.\n\nOER Commons, created by the Institute for the Study of Knowledge Management in Education, was developed to serve curriculum experts and educators in discovering open educational resources (OER) and collaborating around the use, evaluation, and improvement of those materials. Resources on the site can be searched and filtered using an expanded set of descriptive data, including conditions of use. Teachers, students, and others enrich this \"metadata\" when they tag, rate, and review materials, and share what works for them.\n\nIn 2007, with a grant from the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, OER Commons opened as a digital library and intermediary for openly licensed and freely available content. By aggregating resources and standardizing metadata from OER content providers, the site supports knowledge sharing and access to teaching and learning materials, strategies, and curricula online. \nIndividual educators submit their own contributions which are curated. Materials are reviewed for quality and alignment to standards and shared primarily using Creative Commons licenses.\n\nIn a second phase, beginning in 2009, ISKME developed an initiative for teacher professional development program to support educators in finding and using OER supported by the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation and the Ford Foundation. As part of its teacher training program, ISKME trained educators from over 25 countries to use OER through workshops and summer academies, including ISKME's Teachers as Makers Academies.\n\nISKME’s OER research revealed how teachers’ exposure to OER, tools and professional development cultivates collaboration among teachers, as well as new conversations and reflection about teaching practices and roles. Petrides et al., 2011\n\nFurthermore, research conducted on the impact of teachers’ participation in ISKME’s own OER training network revealed that engagement with OER reduced teacher isolation (Petrides & Jimes, 2010), as well as expanded the role of teachers in becoming more active innovators as they shared, collaborated and learned from one another (Petrides et al., 2011). This work also revealed the role that OER teacher champions play in sharing the benefits of OER with colleagues and supporting the knowledge sharing, collaboration, and use of OER in online OER communities (ISKME, 2008; Petrides & Jimes, 2010; Petrides et al., 2011).\n\nISKME’s OER research also explored OER as a vehicle for disseminating adaptable curricula that support learner-centric approaches to pedagogy. ISKME’s evaluation of the Community College Open Textbook Project revealed that study habits improved when learners were able to interact with open course material, and that students’ use of open textbooks cultivated new, self-directed learning behaviors (Petrides et al., 2011).\n\nFinally, ISKME’s research revealed the role that collaboration plays in supporting the creation of open educational resources. Specifically, ISKME’s study of authors who created content within the open repository Connexions revealed how as content creation group size increased beyond one author, the probability that users stayed with Connexions (and continued to create content) increased with it (Petrides et al., 2008).\n\nISKME’s technology platform, tools, and metadata enhancement in its work with OER Commons are designed to support an open platform that serves as a knowledge base for content providers and platform developers, particularly related to accessibility and inclusive design. Metadata, data that describes a resource, and in the case of open educational resources, includes descriptors such as title, author, material type, and material license. Metadata standards provide a template for OER providers to share their resources with other providers. OER Commons receives feeds of OER in Dublin Core (DC), IEEE's Learning Object Metadata (LOM), and RSS. OER Commons provide targets to other providers to harvest content in these formats.\n\nPartnered with the Inclusive Design Research Centre since 2010 to incorporate FLOE components into the OER Commons platform, ISKME’s efforts combine OER discovery and enhancement tools and processes with FLOE’s personalized network-delivered accessibility standards and tools.\n\nIn 2012, ISKME released Open Author, an authoring and remixing environment to support the creation and adaption of multi-media accessible OER and enable collaborative workflows of content reviewers and creators. The authoring environment produces OER that is accessible using a broad range of assistive technology devices such as screen readers.\n\nTo support user contributions, in 2010 ISKME released the OER-Connector browser plug-in on GitHub that enables users to add resources to OER Commons.\n\nTo support interoperability, OER Commons is an experimental node in the Learning Registry, a joint US Department of Education and US Department of Defense initiative to support educational content and platform interoperability.\n\nThe OER Commons contains custom curated resource collections, or microsites. Within a microsite, OER is presented in the context of customized taxonomies to categorize and describe relevant OER. In 2011, ISKME announced the Green Micro-site with Greek partner Agro-Know. It is an aggregation of sustainability-related learning resources and features interdisciplinary lesson plans such as STEAM (Science Technology Engineering Art and Math) resources.\n\nThe OER Commons infrastructure facilitates evaluation of content and alignment to quality rubrics and standards. Starting in 2011, OER Commons provides an embedded Common Core State Standards alignment tool and Achieve OER Rubric to support state-level curriculum committees as well as individual instructors to review content for quality and alignment and to collaboratively address gaps in content collections.\n\nISKME was named an Education Laureate by the San Jose Tech Museum of Innovation in 2007 for OER Commons.\n\nIn December 2010, ISKME was named a finalist in the Qatar Foundation World Innovation Summit for Education (WISE) Awards for its OER Commons teacher professional development programs.\n\nIn 2011, ISKME won the Award for Bodies which Influence Policy from the Open Educational Quality Initiative (OPAL), a consortium that includes UNESCO, the International Council for Open and Distance Education, the European Foundation for Quality in e-Learning, and several European universities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1597540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1597540", "title": "Overlearning", "text": "Overlearning\n\nOverlearning refers to practicing newly acquired skills beyond the point of initial mastery. The term is also often used to refer to the pedagogical theory that this form of practice leads to automaticity or other beneficial consequences.\n\nMemory researcher Herman Ebbinghaus performed classical overlearning studies in the late 1890s. He noticed that memory for learned material decreased over time (see also forgetting curve). Ebbinghaus recognized that lists of nonsense syllables became more difficult to recall over time, and some lists required more review time to regain 100% recall. He defined overlearning as the number of repetitions of material after that material can be 100% recalled.\n\nA 1992 meta-analysis suggested that overlearning does significantly affect recall over time. It also concluded that the size of this effect may be moderated by the amount of overlearning, task type, and length of retention. The meta-analysis included 15 studies. These 15 studies tested overlearning effects on physical and cognitive tasks. Both types of task showed an effect of overlearning. The effect size for physical tasks was smaller than the effect size for cognitive tasks. The amount of overlearning affected retention: more overlearning led to more retention on both types of task. The length of the retention interval also affected overlearning, but the effects were different for physical and cognitive tasks. Whereas participants overlearning physical tasks increased in ability during the retention interval, participants who overlearned cognitive tasks decreased in recall ability over time.\n\nSome recent studies explicitly examined the interaction of overlearning with retention interval, and concluded that the effects of overlearning tend to be fairly short-lived. Overlearning may be more useful in instances when learners only need short-term retention of the material.\n\nIn one study, researchers examined the effects of overlearning geography facts or word definitions. After one week, overlearners recalled more geography facts and word definitions than non-overlearners, but this improvement gradually disappeared after the study. This research suggests that overlearning may be an inefficient study method for long-term retention of geography facts and word definitions. Overlearning improves short-term retention of material, but learners must also spend more time studying. Over time the improvements created by overlearning fade, and the learner is no better off than someone who did not spend time overlearning the material.\n\nIn another study, researchers compared the effects of overlearning and distributed practice on mathematics knowledge. Distributed practice refers to practice that is spaced over time. In Experiment 1, participants completed 10 math problems either all at once or distributed across two sessions. Participants in the distributed practice condition performed no differently from participants in the single-session condition one week later, but distributed practice participants did perform better than single-session participants four weeks later. In Experiment 2, participants completed either three or nine practice problems in one sitting. When participants were retested one or four weeks later, no differences were found between three-problem and nine-problem participants. Researchers found no effect of overlearning on mathematics retention.\n\n"}
{"id": "36352733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36352733", "title": "Peer learning", "text": "Peer learning\n\nOne of the most visible approaches to peer learning comes out of cognitive psychology, and is applied within a \"mainstream\" educational framework: \"Peer learning is an educational practice in which students interact with other students to attain educational goals.\" In this context, it can be compared to the practices that go by the name cooperative learning. However, other contemporary views on peer learning relax the constraints, and position \"peer-to-peer learning\" as a mode of \"learning for everyone, by everyone, about almost anything.\" Whether it takes place in a formal or informal learning context, in small groups or online, peer learning manifests aspects of self-organization that are mostly absent from pedagogical models of teaching and learning.\n\nIn his 1916 book, Democracy and Education, John Dewey wrote, “Education is not an affair of 'telling' and being told, but an active and constructive process.” In a later essay, entitled \"Experience and Education\", Dewey went into greater detail about the science of child development and developed the basic Constructivist theory that knowledge is created through experience, rather than passed down from teacher to student through rote memorization. Soviet psychologist Lev Vygotsky, who developed the concept of the Zone of Proximal Development, was another proponent of constructivist learning: his book, \"Thought and Language\", provides evidence that students learn better through collaborative, meaningful problem-solving activities than through solo exercises.\n\nThe three distinguishing features of constructivist theory are claims that:\nThese are clearly meaningful propositions in a social context with sustained relationships, where people work on projects or tasks that are collaborative or otherwise shared.\n\nEducational Psychology Professor Alison King explains in \"Promoting Thinking Through Peer Learning\" that peer learning exercises as simple as having students explain concepts to one another are proof of social constructivism theory at work; the act of teaching another individual demands that students “clarify, elaborate on, and otherwise reconceptualize material.” Joss Winn, Senior Lecturer in Educational Research at University of Lincoln, proposes that schools radically redefine the teacher-student relationship to fit this constructivist theory of knowledge in his December 2011 paper, \"Student as Producer\". Carl Rogers' \"Personal Thoughts on Learning\" focus on the individual’s experience of effective learning, and eventually conclude that nearly the entire traditional educational structure is at odds with this experience. Self-discovered learning in a group that designates a facilitator is the “new approach” Rogers recommends for education.\n\nIn general, peer learning may adapt constructivist or discovery learning methods for the peer-to-peer context: however, peer learning typically manifests constructivist ideas in a more informal way, when learning and collaboration are simply applied to solve some real shared problem.\n\nCritical pedagogy engages students and instructors in analyzing and critiquing power structures around them. The most influential scholar in the development of this field was Paulo Freire, whose book Pedagogy of the Oppressed described the traditional teaching framework as a “banking system” in which students are thought of as empty vessels to be filled with knowledge and concepts. Instead, Freire advocated a more equitable relationship between teachers and students, one in which information is questioned and situated in political context, and all participants in the classroom work together to create knowledge.\n\nFreire’s vision for dialogical education, where learning is situated within students’ lived experience, has been commonly deemed idealistic by modern educators. Yet Paulo Blikstein, Assistant Professor of Education at Stanford University wrote in \"Travels in Troy with Freire: Technology as an Agent of Emancipation\" that through exploratory building activities, “Not only did students become more autonomous and responsible, they learned to teach one another.”\n\nYochai Benkler explains how the now-ubiquitous computer helps us produce and process knowledge together with others in his book, The Wealth of Networks. George Siemens argues in Connectivism: A Learning Theory for the Digital Age, that technology has changed the way we learn, explaining how it tends to complicate or expose the limitations of the learning theories of the past. In practice, the ideas of connectivism developed in and alongside the then-new social formation, \"massive open online courses\" or MOOCs.\n\nConnectivism proposes that the knowledge we can access by virtue of our connections with others is just as valuable as the information carried inside our minds. The learning process, therefore, is not entirely under an individual’s control—learning can happen outside ourselves, as if we are a member of a large organization where many people are continuously updating a shared database.\n\nRita Kop and Adrian Hill, in their critique of connectivism, state that:\n\nIn a joint paper, Roy Williams, Regina Karousou, and Jenny Mackness argue that educational institutions should consider \"emergent learning,\" in which learning arises from a self-organized group interaction, as a valuable component of education in the Digital Age. Web 2.0 puts distributed individuals into a group setting where emergent learning can occur. However, deciding how to manage emergence is important; “fail-safe” management drives activity towards pre-determined outcomes, while “safe/fail experiments” steer away from negative outcomes while leaving space open for mistakes and innovation. Williams \"et al.\" also distinguish between the term “environment” as controlled, and “ecology” as free/open.\n\nCathy Davidson and David Theo Goldberg write in \"The Future of Learning Institutions in a Digital Age\" about the potential of “participatory learning,” and a new paradigm of education that is focused on mediated interactions between peers.\nThey argue that if institutions of higher learning could begin to value this type of learning, instead of simply trying to implement “Instructional Technology” in classrooms, they could transform old models of university education. Davidson and Goldberg introduce “Ten Principles for the Future of Learning,” which include self-learning, horizontal structures, and open source education. Peter Sloterdijk's recent book \"You Must Change Your Life\" proposes similar ideas in the context of a \"General Disciplinics\" that would \"counteract the atrophy of the educational system\" by focusing on forms of learning that takes place through direct participation in the disciplines. (p. 156)\n\nYochai Benkler & Helen Nissenbaum discuss implications for the realm of moral philosophy in their 2006 essay, \n\"Commons-Based Peer Production and Virtue\". They argue that the “socio-technical systems” of today’s Internet make it easier for people to role-model and adopt positive, virtuous behaviors on a large scale.\n\nJoseph Corneli and Charles Jeffrey Danoff proposed the label “paragogy” to describe a collection of “best practices of effective peer learning.” They published a short book\nalong with several papers in which they discuss five \"paragogical principles\" that form the core of their proposed learning theory. These were generated by rethinking Malcolm Knowles principles of andragogy for a learning context that is co-created by the learners.\n\nThe learning theories and approaches described above are currently being tested in peer-learning communities around the world, often adapting educational technology to support informal learning, though results in formal learning contexts exist too. For example, Eric Mazur and colleagues report on \"Ten years of experience and results\" with a teaching technique they call \"Peer Instruction\":\n\nThis approach made early use of a variant of the technique that is now known as the \"flipped classroom\":\n\nPeer 2 Peer University, or P2PU, which was founded in 2009 by Philipp Schmidt and others, is an example from the informal learning side. Speaking about the beginnings of P2PU, Schmidt echoes Siemens’ connectivism ideas and explains that, “The expertise is in the group. That’s the message, that everyone can bring something to the conversation.” In numerous public talks, Schmidt argues that current educational models are \"broken\" (particularly on the basis of the high cost of university-level training). He suggests that social assessment mechanisms similar to those applied in open-source software development can be applied to education. In practice, this approach uses peer-based assessment including recommendations and badges to provide an alternative form of accreditation.\n\nJeff Young’s article in the Chronicle of Higher Education, \"When Professors Print Their Own Diplomas\", sparked a conversation about the necessity of formal degrees in an age when class lectures can be uploaded for free. The MIT Open Teaching initiative, for example, has since 2001 put all of its course materials online. But David A. Wiley, then Psychology Professor at Utah State, went further, signing certificates for whoever takes his class. A similar practice has become even more visible in learning projects like Udacity, Coursera, and EdX. Although these projects attempt to \"scale education\" by distributing learning materials produced by experts (not classic examples of peer learning), they do frequently feature peer-to-peer discussions in forums or offline.\n\nIn the forward to a book on the \"Power of peer learning\" by Jean-H. Guilmette, Maureen O'Neil, then president of Canada's International Development Research Centre, states that\n\nGuilmette suggests that peer learning is useful in the development context because\n\nGuilmette cites Anne K. Bernard, who in a report based on extensive interviews, concludes:\n\nScardamalia and Bereiter explain in \"Computer Support for Knowledge-Building Communities\" that computers in the classroom have the opportunity to restructure the learning environment, but too often they are simply used to provide a digital version of a normal lesson or exam. They propose that classrooms be exchanged for “knowledge-building communities” where students can use computers to connect to and create knowledge in the outside world. However, as illustrated in citations above, this way of thinking about learning is often at odds with traditional educational praxis.\n\nIn \"The Role of the Learning Platform in Student-Centered E-Learning\", Kurliha, Miettinen, Nokelainen, and Tirri found a \"difference in\nlearning outcomes based on the tools used.\" However, the variables at work are not well understood, and are the subject of ongoing research. Within a formal education setting, a 1994 study found that students were more responsive to feedback from a teacher than they were to peer feedback. However, another later study showed that training in assessment techniques had a positive impact on individual student performance.\n\nA classic study on motivation in peer tutoring showed that \"reward is no motivator.\" Although other more recent work has shown that non-monetary rewards or acknowledgement can make a difference in \"performance\" (for certain populations of peer producers), the exact motivations for going out of the way to teach or tutor someone else are not clearly understood. As mentioned above, learning is often just part of solving a problem, so \"peer learning\" and \"peer teaching\" would tend to happen informally when people solve problems in groups.\n\nResearch on peer learning may involve participant observation, and may itself be peer produced. Some of this research falls under the broader umbrella of Scholarship of Teaching and Learning. Computer-supported collaborative learning is one obvious context in which to study peer learning, since in such settings \"learning is observably and accountably embedded in collaborative activity.\" However, peer learning can play a role in settings where traditional conceptions of both \"teaching\" and \"learning\" do not apply, for instance, in academic peer review, in organizational learning, in development work, and in public health programmes. Research in these areas may fall within the area of organization science, science, technology and society (STS) or other fields.\n\n"}
{"id": "13535002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13535002", "title": "Peer support specialist", "text": "Peer support specialist\n\nA certified peer support specialist, also known as a certified peer specialist, is a person with significant life-altering experience. This is also referred to as \"lived experience\". These specialists support individuals with struggles pertaining to mental health, psychological trauma or substance use. Because of their lived experience, such persons have expertise that professional training cannot replicate. This is not to be confused with peer educators, who may not consider recovery a suitable goal for everyone and may focus instead on the principles of harm reduction.\n\nTasks performed by peer support specialists may include assisting their peers in articulating their goals for recovery, learning and practicing new skills, helping them monitor their progress, supporting them in their treatment, modeling effective coping techniques and self-help strategies based on the specialist's own recovery experience, and supporting them in advocating for themselves to obtain effective services.\n\nA peer recovery support specialist (P-RSS) is an occupational title of trained individuals who engage with peers in a community-based recovery center, or outside it around any number of activities, or over the telephone. The peer support specialist can work with individuals as they develop and implement a personal recovery plan, which can also serve as a contract for engagement.\n\nThe Veterans Administration has increased its number of peer specialists to 800 The VA uses peer support specialists much like local, state, and private agencies.\n\nRecovery plans can take many forms. A key component of the recovery management model is a personal recovery plan which is drawn up by the individual looking for support, and reviewed with an RSS. This plan is instrumental for individuals in the process of their recovery.\n\nCentral to such plans are the overall health and well-being of each individual, not just their mental health. Components often include support groups and individual therapy, basic health care maintenance, stable housing, improvements in family life and personal relationships, and community connections. The plan may also include education goals, vocational development and employment. Some plans outline a timetable for monitoring, and/or a plan for re-engagement when needed to balance the health and overall quality of life of each individual. \n\nPeer recovery support specialists can be found in an increasing variety of settings, including community-based recovery centers. Funding for peer recovery programs comes from a combination of federal and state agencies as well as local and national charities and grant programs, such as Catholic Charities and the United Way.\n\nWhen peer support specialists work in publicly funded services, they are required to meet government and state certification requirements. Since the adaptation of the Recovery Management Model by state and federal agencies, peer support specialist courses have been offered by numerous state, nonprofit and for-profit entities such as Connecticut Community for Addiction Recovery, PRO-ACT (Pennsylvania Recovery Organization-Achieving Community Together), The McShin Foundation, Tennessee Certified Peer Recovery Specialist Training and Program, Appalachian Consulting Group, and the State of New York's Office of Addiction Services. PARfessionals has developed the first internationally approved online training program for peer support specialists in the fields of mental health and addiction recovery. In addition, numerous for-profit firms offer peer support specialist training. Training includes courses on the ethics of a recovery coach, recovery coaching core competencies, clinical theories as stages of change, motivational interviewing, and co-occurring disorders.\n\nAdapted for the recovery support specialist by William L. White:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24535515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24535515", "title": "Postbaccalaureate program", "text": "Postbaccalaureate program\n\nPostbaccalaureate programs (postbac) are reserved for students who are working toward a second bachelor's degree or a second entry degree. These programs are offered for those who already have a first undergraduate degree. Post Baccalaureate programs are not considered traditional graduate education, but it is more advanced than a bachelor's degree. These programs are offered under the umbrella of continuing education and leads to a second graduate degree. Often first year of the second entry degree is redacted with Postbaccalaureate credentials (PBD). Programs like post-degree diploma, graduate diploma, graduate certificates or a pre-medical to a master's degree in a field such as biomedical or health sciences may come under the range of post-baccalaureate programs. In addition, students with a bachelor's degree, who wish to pursue a master's degree in a field other than their BS/BA degree, may be admitted to a college or university individualized or preset postbac program to earn the necessary entry credits in their new chosen subject. These courses of study are considered as an equivalent blend of foundation year graduate/professional school studies and final year of the specific bachelor's program. This also provides opportunity to those who prepare for changing careers and profession or as a supportive for those interested in continuing education to familiarize with new modalities in their particular fields. The usual length of the programs is 8 months to 1 year and the advanced thesis route grad-entry program is for 2 years.\n"}
{"id": "209532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209532", "title": "QED manifesto", "text": "QED manifesto\n\nThe QED manifesto was a proposal for a computer-based database of all mathematical knowledge, strictly formalized and with all proofs having been checked automatically. (Q.E.D. means in Latin, meaning \"which was to be demonstrated.\") \n\nThe idea for the project arose in 1993, mainly under the impetus of Robert Boyer. The goals of the project, tentatively named \"QED project\" or \"project QED\", were outlined in the QED manifesto, a document first published in 1994, with input from several researchers. Explicit authorship was deliberately avoided. A dedicated mailing list was created, and two scientific conferences on QED took place, the first one in 1994 at Argonne National Laboratories and the second in 1995 in Warsaw organized by the Mizar group.\n\nThe project seems to have died in 1996, never having produced more than discussions and plans. In a 2007 paper, Freek Wiedijk identifies two reasons for the failure of the project. In order of importance:\n\nNonetheless, QED-style projects are regularly proposed, and the Mizar library has successfully formalized a large portion of undergraduate mathematics. it is the largest such library. Another such project is the Metamath proof database.\n\nIn 2014 the Twenty years of the QED Manifesto workshop was organized as part of the Vienna Summer of Logic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25213924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25213924", "title": "Social learning tools", "text": "Social learning tools\n\nSocial learning tools are tools used for pedagogical and andragogical purposes that utilize social software and/or social media in order to facilitate learning through interactions between individuals and systems. The idea of setting up \"social learning tools\" is to make education more convenient and widespread. It also allows an interaction between users and/or the software which can bring a different aspect to learning. People can acquire knowledge by distance learning tools, for instance, Facebook, Twitter, Khan Academy and so on. Social learning tools may mediate in formal or informal learning environments to help create connections between learners, instructors and information. These connections form dynamic knowledge networks. Social learning tools are used in schools for teaching/learning and in businesses for training. Within a school environment, the use of social learning tools can affect not only the user (student) but his/her caretaker as well as his/her instructor. It brings a different approach to the traditional way of learning which affects the student and his/her support circle. Companies also use social learning tools. They used them to improve knowledge transfer within departments and across teams. Businesses use a variety of these tools to create a social learning environment. They are also used in company settings to help improve team work, problem solving, and performance in stressful situations.\n\nSocial learning tools are used for people who are willing to share their good ideas/thoughts with someone else. The ideas can be related to either the academic studies or any other daily skills that we want to share with others. Social learning tools connect learning to our daily lives. It creates a learning environment more truthful to today's society. There are a couple of common elements that should be present in a social learning tool. Technology should be involved to allow physical and cognitive learning. There should be interactions between the people who use the tool and interactions with the software. Another element is trust. Users should trust the software and what other people have created.\n\nBlogger is a site in which users can create their own blog. Blogger can be used in an educational context. A teacher could create a blog in which students could interact on. This would allow students to improve their writing and planning skills. Students would have to think about how they would write out their information on the blog in order to convey their message properly. Blogger provides opportunities for students to share what they wrote with their peers and with their caretakers. The blogs could also be a form of electronic portfolios that could show what the students created during the school year. Blogger has settings in which only people with permission can see or write on the blogs themselves.\n\nFacebook is an online communication tool that allows individuals to interact with each other within a virtual community. It has become the most popular social networking site since its beginnings in 2004. Facebook was co-founded in 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his roommates and colleagues from Harvard University. Zuckerberg is presently the CEO of Facebook. This online communication tool can be used for personal and for professional purposes. Technology plays an integral part of students' daily lives and teachers will need to find ways of implementing these technologies into their classrooms. Research is currently being conducted on the benefits of implementing Facebook in educational settings and how it could potentially be used as a tool for teaching and learning, even if it is known for social networking in the first place. For example, Facebook can be used to create discussion groups for group projects to divide the work and stay up to date with each other. It can also be used to share articles. Educators can also create professional Facebook accounts for their classrooms, which could be potentially used as a dashboard to upload course material and assignments. It can also be used to create polls to get some feedback and suggestions on the course that the teacher would like to implement. The objective is to improve the methods of teaching as well as the learning experience of students. With the use of technologies, students are more engaged in their learning.\n\nGoogle Hangouts is a communication software platform that was created by Google. Some features of this social learning tool include starting a chat conversation or video call, phone calls through WI-FI or data and sending messages. All you need is a Google Account. Google Hangouts has become an increasingly popular tool to participate and communicate with people around the world. It can be seen as a better version of Skype in the sense that it has the potential to record or have a group chat without the occasional availability issues that may be seen in the free version of Skype. This makes it easily accessible and efficient in many ways. There are also many other useful tools from Google like Google Drive that allow users to take part in editing and sharing different content, assignments ,and sources even when not together. It only takes an Internet connection and everything is saved in your own personal drive.\n\nInstagram, founded in 2010, is a social networking app that was created for sharing photos and videos. Used very frequently in today’s society, Instagram can be seen as a great social learning tool through reaching the majority of the populations that have access to the Internet. It has become one of the most popular apps in the social networking world and is now used as a way to campaign companies or organizations. It may be used for educational purposes by posting photos or 1-minute videos of information or subject content. It may also be used for photo essays or creating an organization or lesson.\n\nKhan Academy, founded in 2006 by Salman “Sal” Khan, is a non-profit organization providing free online educational resources used by millions of people worldwide. It is best known for its strong mathematics content provided through video tutorials. The mathematics content is designed to help students from kindergarten to grade 12. In 2009, Khan Academy began expanding its educational learning platform to include other subjects, including art history and computer science. The mathematics section is also much more accessible since its recent translation into French. Khan Academy has also diverged to offering other means of learning beyond the online videos, including self-paced training exercises, quizzes, and dashboards for teachers to keep track of student progress. There is also the coach resource section which provides guidelines to parents or teachers for example, who want to learn how to use Khan Academy.\n\nKhan Academy is used in majority by individuals outside of school for study purposes. However, in recent years, its use in educational settings has been increasing. Some teachers have implemented the use of Khan Academy in their classrooms, believing it would simply be an adjunct to their instruction. However, it became more important than this. Some teachers are now thinking of “flipping” the normal functioning of classroom settings and including video tutorials from Khan Academy in their teaching. The idea is to have students watch the videos or read the lectures provided by the teacher at home and to do the problem sets during class time. It has been shown that students are having the most difficulty when they are doing their homework.\n\nPinterest is a web-based software platform that allows its users to share and discover new information through the use of pictures, descriptions, and short videos. It can also be seen as an online pin board where users can post on their board, collect from other boards, and privately share posted pins. This can be useful in the classroom through having students post their works on their own board or a class board and to share (re-pin) information between their peers. It is easily accessible and is popular for its application that can be used on any mobile or smart device.\n\nSkype is a free telecommunications tool that gives its users the opportunity to voice chat or video call between various devices such as laptops and cellphones. Although this application requires the Internet, it has grown to be one of the world's most popular communication tools. Skype is an excellent resource to use when collaborating with participants who are in remote areas because discussions and communication can still occur. Skype can be applied to classrooms in many ways. For example, it can be used as a way to include students who are at home due to illness into collaborative discussions held in class.\n\nTwitter is an established micro-blogging service available to individuals with Internet access world-wide and provides unlimited access to social networks for its users, to send and receive messages. In 2006, it was funded by Jack Dorsey, Noah Glass, Biz Stone, and Evan Williams. One of the common site users is media outlets to broadcast current news updates. For this reason, people use Twitter as a daily source of information to inform themselves on local and world news. Another way that Twitter is utilized, is in the classroom, when a teacher builds a classroom account which can be viewed by their students. This account would allow teachers to post reminders for test revisions, assignment due dates, upcoming field trips and conferences, and review post lessons and answer homework questions. For future lesson plans, teachers could have students tweet what they learned from the previous class and reflect on the content and then engage in classroom discussions on Twitter.\n\nYouTube is a video-sharing website founded in 2005 that was created for users to share, like, upload, and comment on videos. Nowadays, YouTube can be used on many devices through applications like its YouTube app. Although it is mainly used for music, videos on reviewing items or how to do something, it may also be used for educational purposes. There are many accounts just for specific educational subjects like Crash Course, an account that focuses on subjects like anatomy, biology, chemistry and physics. YouTube can be a great social learning tool in education in many different ways: showing videos on different subjects in class or having students research how something works to answer questions, for homework or even to seek further knowledge. There are many platforms of YouTube that lead to other useful social learning tools for educational purposes. TED Talks created its account on YouTube, which provides videos of the best ideas from trusted voices discussing different issues, sharing knowledge or facts and opinions, sharing poetry and spoken word. For education, TED has created its own platform called TED-Ed, which is essentially short TED Talks videos that may be used for information or insight purposes on many different school subjects. There is even such thing as TeacherTube, which is another type of social learning tool similar to YouTube though initially created for education teachers. It may be used for teachers, students or parents through the use of published educational videos with a library of different content filled with videos, audio and pictures.\n\nThe different environments in which social learning tools can be used may influence the connections between learners, educators and the knowledge or information being acquired. These environments can be formal, non-formal, informal or virtual.\n\nThere are many social learning tools created for the sole purpose of education. The education system has adopted technology as a way to educate students in school and outside of school settings, where students have shown to work well in the VLE. Social learning tools including Moodle, Khan Academy, TED-Ed and TeacherTube can all be used both in school and at home through the use of the Internet. This goes to show that social learning tools can be both used within all learning environments while being used for educational purposes. However, it is important for these social learning tools to first be introduced in the formal learning environment, e.g. in the classroom, in order to be established as first an educational tool and second a social media platform that may be accessible outside of school.\n\nThe majority of informal learning environments are directly related to the use of social media, e.g. Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Television Channels and so on. For instance, there are many Food TV or YouTube Channels that allow people to self-teach themselves how to cook. This is done through the informal and VLE where a person can simply learn from the comfort of their own home and according to their own pace. Not only does social software or media allow society to gain new knowledge or information; it is easily accessible and can even happen without the desire or intent of learning.\n\n\nSocial learning tools are convenient because through the various platforms that are now available, communication between students and teachers is fluid and the exchange of knowledge and ideas can be achieved remotely. This means that both parties are no longer required to travel in order to attend school and to study content based subjects. Students can communicate with their teachers over the Internet and attend and actively participate in lectures. Social learning tools provide both students and teachers with a media platform that enables distance education.\n\nSocial learning tools give access, as a hub, to sources of information and resources online, either for free or at low costs through the use of the Internet. Most of these tools can easily be downloaded and used on a smartphone, tablet or computer. For example, there are online applications (apps) like EasyBib, which generates bibliographic citations in the necessary styles as needed for research, essays and other assignments and does this at no cost.\n\nSocial learning tools are applicable to elementary, high school, CEGEP, and university level learning. The social media platforms such as Facebook, Skype or Twitter could enhance the communication and interaction between students and their teachers. For example, teachers could post assignments, schedules, lesson summaries or notices regarding class updates for the students to view. For professional development, it provides teachers with the networking to connect with other professionals, share lesson plans, and receive up to date research regarding how education is taught.\n\nAdditionally, students could post their questions online for the teacher to answer in the group section, have class discussions and exchange ideas, and incorporate other forms of communication. As well, enable students to find real world applications and associate it with their topic. The platforms mentioned above, allow students to look beyond the classroom for answers to questions and to obtain outside input.\n\nSocial networking permits students to research and gather information on topics beyond the classroom setting. For example, Twitter is one of the social learning tools implemented into classrooms for language learning. Tweets are a method of improving short essays and supports grammatically correct writing and reading skills of a language. It is a form of active learning which further engages the students. After posting a tweet, students would get feedback from other site users and have a second opinion on their writing piece. Another advantage would be to use Twitter in large lecture halls, so students could engage in the topic of discussion and share their interests and thoughts with their colleagues and professors in an ongoing basis.\n\nThere are several advantages to the field of commerce, when it comes to implementing social learning tools in the workplace. If businesses create a forum for customers to write their feedbacks, they could have more ideas about how to improve their products, which enables the company to create better marketing strategies. Furthermore, employees could use the Internet or other program systems, in order to work from home. They could be informed about the current issues and concerns of the workplace. It allows people to concentrate without any distractions at the office, it offers the flexibility of scheduling, time engagement and committing.\n\nSocial media platforms has made searching for job employment and connecting with potential employers more available for students entering the workforce for both part-time and full-time work. For example, Facebook and Twitter can be utilized to follow the companies’ postings and what is going on in the field.\n\nLinkedIn is a website designed for students or other individuals to create professional profiles, post their curriculum vitae, receive current notifications on available employment and network with companies, businesses, school boards and industries to apply for a wider variety of job offers.\n\nA major concern among educators regarding social learning tools is the lack of control and monitoring. When students are given access to the Internet, they may post inappropriate content or use these sites in a way that can be disrespectful or damaging to others. Educators do not always have the means to be able to monitor every student's usage of these social learning tools, therefore students may be able to take advantage of this privilege for their own personal benefit and amusement. Posting pornography or using foul language are just a few examples that highlight the offensive and inappropriate behaviour that can be exhibited by students through social learning tools in classrooms.\n\nSocial learning tools give students access to the Internet, where they can take advantage of other irrelevant websites and interfaces. It is very easy for students to get distracted by other social platforms that can divert their attention away from information being presented in class. This ultimately results in a disruption to the student's learning process which is a common concern for the majority of faculty members. Some research has shown that disruption to the learning process can significantly affect a student’s ability to retain information into their long-term memory. Educators should be made aware of the potential risk for technology to be a distraction and set clear guidelines for their students to follow.\n\nAs the use of technology increases, cyberbullying is becoming more prevalent among students. Although social learning tools give students the ability to interact with teachers and peers, it also provides them with the opportunity to bully others online. This type of malicious behaviour can be seen at every level of education, including college campuses. Educators should plan to intervene on any incidents of cyberbullying that they witness in order to prevent more serious offences. They should also encourage respectful and positive behaviours towards peers when in the classroom and online.\n\nThere is much speculation about whether or not social learning tools can provide enough opportunity for the development of real-life social skills. Some educators are concerned that students will not fully develop the ability to communicate effectively or command attention if they are constantly learning through a screen. Although social learning tools create opportunities for students to interact with others via web interfaces, it does not offer them authentic real-life interactions where students are forced to express themselves verbally or connect with others face-to-face.\n\nSocial learning tools such as Facebook and Twitter are online networking websites that are public and can be accessed by anyone. Parents and educators alike have expressed their concerns about students using these platforms, as they could expose students’ identities. Protecting students’ personal privacy should be a top priority for educators, however this can be a challenge when using social learning tools. To prevent these issues from arising, schools should develop a system which ensures that students stay anonymous when posting content online.\n\nSocial learning tools give students the ability to communicate efficiently with teachers outside of regular classroom hours. Although this may be a benefit to student learning, excessive stress is placed on teachers to respond quickly and provide feedback. Many faculty members have expressed that technology has harmed their work environment, as digital communication increases their stress levels. Furthermore, they have reported that digital communication has increased the number of hours they work in a day. Educators can also experience added pressure to learn how to teach with social learning tools. Many teachers are skilled with using technology, however they do not possess the knowledge on how to implement social learning tools in teaching. Educators need to be taught how and when to use technology, so they can effectively implement it within their curriculum.\n\nAcademic integrity is an important part of learning in all educational settings. Plagiarism is a concern for teachers that can be amplified when students are using social learning tools. The Internet is a database that holds a multitude of resources available to online users. Unfortunately, direct access to all of this information when using social learning tools makes it easy for students to copy the work of others and use it as their own.\n\nSocial learning tools would not exist without the technological devices that harbor them. In order to implement social learning tools into the classroom, the school or school board must invest a large sum of money in order to purchase technological devices for its students. Depending on the budget available, there may not be enough money to buy devices for every student to use. Furthermore, personal cell phones are a popular device that can be used as a vehicle for teaching using social learning tools. However, not every student has the money to buy a cell phone.\n\n"}
{"id": "6361656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6361656", "title": "Standards-based assessment", "text": "Standards-based assessment\n\nIn an educational setting, standards-based assessment is assessment that relies on the evaluation of student understanding with respect to agreed-upon standards, also known as \"outcomes\". The standards set the criteria for the successful demonstration of the understanding of a concept or skill.\n\nIn the standards-based paradigm, students have the freedom to demonstrate understanding in diverse ways, including (but not limited to) selected response (e.g. multiple choice tests), physical constructions, written responses, and performances. Of course, these are not new types of assessments, nor is the concept of differentiated assessment. The teacher uses all available observations and quantitative information to summarize learning with reference to a specific standard. With these data, a teacher can formulate the steps or actions that can be taken to gain mastery of a particular concept. That is, it aids in assessment for learning.\n\nOne of the key aspects of standards-based assessment is post-assessment feedback. The feedback a student receives from this type of assessment does not emphasizes a score, percentage, or statistical average, but information about the expectations of performance as compared to the standard. A standards-based approach does not necessarily dismiss a summative grade, percentage, or a measure of central tendency (such as a mean, or median). However, an assessment that does not reference or give feedback with respect to a standard would not be standards-based. There is a large body of evidence that points to the effectiveness of appropriate feedback.\n\nThe purpose of standards-based assessment is to connect evidence of learning to learning outcomes (the standards). When standards are explicit and clear, the learner becomes aware of his/her achievement with reference to the standards, and the teacher may use assessment data to give meaningful feedback to students about this progress. The awareness of one's own learning allows students to point to a specific standard of achievement and so strengthens self-regulation and meta-cognition, two skills generally understood to be effective learning strategies.\n\nA common approach to standards-based assessment (SBA) is:\n\n\n\n\nA standards-based test is an assessment based on the outcome-based education or performance-based education philosophy. Assessment is a key part of the standards reform movement. The first part is to set new, higher standards to be expected of every student. Then the curriculum must be aligned to the new standards. Finally, the student must be assessed if they meet these standards of what every student \"must know and be able to do\". In the United States, a high school diploma which is given on passing a high school graduation examination or Certificate of Initial Mastery is awarded only when these standards are achieved. It is fully expected that every child will become proficient in all areas of academic skills by the end of a period, typically 10 years in the United States, but sometimes longer, after the passing of education reform bill by a state legislature. The United States federal government, under No Child Left Behind can further require that all schools must demonstrate improvement among all students, even if they are already all over proficient.\n\nRather than using computers to log responses to multiple choice tests, rubrics for state assessments such as in North Carolina ask scorers to look at the entire paper and make judgments. Scorers are not allowed to count errors, and rubrics do not contain numeric measurements of how many spelling or grammar error constitute a \"1\" or \"2\". The Analytical Writing section of the GRE test is scored using a six-point holistic scale in half-point increments. Holistic grading is one of the main reason for disagreement between scorers, but for this reason some tests are scored more than once to check for agreement.\n\n\nCompared to a multiple-choice, norm-referenced test, a standards-based test can be recognized by:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3911932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3911932", "title": "Teaching credential", "text": "Teaching credential\n\nA United States teaching credential is a basic multiple or single subject credential obtained upon completion of a bachelor's degree, from a college or university that holds regional accreditation, and prescribed professional education requirements. Teaching credentials are required in the United States in order to qualify to teach public school, as well as many other types of instruction. Requirements vary from state to state. Teachers in California must also pass the California Basic Educational Skills Test.\n"}
{"id": "32126681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32126681", "title": "The Social Seminar", "text": "The Social Seminar\n\nThe Social Seminar is a series of educational films for adults produced by the Extension Media Center of the University of California at Los Angeles in the early 1970s. The series was executive produced by Gary Schlosser, an Oscar-nominated producer of short-subject documentaries. The films were distributed nationally, for example to state educational film offices. The series was produced for the National Institute of Mental Health as a \"multi-media training series.\"\n\nFive episodes of \"The Social Seminar\" are known to have been produced: \"Bunny,\" \"Guy,\" \"Teddy,\" \"Tom,\" and \"Changing.\" Each depicted, in a cinema-verite style without voiceover or introduction, aspects of the lives of a selected person or family as they dealt with personal, interpersonal and societal change. The episode \"Changing,\" for example, showed how one man's reevaluation of his life and social standing led to his becoming a \"hippie\" in the eyes of his family and coworkers; though his home life was enhanced, he found himself increasingly socially isolated.\n\nThe films are now part of the Prelinger Archive and are available freely online. In June 2011, \"Changing\" was featured on the Turner Classic Movies series \"TCM Underground\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3971162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3971162", "title": "Umbrella school", "text": "Umbrella school\n\nAn umbrella school is an alternative education school which serves to oversee the homeschooling of children to fulfill government educational requirements.\n\nUmbrella schools vary greatly in what they offer and cost. Some offer group classes, a defined curriculum, sports, field trips, standardized testing, and more. Others exist only to meet the minimum legal requirements, allowing parents choice in their curriculum and methods of teaching, as well as freedom from an annual evaluation or testing requirements. Additionally, some umbrella schools follow a specific faith, while others are secular.\n\nIn the United States, the responsibilities of umbrella schools vary from state to state. Many states require schools to collect immunization and attendance records, and similar records as required for any publicly run school. Often umbrella schools operate under the same legal guidelines as independent schools. Some states have course and daily time requirements. In others, students are bound to the normal standard school year and records must be kept to prove that students fulfill the required amount of time.\n\n"}
{"id": "23969343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23969343", "title": "Universities' Statistical Record", "text": "Universities' Statistical Record\n\nIn the United Kingdom, USR, the Universities Statistical Record consists of records of undergraduate students on courses of one academic year or more; postgraduate students on courses of one academic year or more; academic and related staff holding regular salaried appointments, and finance data for all UK universities. It was compiled by UCCA, the Universities Central Council on Admissions from its formation in 1961 until its merger with PCAS (Polytechnics Central Admissions Service) to form UCAS in 1993.\n\nThe Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) became the official agency for the collection, analysis and dissemination of quantitative information about higher education in 1993. http://www.hesa.ac.uk/index.php/content/view/4/54/ It was set up by agreement between the relevant government departments, the higher education funding councils and the universities and colleges in 1993, following the White Paper “Higher Education: a new framework”, which called for more coherence in HE statistics, and the 1992 Higher and Further Education Acts, which established an integrated higher education system throughout the United Kingdom.\n\nFinance: income and expenditure; university; cost centre. The Finance dataset contains details of income and expenditure for all of the UK universities. These data are contained in a series of files for each year.\n\nStudent load: undergraduate, postgraduate (taught course or research); cost centre.\n\nTime Period Covered: 1964 - 1993\nCountry: United Kingdom\n\nThe Finance data were collected from annual returns based on the university financial year (August to July).\nMethod of Data Collection: Annual returns from each university were collated by UCCA.\n\n"}
{"id": "23108415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23108415", "title": "World Innovation Summit for Education", "text": "World Innovation Summit for Education\n\nThe World Innovation Summit for Education (WISE) is an international initiative aimed at transforming education through innovation. WISE was established by Qatar Foundation in 2009 under the patronage of its chairperson, Sheikha Mozah bint Nasser. With a biennial Summit held in Doha, and a range of year-round initiatives, WISE's mission revolves around promoting new approaches to education and investigating new ways to manage education challenges.\n\nThe 3-day WISE Summit is held every 2 years in Doha, Qatar. It unites over 1,500 experts, researchers, and innovators from multiple sectors worldwide to foster new collaborations and develop solutions with the goal of inspiring creative changes in education. The summit is currently organized by Stavros Yiannouka and his team. Each summit has a distinct theme. The first summit was held in 2009 under the theme \"Global Education: Working Together for Sustainable Achievements\".\n\nThe WISE Prize for Education is an international prize that rewards an individual or a team for contributions to education which have been adjudged to be outstanding. The inaugural edition was launched in 2011 with a monetary award of $500,000.\n\nSelection criteria for the prize stipulates that the laureate’s work should have had a significant and lasting impact at any level of education. The laureate is selected by an international jury of education stakeholders and announced at the annual Summit.\n\nThe first WISE Prize was awarded to Fazle Hasan Abed, founder and chairman of BRAC (Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee). The second prize, in 2012, went to Madhav Chavan, co-founder and CEO of India-based NGO Pratham. The third WISE Prize laureate, announced at the 2013 Summit, was Vicky Colbert, founder and director of Fundacion Escuela Nueva in Colombia. Ann Cotton, an advocate of girls' education, was awarded the 2014 prize. Dr. Sakena Yacoobi was awarded the 2015 prize.Most recently, the 2017 prize was awarded to the founder and president of Ashesi University in Ghana, Dr. Patrick Awuah.\n\nEach year the WISE Awards recognize and promotes six projects that address global educational challenges. A pre-jury composed of education experts assesses submissions and selects a shortlist of fifteen finalists. Following this, a jury chooses the six award-winning projects. Winners receive a cash prize of $20,000. The first WISE Awards were handed out in 2009.\n\nThe WISE Research Reports bring key topics to the forefront of the global education debate, and reflect the priorities of the Qatar National Research Strategy.\n\nWISE Books are aimed at supporting innovative thinking in education. As of October 2014, WISE has published three books addressing educational topics. WISE Book authors and photographers travel to several countries in an attempt to identify the challenges and illustrate the impact of initiatives and practices that are making tangible differences. The third book to be released by WISE, \"Learning (Re)Imagined - How the connected society is transforming learning\" focuses on the link between technology and education.\n\nLearners' voice, inaugurated in 2010, is a program that aims to reshape students' perception of education. Each year, a selected group of young people, aged 18–25, participate at the annual summit by engaging in debates and making presentations. Workshop sessions are also held throughout the year. In late 2013, 36 new learners joined the existing network of 78 learners from previous years.\n\nThe accelerator is a support and advisory program with the aim of developing early-stage projects in education. The program, founded in 2014, seeks to assist projects that have a high potential for scalability and a positive impact on the field of education. The program selects five innovative projects from a variety of countries every year.\n\nThe past participants of the program, including country of origin and date of creation:\n\nThe WISE initiative has cooperation agreements with the following institutions in major education issues: (AUF), the Association of Commonwealth Universities (ACU), the Institute of International Education (IIE), the International Association of University Presidents (IAUP), RAND Corporation, and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO).\n\n\n"}
