{"id": "55353989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55353989", "title": "12th century in philosophy", "text": "12th century in philosophy\n\nThis is a list of philosophy-related events in the 12th century. Philosophy at the time was influenced by the ongoing crusades.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1279037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1279037", "title": "Anima mundi", "text": "Anima mundi\n\nThe world soul (Greek: ψυχὴ κόσμου \"psuchè kósmou\", Latin: \"anima mundi\") is, according to several systems of thought, an intrinsic connection between all living things on the planet, which relates to our world in much the same way as the soul is connected to the human body. Plato adhered to this idea and it was an important component of most Neoplatonic systems:\n\nTherefore, we may consequently state that: this world is indeed a living being endowed with a soul and intelligence ... a single visible living entity containing all other living entities, which by their nature are all related.\n\nThe Stoics believed it to be the only vital force in the universe. Similar concepts also hold in systems of eastern philosophy in the Brahman-Atman of Hinduism, the Buddha-Nature in Mahayana Buddhism, and in the School of Yin-Yang, Taoism, and Neo-Confucianism as \"qi\".\n\nOther resemblances can be found in the thoughts of hermetic philosophers like Paracelsus, and by Baruch Spinoza, Gottfried Leibniz, Friedrich Schelling and in Hegel's \"Geist\" (\"Spirit\"/\"Mind\"). Ralph Waldo Emerson published \"The Over-Soul\" in 1841, which was influenced by the Hindu conception of a \"universal soul\". There are also similarities with ideas developed since the 1960s by Gaia theorists such as James Lovelock.\n\nIn Jewish mysticism, a parallel concept is that of \"Chokhmah Ila'ah,\" the all-encompassing \"Supernal Wisdom\" that transcends, orders and vitalizes all of creation. Rabbi Nachman of Breslov states that this sublime wisdom may be apprehended (or perhaps \"channeled\") by a perfect tzaddik (holy man). Thus, the tzaddik attains \"cosmic consciousness\" and thus is empowered to mitigate all division and conflict within creation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30098782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30098782", "title": "Anna Willess Williams", "text": "Anna Willess Williams\n\nAnna Willess Williams (1857 – April 17, 1926) was a teacher and philosophical writer best known as the model for George T. Morgan's silver dollar design, popularly known as the Morgan dollar.\n\nIn 1876, George T. Morgan began creating a series of new coin designs at the behest of Director of the Mint, Dr. Henry R. Linderman. Morgan opted to use the profile of an American girl to depict Liberty instead of simply creating an imaginary figure for the obverse of his new design. After he rejected several possible candidates, Morgan's friend, artist Thomas Eakins, recommended Anna Williams of Philadelphia. Eakins knew Williams through her father, Henry Williams, and she had posed for several of Eakins's paintings. \n\nWilliams reluctantly sat for five modelling sessions with Morgan in November 1876 after being convinced to do so by friends. Morgan was impressed with her profile, stating that it was the most perfect he had seen in England or America. The silver dollar bearing her likeness was first struck on March 11, 1878. A condition of her sitting for Morgan was that her identity be kept secret, but the subject of the portrait was revealed to be Williams shortly after the dollar was released. Williams was troubled by her newly acquired fame, receiving thousands of letters and visits at both her home and workplace. Williams preferred not to talk about her modelling work with Morgan, dismissing it as an \"incident of my youth.\"\n\nDespite being offered acting jobs, Williams worked as a teacher until her retirement in 1924. She left her job as principal at a girls' house-of-refuge school to become a teacher of kindergarten philosophy at a girls' normal school. Though she was once engaged to an unknown suitor, Williams died, unmarried, on April 17, 1926.\n"}
{"id": "31576655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31576655", "title": "Complex equality", "text": "Complex equality\n\nComplex equality is a theory of justice outlined by Michael Walzer in his 1983 work \"Spheres of Justice\". The theory posits that inequalities in the several spheres of society should not invade one another. Walzer's definition of complex equality is: \"In formal terms, complex equality means that no citizen's standing in one sphere or with regard to one social good can be undercut by his standing in some other sphere, with regard to some other good.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3261537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3261537", "title": "Context principle", "text": "Context principle\n\nIn the philosophy of language, the context principle is a form of semantic holism holding that a philosopher should \"never ... ask for the meaning of a word in isolation, but only in the context of a proposition\" (Frege [1884/1980] x). \n\nThe context principle is one of Gottlob Frege's \"three fundamental principles\" for philosophical analysis, first discussed in his Introduction to \"The Foundations of Arithmetic\" (\"Grundlagen der Arithmetik\", 1884). Frege argued that many philosophical errors, especially those related to psychologism in the philosophy of logic and philosophy of mathematics, could be avoided by adhering carefully to the context principle. The view of meaning expressed by the context principle is sometimes called semantic contextualism. This view need not be contrasted with the view that the meanings of words or expressions can (or must) be determined prior to, and independently of, the meanings of the propositions in which they occur, which is often referred to as compositionalism.\n\nThe context principle also figures prominently in the work of other Analytic philosophers, such as Bertrand Russell and Ludwig Wittgenstein, who were greatly influenced by Frege's work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11703016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11703016", "title": "Gymnosophy", "text": "Gymnosophy\n\nGymnosophy (from Greek γυμνός \"gymnós\" \"naked\" and σοφία \"sophía\" \"wisdom\") was a movement and a philosophy practiced in Europe and the USA from the end of the 19th century to the mid 20th century. The practice involved nudity, asceticism and meditation.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the term was appropriated by several groups to denote a broad philosophy that included as a central thought that the nude human body is a natural condition and should be widely acceptable for the betterment of society. This philosophy is related closely, and often interchangeably, with nudism and naturism, and has close connection to the hippie movement.\n\nThe movement is known by mainly three organisations, the English Gymnosophical Society, Societe Internationale de Gymnosophie and the American Gymnosophical Association. In 1919, the Yoga teacher Blanche DeVries opened a \"Yoga Gymnosophy Institute\" in New York that combined Oriental Dance and Yoga. The \"English Gymnosophical Society\" was founded in 1922 and became \"The New Gymnosophy Society\" in 1926. One of the first members was Gerald Gardner, who in 1945 established the 'Five Acres Club', ostensibly as a nudist club, but as a front for Wiccans, as this was illegal in England until 1951. The \"Societe Internationale de Gymnosophie\" was founded in 1926 in France.\n\nDr. Maurice Parmelee (1882-1969), professor of sociology at the City College of New York, wrote from 1923 to 1924 a book, \"The New Gymnosophy\", the title was changed to \"Nudism In Modern Life\" in later editions. He took part in the founding of the \"American Gymnosophical Association\" 1930. \n\nIn 1932, \"Rochester Gymnosophy League\" in Bushnell’s Basin was founded. In 1933 the \"Dunedin Gymnosophy Club\" in New Zealand. The biochemist and historian Joseph Needham was known to practice gymnosophy.\n\nIn the last decade, the word gymnosophy has begun to be used as a term for a new, more spiritual and holistic, free body culture.\n\nA reputed poem from the book Non Serviam, 1945, by the Swedish author Gunnar Ekelöf is named \"Gymnosofisten\", (the gymnosophist).\n\nIn Don Quixote: \"…in defiance and in spite of envy itself, and all the magicians that Persia, or Brahmans that India, or Gymnosophists that Ethiopia ever produced…\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2929560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2929560", "title": "Hyle", "text": "Hyle\n\nIn philosophy, hyle (; from ) refers to matter or stuff. It can also be the material cause underlying a change in Aristotelian philosophy. The Greeks originally had no word for matter in general, as opposed to raw material suitable for some specific purpose or other, so Aristotle adapted the word for \"wood\" to this purpose. The idea that everything physical is made of the same basic substance holds up well under modern science, although it may be thought of more in terms of energy or matter/energy.\n\nThe matter of hyle is closely related to that of substance, in so far as both endure a change in form, or transformation. Aristotle defined primary substance as that which can neither be predicated nor attributed to something else, and he explained the transformation between the four terrestrial elements in terms of an abstract primary matter that underlies each element due to the four combinations of two properties: hot or cold and wet or dry. He stipulated that transformations between opposing elements, where both properties differ, must be analyzed as two discrete steps wherein one of the two properties changes to its contrary while the other remains unchanged (see essence and hylomorphism).\n\nModern substance theory differs, for example Kant's \"Ding an sich\", or \"thing in itself\", is generally described as whatever is its own cause, or alternatively as a thing whose only property is that it is that thing (or, in other words, that it has only that property). However, this notion is subject to the criticism, as by Nietzsche, that there is no way to \"directly\" prove the existence of any thing which has no properties, since such a thing could not possibly interact with other things and thus would be unobservable and indeterminate.\n\nOn the other hand, we may need to postulate a substance that endures through change in order to explain the nature of change—without an enduring factor that persists through change, there is no change but only a succession of unrelated events. The existence of change is hard to deny, and if we have to postulate something \"unobserved\" in order to explain what \"is\" observed, that is a valid \"indirect\" demonstration (by abductive reasoning). Moreover, something like a prime substance is posited by physics in the form of matter/energy.\n\n"}
{"id": "53438629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53438629", "title": "Philosophy of psychedelics", "text": "Philosophy of psychedelics\n\nPhilosophy of psychedelics is the philosophical investigation of the psychedelic experience. While psychedelic, entheogenic or hallucinogenic substances have been used by many traditional cultures throughout history mostly for religious purposes, recorded philosophical speculation and analysis of these substances, their phenomenological effects and the relevance of these altered states of consciousness to philosophical questions is a relatively late phenomenon in the history of philosophy. Traditional cultures who use psychedelic substances such as the Amazonian and Indigenous Mexican peoples hold that ingesting medicinal plants such as Ayahuasca and Peyote allows one to commune with the beings of the spirit world.\n\nThe Indian Yogi and scholar Patanjali in his Yoga sutras mentions that mystic powers (\"siddhaya\") can arise from certain \"herbs\" or \"healing plants\" (\"osadhi\"):\n\nLater commentators on the Yoga sutras like Vyasa mention elixirs of the asuras, and also state these herbal concoctions can be found in this world. Adi Shankara meanwhile refers to the Vedic drink Soma.\n\nVajrayana Buddhist Tantras mention the nectar \"amrita\" (literally \"immortal\", \"deathless\") which was drunk during rituals and which is associated in the tradition with 'spiritual intoxication'. A biography of the scholar Gampopa mentions how one of his teachers stated that \"You can obtain Buddhahood: by taking a medicine pill which will make you immortal like the sun and moon.\" This is a reference to the Vajrayana practice of rasayana (Skt: \"alchemy\") to create certain potions or pills. According to M.L. Walter's study of Indo-Tibetan rasayana, ingestion of these substances were said to \"strengthen the yogin and procure the siddhi for him, as well as bringing him to the final goal.\" According to Mike Crowley there are two traditions of Indo Tibetan-rasayana preserved in Tibet, one founded by Padmasambhava and the other by his contemporary, Vimalamitra.\n\nAccording to Chogyam Trungpa (1939 – 1987), a modern teacher is the Kagyu tradition:\n\namrita... is used in conferring the second abhisheka, the secret abhisheka. This transmission dissolves the student's mind into the mind of the teacher of the lineage. In general, amrita is the principle of intoxicating extreme beliefs, belief in ego, and dissolving the boundary between confusion and sanity so that coemergence can be realized.\n\nEuropean literature such as Confessions of an English Opium-Eater by Thomas De Quincey (one of the first English commentators on Kant) and Samuel Taylor Coleridge's Kubla Khan described the use and phenomenal character of mind-altering substances such as Opium. De Quincey held that Opium allowed one to access the earliest of memories and that therefore no memories were ever truly forgotten:\n\nThe minutest incidents of childhood, or forgotten scenes of later years, were often revived: I could not be said to recollect them; for if I had been told of them when waking, I should not have been able to acknowledge them as parts of my past experience. But placed as they were before me, in dreams like intuitions, and clothed in all their evanescent circumstances and accompanying feelings, I recognized them instantaneously […] I feel assured that there is no such thing as forgetting possible to the mind.\n\nJacques-Joseph Moreau, who reported his experiments with mental patients and drugs, believed that “the hashish experience was a way to gain insight into mental disease.”\n\nThe French Poet Baudelaire wrote about the effects of Hashish and Opium in Les Paradis artificiels (1860) and theorized about how they could be used to allow the individual to reach \"ideal\" states of mind. Charles Baudelaire was member of the 'Club des Hashischins', a Parisian literary group dedicated to the exploration of altered states of consciousness which included literary figures such as Victor Hugo, Alexandre Dumas, Gerard de Nerval, Honore de Balzac, and Theophile Gautier. Baudelaire's opinion of the drug was generally negative, believing that it weakened and dampened artistic capacities, the personal Will and even the very identity of the hashish eater. He compared it to suicide and a false happiness, and saw wine as the true intoxicant of the artists.\n\nIn the United States, The Hasheesh Eater (1857) an autobiographical book by Fitz Hugh Ludlow became popular. Ludlow wrote that a Marijuana user sought \"the soul’s capacity for a broader being, deeper insight, grander views of Beauty, Truth and Good than she now gains through the chinks of her cell.\" The American William James was one of the first academic philosophers to write about the effects of hallucinogenic substances in his \"The Subjective Effects of Nitrous Oxide\" (1882) in which he writes that the gas can produce a \"tremendously exiting sense of an intense metaphysical illumination. Truth lies open to the view in depth beneath depth of almost blinding evidence. The mind sees all logical relations of being with an apparent subtlety and instantaniety to which its normal consciousness offers no parallel\". He goes on to say that the experience gave him the sense that the philosophy of Hegel was true. In his \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\" he likewise writes:\nNitrous oxide and ether, especially nitrous oxide … stimulate the mystical consciousness in an extraordinary degree. … [In] the nitrous oxide trance we have a genuine metaphysical revelation. … [Our] normal waking consciousness, rational consciousness as we call it, is but one special type of consciousness, whilst all about it, parted from it by the filmiest of screens, there lie potential forms of consciousness entirely different.\n\nAfter using mescaline in 1953, Aldous Huxley wrote the Doors of Perception where he advanced the theory that psychedelic compounds could produce mystical experiences and knowledge, \"what the visionary, the medium, even the mystic were talking about\" and what eastern philosophy described with terms like Satcitananda, the Godhead, Suchness, Void, Not-self and Dharmakaya. Huxley also quotes the philosopher C. D. Broad, which held that the brain and nervous might act as a reducing valve of all the stimuli in the universe:\n\nAccording to such a theory, each one of us is potentially Mind at Large. But in so far as we are animals, our business is at all costs to survive. To make biological survival possible, Mind at Large has to be funneled through the reducing valve of the brain and nervous system. What comes out at the other end is a measly trickle of the kind of consciousness which will help us to stay alive on the surface of this Particular planet.\n\nHuxley wrote that it was possible that certain human beings could, through drugs, meditation, etc. circumvent the 'reducing valve' and experience something far beyond everyday consciousness. This experience Huxley saw as the source of all mysticism, a theory termed the Perennial philosophy. He also discusses art and the legality of various drugs in the West as well as arguing for the importance for self-transcendence. Huxley's philosophical novel Island also described a Utopian society that used a psychedelic substance for spiritual purposes.\n\nIn the early 1960s a group that eventually came to be called \"Harvard Psychedelic Club\" which included Timothy Leary, Huston Smith and Ram Dass administered psychedelics to Harvard students. The group experimented with psychedelics in experiments such as the Harvard Psilocybin Project. Huston Smith's last work, Cleansing the Doors of Perception, describes the Harvard Project in which he participated.\n\nRam Dass' Be here now and Tim Leary's The Psychedelic Experience: A Manual Based on The Tibetan Book of the Dead compared the psychedelic experiences to eastern philosophy and mystical states of consciousness. These books further popularized the idea that eastern - particularly Indian philosophical and spiritual insights could be obtained from using psychedelics. One of these experiences described in \"The Psychedelic Experience\" is that of ego death or depersonalization.\n\nThe idea that the psychedelic experience could grant access to eastern spiritual insights was also promoted by the popular philosopher Alan Watts in his writings such as \"The Joyous Cosmology\", who also argued that one should not remain dependent on them for spiritual growth: \"If you get the message, hang up the phone. For psychedelic drugs are simply instruments, like microscopes, telescopes, and telephones. The biologist does not sit with eye permanently glued to the microscope, he goes away and works on what he has seen.\"\n\nVarious psychologists during the 1960s also studied psychedelic substances and worked with Psychedelic therapy and later developed various theories about their effects and significance. Stanislav Grof is known for his extensive work in LSD psychotherapy and for developing a theory which stated that the psychedelic experience allowed one to relive birth trauma and to explore the depths of the unconscious mind. Grof observed four levels of the LSD experience, which for him correspond to areas of the human unconscious: (1) Abstract and aesthetic experiences (2) Psychodynamic experiences (3) Perinatal experiences, and (4) Transpersonal experiences. Grof defined the last level as \"experiences involving an expansion or extension of consciousness beyond the usual ego boundaries and beyond the limitations of time and/or space.\" The field of Transpersonal psychology focuses on this type of experience. Grof included topics such as consciousness, mysticism and metaphysics in his later writings.\n\nThe scientist and philosopher John C. Lilly discussed his experiments with psychedelics and altered states of consciousness in and Programming and Metaprogramming in the Human Biocomputer. Other psychologists who studied and wrote on psychedelic use include Walter Pahnke, Ralph Metzner and Claudio Naranjo.\n\nAccording to writer James Oroc, the 1990s brought about a second phase in modern psychedelic culture. The 'philosophical foundation' of this new wave of psychedelic thought was based on the works of Alexander Shulgin, Alex Grey and Terence McKenna.\n\nNeuroscientist Rick Strassman has written about his research into the psychedelic N,N-Dimethyltryptamine in his book \"DMT: The Spirit Molecule\" (2001). In his book Strassman investigates the possible connection between natural DMT in mystical and Near Death Experiences and psychedelic states caused by outwardly administered DMT. He also describes the psychedelic experiences of the volunteers in his experiments and their encounter with certain strange \"beings\" after being administered DMT.\n\nIn his study of recent scientific research on psychedelics and its neurophilosophy (\"Neuropsychedelia\", 2012), Nicolas Langlitz has argued that Huxley's view expressed in the Doors of perception of the brain as a \"reducing valve\" which when released produced a perennial mystical experience has been a very influential theory among contemporary psychopharmacologists who study psychedelics, who have given it a materialist 'neurobiological reinterpretation' which he calls “mystic materialism”. Langlitz defines this as: \"a this-worldly mysticism that reveres not transcendence but biological life\" and holds to a certain \"metaphysical unity of the world\".\n\nThomas Metzinger has discussed the effects of substances such as LSD, dimethyltryptamine, and mescaline in his \"Being No One\" (2003). Metzinger describes the hallucinatory component of the psychedelic experience as \"epistemically vacuous\" i.e. it provides no epistemic knowledge. In spite of this, Metzinger still believes that philosophers and consciousness researchers would have much to gain if they were \"well traveled in phenomenal state space, if they were cultivated in terms of the richness of their own inner experience\" through the psychedelic experience. According to Metzinger, psychedelic experiences could change researchers' theoretical intuitions as well as serving as a form of 'mental culture', an analogue to Physical culture.\n\nThe American philosopher Sam Harris has discussed his use of psychedelics in his book which also attempts to argue for a naturalized spirituality.\n\nAnother contemporary philosopher write about psychedelics is Peter Sjöstedt-H. His recent \"Noumenautics\" (2015) discusses psychedelic phenomenology and its metaphysical implications. \n\nIn his encyclopedic overview of psychedelic culture and thought \"Psychedelia\" (2012), Patrick Lundborg developed a psychedelic philosophy he called \"Unified Psychedelic Theory\" (UPT) which draws from Platonism, the phenomenology of Husserl and Merleau-Ponty, Paul D. MacLean's Triune brain theory, the work of Eugen Fink and other thinkers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4788296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4788296", "title": "Plato's Problem", "text": "Plato's Problem\n\nPlato's Problem is the term given by Noam Chomsky to \"the problem of explaining how we can know so much\" given our limited experience. Chomsky believes that Plato asked (using modern terms) how we should account for the rich, intrinsic, common structure of human cognition, when it seems undetermined by extrinsic evidence presented to a person during human development. In linguistics this is referred to as the \"argument from poverty of the stimulus\" (APS). Such arguments are common in the natural sciences, where a developing theory is always \"underdetermined by evidence\". Chomsky's approach to Plato's Problem involves treating cognition as a normal research topic in the natural sciences, so cognition can be studied to elucidate intertwined genetic, developmental, and biophysical factors. Plato's Problem is most clearly illustrated in the Meno dialogue, in which Socrates demonstrates that an uneducated boy nevertheless understands geometric principles.\n\nWhat is knowledge? What is experience? How do they interact? Is there a correlational, causal, or reciprocal relationship between knowledge and experience? These and other related questions have been at the forefront of investigation by problem solvers, scientists, psychologists, and philosophers for centuries. These questions, but particularly the problem of how experience and knowledge interrelate, have broad theoretical and practical implications for such academic disciplines as epistemology, linguistics, and psychology (specifically the subdiscipline of thinking and problem solving). Gaining a more precise understanding of human knowledge, whether defined as innate, experiential, or both, is an important part of effective problem solving.\n\nPlato was the first philosopher who systematically inquired into issues such as those noted above. He wrote many dialogues, such as Euthyphro and the Apology, but it is from the Meno that the modern instantiation of Plato's Problem is derived. In the Meno, Plato theorizes about the relationship between knowledge and experience and provides an explanation for how it is possible to know something that one has never been explicitly taught. Plato believed that we possess innate ideas that precede any knowledge that we gain through experience.\n\nAs formulated by Noam Chomsky, accounting for this gap between knowledge and experience is \"Plato's Problem\". The phrase has a specific linguistic context with regard to language acquisition but can also be used more generally.\n\nPlato's early philosophical endeavors involved poetry discussing many ideas, such as the differences between knowledge and opinion, particulars and universals, and God and man. These early dialogues do not utilize conventional notions of reason. Rather, they appeal to the emotions, the allegorical, the spiritual, and the mythological interests of an ancient speculative mind.\n\nControversy surrounds the early dialogues in how they are to be interpreted. Some claim that Plato was truly trying to discover objective reality through these mystical speculations while others maintain that the dialogues are stories to be interpreted only as parables, allegories, and emotional appeals to religious experience. Regardless, Plato would come to formulate a more rigorous and comprehensive philosophy later in his life, one that reverberates in contemporary Western thought to this day.\n\nSome of Plato's famous works are Phaedo, the Crito, and, as noted earlier, the Meno. Within these works are found a comprehensive philosophy that addresses epistemology, metaphysics, ethics, aesthetics, theology, and logic. As noted, most of the writing is in the form of dialogues and arguments to pursue answers to difficult questions and concepts. Plato's teacher and mentor, Socrates, always plays a significant and formative role in these dialogues.\n\nMost of Plato's philosophical ideas were communicated through his beloved teacher Socrates as a presence in the dialogues. Though there are no extant writings of Socrates known, it is evident through Plato's works that Socrates had an incredible ability to explore the most intense analytical discussions. However, for some there is controversy regarding how much historical fact can be derived from Plato's Socrates (Russell). Some doubt Socrates ever existed. Others are skeptical as to the accuracy of some of Plato's dialogues but nonetheless maintain that we can learn a substantial amount of historical information about Socrates from the dialogues. Still others take practically everything Plato wrote about Socrates as veridical history. Regardless, it may be safe to say that Plato never meant to record Socrates verbatim and it may plausibly be concluded that his general ideas were communicated in the dialogues.\n\nAs delineated in various writings, the meticulousness, articulation, and sophistication with which Socrates spoke supplies an outstanding problem solving technique – the Socratic Method. The Socratic method may be described as follows: it usually involves others with whom Socrates directly engages (not merely pontificating to an audience), it involves a deep philosophical or ethical question to which an answer was sought, and it usually involves Socrates asking questions either to affirm his understanding of others or to seek their understanding.\n\nIf someone disagreed with him, Socrates would execute this process in order to bring about his interlocutor's reluctant admission of inconsistencies and contradictions. Either Socrates would ask his debators questions about their claims that would lead them to admit their fallacy or Socrates would answer questions by posing questions meant to lead the other to answer their own query.\n\nOne such dialogue of Plato's that utilized the Socratic Method was the Meno. The participants were Socrates, Meno, Anytus, and one of Meno's slave boys. The dialogue begins with Meno asking Socrates whether virtue can be taught. Socrates responds by stating that he does not know the definition of virtue. Meno replies by stating the characteristics of a virtuous man, to which Socrates responds that the characteristics of a virtuous man may be the by-products of virtuousness but they by no means define virtue. Meno is obliged to agree; to wit, he tries to modify his explanation of virtue. Socrates counters each attempt by pointing to inconsistencies and circular arguments.\n\nMeno seems to commit two fallacies when trying to define virtue. He either defines it using some form of the word itself, or he defines it using other words that call for definitions and explanations themselves. Eventually, Meno is led to confess his shortcomings as he tries to define the enigmatic term (the Socratic method is the mechanism that brings about this confession). Socrates claims that a definition of virtue must consist of common terms and concepts that are clearly understood by those in the discussion.\n\nA crucial point in the dialogue is when Socrates tells Meno that there is no such thing as teaching, only recollection of knowledge from past lives, or anamnesis. Socrates claims that he can demonstrate this by showing that one of Meno's servants, a slave boy, knows geometric principles though he is uneducated. Socrates states that he will teach the boy nothing, only ask him questions to assist the process of recollection. Socrates proceeds to ask the slave boy a series of questions about the size and length of lines and squares, using visual diagrams to aid the boy in understanding the questions. The crucial point to this part of the dialogue is that, though the boy has no training, he knows the correct answers to the questions – he intrinsically knows the Pythagorean proposition.\n\nShortly before the demonstration of Pythagoras' theorem, the dialogue takes an epistemological turn when the interlocutors begin to discuss the fundamental nature of knowledge. The general question asked is how one can claim to know something when one does not even know what knowledge is. Via the Socratic method, it is shown that the answer to the question posed is innateness – one possesses \"a priori\" knowledge.\n\nThis is derived from Socrates' belief that one's soul existed in past lives and knowledge is transferred from those lives to the current one. \"These [ideas] were revealed in a former state of existence, and are recovered by reminiscence (anamnesis) or association from sensible things\" . The claim is that one does not need to know what knowledge is before gaining knowledge, but rather one has a wealth of knowledge before ever gaining any experience.\n\nThere are contemporary contexts that provide input for the various questions posed here: how to account for the gap between experience and knowledge, what are some of the sources of knowledge, or how much knowledge is possessed prior to experience or without conscious awareness. There are many areas in contemporary linguistics and psychological research that have relevance to these epistemological questions. Linguistic analysis has provided some strong evidence for innate cognitive capacities for language and there are many areas of cognitive psychology that yield hard data from investigations into sources of knowledge. In addition, there are some claims in the Meno that have connections to current research on perception and long-term memory (LTM).\n\nLinguistics is the scientific study of language. Chomskyan linguistics (\"an inclusive, though perhaps informal, label for the theories and methodologies of linguistic study spearheaded by Noam Chomsky, meant to encompass his extensive work and influence in the field\") includes everything from Chomsky's earliest work in transformational grammar to more recent work in the Minimalist Program. More exactly, it is the study of the structure of language, or grammar. Chomskyan linguistics is defined by a particular theoretical foundation and methodological approach that sets it apart from other linguistic perspectives, such as those described by functional grammar or structuralism (per Leonard Bloomfield) for example. This particular approach to the study of language is also often referred to as Generative linguistics, which is attributed to Chomsky and his early generative grammar work.\n\nThere are several concepts important to the Chomskyan (or generativist) approach to linguistics. The most fundamental of these ideas is the theory of universal grammar (UG). Simply put, and as implied by the name, UG refers to those grammatical properties thought to be shared by all (to be universal to all) derivations of human language (anything from Amharic to Zhuang).\n\nPer this conceptualization, UG is innate to all humans – people come \"pre-wired\" with this universal grammatical structure. A person's individual grammar (that which is unique to the person) develops from the interaction between the innate universal grammar and input from the environment, or primary linguistic data. This \"analytic triplet\" (McGilvray, ed., 2005, p. 51), UG + input = grammar, is the functional core of the theory.\n\nSeveral questions (or problems) motivate linguistic theorizing and investigation. Two such taken up in Chomskyan linguistics are the process of language acquisition in children, and \"Plato's Problem\". These subjects are interrelated and viewed as evidence in support of the theory of UG.\n\nOne of the simplest ways to approach the concept of universal grammar is to pose a hypothetical question about an aspect of language acquisition in children – why does a child learn the language that it does. As a specific example, how can a child of Asian descent (say, born of Chinese parents) be set down in the middle of Topeka, Kansas and acquire \"perfect English?\" The answer is that the child does not start with \"Chinese\", or any other conventionally defined language, in its head. The child does start with general grammatical rules that determine linguistic properties.\n\nChildren come equipped with universal grammar, from which any natural human language will develop – without instruction. All that is needed is passive input during the critical period—defined in linguistics as that period within which a child must have necessary and sufficient exposure to human language so that language acquisition occurs; without sufficient exposure to primary linguistic data, the UG does not have the necessary input for development of an individual grammar; this period is commonly recognized as spanning from birth to adolescence, generally up to the age of 12 years, though individual variations are possible. If what the child predominantly hears (or sees via sign) as it is maturing through this critical period is the English spoken in Topeka, Kansas, then that is what the child will acquire. This is why, regardless of a child's ethnic/racial background (or any other non-relevant factor, the child will know Cockney English, Egyptian Arabic, or isiZulu if the child's primary linguistic input is Cockney English, Egyptian Arabic, or isiZulu, respectively.\n\nThe hypothetical question posed addresses a common misconception about what is instantiated in the mind/brain of an individual when it comes to language. It does not address the \"logical problem\" of language acquisition, i.e., how children transition from ostensibly having no knowledge of language to having full knowledge, in what may be described as a very limited time with apparently limited input.\n\n\nTo address the issue of apparently limited input, one must turn to what is possibly the most quoted of all arguments in support of universal grammar and its nativist interpretation – Plato's Problem. The phrase refers to the Socratic dialogue, the Meno; Noam Chomsky is often attributed with coining the term.\n\nNoam Chomsky's 1986 \"'Knowledge of Language' begins with informal characterization of 'Plato's Problem: The problem of explaining how we can know so much given so little evidence.'\"\n\n\"The Book is organized around a discussion of Plato's problem [Chomsky] quoting Russell[:]\"\n\nPlato’s Problem was expressed generally by Bertrand Russell: \"How comes it that human beings, whose contacts with the world are brief and personal and limited, are nevertheless able to know as much as they do know?\" The problem arises in the domain of language acquisition in that children attain infinitely more than they experience. Literally so, we shall see: they attain a productive system, a grammar, on the basis of very little experience. So there is more, much more, to language acquisition than mimicking what we hear in childhood, and there is more to it than the simple transmission of a set of words and sentences from one generation of speakers to the next. There is more to it than a reproduction of experience and, in maturity, our capacity goes well beyond what we have experienced.\nConsider some subtleties that people are not consciously aware of. The verb is may be used in its full form or its reduced form: people say Kim is happy or Kim’s happy. However, certain instances of is never reduce, for example, the underlined items in Kim is happier than Tim is or I wonder what the problem is in Washington. Most people are not aware of this, but we all know subconsciously not to use the reduced form here. How did we come to this? The question arises because the eventual knowledge is richer than relevant experience. As children, we heard instances of the full form and the reduced form, but we were not instructed to avoid the reduced form in certain places; we had no access to \"negative data,\" information about what does not occur.\n\nPlato's Problem particularly refers to a point in the dialogue when Socrates is talking with an uneducated servant and shows, through this interaction, that the servant knows the Pythagorean Theorem though he has never been explicitly taught any geometry. How does the servant know without having ever been taught? Plato's suggestion is, essentially, that people have innate knowledge.\n\nIn the field of linguistics, Plato's Problem is the problem of finding an explanation for how a child acquires language though the child does not receive explicit instruction and the primary linguistic data a child does receive is limited. This PLD is the input, or stimuli, from the environment, necessary for the development of an individual's grammar – language – via input into UG. This limited environmental stimulus is referred to as poverty of the stimulus. Specifically, the stimuli to which children are exposed during the critical period do not encompass every lawful example of grammatical structure relevant to the particular language.\n\nFor instance, consider that a child might hear the following examples:\n\nFrom this, the child might determine that the word that is optional and from this analogize to the following examples:\n\nClearly, the second example is not a grammatically well-formed sentence in English. A child knows this and does not form sentences such as the one marked by the asterisk. How does the child know, without being explicitly taught, that the ungrammatical example is, in fact, ungrammatical? From the linguistic perspective being described here, the answer to this question is that such knowledge pre-exists as part of UG.\n\nPlato's Problem describes the disparity between input (poverty of the stimulus) and output (grammar). As Plato suggests in the Meno dialogue, the bridge between input (whether limited or lacking) and output is innate knowledge. Poverty of the stimulus is crucial to the Platonic argument and it is a linchpin concept in Chomskyan linguistics. For this reason, Plato's Problem is often used synonymously to mean poverty of the stimulus. Specific to linguistics, the formulation of this problem is evidence for the existence of universal grammar. Plato's Problem, as conceived here, informs much of the theory in this branch of linguistics.\n\nThere have been studies of perception and attention that support the idea that there is an abundance of knowledge available to an individual at any given moment (Blake & Sekuler, 2006).\n\nA key ingredient to the beginning stages of perception requires the attention of the observer on some focal point or stimulus. There is a presupposition that if one visually perceives an object, one knows that one is seeing it (excluding the exception of perceptual illusions). Whatever sensory stimuli are attended to can be declared knowledge.\n\nStimuli that are directly attended to are projected onto the fovea, the central point of the retina that corresponds to the focal point in visual space. To the immediate left and right of the focal point is the portion of visual space attributed to binocular vision. The far left and right of one's visual space is attributed to the monocular vision of the left and right eyes. In sum, one's visual space covers roughly 200° from the periphery of the left eye to the periphery of the right eye. This large visual space in human beings is a result of a fully developed and functioning anatomical visual system. In the context of Plato's Problem, our visual system is an innate capacity that enables us to be aware of a considerable portion of our immediate environment which enhances our conscious experience by supplementing it with an extensive environmental awareness and predisposing us to extract meaningful perceptual information. In other words, it is our biologically produced visual system that makes our perceptual experiences meaningful.\n\nSome examples from auditory perception research will be helpful in explaining the fact that our perceptual faculties naturally enhance and supplement our conscious experience. First, there is the \"cocktail party phenomenon\" (Moray, 1959). When someone is engaged in conversation with a group of people in a noisy room, but then they suddenly hear something or hear their name from across the room, when they were completely inattentive to the input before, that is the cocktail party phenomenon. This phenomenon also occurs with words associated with danger and sex. Although people may be inattentive to a portion of their environment, when they hear specific \"trigger\" words, their auditory capacities are redirected to another dimension of perceptual awareness. This shows that we do process information outside of our immediate conscious experience. Similar to visual perception, auditory perception also enhances and supplements our experience by searching out and extracting meaningful information from our environment.\n\nThe auditory findings are further concretized by research on shadowing tasks (Cherry, 1966). These tasks involve two distinct auditory messages presented simultaneously to both ears. One message in one ear is supposed to be shadowed (repeated) while the other message in the other ear is supposed to be ignored. Participants generally perform well at repeating familiar messages in the attended channel. However, when there was a significant change in frequency in the message in the unattended channel, it was detected; moreover, when their names were presented in the unattended channel, they noticed that as well. These shadowing tasks reinforce the idea that the gap between knowledge and experience is explained by our innate perceptual capacities that enhance our experience and optimize our knowledge gained from our environment.\n\nThere is also the subject of subliminal priming (Nisbett & Ross, 1980), in which a stimulus is perceived outside of conscious awareness. For example, in an experiment, half of a class was presented with a picture of a boy holding a birthday cake, while the other half was presented with a different picture of the same boy holding a birthday cake. The sole difference between the two was that in the first picture the boy had a mischievous facial expression, while in the second he conveyed an innocent smile. The photos were presented in a flash of 100 ms, then another picture was presented to both groups with the boy smiling. Results were that the first group described him as devilish and naughty, and the second group depicted him as angelic and kind. Due to the short presentation of the pictures, the subjects were not consciously aware of the nature of the original photos and when presented with them afterwards, participants were surprised.\n\nThese studies point to the fact that even though we only attend to and process limited information, we have a vast amount of knowledge at our disposal through our highly unrestricted sensory registers. It is the selective attention, perception, and higher order cognitive processing that limits these inputs and it is precisely these processes that make up our conscious awareness. Thus, in order to formulate some explanations for Plato's Problem, our conscious awareness limits our experience; nevertheless, it seems as though some stimuli that are sensed by our sensory registers, although seemingly rejected by conscious awareness, are actually retained and abstracted into our memories for further processing. All of our fully functioning perceptual faculties enhance, supplement, and optimize our experiences.\n\nThis LTM availability/accessibility dichotomy is analogous to a more contemporary explanation of Plato's doctrine of reminiscence, which postulates that an individual hedge as a result of information carried over from past lives. While evidence for or against immortality is outside the bounds of scientific research, one can see similarities between LTM availability/accessibility and the doctrine of reminiscence. LTM availability is highly unrestricted and practically unlimited as a storage system while LTM accessibility corresponds to what we can actually recall at any given moment. Plato, through his doctrine of reminiscence, would say that knowledge available through reminiscence is practically unrestricted but we are not cognizant of many of those ideas because they have yet to be recalled.\n\nHaving discussed Plato's philosophy, linguistics, perception, and some cognitive structures, various implications that arise from the research and theorizing can be touched on. The debate surrounding how to define knowledge goes back to the origin of humanity. In historical philosophy, the debate has been between rationalism and empiricism. In contemporary psychology, the debate is between biology (nature) and environment (nurture).\n\nRationalism is a philosophical and epistemological perspective on knowledge that claims, at its most extreme, that reason is the only dependable source of knowledge; moreover, rationalists assert that \"a priori\" knowledge is the most effective foundation for knowledge . Empiricism, on the other hand, argues that no knowledge exists prior to experience; therefore, all knowledge, as well as thought, comes from experience. The nature and nurture debate is not identical, and yet has similarities, or parallels, to the rationalism versus empiricism debate. Those who claim that thought and behavior result from nature say the cause is genetic predisposition while those who argue for environment say that thought and behavior are caused by learning, parenting, and socialization.\n\nIn contemporary philosophical, linguistic, and psychological circles, it is rare that anyone maintains an unwavering stance on either of these extremes, most fall toward the middle. For many, the ideas of \"nature and nurture\" or \"innateness and environmental input\" are no longer perceived as mutually exclusive. For those who research such topics, much points to a necessarily interactive relationship in order for thought and behavior to occur.\n\nIn Plato's philosophy, innate ideas are revealed through the Socratic Method of investigation. In linguistics, universal grammar must have input from the environment (primary linguistic data) in order for children to achieve an individual grammar (output). Biologically, our perceptual faculties are pre-wired, but they require environmental stimuli in order to develop correctly. The neurological structures in our brain that represent the location of LTM are also biologically pre-wired, yet environmental input is needed in order for memory to flourish.\n\nAll of these ideas speak to the crux of Plato's Problem, which is how to account for the gap between knowledge and limited experience. For some scientific and philosophical disciplines, the answer to this conundrum is innateness, or biological pre-wiring. Innate knowledge is what bridges the gap between the limited information one gleans from the environment (poverty of the stimulus) and one's actual knowledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "5154273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5154273", "title": "Positivism dispute", "text": "Positivism dispute\n\nThe positivism dispute (German: \"Positivismusstreit\") was a political-philosophical dispute between the critical rationalists (Karl Popper, Hans Albert) and the Frankfurt School (Theodor Adorno, Jürgen Habermas) in 1961, about the methodology of the social sciences. It grew into a broad discussion within German sociology from 1961 to 1969. The naming itself is controversial, since it was the Frankfurt School proponents who accused the critical rationalists of being positivists—while the latter considered themselves as opponents of positivism. On the political level, it was a dispute between the leftist Frankfurt School proponents supporting revolution, and the allegedly bourgeois critical rationalists supporting reform as the method to be preferred to change society.\n\nThe debate began in 1961 in Tübingen, West Germany at the Conference of the German Society of Sociology. The speakers at the conference were invited to discuss the differences between social and natural sciences and the status of values in the social sciences.\n\nIn 1963, the debate was heated by Jürgen Habermas in the \"Festschrift für Adorno\" (writings in honour of Adorno). The debate became more intensely critical at the Sociology Day in Heidelberg when Herbert Marcuse joined the discussion. A spirited literary debate between Habermas and Hans Albert sprung up and positivism became the centre of the debate.\n\nThe participants also discussed the question of whether Popper's and Albert's critical rationalism had exacerbated ethical problems. The Frankfurt School believed this should be impossible, because as a theory of science critical rationalism is seen to be restricted to the field of knowledge.\n\nThe famous dispute inspired a collection of essays which were published in 1969. This book was translated into several languages, including English in 1976 (see below). This collection revived the debate and introduced these ideas to a broader audience.\n\nThe dispute has its foundation in the value judgment dispute (\"Werturteilsstreit\") in German sociology and economics around the question of whether or not the social sciences is a normative obligatory statement in politics and its measures applied in political actions, and whether or not their measures can be justified scientifically. Consequently, the positivism dispute is also called the Second \"Werturteilsstreit\".\n\nThe precursor of the debate about positivism can be traced back to Max Horkheimer's essay \"Der neueste Angriff auf die Metaphysik\" (\"The Latest Attack on Metaphysics\") published in 1937 that criticizes the logical positivism of the Vienna Circle. The prolonged criticism of positivism led to the formation of two camps: on one side we find \"critical rationalism\" advanced by Karl Popper and on the other side there is the \"critical theory\" advanced in the Frankfurt School. This view was strengthened by the fact that Popper's main work, \"Logic of Scientific Discovery\", was published in the main book series of the Vienna Circle. Popper, however, considered himself an opponent of positivism, and his main work was a sharp attack on it.\n\nBoth camps accept that sociology cannot avoid a value judgement that inevitably influences subsequent conclusions. In critical rationalism the scientific approach should be maintained in sociology and wherever the use of an induction method is not possible it should be avoided. This leads to a sociology having a firm ground in observations and assured deductions that cannot be ignored in politics.\n\nFor critical rationalism, sociology is best conceived as a set of empirical questions subject to scientific investigation. Frankfurt School \"critical theory,\" by contrast, denies that sociology can be severed from its \"metaphysical\" heritage; empirical questions are necessarily rooted in substantive philosophical issues. Drawing on concepts from Hegelian and Marxian traditions, critical theory conceives of society as a concrete totality, a social environment in which various \"psycho-social agencies\" (family, authorities, peers, mass media) shape individual consciousness.\n\nAccording to the Frankfurt school, it is important to discover the society's fabrics to allow for individuals to overcome being cornered. Critical rationalism considers this goal to be impossible and any attempts (changing society out of possibly non-scientific deductions) to be dangerous. The Frankfurt school counters critical rationalism as being itself cornered, disallowing itself from asking scientific questions when just some methods are not available. Looking back in history \"It is not the consciousness of men that determines their being, but their social existence that determines their consciousness\" (Karl Marx). The social existence determines the mindset of scientists as well. All the hypotheses generated by scientists (which would need to be falsified) are limited to this society's thinkable. While critical rationalism provides methods that are supposed to have an influence on society it is this totality that makes the reforms advocated by Popper ineffective for noticeable changes.\n\nPopper, in contrast, held that the Frankfurt school view was historicist ideology failing to see that any attempt to cause a total change of society (i.e., revolution) leads to violence, and that society should better be changed step by step (by reforms) to solve specific problems and abolish specific evils. According to Popper, individuals, including scientists, are free to decide, and are perhaps restricted by their social existence, but not totally determined by it. Changes may then look ineffective and very slow, but will accumulate over time. Popper thinks it is the lesser evil compared to violent revolutions, since such reforms can be undone if they turn out to only make things worse, while revolutions usually lead to lengthy periods of tyranny. Thus, for Popper, the method of reforms should be preferred.\n\n\n"}
