{"id": "52049646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52049646", "title": "Access to public information in Europe", "text": "Access to public information in Europe\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right to access information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right to access public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law. Access to public information builds on the principle that in a democratic system people should be in the condition of accessing a wide range of information in order to effectively participate in public life as well as on matters affecting them.\n\nThe right of access to public information is a component of the fundamental right of freedom of expression set forth by Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948) which states that the fundamental right of freedom of expression encompasses the freedom \"to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers\". Access to public information and freedom of information are recognised as human rights in the three main regional systems of human rights, namely within the Americas, Europe and Africa, as well as in major international instruments.\n\nThe right to access information places two obligations on public bodies. First, the proactive duty to make public key information on the activities of authorities and governments; second, the reactive obligation to respond to people's requests for information, either by releasing public original documents or copies of the documents held.\n\nOver the past 10 years, the right to information and access to public information has been recognised in an increasing number of countries and several FOI laws have been adopted all over the world, including in the developing countries. If in 1990 only 13 countries had a national freedom of information law, today there are 100 such laws across the world.\n\nIn 2015 The UNESCO General Conference voted to designate Sept. 28 as \"International Day for the Universal Access to Information\" or, as it is more commonly known, Access to Information Day. The date had previously been celebrated as \"Right to Know Day\" since 2002. The UNESCO resolution recommends approval by the UN General Assembly.\n\nThe right to access information builds on the principle that the public has a right to know how power is exercised and public money is spent, given that public bodies are elected by people and sustained by taxpayers. The access to public information is a precondition for governments' and public officials' accountability and it enables the adoption of informed decisions by citizens, hence representing a fundamental element for the proper functioning of democratic systems. International standards and evolving jurisprudence have confirmed that information held by public bodies belong to the public. The Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents (2009) states that \"all official documents are in principle public and can be withheld subject only to the protection of other rights and legitimate interests\".\n\nMore than 100 countries around the world have now adopted national access to information laws to make the right to know effective. The first law on access to public information was adopted in Sweden in 1766, but after that one should wait almost one century to have the second law approved in Finland in 1951 and in the United States in 1966. During the 1970s and 1980s there has been a small but constant growth in FOI's laws, with a real expansion after 1989 due to the activism of civil society groups in Central and Eastern Europe during the post-Communist transitions to democracy. Indeed, the big push forward in the field of access to information leading to the broadening of the definition and of the scope of the right of access to information came together with a coordinated civil society reaction to contrast the control over the information exercised by Communist regimes in the Soviet bloc. It was this movement which gave a sound contribution to the development of access to information as a right in the sense of a human right. A 1992 decision of the Hungary's Constitutional Court established that access to information is a \"fundamental right\" essential for citizen oversight on the lawfulness and efficiency of the government. Moreover, environmentalist groups and consumer associations also contributed to the affirmation of the right to know.\n\nAll the eight former communists countries which joined the European Union in 2004 had a freedom of information law; also Romania and Bulgaria had their own law when joined the EU in 2007 and Croatia had already had an access to information law in force for ten years when it joined the EU in 2013.\n\nNowadays, in the OSCE region 48 of the 56 member states have specific access to information laws.\n\nThe right to access information places two obligations on governments and public bodies. First, the duty to make public key information on the activities implemented by public bodies; second, the obligation to respond to people's requests of accessing documents, either by making available the original documents or by sharing copies of documents and information held.\n\nAccess to information is a right which comprises two parts. The first is a proactive component, namely the positive obligation of public bodies to provide, make public and disseminate information about their activities, budgets and policies so that citizens can understand what public bodies are doing, can participate in public life and can monitor the behaviour of public authorities. The second component is a reactive one, entailing the right of all persons to requests information and documents to public bodies, along with the right to receive an answer. In principle, all the main information held by public bodies should be available, while exceptions to disclosure should be grounded on the protection of other values, such as privacy, national security or commercial interests.\n\nOn the occasion of the first officially recognised Access to Information Day celebrated on 28 September 2016, European civil society groups working to enhance the right of access to public information raised some concerns as, despite significant progress, there are still far-reaching shortcomings especially with regard to transparency of decision-making. According to such organisations, among the main obstacles to government openness there is the inadequate record keeping of public bodies’ information: minutes of public officials’ meetings are not recorded, exchange with lobbyists are not available, public decisions are adopted without proper justification or documented evidence available to the public. An additional problem concerns the over-application of exceptions with particular regard to the use of the privacy reasons, applied to not disclose the activities of public officials when performing public functions. Moreover, European civil society organisations are particularly concerned for the lack of transparency around the decision-making process at both national and EU level, as in the case of the refusal by the EU to disclose documents on the EU-Turkey refugee deal.\n\nA big push forward the advancement of the right to access information as a fundamental right was due to the activism of civil society movements which contrasted the regimes' control over information in the Communist countries in the Soviet bloc. A fundamental document in this sense is a 1992's decision of the Hungarian Constitutional Court which established that access to information is a \"fundamental right\" essential for citizen oversight on the lawfulness and efficiency of the government.\n\nProgressively, several national and international courts decisions have been treating access to information as a basic human right, thus providing a strong legal case for citizens resorting to courts to defend any refusals by authorities to provide access to public information. Such decisions are grounded on a series of international declarations, human rights covenants and conventions at international, regional and EU levels. In the first place, the right to access public information is recognised as a fundamental right and as a component of the right of freedom of expression in the Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; in the Article 19 of the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights; and in the Article 13 of the American Convention on Human Rights. At regional level, all the three main regional systems of human rights, namely within the Americas, Europe and Africa, have recognised freedom of information as a universal human right. In July 2011, the United Nations Human Rights Committee confirmed that the right to freedom of expression enshrined in Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights includes the right of access public information.\n\nAt the European Union level, Article 42 of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights establishes the right of access to EU institutions documents, as recognised also by Article 15 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU (\"Treaty of Lisbon\"). In 2009, the European Court of Human Rights on the basis of Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is the article on freedom of expression, acknowledged the fundamental right of access to information held by public bodies. Specifically, the Court established that the right to information is protected in particular in case of \"information monopoly\", namely when the public bodies are the only ones owning the requested information, and when the information is needed by media or civil society organisations for public accountability purposes. The decision of the European Court embraced a 2006 decision by the Inter-American Court of Human Rights which endorsed Article 13 of the American Human Rights convention stating that individuals have the right to request information to public authorities and public authorities have the positive obligation to provide such information.\n\nFinally, many countries across the world recognise the right to information or access to documents in their Constitutions, either within the frame of the right to freedom of expression or separately and specifically as the right of access to information or documents. At least 50 countries all over the world, including 29 OSCE countries, have Constitutions including such provisions .\n\nTransparency enhanced through the right to access public information entails a series of core benefits for democratic societies, in particular accountability, participation and efficiency. First, access to public information enhances public accountability as it contributes to make governments and public officials more accountable for their actions and decisions. Second, the right to know boost people participation as it makes available information that can help citizens to make more effective decisions on matters that directly affect their lives and to participate with informed opinions in public debates and in the decision-making process. Third, access to public information contributes to the efficiency of decision-making as disclosure encourages public institutions to better manage and organise information and may help to improve communication between public bodies. Also, access to information serve some other social goals. For instance, access to medical records can help individuals to improve personal decision-making and make better decisions about medical treatment, financial planning and the like. Finally, access to information can facilitate effective business practices as some of the information held by public bodies related to economic issues can be very useful for enterprises and can therefore contribute to increasing the effectiveness of the business sector.\n\nAt national level access to public information is regulated by freedom of information laws. In addition to national legislation, principles and standards for access to public information are set forth into several international declarations and treaties that have authoritatively recognised the fundamental and legal nature of the right to freedom of information along with the need for effective legislations that should guarantee the respect of that right in practice. Such international laws and standards include:\n\n\nThe non-governmental organisation ARTICLE 19 has published a set of principles called \"The Public's Right To Know: Principles on Freedom of Information Legislation\" which describes the best practices and standards on freedom of information legislation based on international and regional laws as well as on evolving national practices and legislations. Such principles, which are designed mainly for national laws, are also applicable to inter-governmental bodies such as the United Nations and the European Union.\n\nThe principle of maximum disclosure sets a presumption that all information held by public bodies should be covered by the scope of access to information laws. This presumption accepts only limited circumstances for exceptions. This principle incorporates the very basic rationale underpinning the concept of freedom of information. It entails that public authorities seeking to deny access to public information have the obligation to justifying their refusal. The principle of maximum disclosure provides for a broad definition of \"public bodies\" which are subject to the duty of releasing information. Such a broad interpretation includes all branches of government, e.g. local governments, elected bodies, nationalised industries and public corporations, judicial bodies and also private bodies carrying out public functions. Principle 1 requires the law to establish minimum standards regarding the maintenance and preservation of documents by public bodies.\n\nThis principle implies the obligation for public bodies to respond to access to information requests and to publish and disseminate documents of public interest. Few reasonable limits based, for instance, on resources and capacity can be accepted. As a minimum, public authorities should make public the following types of information:\n\nThis principle calls governments to actively promote a culture of openness in order to enhance the respect of the right to know. This is important as experiences in different countries have shown that recalcitrant public authorities can undermine the application of even the most progressive legislations. National laws should therefore allocate adequate resources to the promotion of an open government culture and the goals of FOI laws, including by means of internal codes on access and openness, educational programmes, media coverage and communications campaigns. Such activities should also be aimed at contrasting the culture of official secrecy within government for example through trainings for public officials. An important step in this direction has been adopted in 2011 with the establishment of a new global alliance of democratic countries committed to the promotion of transparency, accountability and participation under the label Open Government Partnership \n\nExceptions to disclosure should be grounded on clearly and narrowly defined exceptions. Public authorities should show that a refusal to provide the required information has passed a test through which to assess if the disclosure of a given information threaten to cause substantial harm to a legitimate aim and if the harm is greater than the public interest in having the information. Non-disclosure decisions should be taken on a case-by-case basis. National laws should provide an exhaustive list of the legitimate reasons that may justify non-disclosure. Such a list should be narrowly defined and include only highly relevant interests to be protected, such as law enforcement, privacy, national security, commercial and other confidentiality, public or individual safety and the integrity of the decision-making process. However, even if can be demonstrated that disclosure would cause substantial harm to a legitimate interest, the information should be released when the benefits of disclosure prevail over the harm. In other words, the harm to the legitimate interest must be weighed against the public interest in having a given information publicly available.\n\nAccording to this principle requests for public information should be processed quickly and fairly and an independent review of any refusals should be made available to the applicant. Also, public bodies are called to set up open, accessible systems for implementing freedom of information laws and thus ensuring the public's right to receive the required information. Furthermore, the law should establish an individual right to appeal to an independent body for any refusal by a public body to release information. All members of the public should be in the condition of accessing to appeal procedures without incurring in undue costs and complicated procedures.\n\nThis principle states that costs for accessing public information should not be so high as to deter applicants from making the request. Around the world there are different cost regimes, including, for instance, flat fees systems for each request and graduated fees depending on the actual cost of retrieving and reproducing the information and / or the documents requested.\n\nFreedom of information comprises the public's right to know how the government behaves on behalf of people and to participate to decision-making. Freedom of information law should thus incorporates the presumption that all relevant meetings of governing bodies, i.e. those involved in decision-making, should be open to the public. Meetings may be closed, but only when sound reasons for closure exist. Such reasons have to be clearly explained and closure have to comply to established procedures.\n\nOther laws dealing with publicly held information should be consistent with the principle of maximum disclosure and the other principles underpinning freedom of information. In particular, the regime of exceptions should be clearly defined in the freedom of information legislation; extensions of the exceptions regime should not be allowed by other laws.\n\nWhistleblowers, i.e. individuals who make publicly available information on government's wrongdoings - including for instance corruption, dishonesty, maladministration, serious threat to health, safety or the environment, etc. - should be protected from any legal, administrative or other kind of sanctions. In this context the public interest refers to situations where the benefit of disclosure prevails over the harm, no matter how the disclosure has been conducted. This applies in particular when there are exceptionally serious reasons for releasing a certain information, such as a serious threat to public health or safety, or when there is a strong evidence that wrongdoing will be concealed or destroyed.\n\nBeing a fundamental and universal right, in principle access to information is a right to everyone: almost all national freedom of information laws recognise this by establishing that \"anyone\" may make a request to access public information. One noteworthy exception among the world's democracies is Canada where only citizens and residents are entitled to submit access to information requests. Despite this, a major practical obstacle to the universal exercise of the right to access information is due to the obligation to submit the requests in the official language of the country which may hamper the exercise of the right to know for people that does not have a command of a country's official language.\n\nIn the EU, according to the treaties the right to access documents and the right to appeal to the European Ombudsman applies only to EU citizens, residents and companies registered inside the EU. While in general anyone whose right has been violated can appeal to the European Court of Justice, in the case of the right to access information the Court is obliged to accept cases made by EU citizens, residents and businesses.\n\nIn principle, all information held by public bodies can be accessed upon a FOI's request, unless some exceptions can be applied (e.g. on the ground of protecting state interests; private interests or human rights, or to ensure effective governments). Some national laws refer to \"access to information\" while others to \"access to documents\": even if these definitions actually overlap, it can be useful for the applicant to be aware of the exact phrasing used by the law in order to formulate properly the access to information request, and thus, having more chance of success. Usually \"documents\" and \"information\" should be made available whatever its medium, e.g. written on paper or in electronic format, or as a sound, visual or audiovisual. The EU Regulation 1049/2001 specifies that documents subject to access to information are those concerning \"policies, activities and decisions falling within the institutions’ sphere of responsibility\" and this applies to all documents held by the EU institutions \"in all areas of activity of the European Union\".\n\nIn general in Europe the right of access to information applies to all administrative bodies, at any level of government, from central government to local authorities. Some rare exceptions to this can be found, as in the case of Ireland where police forces are exempted. In addition to administrative bodies, in national legislations which have been progressively approved the obligation to disclose information has been extended also to legislative and judicial bodies. Moreover, in many countries also some private bodies performing public functions or receiving public funds are obliged to respond to access to information requests. For instance, in Macedonia which adopted an access to information law in 2006, the right to access applies to local and national governments, legislative bodies and judicial authorities, and encompasses also private bodies with public functions.\n\nMany inter-governmental bodies hold information about policies and decisions affecting people's lives. While the EU has defined a set of rules regulating access to information held by EU institutions, the debate is still open about whether the right of access information applies to inter-governmental organisations which are outside the scope of national laws and have not signed international human rights conventions. Campaigning organisations have worked for the adoption of internal rules - called \"disclosure policies\" or \"access to information policies\" - so that inter-governmental organisations could apply rules similar to national access to information laws. The World Bank adopted its Access to Information Policy in July 2010.\n\nAlthough in principles the right of access to information applies to all information held by public bodies, it is not an absolute right as there can be some exceptions not allowing the disclosure of certain kind of information. If released this information can violate some \"legitimate interests\", disturb public life or undermine other societal values. To justify the withhold of public information, authorities have the burden of the proof, thus have to demonstrate that disclosure would cause harm to a legitimate interest as specified by the law.\n\nInternational laws and standards in the field of access to public information provide for three categories of standard exceptions. Specifically,\n\nExceptions to protect state interests or international relations, such as:\n\nExceptions aimed at ensuring effective government:\n\nExceptions to protect private interests and human rights, such as:\n\nHowever, even if the requested information or documents are sensitive and exceptions apply, some part of it could be released by public bodies on the ground of two factors. The first is the right of partial access according to which authorities have the duty of removing sensitive information and release the rest of the document. The second \"exception to exceptions\" applies when transparency overrides secrecy, thus even if the information is sensitive the public interest in knowing it is stronger. In this particular case public officials have to apply the so-called \"public interest test\", meaning that they have to scrutinize and ponder both the exceptions for not releasing information and the reasons of public interest in knowing the information required. Many national access to information laws foresees this kind of test.\n\nApplicant have the right to appeal in case of \"administrative silence\" (i.e. the request is not answered), when public authorities reject the disclosure request or when their reply is not satisfying and does not meaningfully answer the question. Rules regulating the right to appeal depends on national legislations and vary from country to country. Generally, there are four main appeals mechanisms:\n\n\nRequests for accessing public information to the public authorities covered by the scope of national laws should be as clear and specific as possible about the information or documents required. A well-formulated request will facilitate the work of public officials and will more likely result in a positive answer or at least reducing the reasons for rejecting the request. Usually the name and address of the person filing the request have to be provided. Giving also the e-mail address as well as a phone number might facilitate the exchange with public officials. In some countries requests made by resorting to pseudonyms or anonymously are permitted.\n\nIn general, the procedure for requesting public information under national laws is simple and does not foresees many formalities. Usually requests can be filed in writing, either by post or hand-delivered to the concerned public authority. In most countries, submission is allowed also by e-mail. Moreover, some access to information laws permit oral requests, made, for instance, by phone or in person. However, in some cases, such as in Slovenia, oral request are not considered to be a formal basis for going to appeal. In some countries, such as in Armenia or Romania, rules and timeframes for written requests and oral requests are different.\n\nFiling a request for accessing public information should always be free of charge, as confirmed by the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents which allows only costs for copying and delivering the documents, such as photocopying, postage costs, or costs of reproduction into other formats or materials in case of DVDs or CDs. As a rule, electronic delivery is free of charge. The majority of countries in the Council of Europe region comply with this rule, even if there are notable exceptions, such as Ireland and Germany where, however, the required fees can be significantly reduced on the ground of public interest.\n\nIn reply of a formal request of accessing public information, the examination of the required information can be allowed in different ways, including the inspection of original documents; photocopies sent by post or e-mails; copies in DVDs or CDs.\n\nThere is a great variability across Europe on the timeframes for public authorities to answer requests as well as for notifying the extension of the timeframe for justified reasons or for issuing a refusal. However, the average time is about 15 working days. In Europe, the countries with the shortest timeframe for response are Norway and Sweden (1–3 days). On the contrary, the Albanian and Austrian access to information laws give the authorities a period of respectively 40 and 60 days to respond to people's requests. Most national laws allow the extension of the timeframe in case of requests which are particularly complex. In all cases such extension should be notified to the applicant, along with an explanation of the reasons that led to it. At the EU level, the Regulation 1049/2001 establishes 15 working days for issuing a response; an extension of up 15 additional working days may be applied in exceptional cases, for instance when the request relates to long documents or a large number of documents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2610287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2610287", "title": "Advice and consent", "text": "Advice and consent\n\nAdvice and consent is an English phrase frequently used in enacting formulae of bills and in other legal or constitutional contexts. It may describe two situations, either where a weak executive branch of a government enacts something previously approved of by the legislative branch or where the legislative branch concurs and approves something previously enacted by a strong executive branch.\n\nThe concept serves to moderate the power of one branch of government by requiring the concurrence of another branch for selected actions. The expression is frequently used in weak executive systems where the head of state has little practical power, and in practice the important part of the passage of a law is in its adoption by the legislature.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a constitutional monarchy, bills are headed:\n\nBE IT ENACTED by the Queen's most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:\n\nThis enacting formula emphasizes that, although legally the bill is being enacted by the Queen of the United Kingdom (specifically, by the Queen-in-Parliament), it is not through her initiative but through that of Parliament that legislation is created.\n\nIn the United States, \"advice and consent\" is a power of the United States Senate to be consulted on and approve treaties signed and appointments made by the President of the United States to public positions, including Cabinet secretaries, federal judges, United States Attorneys, and ambassadors. This power is also held by several state Senates, which are consulted on and approve various appointments made by the state's chief executive, such as some statewide officials, state departmental heads in the Governor's cabinet, and state judges (in some states).\n\nThe term \"advice and consent\" first appears in the United States Constitution in Article II, Section 2, Clause 2, referring to the senate's role in the signing and ratification of treaties. This term is then used again, to describe the Senate's role in the appointment of public officials, immediately after describing the president's duty to nominate officials. Article II, Section 2, paragraph 2 of the United States Constitution states:\n\nThis language was written at the Constitutional Convention as part of a delicate compromise concerning the balance of power in the federal government. Many delegates preferred to develop a strong executive control vested in the president, while others, worried about authoritarian control, preferred to strengthen the Congress. Requiring the president to gain the advice and consent of the Senate achieved both goals without hindering the business of government.\n\nUnder the Twenty-fifth Amendment, appointments to the office of Vice President are confirmed by a majority vote in both Houses of Congress, instead of just the Senate.\n\nWhile several framers of the U.S. Constitution, such as the Thomas Jefferson and James Madison, believed that the required role of the Senate is to advise the President \"after\" the nomination has been made by the President, Roger Sherman believed that advice \"before\" nomination could still be helpful. President George Washington took the position that pre-nomination advice was allowable but not mandatory. The notion that pre-nomination advice is optional has developed into the unification of the \"advice\" portion of the power with the \"consent\" portion, although several Presidents have consulted informally with Senators over nominations and treaties.\n\nTypically, a congressional hearing is held to question an appointee prior to a committee vote. If the nominee is approved by the relevant committee, the nomination is sent to the full Senate for a confirmation vote. The actual motion adopted by the Senate when exercising the power is \"to advise and consent\". For appointments, a majority of Senators present are needed to pass a motion \"to advise and consent\". A filibuster requiring a three-fifths vote to override, as well as other similar delaying tactics, have been used to require higher vote tallies in the past. \n\nOn November 21, 2013, the Democratic Party, led by then-Majority Leader Harry Reid, overrode the filibuster of a nomination with a simple majority vote to change the rules. As a result, for instance, judicial nominees to federal courts and a president's executive-branch nominations can be freed up for a confirmation vote by a simple majority vote of the Senate. However, he left the filibuster in place for Supreme Court nominees.\n\nIn April 2017, the Republican Party, led by Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, did the same for Supreme Court nominations, allowing Associate Justice Neil Gorsuch on the bench, despite what might have otherwise been a successful Democratic filibuster.\n\n"}
{"id": "1552945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1552945", "title": "Assignment (law)", "text": "Assignment (law)\n\nAn assignment is a legal term used in the context of the law of contract and of property. In both instances, assignment is the process whereby a person, the \"assignor\", transfers rights or benefits to another, the \"assignee\". An assignment may not transfer a duty, burden or detriment without the express agreement of the assignee. The right or benefit being assigned may be a gift (such as a waiver) or it may be paid for with a contractual consideration such as money. \n\nThe rights may be vested or contingent, and may include an equitable interest. Mortgages and loans are relatively straightforward and amenable to assignment. An assignor may assign rights, such as a mortgage note issued by a third party borrower, and this would require the latter to make repayments to the assignee.\n\nA related concept of assignment is novation wherein, by agreement with all parties, one contracting party is replaced by a new party. While novation requires the consent of all parties, assignment needs no consent from other non-assigning parties. However, in the case of assignment, the consent of the non-assigning party may be required by a contractual provision.\n\nThe assignment does not necessarily have to be in writing; however, the assignment agreement must show an intent to transfer rights. The effect of a valid assignment is to extinguish privity (in other words, contractual relationship, including right to sue) between the assignor and the third-party obligor and create privity between the obligor and the assignee.\n\nUnless the contractual agreement states otherwise, the assignee typically does not receive more rights than the assignor, and the assignor may remain liable to the original counterparty for the performance of the contract. The assignor often delegates duties in addition to rights to the assignee, but the assignor may remain ultimately responsible.\n\nHowever, in the United States, there are various laws that limit the liability of the assignee, often to facilitate credit, as assignees are typically lenders. Notable examples include a provision in the Truth in Lending Act and provisions in the Consumer Leasing Act and the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act.\n\nIn other cases, the contract may be a negotiable instrument in which the person receiving the instrument may become a holder in due course, which is similar to an assignee except that issues, such as lack of performance, by the assignor may not be a valid defense for the obligor. As a response, the United States Federal Trade Commission promulgated Rule 433, formally known as the \"Trade Regulation Rule Concerning Preservation of Consumers' Claims and Defenses\", which \"effectively abolished the [holder in due course] doctrine in consumer credit transactions\". In 2012, the commission reaffirmed the regulation.\n\nAfter the assignment of contractual rights, the assignee will receive all benefits that had accrued to the assignor. For example, if A contracts to sell his car for $100 to B, A may assign the benefits (the right to be paid $100) to C. In this case, Party C is \"not\" a \"third party beneficiary\", because the contract was not made for C's benefit. Assignment takes place after the contract was formed; they may not precede them.\nThe common law favors the freedom of assignment, so an assignment will generally be permitted unless there is an express prohibition against assignment in the contract. Where assignment is thus permitted, the assignor need not consult the other party to the contract. An assignment cannot have any effect on the duties of the other party to the contract, nor can it reduce the possibility of the other party receiving full performance of the same quality. Certain kinds of performance, therefore, \"cannot\" be assigned, because they create a unique relationship between the parties to the contract. For example, the assignment of a legal malpractice claim is void since an assignee would be a stranger to the attorney-client relationship, who was owed no duty by the attorney and would imperil the sanctity of the highly confidential and fiduciary relationship existing between attorney and client.\n\nTorts are not assignable as public policy, and various statutes may prohibit assignment in certain instances. In addition, the Restatement (Second) of Contracts lists prohibitions in §317(2)(a) based upon the effect to the nonassigning party (obligor), with similar prohibitions in the Uniform Commercial Code §2-210. For example, UCC §2-210 states the following:\nFor assignment to be effective, it must occur in the present. No specific language is required to make such an assignment, but the assignor must make some clear statement of intent to assign clearly identified contractual rights to the assignee. A promise to assign in the future has no legal effect. Although this prevents a party from assigning the benefits of a contract that has not yet been made, a court of equity may enforce such an assignment where an established economic relationship between the assignor and the assignee raised an expectation that the assignee would indeed form the appropriate contract in the future.\n\nA contract may contain a non-assignment clause, which prohibits the assignment of specific rights and some various rights, or of the entire contract, to another. However, such a clause does not necessarily destroy the power of either party to make an assignment. Instead, it merely gives the other party the ability to sue for breach of contract if such an assignment is made. However, an assignment of a contract containing such a clause will be ineffective if the assignee \"knows\" of the non-assignment clause, or if the non-assignment clause specifies that \"all assignments are void\".\n\nTwo other techniques to prevent the assignment of contracts are \"rescission clauses\" or clauses creating a \"condition subsequent\". The former would give the other party to the contract the power to rescind the contract if an assignment is made; the latter would rescind the contract automatically in such circumstances.\n\nThere are certain situations in which the assignment must be in writing.\n\nA parallel concept to assignment is \"delegation\", which occurs when one party transfers his \"duties or liabilities\" under a contract to another. A delegation and an assignment can be accomplished at the same time, although a non-assignment clause may also bar delegation.\n\nLegal remedies may be available if the nonassigning party's rights are affected by the assignment.\n\nAssignments made for consideration are irrevocable, meaning that the assignor permanently gives up the legal right to take back the assignment once it has been made. Donative assignments, on the other hand, are generally revocable, either by the assignor giving notice to the assignee, taking performance directly from the obligor, or making a subsequent assignment of the same right to another. There are some exceptions to the revocability of a donative assignment:\n\nA cause of action for breach on the part of the obligor lies with the assignee, who will hold the exclusive right to commence a cause of action for any failure to perform or defective performance. At this stage, because the assignee \"stands in the shoes\" of the assignor, the obligor can raise any defense to the contract that the obligor could have raised against the assignor. Furthermore, the obligor can raise against the assignee counterclaims and setoffs that the obligor had against the assignor. For example, suppose that A makes a contract to paint B's house in exchange for $500. A then assigns the right to receive the $500 to C, to pay off a debt owed to C. However, A does such a careless job painting the house that B has to pay another painter $400 to correct A's work. If C sues B to collect the debt, B can raise his counterclaim for the expenses caused by the poor paint job, and can reduce the amount owed to C by that $400, leaving only $100 to be collected.\n\nWhen the assignor makes the assignment, he makes with it an implied warranty that the right to assign was not subject to defenses. If the contract had a provision that made the assignment ineffective, the assignee could sue the assignor for breach of this implied warranty. Similarly, the assignee could also sue under this theory if the assignor wrongfully revoked the assignment.\n\nOccasionally, an unscrupulous assignor will asof the assignment, and on the timing of the assignments relative to certain other actions.\n\nIn a quirk left over from the common law, if the assignment was donative, the \"last assignee\" is the true owner of the rights. However, if the assignment was for consideration, the \"first assignee\" to actually \"collect against the assigned contract\" is the true owner of the rights. Under the modern \"American rule\", now followed in most U.S. jurisdictions, the first assignor with equity (i.e. the first to have paid for the assignment) will have the strongest claim, while remaining assignees may have other remedies. In some countries, the rights of the respective assignees are determined by the old common law rule in \"Dearle v Hall\".\n\n\nSee interpleader.\n\nReal property rights can be assigned just as any other contractual right. However, special duties and liabilities attach to transfers of the right to possess property. With an assignment, the assignor transfers the complete remainder of the interest to the assignee. The assignor must not retain any sort of reversionary interest in the right to possess. The assignee's interest must abut the interest of the next person to have the right to possession. If any time or interest is reserved by a tenant assignor then the act is not an assignment, but is instead a sublease.\n\nThe liability of the assignee depends upon the contract formed when the assignment takes place. However, in general, the assignee has privity of estate with a lessor. With privity of estate comes the duty on the part of the assignee to perform certain obligations under covenant, e.g. pay rent. Similarly, the lessor retains the obligations to perform on covenants to maintain or repair the land.\n\nIf the assignor agrees to continue paying rent to the lessor and subsequently defaults, the lessor can sue both the assignor under the original contract signed with the lessor as well as the assignee because by taking possession of the property interest, the assignee has obliged himself to perform duties under covenant such as the payment of rent.\n\nUnlike a Novation where consent of both the lessor and lesse is required for the third party to assume all obligations and liabilities of the original lessee, an assignment does not always need the consent of all parties. If the contract terms state specifically that the lessor's consent is not needed to assign the contract, then the lesee can assign the contract to whomever the lesee wants to.\n\nAbsent language to the contrary, a tenant may assign their rights to an assignee without the landlord's consent. In the majority of jurisdictions, when there is a clause that the landlord may withhold consent to an assignment, the general rule is that the landlord may not withhold consent unreasonably unless there is a provision that states specifically that the Landlord may withhold consent at Landlord's sole discretion.\n\nA person can also assign their rights to receive the benefits owed to a partner in a partnership. However, the assignee can \"not\" thereby gain any of the assignor's rights with respect to the operation of the partnership. The assignee may not vote on partnership matters, inspect the partnership books, or take possession of partnership property; rather, the assignee can only be given the right is to collect distributions of income, unless the remaining partners consent to the assignment of a new general partner with operational, management, and financial interests. If the partnership is dissolved, the assignee can also claim the assignor's share of any distribution accompanying the dissolution.\n\nOwnership of intellectual property, including patents, copyrights, and trademarks, may be assigned, but special conditions attach to the assignment of patents and trademarks. In the United States, assignment of a patent is governed by statute, . Patent rights are assignable by an \"instrument in writing.\" Title in a patent can also be transferred as a result of other financial transactions, such as a merger or a takeover, or as a result of operation of law, such as in an inheritance process, or in a bankruptcy. An assignment of a patent can be recorded with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Although such recording is not required, if an assignment is not recorded at the USPTO within three (3) months or prior to a subsequent assignment, the assignment will be void against a subsequent assignee without notice of the earlier, unrecorded assignment.\n\nWith respect to a trademark, the owner of the mark may not transfer ownership of the mark without transferring the goodwill associated with the mark.\n\nCompanies sometimes request from employees that they assign all intellectual property they create while under the employment of the company. This is typically done within an Employment Agreement, but is sometimes done through a specific agreement called Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement (PIIA).\n\nThe standard rule is that personal injury tort causes of action are nonassignable as a matter of public policy. These should be distinguished from final settlements or judgments resulting from lawsuits brought on such causes of action, which may be assignable.\n\nIn the majority of jurisdictions, assignments involving fraud or legal malpractice causes of action are void as against public policy.\n\nAn equitable assignment is an assignment, or transfer of rights, in equity.\n\nThere are numerous requirements that exist for an equitable assignment of property, outside the 'standard' \"clear and unconditional intention to assign\". These requirements are fundamental characteristics of a statutory assignment: Absolute assignment (an unconditional transfer: conditions precedent or part of a debt are not absolute) and the assignment must be made in writing and signed by the assignor, and in particular, this applies to real property.\n\nAssigning future property in equity cannot be gratuitous. The assignor must receive consideration for the agreement, otherwise the assignment will be ineffective. However, an absolute assignment does not require consideration to be given. Secondly, between the period of agreement between assignor and assignee and acquisition by the assignor, the assignees rights are not contractual, but rather a proprietary right to the property. This means the assignee has an interest in this future property, in the same manner any owner has over property.\n\nIn equity, these principles operate to protect both the assignor and the assignee. In \"Norman v Federal Commissioner of Taxation\", a taxpayer attempted to assign by deed, to his wife certain moneys which he was eventually going to receive. This included dividends and interest due on loans. The court held the interest and the dividends were expectancies or possibilities which could not be assigned without consideration. The court's worry was that assignments without consideration might be used as instruments of fraud, to avoid creditors and tax collection.\n\nCourts will not enforce a contract to assign an expectancy unless there is a valuable consideration. For example, under a settlement of property the respondent \"the son\" would have been entitled to an equal portion of properties along with his other siblings which was gained in a settlement by his mother. This portion was only his when allocated to him at his mothers discretion. Prior to this allocation being made, the respondent allotted his benefit to trustees for a voluntary settlement. He was assigning or purporting to assign something which he might become entitled to in the future, not a contingent interest. The judgment held it ineffective and elaborated on previous points to state the respondent cannot be compelled to allow the trustees to retain the appointed sum.\n"}
{"id": "40967662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40967662", "title": "Break/fix", "text": "Break/fix\n\nThe term break/fix refers to the fee-for-service method of providing information technology (IT) services to businesses. Using this method an IT solution provider performs services as needed and bills the customer only for the work done. The service may include repairs, upgrades or installation of systems, components, peripheral equipment, networking or software.\n\nThe alternative to break/fix is managed services, which is a service plan, where the customer pays a fixed amount for services covered in the plan and pays additional amounts for repairs or other work which is not covered in the plan. \n\nThe equivalent practice in the consumer market is that of out-of-warranty appliances, where the customer can pay for repairs as needed (break/fix) or they can buy an extended warranty (managed services).\n\nAdvantages:\n\nPossible lower cost (at first).\n\nDisadvantages:\n\nSince problems are only addressed when they arise, maintenance is reactive rather than proactive. Small problems left unaddressed due to shortsightedness because of cost can balloon to major failures.\n\nUnscrupulous providers are incentivized to use inefficient or malicious means to increase break/fix work and thus increase their revenue.\n"}
{"id": "44853854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44853854", "title": "Certificate of public convenience and necessity", "text": "Certificate of public convenience and necessity\n\nA certificate of public convenience and necessity or certificate of public convenience is a type of regulatory compliance certification for public service industries. Private companies wishing to provide essential public services in certain countries must be granted a CPCN before constructing facilities and offering services.\n\nIn the Philippines, a certificate of public convenience (CPC) is required for private provision of public services for which no franchise, either municipal or legislative, is required by law, such as a common carrier.\n\nThe first U.S. state statutes for certificate of public convenience (CPCN) were issued in 1870, and the U.S. Congress included a certification provision in U.S. federal law in the Transportation Act of 1920. Examples of industries requiring a CPCN from a U.S. state include the provision of telecommunications in New York state, transportation of natural gas in Alaska, and a range of public services in Illinois.\n"}
{"id": "9404435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9404435", "title": "City attorney", "text": "City attorney\n\nA city attorney can be an elected or appointed position in city and municipal government in the United States. The city attorney is the attorney representing the city or municipality.\n\nIn some small towns, the city attorney is usually a lawyer in private practice and handles only governmental matters. In other towns or cities, he or she also prosecutes minor crimes.\n\nA city attorney generally handles all legal matters for the city, from traffic tickets to civil lawsuits to acting as a general counsel, giving legal advice for city departments.\n\nAreas of focus may include:\n"}
{"id": "20912625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20912625", "title": "Civil conscription", "text": "Civil conscription\n\nCivil conscription is conscription used for forcing people to work in non-military projects.\n\nCivil conscription is used by various governments around the world, among them Greece, where it has been used numerous times and it is called \"πολιτική επιστράτευση\" (\"politiki epistratevsi,\" \"political mobilisation\"). Temporary conscription for payment, typically of taxes, is known as corvée.\n\n"}
{"id": "2493456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2493456", "title": "Commodity form theory", "text": "Commodity form theory\n\nCommodity form theory is a theory of jurisprudence advanced by the Soviet legal theorist Evgeny Pashukanis. The theory argues that the legal form is the parallel of the commodity form under capitalist society.\n\nAll law is concerned with the process of the exchanging of commodities between subjects who act as the \"guardians\" of commodities and are created by law in order to enable the commodity production form of society to function. The theory can be explained as based on two premises, logical and historical.\n\n\"Every legal relation\" proclaims Pashukanis, \"is a relation between subjects\". Pashukanis' conceptual account of law begins with the idea of a responsible agent - what he calls \"the legal subject\".\n\nProperty, says Pashukanis, is the basis of the legal form, but only capitalist property that can be disposed of in the market. The subject in law is the expression of the freedom of property, that is, the freedom of alienate property.\n\nThus the key to understanding law is the contradiction between commodities and subjects.\n\nCommodities according to Karl Marx relate to each other as values, that is exchange takes place on the basis of equivalent amounts of labour-time embodied in commodities passing between buyers and sellers.\n\nContract is both logically the central legal premise on which all other aspects of law are based, and also the highest form of expression of the commodity owning subject. This is because it is the relations of contract that are crucial for commodity production society since the contract is the necessary legal expression of commodity owners' ability to use their commodities in the market. For Pashukanis, all other forms of legal relations in capitalism flow from this.\n\nThe commodity form of exchange historically precedes the legal system which emerges from it. But it is not merely that the commodity form produces the legal form; it is that the commodity form exists prior to the legal form and that only with the full development of the commodity form is there the possibility of a fully developed abstract legal form at all.\n\nCommodity form theory is related to Marx's theory of commodity fetishism. Marx argued that the commodity was a fetishized form because the formal equality that the commodity form postulated was only an apparent equality. The legal form is blind to substantive human differences, just as the commodity form is blind to substantive differences in use value. Ultimately, the legal form, just as the commodity form, exists independently of the will of the individual. The illusion is produced that the law – as the universal political equivalent – has a life of its own.\n"}
{"id": "3456878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3456878", "title": "Compurgation", "text": "Compurgation\n\nCompurgation, also called wager of law and oath-helping, was a defence used primarily in medieval law. A defendant could establish his innocence or nonliability by taking an oath and by getting a required number of persons, typically twelve, to swear they believed the defendant's oath. From Latin, \"com\" = with, \"purgare\" = make clean, cleanse, excuse.\nLatin \"com\" is also an intensifier and turns a word into the superlative form, so compurgation, by etymology, means 'to thoroughly clean or excuse'.\n\nThe wager of law was essentially a character reference, initially by kin and later by neighbours (from the same region as the defendant), often 11 or 12 men, and it was a way to give credibility to the oath of a defendant at a time when a person's oath had more credibility than a written record. It can be compared to legal wager, which is the provision of surety at the beginning of legal action to minimize frivolous litigation.\n\nCompurgation was found in early Germanic law, in early French law (\"très ancienne coutume de Bretagne\"), in Welsh law, and in the English ecclesiastical courts until the seventeenth century. In common law it was substantially abolished as a defence in felonies by the Constitutions of Clarendon in 1164. The defence was still permitted in civil actions for debt and vestiges of it survived until its statutory repeal at various times in common law countries: in England in 1833, and Queensland at some point before the Queensland Common Practice Act of 1867 which makes direct reference to the abolition of wager of law.\n\n\"Wager of Law, obsolete for centuries\" was \"a living fossil... a dead letter statute\" and was repealed in England in 1833.\n\nThe procedure in a wager of law is traced by Blackstone to the Mosaic law, Ex. xxii. 10; but it seems historically to have been derived from the system of compurgation, introduced into England from Normandy, a system which is now thought to have had an appreciable effect on the development of the English jury. It also has some points of resemblance, perhaps some historical connexion, with the sponsao and the decisory oath of Roman law, and the reference to oath of Scottish law.\n\nThe wager of law, also called compurgation, is an old legal practice, dating back to Saxon and feudal times, which was contemporaneous to the appeal to God to prove fact by trial by battle (wager of battle, trial by combat, or judicial duel), and of trial by ordeal.\n\nThe use of the oath instead of the real or feigned combat — real in English law, feigned in Roman law — no doubt represents an advance in legal development. The technical term sacramentum is the bond of union between the two stages of law. In the wager of law the defendant, with eleven compurgators, appeared in court, and the defendant swore that he did not owe the debt, or (in detinue) that he did not detain the plaintiff's chattel; while the compurgators swore that they believed that he spoke the truth.\n\nA variation was for the defendant to give gage, or sureties, in an action of debt, and \"that at a certain day assigned he would take a law, or oath, in open court, that he did not owe the debt, and at the same time bring with him eleven neighbors (called compurgators), who should avow upon their oaths that they believed in their consciences that he spoke the truth\" (see the \"Tractatus\" of Glanvill, ca. 1188).\n\nWager of law was replaced by jury, from early times, to determine fact, at a time that judges managed legal procedure and did not determine fact. Trial \"by lawful Judgment of his Peers, or by the Law of the Land (legus terrae)\" Cap. 29 of the Magna Carta 1215 to 1297.\n\nWager of law was practised in England (and English American colonies) until the 16th century, in criminal matters, and the 19th century, in civil matters.\n\nA defendant who elected to \"make his law\" was permitted to make a statement before the court, swear an oath that it was true, and present one or more individuals, often 12, who swore that they believed he had told the truth under oath. The predominant form of defense in the feudal courts, it persisted for a time in the common-law courts. The individuals \"did not testify about the fact itself and, indeed, might have no personal knowledge concerning it. The value of a man’s oath might vary with his status; sometimes it was necessary for a defendant to meet a charge by assembling oaths of a prescribed monetary value. Because oath making often had religious implications for those who served as oath helpers and because there was also a possibility of legal sanctions (penalties), individuals might refuse to give oaths for persons with bad reputations. One reason for the long survival of the practice was that 'wagers in law' were often considered better evidence than account books in cases of debt.\"\n\nWelsh law allowed for a form of compurgation called assach, which required not 12 but 300 compurgators.\n\nThe taking of oaths was an eminently unsatisfactory way of arriving at the merits of a claim, and it is therefore not surprising to find that the policy of the law was in favour of its restriction rather than of its extension. Thus it was not permitted where the defendant was not a person of good character, where the king sued, where the defendant was the executor or administrator of the person alleged to have owed the debt, or in any form of action other than those named, even though the cause of action were the same.\n\nTrial by ordeal was abolished by order of the Lateran Council of 1215. Trial by battle was abolished in 1819 and wager of law was abolished in 1833, although both had fallen into disuse before their formal abolition.\n\nWager of law was used as late as 1829, when the Rev. Fearon Jenkinson of Gnosall, Staffordshire used it against a Stafford ironmonger who claimed he was owed money by him. Jenkinson and his compurgators did not appear on the date.\n\nWager of law survived to recent centuries and in many jurisdictions it has been abolished by statute. It was abolished in New South Wales in 1841 by the Advancement of Justice Act 1841 (both Victoria and Queensland were still part of New South Wales at this time). This was re-enacted after separation of Queensland from New South Wales in the Queensland Common Law Practice Act 1867, but was strictly unnecessary, given its earlier abolition in 1841 which makes direct reference to the abolition of wager of law.\n\nNo wager of law was allowed in assumpsit, even though the cause of action were a simple debt. This led to the general adoption of assumpsit — proceeding originally upon a fictitious averment of a promise by the defendant — as a means of recovering debts. Where a penalty was created by statute, it became a common form to insert a proviso that no wager of law was to be allowed in an action for the penalty. Wager of law was finally abolished in 1833 (3 & 4 William IV. c. 42).\n\n"}
{"id": "30874872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30874872", "title": "Constitutionalism", "text": "Constitutionalism\n\nConstitutionalism is \"a complex of ideas, attitudes, and patterns of behavior elaborating the principle that the authority of government derives from and is limited by a body of fundamental law\".\n\nPolitical organizations are constitutional to the extent that they \"contain institutionalized mechanisms of power control for the protection of the interests and liberties of the citizenry, including those that may be in the minority\". As described by political scientist and constitutional scholar David Fellman:\nConstitutionalism has prescriptive and descriptive uses. Law professor Gerhard Casper captured this aspect of the term in noting, \"Constitutionalism has both descriptive and prescriptive connotations. Used descriptively, it refers chiefly to the historical struggle for constitutional recognition of the people's right to 'consent' and certain other rights, freedoms, and privileges. Used prescriptively, its meaning incorporates those features of government seen as the essential elements of the... Constitution\".\n\nOne example of constitutionalism's descriptive use is law professor Bernard Schwartz's five volume compilation of sources seeking to trace the origins of the U.S. Bill of Rights. Beginning with English antecedents going back to Magna Carta (1215), Schwartz explores the presence and development of ideas of individual freedoms and privileges through colonial charters and legal understandings. Then in carrying the story forward, he identifies revolutionary declarations and constitutions, documents and judicial decisions of the Confederation period and the formation of the federal Constitution. Finally, he turns to the debates over the federal Constitution's ratification that ultimately provided mounting pressure for a federal bill of rights. While hardly presenting a straight line, the account illustrates the historical struggle to recognize and enshrine constitutional rights and principles in a constitutional order.\n\nIn contrast to describing what constitutions are, a prescriptive approach addresses what a constitution should be. As presented by the Canadian philosopher Wil Waluchow, constitutionalism embodies\n\nOne example of this prescriptive approach was the project of the National Municipal League to develop a model state constitution.\n\nWhether reflecting a descriptive or prescriptive focus, treatments of the concept of constitutionalism all deal with the legitimacy of government. One recent assessment of American constitutionalism, for example, notes that the idea of constitutionalism serves to define what it is that \"grants and guides the legitimate exercise of government authority\". Similarly, historian Gordon S. Wood described this American constitutionalism as \"advanced thinking\" on the nature of constitutions in which the constitution was conceived to be a \"\"sett of fundamental rules\" by which even the supreme power of the state shall be governed.\" Ultimately, American constitutionalism came to rest on the collective sovereignty of the people, the source that legitimized American governments.\n\nOne of the most salient features of constitutionalism is that it describes and prescribes both the source and the limits of government power. William H. Hamilton has captured this dual aspect by noting that constitutionalism \"is the name given to the trust which men repose in the power of words engrossed on parchment to keep a government in order.\"\n\nThe study of constitutions is not necessarily synonymous with the study of constitutionalism. Although frequently conflated, there are crucial differences. A discussion of this difference appears in legal historian Christian G. Fritz's \"American Sovereigns: The People and America's Constitutional Tradition Before the Civil War\", a study of the early history of American constitutionalism. Fritz notes that an analyst could approach the study of historic events focusing on issues that entailed \"constitutional questions\" and that this differs from a focus that involves \"questions of constitutionalism.\" Constitutional questions involve the analyst in examining how the constitution was interpreted and applied to distribute power and authority as the new nation struggled with problems of war and peace, taxation and representation. However,\n\nA similar distinction was drawn by British constitutional scholar A.V. Dicey in assessing Britain's unwritten constitution. Dicey noted a difference between the \"conventions of the constitution\" and the \"law of the constitution\". The \"essential distinction\" between the two concepts was that the law of the constitution was made up of \"rules enforced or recognised by the Courts\", making up \"a body of 'laws' in the proper sense of that term.\" In contrast, the conventions of the constitution consisted \"of customs, practices, maxims, or precepts which are not enforced or recognised by the Courts\" but \"make up a body not of laws, but of constitutional or political ethics\".\n\nConstitutionalism has been the subject of criticism for its previous ignorance of economic issues but this criticism is now taken into account by the development of constitutional economics.\n\nConstitutional economics is a field of economics and constitutionalism and describes and analyzes the specific interrelationships between constitutional issues and the structure and functioning of the economy. The term “constitutional economics” was used by American economist James M. Buchanan as a name for a new academic sub-discipline. Buchanan received in 1986 the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for his \"development of the contractual and constitutional bases for the theory of economic and political decision-making\". Buchanan rejects \"any organic conception of the state as superior in wisdom, to the individuals who are its members\". This philosophical position is, in fact, the very subject matter of constitutional economics.\n\nA constitutional economics approach allows for a combined economic and constitutional analysis, helping to avoid an unidimensional understanding. Buchanan believes that a constitution, intended for use by at least several generations of citizens, must be able to adjust itself for pragmatic economic decisions and to balance interests of the state and society against those of individuals and their constitutional rights to personal freedom and private happiness. Constitutional economics draws substantial inspiration from the reformist attitude which is characteristic of Adam Smith's vision, and that Buchanan’s concept can be considered the modern-day counterpart to what Smith called \"the science of legislation\".\n\nConcurrently with the rise of academic research in the field of constitutional economics in the U.S. in the 1980s, the Supreme Court of India for almost a decade had been encouraging public interest litigation on behalf of the poor and oppressed by using a very broad interpretation of several articles of the Indian Constitution. This is a vivid example of a \"de facto\" practical application of the methodology of constitutional economics.\n\nThe Russian school of constitutional economics was created in the early 21st century with the idea that constitutional economics allows for a combined economic and constitutional analysis in the legislative (especially budgetary) process, thus helping to overcome arbitrariness in the economic and financial decision-making: for instance, when military expenses (and the like) dwarf the budget spending on education and culture. In the English language, the word \"constitution\" possesses a whole number of meanings, encompassing not only national constitutions as such, but also charters of public organizations, unwritten rules of various clubs, informal groups, etc. The Russian model of constitutional economics, originally intended for transitional and developing countries, focuses entirely on the concept of the state constitution. In 2006, the Russian Academy of Sciences officially recognized constitutional economics as a separate academic sub-discipline. Since many countries with transitional political and economic systems continue to treat their constitutions as abstract legal documents disengaged from the economic policy of the state, the practice of constitutional economics becomes there a decisive prerequisite for democratic development of the state and society.\n\nUsed descriptively, the concept of constitutionalism can refer chiefly to the historical struggle for constitutional recognition of the people's right to \"consent\" and certain other rights, freedoms, and privileges.\n\nAmerican constitutionalism has been defined as a complex of ideas, attitudes and patterns elaborating the principle that the authority of government derives from the people, and is limited by a body of fundamental law. These ideas, attitudes and patterns, according to one analyst, derive from \"a dynamic political and historical process rather than from a static body of thought laid down in the eighteenth century\".\n\nIn U.S. history, constitutionalism, in both its descriptive and prescriptive sense, has traditionally focused on the federal constitution. Indeed, a routine assumption of many scholars has been that understanding \"American constitutionalism\" necessarily entails the thought that went into the drafting of the federal constitution and the American experience with that constitution since its ratification in 1789.\n\nThere is a rich tradition of state constitutionalism that offers broader insight into constitutionalism in the United States. While state constitutions and the federal constitution operate differently as a function of federalism from the coexistence and interplay of governments at both a national and state level, they all rest on a shared assumption that their legitimacy comes from the sovereign authority of the people or popular sovereignty. This underlying premise, embraced by the American revolutionaries with the Declaration of Independence unites American constitutional tradition.\n\nBoth experience with state constitutions before and after the federal constitution as well as the emergence and operation of the latter reflect an ongoing struggle over the idea that all governments in America rested on the sovereignty of the people for their legitimacy.\n\nThe United Kingdom is perhaps the best instance of constitutionalism in a country that has an uncodified constitution. A variety of developments in 17th century England, including \"the protracted struggle for power between King and Parliament was accompanied by an efflorescence of political ideas in which the concept of countervailing powers was clearly defined,\"\nled to a well-developed polity with multiple governmental and private institutions that counter the power of the state.\n\nThe recent move of the Japanese government for revisions of its 1947 constitution under Shinzō Abe's administration is criticized as anticonstitutionalist in the sense that the new constitution would impose obligations on citizens rather than protect their human rights.\n\nFrom the mid-sixteenth to the late eighteenth century, the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth utilized the \"liberum veto\", a form of unanimity voting rule, in its parliamentary deliberations. The \"principle of \"liberum veto\" played an important role in [the] emergence of the unique Polish form of constitutionalism.\" This constraint on the powers of the monarch were significant in making the \"[r]ule of law, religious tolerance and limited constitutional government... the norm in Poland in times when the rest of Europe was being devastated by religious hatred and despotism.\"\n\nThe prescriptive approach to constitutionalism addresses what a constitution should be. Two observations might be offered about its prescriptive use.\n\nStarting with the proposition that \"'Constitutionalism' refers to the position or practice that government be limited by a constitution, usually written,\" analysts take a variety of positions on what the constitution means. For instance, they describe the document as a document that may specify its relation to statutes, treaties, executive and judicial actions, and the constitutions or laws of regional jurisdictions. This prescriptive use of Constitutionalism is also concerned with the principles of constitutional design, which includes the principle that the field of public action be partitioned between delegated powers to the government and the rights of individuals, each of which is a restriction of the other, and that no powers be delegated that are beyond the competence of government.\n\nThe Constitution of May 3, 1791, which historian Norman Davies calls \"the first constitution of its kind in Europe\", was in effect for only a year. It was designed to redress longstanding political defects of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth and its traditional system of \"Golden Liberty\". The Constitution introduced political equality between townspeople and nobility (\"szlachta\") and placed the peasants under the protection of the government, thus mitigating the worst abuses of serfdom.\n\nConstitutionalist was also a label used by some independent candidates in UK general elections in the early 1920s. Most of the candidates were former Liberal Party members, and many of them joined the Conservative Party soon after being elected. The best known Constitutionalist candidate was Winston Churchill in the 1924 UK general election.\n\nAfter the democratically elected government of president Juan Bosch in the Dominican Republic was deposed, the Constitutionalist movement was born in the country. As opposed to said movement, the Anticonstitutionalist movement was also born. Bosch had to depart to Puerto Rico after he was deposed. His first leader was Colonel Rafael Tomás Fernández Domínguez, and he wanted Bosch to come back to power once again. Colonel Fernández Domínguez was exiled to Puerto Rico where Bosch was. The Constitutionalists had a new leader: Colonel Francisco Alberto Caamaño Deñó.\n\nLegal scholar Jeremy Waldron contends that constitutionalism is often undemocratic:\nConstitutionalism has also been the subject of criticism by Murray Rothbard, who attacked constitutionalism as incapable of restraining governments and does not protect the rights of citizens from their governments:\n[i]t is true that, in the United States, at least, we have a constitution that imposes strict limits on some powers of government. But, as we have discovered in the past century, no constitution can interpret or enforce itself; it must be interpreted by \"men\". And if the ultimate power to interpret a constitution is given to the government's own Supreme Court, then the inevitable tendency is for the Court to continue to place its imprimatur on ever-broader powers for its own government. Furthermore, the highly touted \"checks and balances\" and \"separation of powers\" in the American government are flimsy indeed, since in the final analysis all of these divisions are part of the same government and are governed by the same set of rulers.\n\nThe scope and limits of constitutionalism in Muslim countries have attracted growing interest in recent years. Authors such as Ann E. Mayer define Islamic constitutionalism as \"constitutionalism that is in some form based on Islamic principles, as opposed to constitutionalism that has developed in countries that happen to be Muslim but that has not been informed by distinctively Islamic principles\". However, the concrete meaning of the notion remains contested among Muslim as well as Western scholars. Influential thinkers like Mohammad Hashim Kamali and Khaled Abou El Fadl, but also younger ones like Asifa Quraishi and Nadirsyah Hosen combine classic Islamic law with modern constitutionalism. The constitutional changes initiated by the Arab spring movement have already brought into reality many new hybrid models of Islamic constitutionalism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1589860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1589860", "title": "Conveyancer", "text": "Conveyancer\n\nIn most Commonwealth countries, a conveyancer is a specialist lawyer who specialises in the legal aspects of buying and selling real property, or conveyancing. A conveyancer can also be (but need not be) a solicitor, licensed conveyancer, or a fellow of the Institute of Legal Executives.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, conveyancers are regulated by an official body known as the Council for Licensed Conveyancers. Its main purpose is to set entry standards and regulate the profession of licensed conveyancers effectively in order to secure adequate consumer protection, promote effective competition in the legal services market and provide choice for consumers. \n\nServices offered by conveyancers vary from Residential Conveyancing, Probate and Wills. Strong regulation is imposed to curb unfair practices which include among others false representation, exaction for hidden charges and double dealing. \n\nIn Kenya, a conveyancer can only be an admitted advocate holding a valid current practising certificate. The consequences of not holding such a certificate is fatal to any transaction he undertakes on behalf of his client, and will be void. The client is therefore under obligation to do his due diligence by ensuring that his conveyancer has a current valid practising certificate by confirming this with the law society of Kenya. This was authoritatively decided by the Court of Appeal in its decision of National Bank of Kenya Ltd. v. Wilson Ndolo Ayah.\n\nIn Australia, a conveyancer is also known as a Settlement Agent.\n\nIn Canada, a conveyancer is a legal clerk or a paralegal who assist lawyers in all aspects of conveying real estate. \n"}
{"id": "55734346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55734346", "title": "Copyright in Bermuda", "text": "Copyright in Bermuda\n\nCopyright in Bermuda applies automatically and it is not necessary to register a work to benefit from copyright protection.\n\n"}
{"id": "6852029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6852029", "title": "Counter-majoritarian difficulty", "text": "Counter-majoritarian difficulty\n\nThe counter-majoritarian difficulty (sometimes counter-majoritarian dilemma) is a perceived problem with judicial review of legislative (or popularly created) laws. As the term suggests, some oppose or see a problem with the judicial branch's ability to invalidate, overrule or countermand laws that reflect the will of the majority.\n\nThe counter-majoritarian difficulty is often raised in discussions of United States constitutional law; particularly in discussing the powers of the three branches of the Federal government of the United States.\n\nAlexander Bickel, a law professor at Yale Law School, coined the term \"counter-majoritarian difficulty\" in his 1962 book, \"The Least Dangerous Branch\". He used the term to describe the argument that judicial review is illegitimate because it allows unelected judges to overrule the lawmaking of elected representatives, thus undermining the will of the majority. The problem stems from the understanding that a democracy's legitimacy arises from the fact that it implements the will of the majority (majoritarianism).\n\nMajoritarianism is based on the view that a democracy can be defined by only its procedural aspects. However, the definition of democracy is contentious. The argument is often made that substantive rights must be protected in a democracy to truly have a democracy, even when those undermine the majoritarian nature of the democracy. Under this view, when judges enforce such substantive rights, such as those agreed upon in a constitution, the judges are actually engaged in furthering democracy. \n\nPolitical theorists have also argued that in some cases, elected representatives pass laws that do not reflect the will of the people, and in those cases, judicial review is a valid means by which to correct the democratic process.\n\nOn the other hand, in 2008, Judge John E. Jones III, a Republican serving on the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, stated that Article Three of the United States Constitution \"is counter-majoritarian,\" adding: \"The judicial branch protects against the tyranny of the majority. We are a bulwark against public opinion. And that was very much done with a purpose, and I think that it really has withstood the test of time. The judiciary is a check against the unconstitutional abuse and extension of power by the other branches of government.\" Judge Jones is the author of the landmark decision Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District, which found intelligent design to be a form of creationism that may not be taught in public school science classes under the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment and separation of church and state established by the Founding Fathers of the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38828399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38828399", "title": "Cure or quit", "text": "Cure or quit\n\nIn landlord–tenant law, a notice to cure or quit is issued by a landlord when a tenant performs actions in violation of a lease. The notice gives a tenant the option of either fixing the offending problem or vacating the rental property. If the tenant continues performing the action(s) and does not move out, they can be evicted.\n\nThe term is sometimes also used in the debt-collection business to indicate to an account in arrears that action may be taken against the account holder if the debt is not rectified. The account holder may be sent a \"Notice to cure or quit\" to let them know the status of the account.\n\nDepending on the jurisdiction, such a notice may be legally required before further action may take place, such as (in the case of landlord vs. tenant) being able to file an eviction suit.\n"}
{"id": "38051973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38051973", "title": "Death in office", "text": "Death in office\n\nA death in office is the death of a person who was incumbent of an office-position until the time of death. Such deaths have been usually due to natural causes, but they are also caused by accidents and murders.\n\nThe death of most monarchs and popes have been deaths in office, since they have usually held their papacy/reign for the rest of their lives. Otherwise as most office positions require that the person is constantly competent in performing the associated duties, deaths in office are usually premature deaths.\n\nSystems differ in how they deal with the death of an office holder. In some death results in a casual vacancy, whereby the office is unfilled for a time. The office may subsequently be filled by a by-election or by appointment. A person may temporarily take the powers and responsibilities of the deceased in an \"acting\" capacity before a permanent replacement is made. In other systems there may be a legally defined order of succession. For example, in hereditary monarchies reigns are typically expected to end with death and the transition of power to an heir. Many presidential systems have offices of vice president, whose principle responsibility is to immediately assume the presidency if the president dies or otherwise leaves the office.\n\n\nSir John Maybin colonial governors of Northern Rhodesia (now Zambia) (1941)\n"}
{"id": "10734661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10734661", "title": "Deficiency judgment", "text": "Deficiency judgment\n\nA deficiency judgment is an unsecured money judgment against a borrower whose mortgage foreclosure sale did not produce sufficient funds to pay the underlying promissory note, or loan, in full. The availability of a deficiency judgment depends on whether the lender has a recourse or nonrecourse loan, which is largely a matter of state law. In some jurisdictions, the original loan(s) obtained to purchase property is/are non-recourse, but subsequent refinancing of a first mortgage and/or acquisition of a 2nd (3rd, etc.) are recourse loans.\n\nIn short, many jurisdictions hold that the loans obtained at the acquisition of a property (\"purchase-money\") are non-recourse, and most, if not all, subsequent loans are recourse.\n\nStates that follow the title (trust-deed) theory of mortgages typically allow non-judicial foreclosure procedures, which are fast, but do not allow deficiency judgments. States that follow the lien theory of mortgages require judiciary foreclosure procedures, but allow deficiency judgments against the debtor, although some states have narrowed the time periods to seek a deficiency judgment. \n\nIt is important to note that there is a difference between a deficiency and a deficiency judgment. A \"deficiency\" is the difference between the amount owed on a loan and the total amount received/collected at the closing of a loan. A deficiency judgment is a court judgment that is a public record of the amount owed and by whom. In many states, items included in calculating the amount of a deficiency judgment include: the loan principal, accrued interest and attorney fees, less the amount the lender bid at the foreclosure sale. \n\nIn 2014 Geoff Walsh, a staff attorney with the U.S. National Consumer Law Center, said on NPR that the United States is \"seeing an uptick\" in the pursuit of deficiency claims, because technological developments have enabled large debt-buying institutions and mortgage insurers to more easily pursue former borrowers, who often don't know their legal rights.\n"}
{"id": "234393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234393", "title": "Dignity", "text": "Dignity\n\nDignity is the right of a person to be valued and respected for their own sake, and to be treated ethically. It is of significance in morality, ethics, law and politics as an extension of the Enlightenment-era concepts of inherent, inalienable rights. The term may also be used to describe personal conduct, as in \"behaving with dignity\".\n\nThe English word \"dignity\", attested from the early 13th century, comes from Latin \"dignitas\" (worthiness)\nby way of French \"dignité\".\n\nEnglish-speakers often use the word \"dignity\" in proscriptive and cautionary ways: for example, in politics it can be used to critique the treatment of oppressed and vulnerable groups and peoples, but it has also been applied to cultures and sub-cultures, to religious beliefs and ideals, and even to animals used for food or research.\n\n\"Dignity\" also has descriptive meanings pertaining to the \"worth\" of human beings. In general, the term has various functions and meanings depending on how the term is used and on the context.\n\nIn ordinary modern usage, the word denotes \"respect\" and \"status\", and it is often used to suggest that someone is not receiving a proper degree of respect, or even that they are failing to treat themselves with proper self-respect. There is also a long history of special philosophical use of this term. However, it is rarely defined outright in political, legal, and scientific discussions. International proclamations have thus far left dignity undefined,\nand scientific commentators, such as those arguing against genetic research and algeny, cite dignity as a reason but are ambiguous about its application.\n\nHuman dignity can be violated in multiple ways. The main categories of violations are:\nViolations of human dignity in terms of humiliation refer to acts that humiliate or diminish the self-worth of a person or a group. Acts of humiliation are context dependent but we normally have an intuitive understanding where such a violation occurs. As Schachter noted, “it has been generally assumed that a violation of human dignity can be recognized even if the abstract term cannot be defined. ‘I know it when I see it even if I cannot tell you what it is’”. More generally, etymology of the word “humiliation” has a universal characteristic in the sense that in all languages the word involves “downward spatial orientation” in which “something or someone is pushed down and forcefully held there”. This approach is common in judicial decisions where judges refer to violations of human dignity as injuries to people's self-worth or their self-esteem.\nThis aspect refers to treating a person as an instrument or as means to achieve some other goal. This approach builds on Immanuel Kant's moral imperative stipulating that we should treat people as ends or goals in themselves, namely as having ultimate moral worth which should not be instrumentalized. \nViolations of human dignity as degradation refer to acts that degrade the value of human beings. These are acts that, even if done by consent, convey a message that diminishes the importance or value of all human beings. They consist of practices that human beings should not be subjected to, regardless of whether subjective humiliation is involved, such as selling oneself to slavery, or when a state authority deliberately puts prisoners in inhuman living conditions. \nThese are acts that strip a person or a group of their human characteristics. It may involve describing or treating them as animals or as a lower type of human beings. This has occurred in genocides such as the Holocaust and in Rwanda where the minority were compared to insects.\n\nSome of the practices that violate human dignity include torture, rape, social exclusion, labor exploitation, bonded labor, and slavery. \n\nBoth absolute and relative poverty are violations of human dignity, although they also have other significant dimensions, such as social injustice. Absolute poverty is associated with overt exploitation and connected to humiliation (for example, being forced to eat food from other people's garbage), but being dependent upon others to stay alive is a violation of dignity even in the absence of more direct violations. Relative poverty, on the other hand, is a violation because the cumulative experience of not being able to afford the same clothes, entertainment, social events, education, or other features of typical life in that society results in subtle humiliation; social rejection; marginalization; and consequently, a diminished self-respect.\n\nAnother example of violation of human dignity, especially for women in developing countries, is lack of sanitation. Having no access to toilets leaves currently about 1 billion people of the world with no choice other than to defecation in the open, which has been declared by the Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations as an affront to personal dignity. Human dignity is also violated by the practice of employing people in India for \"manual scavenging\" of human excreta from unsanitary toiletsusually by people of a lower caste, and more often by women than men.\n\nA further example of violation of human dignity, affecting women mainly in developing countries, is female genital mutilation (FGM).\n\nThe movie \"The Magic Christian\" depicts a wealthy man (Peter Sellers) and his son (Ringo Starr) who test the limits of dignity by forcing people to perform self-degrading acts for money. The \"Simpsons\" episode \"Homer vs. Dignity\" has a similar plot.\n\nA philosopher of the Renaissance, Pico della Mirandola, granted dignity to ideas and to beings. In his \"Oration on the Dignity of Man\", he told hostile clerics about the dignity of the liberal arts and about the dignity and the glory of angels. His comments implied the dignity of philosophers. This oration is commonly seen as one of the central texts of the Renaissance, intimately tied with the growth of humanist philosophies.\n\nA philosopher of the Age of Enlightenment (18th century), Immanuel Kant held that there were things that should not be discussed in terms of value, and that these things could be said to have dignity. 'Value' is necessarily relative, because the value of something depends on a particular observer's judgment of that thing. Things that are \"not\" relativethat are \"ends in themselves\", in Kant's terminologyare by extension beyond all value, and a thing is an \"end in itself\" only if it has a moral dimension; if it represents a choice between right and wrong. In Kant's words: \"Morality, and humanity as capable of it, is that which alone has dignity.\" Specifically with respect to human dignity, which his writings brought from relative obscurity in Western philosophy into a focal point for philosophers, Kant held that \"free will\" is essential; human dignity is related to human agency, the ability of humans to choose their own actions.\n\nPhilosophers of the late 20th century who have written significant works on the subject of dignity include Mortimer Adler and Alan Gewirth. Gewirth's views on human dignity are typically compared and contrasted with Kant's, for like Kant he theorizes that human dignity arises from agency. But while sharing Kant's view that rights arise from dignity, Gewirth focused far more than Kant on the positive obligations that dignity imposed on humans, the moral requirement not only to avoid harming but to actively assist one another in achieving and maintaining a state of \"well being\".\n\nAmong other topics, including the dignity of labor, Adler extensively explored the question of human equality and equal right to dignity. According to Adler, the question of whether humans have equal right to dignity is intrinsically bound in the question of whether human beings are truly equal, which itself is bound in the question of whether human beings are a distinct class from all things, including animals, or vary from other things only by degree. Adler wrote that the only sense in which it is true that all human beings are equal is that they are equally distinct from animals. \"The dignity of man,\" he said, \"is the dignity of the human being as a person—a dignity that is not possessed by things.\" To Adler, failure to recognize the distinction challenged the right of humans to equal dignity and equal treatment.\n\nDan Egonsson, followed by Roger Wertheimer, argued that while it is conventional for people to equate dignity with 'being human' (Egonsson's 'Standard Attitude', Wertheimer's 'Standard Belief'), people generally also import something other than mere humanness to their idea of dignity. Egonsson suggested that an entity must be both human and \"alive\" to merit an ascription of dignity, while Wertheimer states \"it is not a definitional truth that human beings have human status.\"\n\nAccording to Arthur Schopenhauer, dignity is opinion of others about our worth and subjective definition of dignity is our fear from this opinion of others.\n\nMore recently, Philippe-André Rodriguez has argued that human dignity is best understood as an essentially contested concept. As he argues, \"it seems that it is this very nature of the concept that has allowed, on the one hand, human rights to receive such international acceptance as a theoretical enterprise and, on the other hand, has led the concept to be constantly challenged by different cultures worldwide.\"\n\nHuman dignity is a central consideration of Christian philosophy The Catechism of the Catholic Church insists the \"dignity of the human person is rooted in his or her creation in the image and likeness of God.\" \"All human beings,\" says the Church, \"in as much as they are created in the image of God, have the dignity of a person.\" The catechism says, \"The right to the exercise of freedom belongs to everyone because it is inseparable from his or her dignity as a human person.\" The Catholic Church's view of human dignity is like Kant's insofar as it springs from human agency and free will, with the further understanding that free will in turn springs from human creation in the image of God.\n\nHuman dignity, or \"kevod ha-beriyot\", is also a central consideration of Judaism. \"Talmud\" cautions against giving charity publicly rather than in private to avoid offending the dignity of the recipient. Medieval Jewish philosopher Maimonides in his codification of \"Halakha\" cautioned judges to preserve the self-respect of people who came before them: \"Let not human dignity be light in his eyes; for the respect due to man supersedes a negative rabbinical command\".\n\nAn Islamic view of dignity is crystallized in the Quran through the selected biographies of Noah, Abraham, Joseph, David, Moses, Mary, Jesus and others (differing from the narratives in the Bible, which the Quran claims were corrupted). Individuals such as these are presented as role-models of dignity because they did not abandon their self-respect by bowing to social pressures. When faced with the fear of disapproval, poverty, hunger, death etc. these individuals held firm in their sense of right and wrong, which was in-line with Divine ordinances. \"The right course is that on which one keeps his attitudes, ambitions and requirements subjected to the Divine Laws; and in this way leads a balanced and graceful life. Such a person has grasped the most trustworthy support which will never fail him\" (Quran 31:22) Such individuals are given the title of Muhsineen, who faced immense pressures but held firm in their positive actions. God awarded these individuals with authority and status in the land, and this reward is open to anyone who proves themselves worthy: \"We bestow such honour and position on all those who lead their lives according to Our Laws.\" (Quran 37:80) Those who fall into this category are also afforded Divine protection from their mistakes: \"Therefore We have saved you and your son from this. We have done so because We keep those who lead their lives according to Divine guidance safe from such mishaps.\" (37:104-105) The Quranic State that Muhammad began in Medinah sought to protect human dignity, since in a Quranic Welfare State individuals are free to work and live without the pressures faced by the threat of poverty, and thus can obey God's Laws as free individuals, contributing as part of a unified brotherhood working towards achieving humanity's full potential. Elaborations on dignity have been made by many scholars of Islam, such as Mohammad-Ali Taskhiri, head of the Islamic Culture and Communications Organization in Iran, in 1994. According to Taskhiri, dignity is a state to which all humans have equal \"potential\", but which can only be actualized by living a life pleasing to the eyes of God. This is in keeping with the 1990 Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam, which states that \"True faith is the guarantee for enhancing such [basic human] dignity along the path to human perfection\".\n\nHuman dignity is considered as Buddhahood in Mahayana Buddhism in which it is rooted in the idea that we are able to choose the path of self-perfection as a human being.\n\nIn the 20th century, dignity became an issue for physicians and medical researchers. It has been invoked in questions of the bioethics of human genetic engineering, human cloning, and end-of-life care (particularly in such situations as the Terri Schiavo case, a controversial situation in which life support was withdrawn from a woman diagnosed in a persistent vegetative state).\n\nIn June 1964, the World Medical Association issued the \"Declaration of Helsinki\". The Declaration says at article 11, \"It is the duty of physicians who participate in medical research to protect the life, health, dignity, integrity, right to self-determination, privacy, and confidentiality of personal information of research subjects.\"\n\nThe Council of Europe invoked dignity in its effort to govern the progress of biology and medicine. On 4 April 1997, the Council, at Oviedo, approved the \"Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of the Human Being with regard to the Application of Biology and Medicine\". The convention's preamble contains these statements, among others:\n\nThe Convention states, \"Parties to this Convention shall protect the dignity and identity of all human beings and guarantee everyone, without discrimination, respect for their integrity and other rights and fundamental freedoms with regard to the application of biology and medicine.\"\n\nIn 1998, the United Nations mentioned dignity in the \"UNESCO Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights\". At Article 2, the declaration states, \"Everyone has a right to respect for their dignity.\" At Article 24, the declaration warns that treating a person to remove a genetic defect \"could be contrary to human dignity.\" The \"Commentary\" that accompanies the declaration says that, as a consequence of the possibility of germ-line treatment, \"it is the very dignity of the human race which is at stake.\"\n\nIn 1996, the Government of Canada issued a report entitled \"New Reproductive and Genetic Technologies\". The report used \"the principles of respect for human life and dignity\" as its reason for recommending that various activities associated with genetic research and human reproduction be prohibited. The report said the prohibited activities were \"contrary to Canadian values of equality and respect for human life and dignity.\"\n\nThe Ministry of Health enacted the \"Danish Council Act 1988\", which established the Danish Council of Ethics. The Council advises the Ministry on matters of medicine and genetic research on humans. In 2001, the Council condemned \"reproductive cloning because it would violate human dignity, because it could have adverse consequences for the cloned person and because permitting research on reproductive cloning would reflect a disregard for the respect due to the moral status of embryos.\"\n\nIn 1984, France set up the National Consultative Committee for Ethics in the Life and Health Sciences (CCNE) to advise the government about the regulation of medical practices and research. In 1986, the CCNE said, \"Respect for human dignity must guide both the development of knowledge and the limits or\nrules to be observed by research.\" The CCNE said that research on human embryos must be subject to \"the rule of reason\" and must have regard for \"undefined dignity in its practical consequences.\" The CCNE insisted that, in research on human embryos, the ethical principles that should apply are \"respecting human dignity\" and respecting \"the dignity of science.\"\n\nThe National Council of Ethics of Portugal published its \"Opinion on the Ethical Implications of Cloning\" in 1997. The opinion states, \"the cloning of human beings, because of the problems it raises concerning the dignity of the human person, the equilibrium of the human species and life in society, is ethically unacceptable and must be prohibited.\"\n\nSweden's \"The Genetic Integrity Act\" (2006:351), \"The Biobanks in Medical Care Act\" (2002:297), \"Health and Medical Services (Professional Activities) Act\" (1998:531), and \"The Health and Medical Services Act\" (1982:763) all express concern for \"the integrity of the individual\" or \"human dignity.\"\n\nIn 2008, The President's Council on Bioethics tried to arrive at a consensus about what dignity meant but failed. Edmund D. Pellegrino, M.D., the Council's Chairman, says in the Letter of Transmittal to the President of The United States, \"… there is no universal agreement on the meaning of the term, human dignity.\"\n\nMcDougal, Lasswell, and Chen studied dignity as a basis for international law. They said that using dignity as the basis for laws was a \"natural law approach.\" The natural law approach, they said, depends upon \"exercises of faith.\" McDougal, Lasswell, and Chen observed:\nIn 2004, Canada enacted the \"Assisted Human Reproduction Act\". Section 2(b) of the Act states, \"the benefits of assisted human reproductive technologies and related research for individuals, for families and for society in general can be most effectively secured by taking appropriate measures for the protection and promotion of human health, safety, dignity and rights in the use of these technologies and in related research.\" The Act prescribes a fine not exceeding $500,000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, or both, if someone undertakes a proscribed activity such as the creation of a chimera.\n\nArticle 1 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union affirms the inviolability of human dignity.\n\nIn 1997, the National Consultative Committee for Ethics in the Life and Health Sciences, as well as other observers, noted that France's dignity-based laws on bio-medical research were paradoxical. The law prohibited the willful destruction of human embryos but directed that human embryos could be destroyed if they were more than five years old. The law prohibited research on human embryos created in France but permitted research on human embryos brought to France. The law prohibited researchers from creating embryos for research but allowed researchers to experiment with embryos that were superfluous after \"in vitro\" fertilization.\n\nHuman dignity is the fundamental principle of the German constitution. Article 1, paragraph 1 reads: \"\"Human dignity is inviolable. To respect and protect it is the duty of all state authority.\" \"Human dignity is thus mentioned even before the right to life. This has a significant impact on German law-making and jurisdiction in both serious and trivial items:\n\n\nThe need to respect human dignity has been written in the Iranian constitution law. Article 2 of the Iranian Constitution Law mentions six principles and infrastructures as basic to the governing system which in Article 1 is called the Islamic Republic of Iran. The sixth principle of this Article concerns human dignity and stipulates that “the Islamic Republic of Iran is a system founded on faith in ….6) Human dignity and high value and his/her freedom as well as his responsibility before God”[3]. Besides, in the prelude to the Constitution, human dignity is referred to concerning the mass media.\n\nThe Constitution of South Africa lists \"human dignity, the achievement of equality and the advancement of human rights and freedoms\" as one of the founding values of the South African state, and the Bill of Rights is described as affirming the \"democratic values of human dignity, equality and freedom\". Section 10 of the Constitution explicitly states that \"Everyone has inherent dignity and the right to have their dignity respected and protected.\" In jurisprudence, the right to dignity is often seen as underlying more specific rights, such as equality, security of the person or privacy, but it has been directly applied in a number of cases relating to criminal punishment, the law of defamation, and the right to marriage and family life.\n\nThe Swiss Federal Constitution provides in article 7 that \"Human dignity must be respected and protected.\" It also provides, in art. 120, that the state must \"take account of the dignity of living beings as well as the safety of human beings, animals and the environment\" when legislating on the use of reproductive and genetic material; consequently the Federal Ethics Commission on Non-Human Biotechnology (ECNH) issued, in 2008, a publication entitled \"The dignity of living beings with regard to plants\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9639784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9639784", "title": "Equal justice under law", "text": "Equal justice under law\n\nEqual justice under law is a phrase engraved on the front of the United States Supreme Court building in Washington D.C. It is also a societal ideal that has influenced the American legal system.\n\nThe phrase was proposed by the building's architects, and then approved by judges of the Court in 1932. It is based upon Fourteenth Amendment jurisprudence, and has historical antecedents dating back to ancient Greece.\n\nThis phrase was suggested in 1932 by the architectural firm that designed the building. Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes and Justice Willis Van Devanter subsequently approved this inscription, as did the United States Supreme Court Building Commission which Hughes chaired (and on which Van Devanter served).\n\nThe architectural firm that proposed the phrase was headed by Cass Gilbert, though Gilbert himself was much more interested in design and arrangement, than in meaning. Thus, according to David Lynn who at that time held the position of Architect of the Capitol, the two people at Gilbert's firm who were responsible for the slogan \"equal justice under law\" were Gilbert's son (Cass Gilbert, Jr.) and Gilbert's partner, John R. Rockart.\n\nIn 1935, the journalist Herbert Bayard Swope objected to Chief Justice Hughes about this inscription, urging that the word \"equal\" be removed because such a \"qualification\" renders the phrase too narrow; the equality principle would still be implied without that word, Swope said. Hughes refused, writing that it was appropriate to \"place a strong emphasis upon impartiality\".\n\nThis legal soundbite atop the Court is perceived differently by different people, sometimes as ostentatious, often as profound, and occasionally as vacuous. According to law professor Jim Chen, it is common for people to \"suggest that disagreement with some contestable legal proposition or another would be tantamount to chiseling or sandblasting 'Equal Justice Under Law' from the Supreme Court's portico.\" The phrase may be perceived in a variety of ways, but it very distinctly does not say \"equal law under justice\", which would have meant that the judiciary can prioritize justice over law.\n\nThe words \"equal justice under law\" paraphrase an earlier expression coined in 1891 by the Supreme Court. In the case of \"Caldwell v. Texas\", Chief Justice Melville Fuller wrote on behalf of a unanimous Court as follows, regarding the Fourteenth Amendment: \"the powers of the States in dealing with crime within their borders are not limited, but no State can deprive particular persons or classes of persons of equal and impartial justice under the law.\" The last seven words are summarized by the inscription on the U.S. Supreme Court building.\n\nLater in 1891, Fuller's opinion for the Court in \"Leeper v. Texas\" again referred to \"equal...justice under...law\". Like \"Caldwell\", the \"Leeper\" opinion was unanimous, in contrast to the Fuller Court's major disagreements about equality issues in other cases such as \"Plessy v. Ferguson\". \n\nIn both \"Caldwell\" and \"Leeper\", murder indictments were challenged because they allegedly gave inadequate notice of the crimes being charged. The Court upheld the indictments because they followed the form required by Texas law. In a case nine years later (\"Maxwell v. Dow\"), the Court quoted the \"equal...justice under...law\" phrase that it had used in \"Caldwell\" and \"Leeper\", to make the point that Utah could devise its own criminal procedure, as long as defendants are \"proceeded against by the same kind of procedure and ... have the same kind of trial, and the equal protection of the laws is secured to them.\"\n\nIn the 1908 case of \"Ughbanks v. Armstrong\", the Fuller Court yet again discussed the Fourteenth Amendment in similar terms, but this time mentioning punishments: \"The last-named Amendment was not intended to, and does not, limit the powers of a State in dealing with crime committed within its own borders or with the punishment thereof, although no State can deprive particular persons or classes of persons of equal and impartial justice under the law.\" \n\n\"Ughbanks\" was a burglary case, and the opinion was written for the Court by Justice Rufus Peckham, while Justice John Marshall Harlan was the sole dissenter. The Court would later reject the idea that the Fourteenth Amendment does not limit punishments (see the 1962 case of \"Robinson v. California\"). \n\nIn the years since moving into their present building, the Supreme Court has often connected the words \"equal justice under law\" with the Fourteenth Amendment. For example, in the 1958 case of \"Cooper v. Aaron\", the Court said: \"The Constitution created a government dedicated to equal justice under law. The Fourteenth Amendment embodied and emphasized that ideal.\" \n\nThe words \"equal justice under law\" are not in the Constitution, which instead says that no state shall \"deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.\" From an architectural perspective, the main advantage of the former over the latter was brevity — the Equal Protection Clause was not short enough to fit on the pediment given the size of the letters to be used.\n\nIn the funeral oration that he delivered in 431 BC, the Athenian leader Pericles encouraged belief in what we now call equal justice under law. Thus, when Chief Justice Fuller wrote his opinion in \"Caldwell v. Texas\", he was by no means the first to discuss this concept. There are several different English translations of the relevant passage in Pericles' funeral oration. \n\nHere is Pericles discussing \"equal justice\" according to the English translation by Richard Crawley in 1874:\n\nOur constitution does not copy the laws of neighbouring states; we are rather a pattern to others than imitators ourselves. Its administration favours the many instead of the few; this is why it is called a democracy. If we look to the laws, they afford equal justice to all in their private differences; if no social standing, advancement in public life falls to reputation for capacity, class considerations not being allowed to interfere with merit; nor again does poverty bar the way, if a man is able to serve the state, he is not hindered by the obscurity of his condition.\n\nThe English translation by Benjamin Jowett in 1881 likewise had Pericles saying: \"the law secures equal justice to all alike in their private disputes\". And, the English translation by Rex Warner in 1954 had Pericles saying: \"there exists equal justice to all and alike in their private disputes\". The funeral oration by Pericles was published in Thucydides’ \"History of the Peloponnesian War\", of which there are several other English translations. \n\nAs quoted above, Pericles said that a person's wealth or prominence should not influence his eligibility for public employment or affect the justice he receives. Similarly, Chief Justice Hughes defended the inscription \"equal justice under law\" by referring to the judicial oath of office, which requires judges to \"administer justice without respect to persons, and do equal right to the poor and to the rich\". Decades later, Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall made a similar point: \"The principles which would have governed with $10,000 at stake should also govern when thousands have become billions. That is the essence of equal justice under law.\"\n\n\nStatue of Thurgood Marshall featuring \"Equal Justice Under Law\".\n"}
{"id": "35097397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35097397", "title": "Freemen on the land", "text": "Freemen on the land\n\nFreemen-on-the-land (also freemen-of-the-land, the freemen movement or simply freemen) are a loose group of individuals who believe that they are bound by statute laws only if they consent to those laws. They believe that they can therefore declare themselves independent of the government and the rule of law, holding that the only \"true\" law is their own interpretation of \"common law\". This belief has been described as a conspiracy theory. Freemen are active in English-speaking countries: the United Kingdom, Ireland, Canada, the United States, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\nIn the Canadian court case \"Meads v. Meads\", Alberta Court of Queen's Bench Associate Chief Justice John D. Rooke used the phrase \"Organised Pseudolegal Commercial Arguments\" (OPCA) to describe the techniques and arguments used by freemen in court, describing them as frivolous and vexatious. There is no recorded instance of freeman tactics being upheld in a court of law. In refuting each of the arguments used by Meads, Rooke concluded that \"a decade of reported cases, many of which he refers to in his ruling, have failed to prove a single concept advanced by OPCA litigants.\"\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in the United States classifies freemen as sovereign citizen extremists and domestic terrorists.\n\nFreemen believe that statute law is a contract, and that individuals can therefore opt out of statute law, choosing instead to live under what they call \"common\" (case) and \"natural\" laws. They believe natural laws require only that individuals do not harm others, do not damage the property of others, and do not use \"fraud or mischief\" in contracts. They say that all people have two parts to their existence: their body and their legal \"person\". The latter is represented by the individual's birth certificate; some freemen claim that it is entirely limited to the birth certificate. Under this theory, a \"strawman\" is created when a birth certificate is issued, and this \"strawman\" is the entity who is subject to statutory law. The physical self is referred to by a slightly different name, such as \"John of the family Smith\" instead of \"John Smith\".\n\nMany freemen beliefs are based on idiosyncratic interpretations of admiralty or maritime law, which the freemen claim govern the commercial world. These beliefs stem from fringe interpretations of various nautical-sounding words, such as ownership, citizenship, dock, or birth (berth) certificate. Freemen refer to the court as a \"ship\", the court's occupants as \"passengers\" and may claim that those leaving are \"men overboard\".\n\nFreemen will try to claim common law (as opposed to admiralty law) jurisdiction by asking \"Do you have a claim against me?\" This, they contend, removes their consent to be governed by admiralty law and turns the court into a common law court, so that proceedings would have to go forward according to their version of common law. This procedure has never been successfully used.\n\nFreemen will often not accept legal representation, believing that to do so would mean contracting with the state. They believe that the United Kingdom and Canada are now operating in bankruptcy and are therefore under admiralty law. They believe that since the abolition of the gold standard, UK currency is backed not by gold but by the people (or the \"legal fiction of their persons\"). They describe persons as creditors of the UK corporation. Therefore, a court is a place of business, and a summons is an invitation to discuss the matter at hand, with no powers to require attendance or compliance. They may believe that the government controls secret bank accounts in their name as part of this theory, which may be accessed to pay off debts.\n\nNone of the beliefs held by freemen have ever been supported by any judgments or verdicts in any criminal or civil court cases anywhere. An English solicitor, writing anonymously, commented:\n\nFreemen believe that since they exist in a common law jurisdiction where equality is paramount and mandatory, the people in the government and courts are not above the law, and that government and court personnel therefore must obtain the consent of the governed. Freemen believe that government employees who do not obtain consent of the governed have abandoned the rule of law. They believe this consent is routinely secured by way of people submitting applications and through acts of registration. They believe the public servants have deceived the population into abandoning their status as freemen in exchange for the status of a \"child of the province\" or \"ward of the state\", allowing those children to collect benefits such as welfare, unemployment insurance, and pension plans or old age security.\n\nFreemen believe that the government has to establish \"joinder\" to link oneself and one's legal person. If one is asked whether one is \"John Smith\" and one says that is so, one has established joinder and connected the physical and human persons. The next step is to obtain consent. Statutes are merely invitations to enter a contract, and are only legally enforceable if one enters into the contract consensually. Otherwise, statute laws are not applicable. Freemen believe that the government is constantly trying to trick people into entering into a contract with them, so they often return bills, notices, summons and so on with the message \"No contract—return to sender\".\n\nA \"notice of understanding and intent and claim of right\" is a document used by freemen to declare their sovereignty. The signed document, often notarised, is sent to the Queen and possibly other authorities such as the Prime Minister and police chiefs. It usually begins with the words \"Whereas it is my understanding\" and goes on to state their understanding of the law and their lack of consent to it.\n\nFreemen's beliefs are based on misunderstandings and wishful thinking and have not been successful in any courts anywhere.\n\n\nThe bluntly idiotic substance of Mr. Mead's argument explains the unnecessarily complicated manner in which it was presented. OPCA arguments are never sold to their customers as simple ideas, but instead are byzantine schemes which more closely resemble the plot of a dark fantasy novel than anything else. Latin maxims and powerful sounding language are often used. Documents are often ornamented with many strange markings and seals. Litigants engage in peculiar, ritual‑like in court conduct. All these features appear necessary for gurus to market OPCA schemes to their often desperate, ill‑informed, mentally disturbed, or legally abusive customers. This is crucial to understand the non-substance of any OPCA concept or strategy. The story and process of a OPCA scheme is not intended to impress or convince the Courts, \"but rather to impress the guru's customer\". \n\n\nThe whole process meant that a simple matter of driving without insurance took up hours of police time – and ultimately a stint behind bars after being convicted of contempt of court while defending himself. We hope this case acts as a warning that to obstruct the police and the courts is not a wise move.\n\n\nLawyers and notaries in British Columbia and Alberta, Canada, have been warned by their professional bodies about dealing with freemen as clients. In particular, lawyers have been advised to be careful not to stamp or notarise the pseudo-legal documents that freemen typically use, so as not to create a perception of authority for such documents.\n\nU.S. police, both speaking personally and as official guidance, have provided advice to law enforcement on dealing with the similar sovereign citizen movement. These have noted the need for caution after a case in which two policemen were murdered by a \"sovereign citizen\" during a traffic stop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2281436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2281436", "title": "Golden rule (law)", "text": "Golden rule (law)\n\nThe golden rule in English law is one of the rules of statutory construction traditionally applied by English courts. The rule can be used to avoid the consequences of a literal interpretation of the wording of a statute when such an interpretation would lead to a manifest absurdity or to a result that is obnoxious to principles of public policy. The rule can be applied in two different ways, named respectively the \"narrower approach\" and the \"wider approach\".\n\nIn \"Becke v Smith\" (1836) Justice Parke (later Lord Wensleydale) stated:\n\nIt is a very useful rule in the construction of a statute to adhere to the ordinary meaning of the words used, and to the grammatical construction, unless that is at variance with the intention of the legislature to be collected from the statute itself, or leads to any manifest absurdity or repugnance, in which case the language may be varied or modified so as to avoid such inconvenience but no further.\nTwenty years later, Lord Wensleydale restated the rule in different words in \"Grey v. Pearson\" (1857):\n[I]n construing statutes, and all written instruments, the grammatical and ordinary sense of the words is to be adhered to, unless that would lead to some absurdity or inconsistency with the rest of the instrument, in which case the grammatical and ordinary sense of the words may be modified, so as to avoid that absurdity or inconsistency, but not farther.\n\nThe rule may be applied in the narrower sense where there is some ambiguity or absurdity in the words themselves.\n\nIn the leading case of \"R v Allen \"(1872) the defendant was charged with bigamy under Section 57 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 which made it an offence to marry whilst one's spouse is still alive and not divorced. The court held that the word 'marry' could not in that context mean \n'become legally married' since that could never apply to someone who is already married to someone else. To make sense of the provision, the word should be interpreted as meaning to 'go through a second ceremony of marriage'.\n\nIn its wider sense the rule may be used to avoid a result that is obnoxious to principles of public policy, even where words may prima facie carry only one meaning. \n\nThe rule was applied in this sense in \"In re Sigsworth\" (1935) in the context of the Administration of Estates Act 1925. A man had murdered his mother and then committed suicide. Under the plain terms of section 46, as the woman had died intestate her son stood to inherit substantially her entire estate, which would then have passed to his descendants. This was challenged by other members of the woman's family. The court used the golden rule to find in favour of the family, preventing the son's descendants as a matter of public policy from profiting from his crime. The rule as applied in that particular case has subsequently been put onto a statutory footing in the Forfeiture Act 1982 and the Estates of Deceased Persons (Forfeiture Rule and Law of Succession) Act 2011.\n\nThe leading case on the wider approach is \"Adler v George\" (1964) in which the defendant was charged with obstructing a military guard in the execution of his duty. In order to succeed, the prosecution had to show that the act took place ‘in the vicinity of’ a military establishment. The defendant argued that ‘in the vicinity’ meant 'outside or in the proximity or area' of the establishment, whereas he was in fact inside. The court decided that such an interpretation would lead to an absurd result, and interpreted ‘in the vicinity of’ to cover a person already on the premises.\n\n"}
{"id": "794550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=794550", "title": "Homo sacer", "text": "Homo sacer\n\nHomo sacer (Latin for \"the sacred man\" or \"the accursed man\") is a figure of Roman law: a person who is banned and may be killed by anybody, but may not be sacrificed in a religious ritual. \n\nThe meaning of the term \"sacer\" in Ancient Roman religion is not fully congruent with the meaning it took after Christianization, and which was adopted into English as \"sacred\". In early Roman religion \"sacer\", much like the Hebrew \"qadoš\", denotes anything \"set apart\" from common society and encompasses both the sense of \"hallowed\" and that of \"cursed\". This concept of the sacred is more in line with the Islamic notion of \"haram\". The \"homo sacer\" could thus also simply mean a person expunged from society and deprived of all rights and all functions in civil religion. \"Homo sacer\" is defined in legal terms as someone who can be killed without the killer being regarded as a murderer; and a person who cannot be sacrificed. The sacred human may thus be understood as someone outside the law, or beyond it. With respect to certain monarchs, in certain western legal traditions, the concepts of the sovereign and of the Homo Sacer have been conflated.\n\nThe term \"sacred man\" could also have been used because the condemned could only rely on protection of gods.\n\nThe status of \"homo sacer\" could fall upon one as a consequence of oath-breaking. An oath in antiquity was essentially a conditional self-cursing, i.e. invoking one or several deities and asking for their punishment in the event of breaking the oath. An oathbreaker was consequently considered the property of the gods whom he had invoked and then deceived. If the oathbreaker was killed, this was understood as the revenge of the gods into whose power he had given himself. Since the oathbreaker was already the property of the oath deity, he could no longer belong to human society, or be consecrated to another deity.\n\nA direct reference to this status is found in the Twelve Tables (8.21), laws of the early Roman Republic written in the 5th century BC. The paragraph states that a patron who deceives his clients is to be regarded as \"sacer\".\n\nThe idea of the status of an outlaw, a criminal who is declared as unprotected by the law and can consequently be killed by anyone with impunity, persists throughout the Middle Ages. Medieval perception condemned the entire human intrinsic moral worth of the outlaw, dehumanizing the outlaw literally as a \"wolf\" or \"wolf's-head\" (in an era where hunting of wolves existed strongly, including a commercial element) and is first revoked only by the English \"Habeas Corpus\" act of 1679 which declares that any criminal must be judged by a tribunal before being punished.\n\nItalian philosopher Giorgio Agamben takes the concept as the starting point of his main work \"\" (1998).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27138184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27138184", "title": "International Legal English Certificate", "text": "International Legal English Certificate\n\nThe International Legal English Certificate (ILEC) was a high-level English language qualification for lawyers. The ILEC exam was discontinued in December 2016.\n"}
{"id": "47064780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47064780", "title": "Island Chain Strategy", "text": "Island Chain Strategy\n\nThe Island Chain Strategy is a strategy first mentioned by American foreign policy commentator John Foster Dulles in 1951 during the Korean War. It suggests surrounding the Soviet Union and China by sea. \nThe island chain concept did not become a major theme in American policy, however it has become a major fixation of Chinese analysts to this day. The concept heightens Chinese fears that they will be encircled by American forces, and emphasizes the geographical and strategic importance of Taiwan. It helps shape Chinese naval options and strategies, as well as playing a role in economic policy.\n\nWithin Chinese writings the Island Chain Strategy is divided into 3 parts, namely First Island Chain, the Second Island Chain and the Third Island Chain.\n\nThe First Island Chain begins at the Kuril Islands, and finishes towards Borneo and the northern portion of the Philippines. It is the first chain to block socialist countries aligned with the USSR, and after Soviet Russia is dealt with the chain would then turn its focus on China. The key part of the first chain would be Taiwan.\n\nBecause the island chain is built up of a series of landmasses, it is also called the \"unsinkable aircraft carrier\", especially in reference to Taiwan.\n\nThe Second Island Chain can refer to two different interpretations, but the version most commonly used refers to the island chain which is formed by the Ogasawara Islands and Volcano Islands of Japan, in addition to Mariana Islands which is United States territory.\n\nAs it is located within the middle portion of the Pacific Ocean, it acts as a second strategic defense line for the United States.\n\nThe Third Island Chain is the final part of the strategy. Its island chain begins at the Aleutian Islands, and finishes up in Oceania. The key part of the Third Island Chain would be the Hawaiian Islands of the United States.\n\nThe primary target of the doctrine was the USSR; however, additional targets also included the People's Republic of China and Vietnam. After the USSR collapsed in 1991, China soon became the major target of the doctrine.\n\n"}
{"id": "45327439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45327439", "title": "Jurimetrics", "text": "Jurimetrics\n\nJurimetrics is the application of quantitative methods, and often especially statistics, to law.\n\nThe subject has gained considerable currency in both the United States and Brazil. In the United States, the journal \"Jurimetrics\" is published by the American Bar Association and Arizona State University. In Brazil, the field is the focus of a dedicated scholarly organization, the Brazilian Jurimetrics Association, which describes itself as \"a nonprofit organization gathering researchers in Law and Mathematics.\"\n\nThe term was coined in 1949 by Lee Loevinger in his article \"Jurimetrics: The Next Step Forward\". Showing the influence of Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., Loevinger quoted Holmes' celebrated phrase that \"the man of the future is the man of statistics and the master of economics.\". The first work on this topic is attributed to Nicolaus I Bernoulli in his doctoral dissertation \"De Usu Artis Conjectandi in Jure\", written in 1709.\n\nThe possibilities for applying jurimetrics are diverse, from analyses of the frequency of proceedings to the development of models to support decisionmaking. Jurimetrics can be considered from different perspectives depending on one's focus.\n\nThe basic difference between jurimetrics and Law and Economics is simply the fact that jurimetrics simultaneously encompasses statistics and law, while Law and Economics deals with econometrics (economics and statistics). When statistics, law and economics all coincide, either a jurimetric or an econometric approach may be considered.\n\n"}
{"id": "11418059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11418059", "title": "Law practice management", "text": "Law practice management\n\nLaw practice management (LPM) is the management of a law practice. In the United States, law firms may be composed of a single attorney, of several attorneys, or of many attorneys, plus support staff such as paralegals/legal assistants, secretaries (including legal secretaries), and other personnel.\n\nDebate over law as a profession versus a business has occurred for over a century; a number of observers believe that it is both.\n\nLaw practice management is the study and practice of business administration in the legal context, including such topics as workload and staff management; financial management; office management; and marketing, including legal advertising.\n\nMany lawyers have commented on the difficulty of balancing the management functions of a law firm with client matters.\n\nLawyers started practicing centuries ago. Law firms as an institution date back to the 19th century, and in the United States began appearing in the period before the Civil War. predating the development of modern management theory.\n\nToday, the George Washington University College of Professional Studies (CPS) offers a Master of Professional Studies and Graduate Certificate in Law Firm Management.\n\nThe leading organization focused on law practice management is the Law Practice Division of the American Bar Association which traces its history back to the creation of the ABA Special Committee on Economics of Law Practice by the ABA Board of Governors on July 30, 1957. In August 1957, when Charles S. Rhyne became President of the ABA, he made one of his major objectives the institution of a “comprehensive program to aid members of the ABA in the field of economics of law practice”. He appointed the first Committee which consisted of five members and was increased in May of the following year to seven by action of the Board. The first Chair of the Special Committee was John C. Satterfield of Yazoo City, Mississippi.\n\nThe Committee was charged with the duty of laying the groundwork for the development of practical suggestions to lawyers, designed to improve their economic status. Combined with this, there was to be an increase in coordination of assistance to lawyers in the business phase of the practice of law, achieved by ABA through its staff, committees and sections and by the state and local bar associations.\n\nAn early publication from the Committee was \"The 1958 Lawyer and His 1938 Dollar\". Satterfield was elected President of the American Bar Association in 1961 during which \"The Lawyers Handbook\" was first published and distributed to all attorneys who joined the ABA that year.\n\nBy action of the Board of Governors at the ABA Annual Meeting in August 1961, the Special Committee was made a standing committee of the Association and Lewis F. Powell of Richmond, Virginia, was appointed as the first Chair of the ABA Standing Committee on Economics of Law Practice. Shortly after the completion of his term as Chair in 1962, he was elected President of the American Bar Association and subsequently became an Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court in 1972.\n\nThe Standing Committee on Economics of Law Practice published a bimonthly newsletter, Legal Economics News, and more than 30 books and pamphlets, three educational films, and an audio cassette program. The Committee continued to publish The Lawyer’s Handbook. The Committee’s staff answered over one hundred inquiries a month from attorneys regarding the application of sound management principles to the law office operation. In addition, a small group of attorneys led by J. Harris Morgan of Greenville, Texas, Kline Strong of Salt Lake City, Utah, Lee Turner of Great Bend, Kansas and Jimmy Brill of Houston, Texas, traveled throughout the US, presenting programs on law firm management. Their efforts created the need for the Section.\n\nCommencing in 1965 when John D. Connor served as Chair, the Committee presented the first of six National Conferences of Law Office Economics and Management in Chicago, which attracted approximately 500 lawyers throughout the country and several foreign countries.\n\nAs activities expanded and lawyer interest in law office management increased, it became apparent that the committee structure could not meet the demonstrated need of American lawyers for assistance in law practice issues and limited the participation and contribution of interested and informed lawyers in the vital economics and efficiency programs of the Association. Accordingly, two members of the Committee, Robert S. Mucklestone of Seattle, Washington, the former Chair of the Young Lawyers Section, and Richard A. Williams of Little Rock, Arkansas were joined by William J. Fuchs of Haverford, Pennsylvania; John “Buddy” Thomason of Memphis, Tennessee; and Robert P. Wilkins of Columbia, South Carolina, and commenced efforts to form a section to address the subject of law office economics and management.\n\nProponents for a new Section originally proposed that the Board of Governors recommend to the House the creation of a Section of Law Office Practice and Efficiency, but after deliberation it was determined that the new Section should be called by the Standing Committee name. At the ABA Midyear Meeting in Houston, Texas in February 1974, the House of Delegates approved establishing the Section of Economics of Law Practice. This action culminated a two-year effort to expand the Committee’s work to a much wider lawyer population.\n\nThe organizational meeting of the Section was held in April 1974 at the close of the Sixth National Conference of Law Office Economics and Management. Robert S. Mucklestone of Seattle Washington, who had served as the Chair of the ABA Committee on Economics of Law Practice was elected the new Section chair with 1074 charter members. Those chosen to serve on the initial Section Council were selected from the members of the ABA Committee on Economics of Law Practice and the Committee on Legal Assistants, other ABA contacts, speakers from the National Conferences and attorneys active at the state level.\n\nThe current chair of the American Bar Association Law Practice Division is Tom Bolt, a St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands lawyer with BoltNagi PC.\n\nThe Association of Legal Administrators (ALA) professional association, which was founded in 1971 is another organization that is concerned with law practice management.\n\nA large number of law practice consulting firms also exist. Many bar associations have a law practice section or division which they allow non-attorney members due to the technical, non-legal basis of law office management.\n\nLaw practice management includes management of people (clients, staff, vendors), workplace facilities and equipment, internal processes and policies, and financial matters such as collection, budgeting, financial controls, payroll, and client trust accounts.\n\nSoftware applications have become increasingly important in modern law practice. Picking the best software for a law office depends on many variables.\n\nPractice management software, a form of customer relationship management software, is among the most important, and features and functions of such management software often include case management (databases, conflict of interest checking, statute of limitations checking), time tracking (for billing), document assembly, contact management, and calendaring and docket. Other software used includes password security, disk encryption, mindmapping, desktop notes, word processing, and email management. Some firms use modified versions of open source software.\n\nMost law firms also subscribe to a computer-assisted legal research database for legal research. Such databases provide case law from case reporters, and often other legal resources. The two largest legal databases are Westlaw (part of West, which is owned by Thomson Reuters) and LexisNexis, but other databases also exist, such the free Google Scholar, and the newer Bloomberg Law, as well as Loislaw (operated by Wolters Kluwer) and several smaller databases.\n\nDocument automation has also become a crucial part of legal practice management, with companies like Thomson Reuters, HotDocs (acquired by AbacusNext) and HelpSelf Legal (web-based platform) providing document automation services that allow lawyers to customize their own interview workflows to merge into legal documents. These and other sites are incorporating artificial intelligence into their document automation software.. \n\nThese document automation tools allow any lawyer to create their own workflows, in the same way that companies like LegalZoom and RocketLawyer offer standardized automated document production for individuals and small businesses.. Some bar associations and lawyers' organizations have their own software; for example, the American Academy of Estate Planning Attorneys' CounselPro program is designed for estate planning lawyers and assists in producing wills, trusts, and other legal documents, as well as other documents such as thank-you letters.\n\nHuman resource management (managing personnel) is an important aspect of law practice management, and many books and other resources offer advice to firms on this topic.\n\nLaw firms often employ a number of non-legal personnel or support staff; according to one figure, the average attorney to non-attorney ratio is 1 to 1.3.\n\nMany firms and other organizations employ a professional non-attorney legal administrator, or law firm administrator, to manage non-attorney personnel and the administrative aspects of the firm. The professional association for legal administrators is the Association of Legal Administrators (ALA), founded in 1971. Over the past two decades, the role of legal administrator has changes as duties have expanded and become more complex, and as more firms hired administrators; the ALA grew from less than a thousand members in 1976 to over 8,000 in 1995. According to the ALA, in 2007 some 76 percent of legal administrators were women in their 40s and 50s. The main duties of legal administrators are the financial, operation, and human resource management of the firm.\n\nA legal administrator is similar to an office manager or executive director, but often with some expanded duties. Depending on the size, needs, and type of law firm, the firm may employ a separate database manager, network administrator, marketing director, computer systems or information technology manager, bookkeeper, accounts payable and accounts receivable clerk, and others.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54329238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54329238", "title": "Lawbot", "text": "Lawbot\n\nLawbots are a broad class of customer-facing legal AI applications that are used to automate specific legal tasks, such as document automation and legal research. Lawbots use various artificial intelligence techniques or other intelligent systems to limit humans' direct ongoing involvement in certain steps of a legal matter. The user interfaces on lawbots vary from smart searches and step-by-step forms to chatbots. Consumer and enterprise-facing lawbot solutions often do not require direct supervision from a legal professional. Depending on the task, some client-facing solutions used at law firms operate under an attorney supervision.\n\nIn the 2016 report, Deloitte estimated that more than 110,000 law jobs in just the United Kingdom alone could be gone within the next twenty years because of automation. That could result in the creation of more highly skilled jobs and reduction of paralegal and temp positions. Deloitte's report asserts that \"there is significant potential for high-skilled roles that involve repetitive processes to be automated by smart and self-learning algorithms\".\n\nIt has been widely estimated for at least the last generation that all the programs and resources devoted to ensuring access to justice address only 20% of the civil legal needs of low-income people in the United States. Drawing on this experience, in late 2011, the U.S. government-funded Legal Services Corporation decided to convene a summit of leaders to explore how best to use technology in the access-to-justice community. The group adopted a mission for The Summit on the Use of Technology to Expand Access to Justice (Summit) consistent with the magnitude of the challenge: \"to explore the potential of technology to move the United States toward providing some form of effective assistance to 100% of persons otherwise unable to afford an attorney for dealing with essential civil legal needs\".\n\nIn April 2017, joined by Microsoft and Pro Bono Net, the Legal Services Corporation (LSC) announced a pilot program to develop online, statewide legal portals to direct individuals with civil legal needs to the most appropriate forms of assistance. These portals will use cutting-edge, user-centered technology to help ensure that all people with civil legal needs can navigate their options and more easily access solutions and services available from legal aid, the courts, the private bar, and community partners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "764323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=764323", "title": "Lawmaking", "text": "Lawmaking\n\nLawmaking is the process of crafting legislation. In its purest sense, it is the basis of governance. \nThis form of law making is also applied in India. It is a process which works in India on the basis of Indian Constitution.\nLawmaking in modern democracies is the work of legislatures, which exist at the local, regional, and national levels and make such laws as are appropriate to their level, and binding over those under their jurisdictions. These bodies are influenced by lobbyists, pressure groups, sometimes partisan considerations, but ultimately by the voters who elected them and to which they are responsible, if the system is working as intended. Even the expenditure of governmental funds is an aspect of lawmaking, as in most jurisdictions the budget is a matter of law.\n\nIn dictatorships and absolute monarchies the leader can make law essentially by the stroke of a pen, one of the main objections to such an arrangement. However, a seemingly-analogous event can occur even in a democracy where the executive can make executive orders which have the force of law. In some instance, even regulations issued by executive departments can have the force of law. Libertarians, in particular, are known for denouncing such actions as being anti-democratic, but they have become such a salient feature of modern governance that it is hard to picture a system in which they no longer exist, because it is hard to picture the time involved in every regulation being debated prior to becoming law. That, say libertarians, is precisely the point: if such executive orders and regulations do not stand up to legislative scrutiny, they should never be implemented. In response to this, limits on regulatory authority have been made legislatively, and libertarians still contend for, if not the abolition of executive orders altogether, then their automatic sunset after a fixed period if not legislatively reviewed and confirmed; this policy has been adopted in some jurisdictions.\n"}
{"id": "11927826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11927826", "title": "Legal disputes over the Harry Potter series", "text": "Legal disputes over the Harry Potter series\n\nSince first coming to wide notice in the late 1990s, the \"Harry Potter\" book series by J. K. Rowling has engendered a number of legal disputes. Rowling, her various publishers and Time Warner, the owner of the rights to the \"Harry Potter\" films, have taken numerous legal actions to protect their copyrights, and also have fielded accusations of copyright theft themselves. The worldwide popularity of the \"Harry Potter\" series has led to the appearance of a number of locally produced, unauthorised sequels and other derivative works, sparking efforts to ban or contain them. While these legal proceedings have countered a number of cases of outright piracy, other attempts have targeted not-for-profit endeavours and have been criticised.\n\nAnother area of legal dispute involves a series of injunctions obtained by Rowling and her publishers to prohibit anyone from distributing or reading her books before their official release dates. The sweeping powers of these injunctions have occasionally drawn fire from civil liberties and free speech campaigners and sparked debates over the \"right to read\". One of these injunctions was used in an unrelated trespassing case as precedent supporting the issuance of an injunction against a John Doe.\n\nOutside these controversies, a number of particular incidents related to \"Harry Potter\" have also led, or almost led, to legal action. In 2005, a man was sentenced to four years in prison after firing a replica gun at a journalist during a staged deal for stolen copies of an unreleased \"Harry Potter\" novel, and attempting to blackmail the publisher with threats of releasing secrets from the book. Then in 2007 Bloomsbury Publishing contemplated legal action against the supermarket chain Asda for libel after the company accused them of overpricing the final \"Harry Potter\" novel, \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows\". A comprehensive list of intellectual property and speech lawsuits involving \"Harry Potter\", Harry Potter Lawsuits and Where to Find Them, was compiled by attorney David Kluft in 2015 for the Trademark and Copyright Law Blog.\n\nIn 1999, American author Nancy Kathleen Stouffer alleged copyright and trademark infringement by Rowling of her 1984 works \"The Legend of Rah and the Muggles\" () and \"Larry Potter and His Best Friend Lilly\". The primary basis for Stouffer's case rested in her own purported invention of the word \"Muggles\", the name of a race of mutant humanoids in \"The Legend of Rah and the Muggles\", and Larry Potter, the title character of a series of activity booklets for children. Larry Potter, like Harry Potter, is a bespectacled boy with dark hair, though he is not a character in \"The Legend of Rah and the Muggles\". Stouffer also drew a number of other comparisons, such as a castle on a lake, a receiving room and wooden doors. Portions of \"Rah\" were originally published in booklet form in 1986 by Ande Publishing Company, a company founded by Stouffer together with a group of friends and family. Ande Publishing filed for bankruptcy in September 1987 without selling any of its booklets in the United States or elsewhere. Rowling has stated that she first visited the United States in 1998.\n\nRowling, along with Scholastic Press (her American publisher) and Warner Bros. (holders of the series' film rights), pre-empted Stouffer in 2002 with a suit of their own seeking a declaratory judgment that they had not infringed on any of Stouffer's works. The court found in Rowling's favour, granting summary judgment and holding that \"no reasonable juror could find a likelihood of confusion as to the source of the two parties' works\". During the course of the trial, it was held that Rowling proved \"by clear and convincing evidence, that Stouffer has perpetrated a fraud on the Court through her submission of fraudulent documents as well as through her untruthful testimony\", including changing pages years after the fact to retroactively insert the word \"muggle\". Her case was dismissed with prejudice and she was fined $50,000 for her \"pattern of intentional bad faith conduct\" in relation to her employment of fraudulent submissions, along with being ordered to pay a portion of the plaintiffs' legal fees. Stouffer appealed the decision in 2004, but in 2005 the Second Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the ruling. In 2006 she stated on her website that she was planning to republish her books and was entertaining the possibility of another lawsuit against Warner Bros., J. K. Rowling and Scholastic Press.\n\n\"The Legend of Rah and the Muggles\" is currently out of print. In early 2001, it was published by Thurman House, LLC, a Maryland publishing company. Thurman House, formed by Ottenheimer Publishers to republish the works of Nancy Stouffer, was closed when Ottenheimer ceased operations in 2002 after filing for bankruptcy. Stouffer later asserted that any copies of the book published by Thurman House are unauthorized because the publisher failed to honour its contractual obligations to her.\n\nIn 2005, Warner Bros. offered CAD$5,000 (later CAD$50,000) to the Canadian folk band the Wyrd Sisters for the rights to use their name in the film version of \"Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire\". Rowling had written a scene in the novel in which a band called the Weird Sisters appeared at a school dance, and the group owned the rights to the name in Canada. However, the offer was declined, and instead the band undertook a legal action against Warner Bros., as well as Jarvis Cocker of Pulp and Jonny Greenwood and Phil Selway of Radiohead, who were to play the band in the film. All plans to use the name in the movie were later abandoned. Despite that decision, the Canadian band filed a CAD$40-million ($39 million) lawsuit against Warner in Ontario court. In connection with the lawsuit, the band brought an interlocutory injunction hoping to prevent the release of the film. The injunction application was dismissed. The entire suit was dismissed in November 2005. In June 2006, an Ontario judge decreed that the band pay Warner Bros. CAD$140,000 in legal costs, describing their lawsuit as \"highly intrusive\". The group claimed they planned to appeal the decision. Jarvis Cocker initially wished to release an album of \"Weird Sisters\"-themed music with collaborators including Franz Ferdinand, Jack White and Iggy Pop, but the project was dropped as a result of the lawsuit. The Wyrd Sisters reported death threats from irate \"Harry Potter\" fans. As of March 2010, the lawsuit has been settled out of court, the details sealed.\n\nIn June 2009, the estate of Adrian Jacobs, a children's author who died in 1997, sued Rowling's publishers, Bloomsbury, for £500 million, accusing her of having plagiarised \"substantial parts\" of his work in writing the novel \"Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire\". In a statement, Jacobs's family claimed that a scene in \"Goblet of Fire\" was substantially similar to Jacobs's book \"The Adventures of Willy the Wizard: Livid Land:\" \"'Both Willy and Harry are required to work out the exact nature of the main task of the contest which they both achieve in a bathroom assisted by clues from helpers, in order to discover how to rescue human hostages imprisoned by a community of half-human, half-animal fantasy creatures.\" They also launched a joint suit against Rowling and her publishers. Bloomsbury countered with a statement of its own, saying that \"This claim is without merit and will be defended vigorously,\" and that Rowling \"had never heard of Adrian Jacobs nor seen, read or heard of his book \"Willy the Wizard\" until this claim was first made in 2004, almost seven years after the publication of the first \"Harry Potter\" book.\" The Jacobs estate, driven by his son and grandson, have published a website with details and excerpts from the book, according to the \"Toronto Star\". In July 2010, the estate filed suit against Rowling's American publisher, Scholastic, demanding that the company burn all copies of \"Goblet of Fire\".\n\nOn 6 January 2011, the US lawsuit against Scholastic was dismissed. The judge in the case stated that there was not enough similarity between the two books to make a case for plagiarism. In the UK courts, on 21 March 2011, Paul Allen, a trustee of the Jacobs estate, was ordered to pay as security to the court 65% of the costs faced by Bloomsbury and Rowling, amounting to over £1.5million, to avoid the claim being struck out. It was reported in \"The Bookseller\" that Paul Allen has appealed against paying this sum. As a condition of the appeal, he paid £50,000 to the court in May 2011. The claim was formally struck out in July 2011 after the deadline for Allen's initial payment was missed.\n\nIn 2002, an unauthorised Chinese-language sequel titled \"Harry Potter and Bao Zoulong\" (Chinese: Simplified: 哈利波特与豹走龙, Traditional: 哈利波特與豹走龍, Hanyu Pinyin: \"Hālì Bōtè yǔ Bào Zǒulóng\") appeared for sale in the People's Republic of China. (In English-language media this was mistranslated as \"Harry Potter and Leopard-Walk-Up-to-Dragon\".)\nAccording to translated excerpts, the book principally consists of the text of J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Hobbit\", but with most names changed to those of \"Harry Potter\" characters. The book was quickly recognised by media outlets as a fake. Rowling and Warner Bros. took steps to stop its distribution. Copies were briefly distributed around the world, including e-book copies traded on the Internet. In November 2002, the Bashu Publishing House, in the southwestern city of Chengdu, agreed to pay a £1,600 (US$3,400) fine and publish an apology in China's \"Legal Times\" for printing and distributing the novel. As of 2007, the identity of the anonymous \"author\" has not been discovered. The opening of \"Harry Potter and Bao Zoulong\", translated into English, was included in several news articles. As of 2007, it is estimated that there are fifteen million copies of fraudulent \"Harry Potter\" novels circulating in China. In 2007, Rowling's agents, the Christopher Little Literary Agency, began to discuss the possibility of legal proceedings concerning a fake version of \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows\" that appeared in China ten days before the actual book's publication.\n\nIn 2003, legal pressure from \"Harry Potter\"'s publishers led an Indian publisher to stop publication of \"Harry Potter in Calcutta\" by Uttam Ghosh; a work in which Harry meets figures from Bengali literature. The case was settled out of court.\n\nAlso in 2003, courts in the Netherlands prevented the distribution of a Dutch translation of \"Tanya Grotter and the Magical Double Bass\", the first of Dmitri Yemets' popular Russian series about a female apprentice wizard. Rowling and her publishers sued, arguing that the Grotter books violate copyright law. Yemets and his original Moscow-based publishers, Eksmo, argued that the books constitute a parody, permitted under copyright. The Dutch courts ruled that the books did not constitute parody and thus were not allowed to be sold in the Netherlands. Later that year, as the Dutch translation \"Tanja Grotter en de magische contrabas\" was still legal in Belgium, the Flemish publishers Roularta Books decided to print 1,000 copies (and no more) in order to let people decide whether it was plagiarism, hoping that under those circumstances Rowling and her publishers would not sue. Rowling did not sue, but as there was a lot of interest in the book (Dutch people could buy the book by postal order from another Flemish publisher, Boekhandel VanIn) it was soon sold out. The books continue to be published in Russia and have spawned several sequels.\n\nIn August 2008, Warner Bros. filed a lawsuit against production company Mirchi Movies due to the similarity of the title of their Bollywood film \"\" to the \"Harry Potter\" film series. Mirchi Movies CEO Munish Purii claimed there is very little similarity between Hari Puttar and any elements in the \"Harry Potter\" franchise, and explained that Hari is a popular Indian name, while \"puttar\" means \"son\" in Punjabi, although Indian versions of \"Harry Potter\" also translate Harry's name to Hari Puttar. The film was delayed until late September. Warner Bros. claimed that the title was confusing, but Mirchi Movies claimed they registered the name in 2005. On 24 September 2008, the court in Delhi rejected Warner Bros.' claim, saying that \"Harry Potter\" readers were sufficiently able to distinguish between the two works. They also accused Warner Bros. of delaying the action, since they were aware of the film as far back as 2005.\n\nIn 2000, in the lead-up to the release of the first \"Harry Potter\" film, \"Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone\"; Warner Bros., the film's distributor, sent a series of letters to owners of \"Harry Potter\" fansites, demanding that, to protect their copyright, they hand over their domain names. The action resulted in negative publicity for the company when Claire Field, the then 15-year-old webmaster of the British fansite harrypotterguide.co.uk, was reduced to tears by what were described by her father as unnecessary bully tactics. Eventually the corporation backed down in the face of media opposition and declared that, as the site was non-commercial, it did not violate the trademark.\n\nIn their May 2004 issue, the US Army publication \"The Preventive Maintenance Monthly\", which instructs soldiers on how to maintain their equipment, featured a spoof comic based on \"Harry Potter\", featuring a character named Topper who resided at Mogmarts School under Professor Rumbledore. The publication received notice from Rowling's lawyers that the comics breached copyright, though the magazine's editor, Ken Crunk, claimed that no violation had taken place, as \"[t]he drawings do not look like any of the characters from \"Harry Potter\"\". After a discussion with Rowling's representatives, the magazine agreed not to use the characters again.\n\nIn 2004, Rowling and Time Warner launched legal actions against bazee.com, now the Indian branch of the online auction site eBay. The site had hosted illegally created e-books of \"Harry Potter\", which Rowling had never agreed to be published. In 2005, Rowling warned her fans on her website that various \"signed\" \"Harry Potter\" memorabilia appearing for sale on eBay did not in fact use her signature. She urged her fans to protest eBay to prevent other children from being swindled. In 2007, Rowling launched lawsuits against a number of users of the site, obtaining a series of stay orders preventing them from selling her work. However eBay claimed that in her dealings with the media, Rowling had falsely claimed that her injunctions had been against eBay itself. In June 2007, eBay filed papers with the Delhi High Court, alleging that Rowling had caused them \"immense humiliation and harassment\". The High Court circumvented the application, claiming that it could not make such a judgment until the case went to trial.\n\nIn October 2007, Warner Bros. sued a group constructing a façade during a Hindu religious festival in the Indian city of Kolkata for , claiming that they had erected a giant replica of Harry Potter's school, Hogwarts, without their permission. Initial reports stated that, as the effort was not for profit, it did not violate Rowling's copyright. The Associated Press claimed that the High Court of Delhi, where the petition was filed, allowed the organisers to carry on with the temporary construction with an order that the structure had to be dismantled after the festival was over and that the court refused to impose any compensation on the basis that the organisers were involved in a \"non-profit making enterprise\". However, these statements were later retracted: the court had in fact ruled in favour of Warner Bros., but no fine had been ordered, and Warner Bros. claimed that they had only requested a fine because such action was necessary under Indian law. In November 2007, Rowling discussed the case on her website, listing the rumours that she had targeted a non-profit organisation as \"Toxic\" and saying, \"The defendants were not religious charities, and theirs was not a religious celebration. On the contrary, it was a large-scale, commercial, sponsored event involving corporations that included a major Indian high street bank. The event was, however, set up while a Hindu festival was going on ... The court ruled that Warner Bros. rights had indeed been infringed, and that events such as the one in question would need Warner Bros.' permission in the future. The court also restrained all the defendants from any future events infringing Warner Bros. rights.\"\n\nOn 31 October 2007, Warner Bros. and Rowling sued Michigan-based publishing firm RDR Books to block the publication of a 400-page book version of the Harry Potter Lexicon, an online reference guide to her work. Rowling, who previously had a good relationship with Lexicon owner Steve Vander Ark, reiterated on her website that she plans to write a \"Harry Potter\" encyclopedia, and that the publication of a similar book before her own would hurt the proceeds of the official encyclopedia, which she plans to give to charity. A judge later barred publication of the book in any form until the case was resolved. In their suit, Rowling's lawyers also asserted that, as the book describes itself as a print facsimile of the Harry Potter Lexicon website, it would publish excerpts from the novels and stills from the films without offering sufficient \"transformative\" material to be considered a separate work. The trial concluded on 17 April 2008. On 8 September 2008, the judge ruled in her favour, claiming that the book would violate the terms of fair use. In December, 2008, a modified (and shorter) version of Vander Ark's Lexicon was approved for publication and was released 16 January 2009 as \"The Lexicon: An Unauthorized Guide to Harry Potter Fiction\".\n\nIn November 2007, \"The Scotsman\" reported that Rowling had threatened legal action against American computer programmer G. Norman Lippert for allegedly violating her intellectual property rights by producing and publishing the online novel, \"James Potter and the Hall of Elders' Crossing\", an unofficial and unauthorised continuation of the \"Harry Potter\" series. Written as a fan fiction project for Lippert's wife and sons, the novel is set eighteen years after the end of the last official installment in the series, \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows\", and describes the adventures of Harry Potter's son, James Sirius Potter, during his first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. A specialist in intellectual property law at Strathclyde University commented that, \"If an insubstantial character from a novel is taken and built up by another author in a new story, that can be a defence against copyright infringements.\" However, after Lippert offered Rowling an advance copy of the novel, Rowling dismissed her threat and said she supported the novel and any others like it. Lippert subsequently produced a sequel, \"James Potter and the Curse of the Gatekeeper\". After the novel first appeared online in early November 2007, some \"Harry Potter\" fans on the Internet initially speculated that the site might be part of an elaborate viral marketing campaign for an official continuation or spinoff of \"Harry Potter\", one either written or at least approved by Rowling herself. On 9 November 2007, Rowling's agent Neil Blair denied that Rowling was in any way involved with the purported project, and Warner Bros., the studio which owns the rights to the \"Harry Potter\" film series, denied that the novel was in any way connected to the official \"Harry Potter\" franchise.\n\nRowling and her publishers have brought a series of legal injunctions to ensure the books' secrecy before their launch. These injunctions have drawn criticism from civil liberties campaigners over their potentially sweeping powers over individual freedoms.\n\nIn 2003, in an attempt to maintain secrecy over the impending release of the fifth \"Harry Potter\" book, \"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\", Rowling and her publishers sought and received a groundbreaking injunction against \"the person or persons who has or have physical possession of a copy of the said book or any part thereof without the consent of the Claimants\". The ruling obtained, for the first time in British law, an injunction against unnamed or unknown individuals; before then, injunctions could only be obtained against named individuals. Lawyers Winterbothams noted that, \"The new \"Harry Potter\" style injunction could be used if you expected a demonstration or trespass to take place, but which had not yet begun, so long as you could find a description for the people expected which the Court was satisfied identified 'those who are included and those who are not'\". The \"Potter injunction\" was later used against a camp of Roma travellers. In 2006, pharmaceutical company GlaxoSmithKline employed the injunction against anonymous animal rights campaigners who had sent threatening letters to their investors.\n\nThe series garnered more controversy in 2005 with the release of the sixth book, \"Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince\", when a Real Canadian Superstore grocery store accidentally sold several copies before the authorised release date. The Canadian publisher, Raincoast Books, obtained an injunction from the Supreme Court of British Columbia prohibiting the purchasers from reading the books in their possession. A comment by a media lawyer that \"there is no human right to read\" led to a debate in the public sphere about whether free access to information was a human right. Michael Geist, the Canada Research Chair of Internet and E-commerce Law at the University of Ottawa, said in response, \"The copyright law claim was particularly puzzling. While copyright law does provide copyright owners with a basket of exclusive rights, the right to prohibit reading is not among them. In fact, copyright law has very little to say about what people can do with a book once they have purchased it.\" Free-speech activist Richard Stallman posted a statement on his blog calling for a boycott until the publisher issued an apology. Solicitors Fraser Milner and Casgrain, who represented Raincoast and formulated the legal argument for the embargo, have rebutted this, saying that the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms applies only to the government, not to private litigation, and does not offer any protection of the right to read in any case, and the innocent purchasers of the \"Harry Potter\" book had no more right to read it than if they had come into possession of someone's secret diary.\n\nIn 2007, Scholastic Corporation threatened legal action against two booksellers, Levy Home Entertainment and DeepDiscount.com, for selling copies of the final novel, \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows\", before its release date of 21 July. In an official statement, Scholastic appealed \"to the \"Harry Potter\" fans who bought their books from DeepDiscount.com and may receive copies early requesting that they keep the packages hidden until midnight on 21 July.\" Customers who agreed not to read the book received a special \"Harry Potter\" t-shirt and a $50 coupon for Scholastic's online store.\n\nIn June 2005, Aaron Lambert, a security guard at a book distribution centre in Corby, Northamptonshire, England, stole a number of pages from \"Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince\" six weeks before its intended publication date. He was arrested a day later after negotiations to sell them to John Askill, a journalist from \"The Sun\", turned violent. Lambert reportedly fired a shot from his imitation Walther PPK pistol, but Askill was unharmed. At his trial the following October, Lambert pleaded guilty to threatening Askill and to attempting to blackmail \"Harry Potter\"'s publishers, Bloomsbury. In January 2006, Lambert was sentenced to four and a half years in prison. In November 2011, in her testimony before the Leveson Inquiry, Rowling said that the \"Sun\" had attempted to \"blackmail\" her into a photo-op in return for returning the stolen manuscript.\n\nIn July 2007, a dispute arose between \"Harry Potter\"'s British publisher, Bloomsbury, and Asda, a British supermarket chain owned by the US corporation Wal-Mart. On 15 July, a week before the release of the final \"Harry Potter\" novel, \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows\", Asda issued a press release accusing Bloomsbury of unfairly fixing their prices. Asda spokesman Peter Pritchard claimed that Bloomsbury was \"holding children to ransom\" and that, \"[i]t seems like Bloomsbury need to do a quid-ditch as they have sent their prices up north on the Hogwarts Express. By setting the recommended retail price at this level can only be seen as blatant profiteering on their part.\" Pritchard went on to say that Asda was acting to \"champion the right of young readers\", and that the recommended retail price was \"twice the average child's pocket money and £5 more than the average children's bestseller\". Asda had planned to sell the book as a loss leader at £8.87 ($16.30), or half Bloomsbury's recommended retail price of £17.99 ($33.00) and below the wholesale price of £9.89 ($18.00).\n\nTwo days later, Bloomsbury responded that the claims were \"potentially libellous\" and that:\n\nAsda's latest attempt to draw attention to themselves involves trying to leap on the \"Harry Potter\" bandwagon. This is just another example of their repeated efforts of appearing as Robin Hood in the face of controversy about their worldwide group, which would suggest they are perceived as more akin to the Sheriff of Nottingham. Loss leaders were invented by supermarkets and have nothing to do with Bloomsbury Publishing or \"Harry Potter\" and we deeply regret having been dragged into their price-wars.\n\nBloomsbury stated that the price hike of £1 from the previous \"Harry Potter\" novel was due to it having been printed on recycled paper. \"There is a price to be paid by the consumer for environmental best practice\", a Bloomsbury spokeswoman said.\n\nBloomsbury CEO Nigel Newton said, \"[They have] unleashed a very disingenuous, self-interested attack on us. This is complete nonsense and all they're doing is grandstanding as they've done on the price of aspirin and bread. They try to turn it into a big deal as though it's a moral crusade for them, but it's nothing of the kind.\"\n\nThat same day, Bloomsbury cancelled all Asda's orders of \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows\", or roughly 500,000 copies, citing unpaid bills from the company totalling £38,000 ($70,000) for unauthorised returns of the sixth \"Harry Potter\" book. \"The two matters are completely unrelated\", said a Bloomsbury spokeswoman, \"We decided today that we couldn't risk having arrears with anybody.\" The dispute had been \"going on a while – going on for weeks actually.\" Asda responded that Bloomsbury owed them £122,000 ($224,000) (\"for pulping and for other book trade issues and work we have done for them\") and that, as one company spokesman claimed, \"It just seems funny that after we expose the potty Potter price hike, Bloomsbury are trying everything they can to stop kids getting hold of \"Harry Potter\" at a price they can afford.\"\n\nAsda paid the bill within hours, and claimed that Bloomsbury would be in breach of contract if it did not allow the store to sell its books. However, Bloomsbury claimed that the block on Asda's orders was still in place as, \"Unfortunately, we've now had to initiate a significant libel claim against them. That matter will have to be dealt with. If they want their 500,000 books, they'll have to come and make peace with us ... It could be good news for all their disappointed customers, because they don't have to go to a soulless Asda shed to buy their book and they can share the magic of \"Harry Potter\" at an independent or specialist bookstore instead.\"\n\nUpon receipt of Bloomsbury's legal letter, Asda responded that, \"There is nothing defamatory in our press release. Everything there is factual. It is a commentary on how we see things.\" Said another Asda spokesperson, \"If they don't supply us with the books, it will have a massive implication and [be] a breach of contract – but I don't think they will do that.\"\n\nLater that day, however, Asda released a statement retracting its original comment: \"We apologise unreservedly to Bloomsbury for [our] press release dated 15 July and withdraw our statement. We look forward to a good relationship with Bloomsbury going forward, including selling the latest \"Harry Potter\" book from 00:01 am BST on Saturday 21 July and many other Bloomsbury books in the future\". In response, Bloomsbury lifted the block and Asda was allowed to sell its books. The original press release was then expunged.\n\nThe rationale behind Asda's initial press release remains uncertain. Neill Denny, commentator for thebookseller.com, opined that \"the whole episode has the whiff of a badly-conceived PR stunt by ill-briefed senior executives at Asda out of touch with the subtleties of the book world.\" Ralph Baxter of Publishing News concurred: \"For Asda ... it may be seen as mission accomplished, a high-risk strategy to maximise publicity for its \"Harry Potter\" offer rewarded with television, radio, Internet and newspaper coverage. And the association of Asda with low prices has no doubt been entrenched in a few more minds.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18997996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18997996", "title": "Legal transplant", "text": "Legal transplant\n\nThe term legal transplant was coined in the 1970s by the Scottish-American legal scholar W.A.J. 'Alan' Watson to indicate the moving of a rule or a system of law from one country to another (A. Watson, \"Legal Transplants: An Approach to Comparative Law\", Edinburgh, 1974). The notion of legal transplantation is diffusionism-based and according to this concept most changes in most legal systems occur as the result of borrowing. As maintained by Watson, transplantation is the most fertile source of legal development.\n\nLaws are commonly inspired by foreign policies and experiences. Regardless of the academic discourses on whether legal transplants are sustainable as a notion in the legal theory, they are common practice. Nevertheless, the degree to which new laws are inspired by foreign examples can vary. A frequent and often justified criticism is that imported laws are not suited for a certain local context.\n\nGerman jurist Friedrich Carl von Savigny and his historical school of jurisprudence, which was inspired by the 19th-century Romanticism, have notably promoted the origins of the German people and their distinctive ethos, or Volksgeist (“the spirit of a people”). Savigny’s school of legal thought expressed the need of legal change to respect the continuity of the Volksgeist offering a pre-Darwinian concept of juristic evolution. However, this concept of juristic evolution did not leave much space for notions such as legal transplants and the diffusion of law. More recently, Pierre Legrand is one of the strongest opponents of legal transplants.\n\nToday, legal transplants are often mentioned in the broader process of diffusion of law or legal acculturation. J.W. Powell is credited with coining the word “acculturation”, first using it in an 1880 report by the US Bureau of American Ethnography. He explained that this term refers to the psychological changes induced by cross-cultural imitation. In a broader context, such notion is by many contemporary scholars applied to legal thought. The diffusion of law is a process of legal change in today’s age of globalization. Studies on diffusion of law are notably a new area of research in the 21st century.\n\n"}
{"id": "226126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226126", "title": "Legalism (theology)", "text": "Legalism (theology)\n\nLegalism (or nomism), in Christian theology, is the act of putting the Law of Moses above the gospel, which is 1 Corinthians 15:1-4, by establishing requirements for salvation beyond faith (trust) in Jesus Christ, specifically, trust in His finished work - the shedding of His blood for our sins, and reducing the broad, inclusive, and general precepts of the Bible to narrow and rigid moral codes. It is an over-emphasis of discipline of conduct, or legal ideas, usually implying an allegation of misguided rigour, pride, superficiality, the neglect of mercy, and ignorance of the grace of God or emphasizing the letter of law at the expense of the spirit. Legalism is alleged against any view that obedience to law, not faith in God's grace, is the pre-eminent principle of redemption. On the viewpoint that redemption is not earned by works, but that obedient faith is required to enter and remain in the redeemed state, see covenantal nomism.\n\nThe words 'legalism' or 'legalist' do not occur in the Old or New Testaments. Legalism's root word, \"law\" (Greek \"nomos\"), occurs frequently in the New Testament, and sometimes is interpreted as legalism. In 1921, Ernest De Witt Burton stated that in , \"\"nomou\" is here evidently used ... in its legalistic sense, denoting divine law viewed as a purely legalistic system made up of statutes, on the basis of obedience or disobedience to which individuals are approved or condemned as a matter of debt without grace. This is divine law as the legalist defined it.\" The Greek of Paul's day lacked any term corresponding to the distinct position of \"legalism\", \"legalist\", or \"legalistic\", leading C.E.B. Cranfield to commend \"the possibility that Pauline statements which at first sight seem to disparage the law, were really directed not against the law itself but against that misunderstanding and misuse of it for which we now have a convenient terminology\" (legalism). Messianic Jewish Bible translator David H. Stern cited these two scholars to support the translation framework that often \"<nowiki>'</nowiki>\"nomos\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> means 'legalism' and not God's \"Torah\"\", especially in Paul's constructs \"erga nomou\" (literally \"works of law\", rendered by Stern \"legalistic observance of \"Torah\" commands\") and \"upo nomon\" (literally \"under law\", rendered by Stern by 13 words, \"in subjection to the system which results from perverting the \"Torah\" into legalism\").\n\nOne concept of legalism, the belief that salvation can be earned by obedience to laws, is referred to in various New Testament books, including Galatians. In this case, some Jews who had become Christians believed that in order to obtain salvation, both faith in Christ (as Messiah), and obedience to the Mosiac laws were required, such as the cases of the circumcision controversy and the Incident at Antioch. Generally, however, these cases are referred to as the Judaizer controversy, rather than a legalism controversy, but the two are related.\n\nLegalism refers to any doctrine which states salvation comes strictly from adherence to the law. It can be thought of as a works-based religion. Groups in the New Testament said to be falling into this category include the Pharisees, Sadducees, Scribes, Judaizers, and Nicolaitans. They are legalists because they emphasized obeying the Law of Moses, in the case of the Pharisees and Scribes, to the letter without understanding the concept of grace. Jesus condemned their legalism in Matthew 23. The Pharisees love of the praises of men for their strict adherence is said to be a prime example of legalism.\n\nLegalism is sometimes confused with obedience. New Testament books such as Romans, speak of grace and obedience together. An example is found in Romans 1:5 (New American Standard Version) speaking of Christ 'through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith among all the Gentiles, for His name's sake...' The goal of receiving the grace was to bring about obedience of faith. Here grace, faith and obedience are tied together. Other references are in Acts 5:29, 32; Romans 16:19; 2 Corinthians 7:15; Hebrews 5:9.\n\nLegalism is also confused with discipline, which is often spoken of in a positive light. See 1 Corinthians 9:17; 1 Timothy 4:7; 2 Timothy 1:7 and Hebrews 12:5–11.\n\nA third common misunderstanding of legalism is the word law. Law in many places in the Bible refers to the Law of Moses, see also Biblical law in Christianity. In Galatians the Judaizers were trying to insist that salvation required that a person be circumcised prior to obeying the Law of Christ. Galatians 2:16 says, \"Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be justified by the faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law: for by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified\" (King James Version). The faith here is the Law of Christ and the law here is the Law of Moses. The legalism of the Judaizers was that obedience to the law of Moses was necessary to be saved.\n\nLegalism in the New Testament is believed by some as being revealed by the life of Saul prior to his conversion. Some believe that Saul sought to redeem himself by his works of persecution of the church and its ultimate destruction. Acts 26:9–11 reveals, \"I verily thought with myself, that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. Which thing I also did in Jerusalem: and many of the saints did I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priests; and when they were put to death, I gave my voice against them. And I punished them oft in every synagogue, and compelled them to blaspheme; and being exceedingly mad against them, I persecuted them even unto strange cities\" (King James Version). Galatians 1:13–14 states, \"For ye have heard of my conversation in time past in the Jews' religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the church of God, and wasted it: And profited in the Jews' religion above many my equals in mine own nation, being more exceedingly zealous of the traditions of my fathers\" (King James Version). These two texts emphasize the nature of Saul's religion, works.\n\nHowever, in this passage the obedience is not tied to the obeying of specific Old Testament laws, such as keeping Sabbath or circumcision.\n\nAt the Council of Jerusalem, c. 50, James the Just decreed the \"Apostolic Decree\":\n\nThough the \"Apostolic Decree\" is no longer observed by many Christian denominations today, it is still observed in full by the Greek Orthodox. and it was a very effective philosophy during that time.\n\nIn Roman Catholicism, good works are done in service to God and one's neighbour, by faith working through love. In contrast, a severity in the imposition of, or overly scrupulous conformity to any rule of piety, may be charged with legalism.\n\nIn an attempt to resolve the dispute over legalism, the Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification was a document issued in 1999 by Lutheran-Catholic clerical representatives, declaring a common belief in \"Sola gratia\", that grace alone can save the faithful, and that there is a \"progressive infusion\" of grace in the spirit of the believer.\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox, for another example, rejects the satisfaction theory of the atonement as \"legalistic\". The satisfaction theory states that mankind's Original Sin violated God's law, resulting in all men being born guilty: an idea prevalent in the writings of Tertullian and Augustine of Hippo of the Western Church. Anselm formally developed the theory that the legal problem of guilt before the Law, required the legal solution of retribution, in order to achieve a just salvation. The solution was for God's son Jesus to willingly die on the Cross in place of humanity, thus allowing the legal penalty to be fully carried out, satisfying the justice of God, and thus clearing the way for mercy to be shown to sinners. The Eastern Orthodox charge that this theory is too dependent upon Roman legal concepts of retribution and justice. [citation needed]\n\nIn Protestant, Evangelical, Christian theology, especially in popular versions of the same, the charge of legalism is an accusation of overzealous adherence to the word of the Bible (as law) in all things said, established or accomplished in a believer's life (cf. bibliolatry). In that context, to apply the criticism of legalism to a theological position or religious attitude implies that the accused has overturned the Gospel of salvation through faith and new life in Jesus Christ and has instead substituted some principle of personal works of strict adherence to the word, through action, thought, or speech for the unearned grace of God.\n\nThroughout the history of Christianity, certain beliefs and practices have tended to draw charges of legalism. These include:\n\n\nSeveral underlying dynamics appear in these controversies. The permitted scope of veneration of material objects versus claims that such veneration is idolatry, affects the perceived sanctity of ritual spaces and objects, and therefore of the rituals and customs themselves. Teachings about the authority of the church, the sources of legitimacy of that authority, and the role of clergy versus the priesthood of all believers, also affect these debates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50853758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50853758", "title": "Legalswipe (app)", "text": "Legalswipe (app)\n\nLegalswipe is a free app that offers general legal advice and protection to people randomly stopped and questioned by police. Christien Levien, a Canadian lawyer, conceived Legalswipe to educate civilians about their legal rights during their interaction with police. The idea of the app was born from Levien's encounter with police and his difficulty in navigating the legal system.\n\nThe free app, available for Apple and Android devices, informs its users about their rights and provides several key features through a series of simple contextual menus and cues:\n\nWhen user feedback indicated that the navigation was challenging, the app was redesigned by a group of Humber College students in 2017.\n\nLegalswipe has been favorably received and the object of a lot of attention from Canada and the United States. Legalswipe was launched in June 2015 and has been downloaded over 15,000 times in its first two months. The app has been endorsed by former Queen’s Park speaker Alvin Curling and journalist Desmond Cole.\n\n"}
{"id": "36281018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36281018", "title": "List of lower court decisions by Lord Sankey", "text": "List of lower court decisions by Lord Sankey\n\nThis is a list of the lower court decisions of Lord Sankey.\n\n"}
{"id": "154708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=154708", "title": "List of national legal systems", "text": "List of national legal systems\n\nThe contemporary legal systems of the world are generally based on one of four basic systems: civil law, common law, statutory law, religious law or combinations of these. However, the legal system of each country is shaped by its unique history and so incorporates individual variations. The science that studies Law at the level of legal systems is called Comparative Law.\n\nBoth \"civil\" (also known as \"Roman\") and \"common\" law systems can be considered the most widespread in the world: civil law because it is the most widespread by landmass, and common law because it is employed by the greatest number of people.\n\nThe central source of law that is recognized as authoritative is codifications in a constitution or statute passed by legislature, to amend a code.\nWhile the concept of codification dates back to the Code of Hammurabi in Babylon ca. 1790 BC, civil law systems derive from the Roman Empire and, more particularly, the \"Corpus Juris Civilis\" issued by the Emperor Justinian ca. AD 529. This was an extensive reform of the law in the Byzantine Empire, bringing it together into codified documents. Civil law was also partly influenced by religious laws such as Canon law and Islamic law. Civil law today, in theory, is interpreted rather than developed or made by judges. Only legislative enactments (rather than legal precedents, as in common law) are considered legally binding.\n\nScholars of comparative law and economists promoting the legal origins theory usually subdivide civil law into four distinct groups:\n\nHowever, some of these legal systems are often and more correctly said to be of hybrid nature:\nThe Italian civil code of 1942 replaced the original one of 1865, introducing germanistic elements due to the geopolitical alliances of the time. The Italian approach has been imitated by other countries including the Netherlands (1992), Argentina (2014), Brazil (2002) and Portugal (1966). Most of them have innovations introduced by the Italian legislation, including the unification of the civil and commercial codes.\n\nThe Swiss civil code is considered mainly influenced by the German civil code and partly influenced by the French civil code. The civil code of the Republic of Turkey is a slightly modified version of the Swiss code, adopted in 1926 during Mustafa Kemal Atatürk's presidency as part of the government's progressive reforms and secularization.\n\nA comprehensive list of countries that base their legal system on a codified civil law follows:\nCommon law and equity (legal concept) are systems of law whose sources are the decisions in cases by judges. In addition, every system will have a legislature that passes new laws and statutes. The relationships between statutes and judicial decisions can be complex. In some jurisdictions, such statutes may overrule judicial decisions or codify the topic covered by several contradictory or ambiguous decisions. In some jurisdictions, judicial decisions may decide whether the jurisdiction's constitution allowed a particular statute or statutory provision to be made or what meaning is contained within the statutory provisions. Statutes were allowed to be made by the government. Common law developed in England, influenced by Anglo-Saxon law and to a much lesser extent by the Norman conquest of England, which introduced legal concepts from Norman law, which, in turn, had its origins in Salic law. Common law was later inherited by the Commonwealth of Nations, and almost every former colony of the British Empire has adopted it (Malta being an exception). The doctrine of \"stare decisis\", also known as \"case law\" or \"precedent by courts\", is the major difference to codified civil law systems.\n\nCommon law is currently in practice in Ireland, most of the United Kingdom (England and Wales and Northern Ireland), Australia, New Zealand, Bangladesh, India (excluding Goa), Pakistan, South Africa, Canada (excluding Quebec), Hong Kong, the United States (on a state level excluding Louisiana), and many other places. In addition to these countries, several others have adapted the common law system into a mixed system. For example, Nigeria operates largely on a common law system, but incorporates religious law.\n\nIn the European Union, the Court of Justice takes an approach mixing civil law (based on the treaties) with an attachment to the importance of case law. One of the most fundamental documents to shape common law is the English Magna Carta, which placed limits on the power of the English Kings. It served as a kind of medieval bill of rights for the aristocracy and the judiciary who developed the law.\n\nReligious law refers to the notion of a religious system or document being used as a legal source, though the methodology used varies. For example, the use of Jewish and Halakha for public law has a static and unalterable quality, precluding amendment through legislative acts of government or development through judicial precedent; Christian Canon law is more similar to civil law in its use of codes; and Islamic Sharia law (and Fiqh jurisprudence) is based on legal precedent and reasoning by analogy (\"Qiyas\"), and is thus considered similar to common law.\n\nThe main kinds of religious law are Sharia in Islam, Halakha in Judaism, and canon law in some Christian groups. In some cases these are intended purely as individual moral guidance, whereas in other cases they are intended and may be used as the basis for a country's legal system. The latter was particularly common during the Middle Ages.\nThe Halakha is followed by orthodox and conservative Jews in both ecclesiastical and civil relations. No country is fully governed by Halakha, but two Jewish people may decide, because of personal belief, to have a dispute heard by a Jewish court, and be bound by its rulings.\n\nThe Islamic legal system of Sharia (Islamic law) and Fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence) is the most widely used religious law, and one of the three most common legal systems in the world alongside common law and civil law. It is based on both divine law, derived from the Qur'an and Sunnah, and the rulings of Ulema (jurists), who used the methods of \"Ijma\" (consensus), \"Qiyas\" (analogical deduction), \"Ijtihad\" (research) and \"Urf\" (common practice) to derive \"Fatwā\" (legal opinions). An Ulema was required to qualify for an \"Ijazah\" (legal doctorate) at a \"Madrasa\" (law school/college) before they could issue \"Fatwā\". During the Islamic Golden Age, classical Islamic law may have had an influence on the development of common law and several civil law institutions. Sharia law governs a number of Islamic countries, including Saudi Arabia and Iran, though most countries use Sharia law only as a supplement to national law. It can relate to all aspects of civil law, including property rights, contracts or public law.\n\nCanon law is not divine law, properly speaking, because it is not found in revelation. Instead, it is seen as human law inspired by the word of God and applying the demands of that revelation to the actual situation of the church. Canon law regulates the internal ordering of the Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Anglican Communion. Canon law is amended and adapted by the legislative authority of the church, such as councils of bishops, individual bishops for their respective sees, the Pope for the entire Catholic Church, and the British Parliament for the Church of England.\nDespite the usefulness of different classifications, every legal system has its own individual identity. Below are groups of legal systems, categorised by their geography. Click the \"expand\" buttons on the right for the lists of countries. Some studies show that ethnic minorities are more likely to feel that the legal system within their particular jurisdiction is unfair and unjust. People with mental health issues, particularly young ones are also likely to have a low opinion of the justice system.\n\n"}
{"id": "28695336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28695336", "title": "Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act", "text": "Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act\n\nMaharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 (MCOCA) is a law enacted by Maharashtra state in India in 1999 to combat organised crime and terrorism. The preamble to MCOCA says that \"the existing legal framework, i.e. the penal and procedural laws and the adjudicatory system, are found to be rather inadequate to curb or control the menace of organised crime. Government has, therefore, decided to enact a special law with stringent and deterrent provisions including in certain circumstances power to intercept wire, electronic or oral communication to control the menace of organised crime.\" \n\nUnlike normal law the confessions before senior police officers are admissible, not only against the accused giving the confession but also against the other accused in the same case. There is no provision for granting anticipatory bail for 6 months to the accused.\n\nIn 2002 in order to curb the increasing crimes of the organised gangs this law was extended to the National Capital Territory of Delhi by the Union Home Ministry. Ajai Raj Sharma the then Commissioner of Delhi Police told a press conference, \"Organised gangs had been trying to gain a foothold in the national capital but their designs had been foiled so far. MCOCA will help in dealing with it more effectively.”\n\n"}
{"id": "31549260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31549260", "title": "Minimum wage in China", "text": "Minimum wage in China\n\nAs different parts of China have very different standards of living, China does not set one minimum wage for the entire nation. Instead, the task of setting minimum wages is delegated to the local governments. Each province, municipality, or region sets its own minimum wage in accordance with its own local conditions. According to the country's Employment Promotion Plan, minimum wages are supposed to increase in accordance with local living standards by at least 13 percent through 2015 and be no less than 40 percent of the average local wages. Minimum wages under such policies increased by an average 12.6 percent rate between 2008-2012. However, the growth rate of minimum wage levels decreased in 2016, reflecting the Chinese government’s effort to reduce pressure on enterprises resulting from the uneven growth between labor costs and production rates.\n\nThe overall trends for the change of minimum wage levels diverge across provinces, with much smaller increases in developed regions and more rapid growth in less developed regions. From June 2015 and June 2016, 22 regions made changes to their minimum wage levels. In 2016, the average growth rate dropped to 14.5 percent from 17 percent in 2015. It is noteworthy that the Guangdong provincial government announced that it would maintain 2015 minimum wage levels in 2016 and 2017, and the minimum wage growth rate in Shanghai has decreased from 12.3 in 2015 to 8.4 percent in 2016. Guizhou province stands out as the region carrying the most significant hike of minimum wage levels in 2016, 55 percent.\n\nThe table below lists monthly and hourly minimum wages by province and wage districts. Provinces are divided into different wage districts: Guizhou, for instance, is divided up into Class A, B, and C, which each have their own minimum monthly and hourly wage. Note: these figures do not take into account deductions, such as pensions or social insurance.\n\n"}
{"id": "216235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216235", "title": "Natural order (philosophy)", "text": "Natural order (philosophy)\n\nIn philosophy, the natural order is the moral source from which natural law seeks to derive its authority. Natural order encompasses the natural relations of beings to one another in the absence of law, which natural law attempts to reinforce. This is related to Dharma.\n\nIn contrast, divine law seeks authority from God, and positive law seeks authority from government.\n\nThe term is used by Hans-Hermann Hoppe in his book, \"\", to defend anarcho-capitalism.\n\nThe term is used by Friedrich Hayek in his writings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1306405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1306405", "title": "Postfeminism", "text": "Postfeminism\n\nThe term postfeminism (alternatively rendered as post-feminism) is used to describe reactions against contradictions and absences in feminism, especially second-wave feminism and third-wave feminism. The term \"postfeminism\" is sometimes confused with subsequent feminisms such as 4th wave-feminism, and \"women of color feminism\" (e.g. hooks, 1996; Spivak, 1999).\n\nThe ideology of postfeminism is recognized by its contrast with prevailing or preceding feminism. Postfeminism strives towards the next stage in gender-related progress, and as such is often conceived as in favor of a society that is no longer defined by gender binary and gender roles. A postfeminist is a person who believes in, promotes, or embodies any of various ideologies springing from the feminism of the 1970s, whether supportive of or antagonistic towards classical feminism.\n\nPostfeminism can be considered a critical way of understanding the changed relations between feminism, popular culture and femininity. Postfeminism may also present a critique of second-wave feminism or third-wave feminism by questioning their binary thinking and essentialism, their vision of sexuality, and their perception of relationships between femininity and feminism. It may also complicate or even deny entirely the notion that absolute gender equality is necessary, desirable or realistically achievable.\n\nSecond-wave feminism is often critiqued for being too \"white\", too \"straight\", and too \"liberal\", thus resulting in the needs of women from marginalized groups and cultures being ignored. However, since intersectionality is a product of third-wave feminism, the references to such as postfeminist are open to challenge and may be more properly considered feminist.\n\nWhile \"postfeminism\" was first used in the 1980s to describe a backlash against second-wave feminism, it is now used as a label for a wide range of theories that take critical approaches to previous feminist discourses and includes challenges to the second wave's ideas. It may also be used to invoke the view that feminism is no longer relevant to today's society.\n\nOver the years, the meaning of postfeminism has broadened in scope, encompassing many different meanings, as is the case with feminism. Within feminist literature, definitions tend to fall into two main categories: 1) “death of feminism”, “anti-feminism”, “feminism is irrelevant now” and 2) the next stage in feminism, or feminism that intersects with other “post-” philosophies/theories, such as postmodernism, post-structuralism and postcolonialism.\n\nIn 1919, a journal was launched in which \"female literary radicals\" stated \"'we're interested in people now—not in men and women'\", that \"moral, social, economic, and political standards 'should not have anything to do with sex'\", that it would \"be 'pro-woman without being anti-man'\", and that \"their stance [is called] 'post-feminist'\".\n\nThe term was used in the 1980s to describe a backlash against second-wave feminism. Postfeminism is now a label for a wide range of theories that take critical approaches to previous feminist discourses and includes challenges to the second wave's ideas. Other postfeminists say that feminism is no longer relevant to today's society. Amelia Jones has written that the postfeminist texts which emerged in the 1980s and 1990s portrayed second-wave feminism as a monolithic entity and were overly generalizing in their criticism.\n\nThe 1990s saw the popularization of this term, in both the academic world as well as the media world. It was seen as a term of both commendation and scorn. Toril Moi, a professor at Duke University, originally coined the term in 1985 in Sexual/Textual politics to advocate a feminism that would deconstruct the binary between equality based on \"liberal\" feminism and difference-based or \"radical\" feminism. There is confusion surrounding the intended meaning of \"post\" in the context of \"postfeminism\". This confusion has plagued the very meaning of \"postfeminism\" since the 1990s. While the term has seemed on the one hand to announce the end of feminism, on the other hand it has itself become a site of feminist politics.\n\nCurrently, feminist history is characterized by the struggle to find out the present situation—often articulated as a concern about whether there is still such a thing called \"feminism\"—by writing in the past. It is here that the meaning of \"post\" as a historical break is troubling, for \"post\" offers to situate feminism in history by proclaiming the end of this history. It then confirms feminist history as a thing of the past. However, some claim that it is impossible that feminism could be aligned with \"post\" when it is unthinkable, as it would be the same as calling the current world a post racist, post-classist, and post-sexist society.\n\nThe early part of the 1980s was when the media began labeling teenage women and women in their twenties the \"postfeminist generation\". After twenty years, the term postfeminist is still used to refer to young women, \"who are thought to benefit from the women's movement through expanded access to employment and education and new family arrangements but at the same time do not push for further political change\", Pamela Aronson, Professor of Sociology, asserts. Postfeminism is a highly debated topic since it implies that feminism is \"dead\" and \"because the equality it assumes is largely a myth\".\n\nAccording to Prof. D. Diane Davis, postfeminism is just a continuation of what first- and second-wave feminisms want.\n\nResearch conducted at Kent State University narrowed postfeminism to four main claims: support for feminism declined; women began hating feminism and feminists; society had already attained social equality, thus making feminism outdated; and the label \"feminist\" was disliked due to negative stigma.\n\nIn her 1994 book \"Who Stole Feminism? How Women Have Betrayed Women\", Christina Hoff Sommers considers much of modern academic feminist theory and the feminist movement to be gynocentric. She labels this \"gender feminism\" and proposes \"equity feminism\"—an ideology that aims for full civil and legal equality. She argues that while the feminists she designates as gender feminists advocate preferential treatment and portray women as victims, equity feminism provides a viable alternative form of feminism. These descriptions and her other work have caused Hoff Sommers to be described as an antifeminist by some other feminists.\n\nSome contemporary feminists, such as Katha Pollitt or Nadine Strossen, consider feminism to hold simply that \"women are people.\" Views that separate the sexes rather than unite them are considered by these writers to be \"sexist\" rather than \"feminist\".\n\nAmelia Jones has authored post-feminist texts which emerged in the 1980s/1990s and portrayed second-wave feminism as a monolithic entity and criticized it using generalizations.\n\nOne of the earliest modern uses of the term was in Susan Bolotin's 1982 article \"Voices of the Post-Feminist Generation\", published in \"New York Times Magazine\". This article was based on a number of interviews with women who largely agreed with the goals of feminism, but did not identify as feminists.\n\nSusan Faludi, in her 1991 book \"\", argued that a backlash against second wave feminism in the 1980s had successfully re-defined feminism through its terms. She argued that it constructed the women's liberation movement as the source of many of the problems alleged to be plaguing women in the late 1980s. She also argued that many of these problems were illusory, constructed by the media without reliable evidence. According to her, this type of backlash is a historical trend, recurring when it appeared that women had made substantial gains in their efforts to obtain equal rights.\n\nAngela McRobbie argued that adding the prefix \"post-\" to \"feminism\" undermined the strides that feminism made in achieving equality for everyone, including women. In McRobbie's opinion, postfeminism gave the impression that equality has been achieved and feminists could now focus on something else entirely. McRobbie believed that postfeminism was most clearly seen on so-called feminist media products, such as \"Bridget Jones's Diary, Sex and the City\", and \"Ally McBeal\". Female characters like Bridget Jones and Carrie Bradshaw claimed to be liberated and clearly enjoy their sexuality, but what they were constantly searching for was the one man who would make everything worthwhile.\n\nRepresentations of post feminism can be found in pop culture. Postfeminism has been seen in media as a form of feminism that accepts popular culture instead of rejecting it, as was typical with second wave feminists. Many popular shows from the 90s and early 2000s are considered to be postfeminist works because they tend to focus on women who are empowered by popular cultural representations of other women. Because of this, postfeminists claimed that such media was more accessible and inclusive than past representations of women in the media; however, some feminists believe that postfeminist works focus too much on white, middle-class women. Such shows and movies include \"The Devil Wears Prada, , The Princess Diaries,\" and \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer.\" Another example is \"Sex and the City\". Carrie Bradshaw from \"Sex and the City\" is an example of a character living a post feminist life. While her character attempts to live a sexually liberated lifestyle, Bradshaw is stuck endlessly pursuing the love and validation of a man. The balance between Bradshaw's independent life as a successful columnist and desire to find a husband exemplifies the tension of post feminism. Many of these works also involve women monitoring their appearance as a form of self-management, be it in the form of dieting, exercise, or—most popularly—makeover scenes. Postfeminist literature—also known as chicklit—has been criticized by feminists for similar themes and notions. However, the genre is also praised for being confident, witty, and complicated, bringing in feminist themes, revolving around women, and reinventing standards of fiction. Examples can also be found in \"Pretty Little Liars\". The novels explore the complexity of girlhood in a society that assumes gender equality, which is in line with postfeminism. The constant surveillance and self policing of the series' protagonists depicts the performance of heterosexuality, hyperfemininity, and critical gaze forced upon girls. The materialism and performance from the girls in \"Pretty Little Liars\" critiques the notion that society has full gender equality, and thus offers a critique of postfeminism.\n\nIn an article on print jewelry advertisements in Singapore, Michelle Lazar analyses how the construction of 'postfeminist' femininity has given rise to a neo-liberal hybrid \"pronounced sense of self or 'I-dentity'\". She states that the increasing number of female wage earners has led to advertisers updating their image of women but that \"through this hybrid postfeminist I-dentity, advertisers have found a way to reinstall a new normativity that coexists with the status quo\". Postfeminist ads and fashion have been criticized for using femininity as a commodity veiled as liberation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37948962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37948962", "title": "Posthumous trial", "text": "Posthumous trial\n\nA posthumous trial or post-mortem trial is a trial held after the defendant's death. Posthumous trials can be held for a variety of reasons, including the legal declaration that the defendant was the one who committed the crime, to provide justice for society of family members of the victims, or to exonerate a wrongfully convicted person after their death. Due to the heavy cost, they are usually held only under extraordinary circumstances.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "77298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77298", "title": "Practice of law", "text": "Practice of law\n\nIn its most general sense, the practice of law involves giving legal advice to clients, drafting legal documents for clients, and representing clients in legal negotiations and court proceedings such as lawsuits, and is applied to the professional services of a lawyer or attorney at law, barrister, solicitor, or civil law notary. However, there is a substantial amount of overlap between the practice of law and various other professions where clients are represented by agents. These professions include real estate, banking, accounting, and insurance. Moreover, a growing number of legal document assistants (LDAs) are offering services which have traditionally been offered only by lawyers and their employee paralegals. Many documents may now be created by computer-assisted drafting libraries, where the clients are asked a series of questions that are posed by the software in order to construct the legal documents.\n\nIn the United States, the practice of law is conditioned upon admission to practice of law, and specifically admission to the bar of a particular state or other territorial jurisdiction. The American Bar Association and the American Law Institute are among the organizations that are concerned with the interests of lawyers as a profession and the promulgation of uniform standards of professionalism and ethics, but regulation of the practice of law is left to the individual states, and their definitions vary.\n\n\"Unauthorized practice of law\" (UPL) is an act sometimes prohibited by statute, regulation, or court rules.\n\nThe definition of \"unauthorized practice of law\" is variable, and is often conclusory and tautological, \"i.e.\", it is the doing of a lawyer's or counselor's work by a non-lawyer for money. There is some agreement that appearing in a legally constituted court in a legal proceeding to represent clients (particularly for a fee) is considered to be unauthorized practice of law. But other variations are subject to interpretation and conflicting regulation, particularly as to the scope and breadth of the prohibition. \"Black's Law Dictionary\" defines unauthorized practice of law as \"The practice of law by a person, typically a nonlawyer, who has not been licensed or admitted to practice law in a given jurisdiction.\"\n\nThe Restatement (Third) of the Law Governing Lawyers notes:\n\nThe definitions and tests employed by courts to delineate unauthorized practice by non-lawyers have been vague or conclusory, while jurisdictions have differed significantly in describing what constitutes unauthorized practice in particular areas.\n\nCertain activities, such as the representation of another person in litigation, are generally proscribed. Even in that area, many jurisdictions recognize exceptions for such matters as small-claims and landlord-tenant tribunals and certain proceedings in administrative agencies. Moreover, many jurisdictions have authorized law students and others not locally admitted to represent indigent persons or others as part of clinical legal education programs. . . .\n\nWhat is more controversial is out-of-court activities, particularly drafting of documents and giving advice, and whether that is considered to be unauthorized practice of law. Some states have defined the \"practice of law\" to include those who appear as a representative in arbitration or act as arbitrators in disputes. For example, there is a growing conflict between the multijurisdictional practice of law in arbitration proceedings in the financial service industry and state regulation of lawyers. With a few exceptions, the general rule is that an appearance at an arbitration does not constitute the practice of law.\n\nThe United States bankruptcy court for the Eastern District of Tennessee has held that \"providing clients with explanations or definitions of such legal terms of art ... is, by itself, giving legal advice.\" The North Carolina State Bar has held that \"definition of lien law terms, warnings regarding time requirements, and reminders about sending out preliminary notices within five to ten days of beginning work, when combined with its preparation of legal documents [in the manner described], constitute providing legal advice.\"\n\nTexas law generally prohibits a person who is not an attorney from representing a client in a personal injury or property damage matter, and punishes a violation as a misdemeanor. Some states also criminalize the separate behavior of falsely claiming to be lawyer (in Texas, for example, this is a felony).\n\nCriminal laws and enforcement of \"Unauthorized Practice of Law (UPL)\" statutes is the organized bar's preferred method. In Florida, the unauthorized practice of law is a third degree felony, which is punishable by up to six months in prison and $5000 in fines. New Jersey has a law which makes it a “disorderly persons offense” to knowingly to engage in the unauthorized practice of law, and a “crime in the fourth degree” to commit UPL if one (a) creates a false impression that one is a lawyer; (b) derives a benefit from UPL, or (c) causes an injury by UPL. In a 2015 survey by the American Bar Association, Florida had the largest budget—$1.8 million—nationwide for prosecuting the unauthorized practice of law.\n\nDespite the state's interest in protecting the public and so-called \"learned professions\" from having unschooled persons practising them, and the state's insistence on enforcing a monopoly, the existence of laws governing (or defining) \"unauthorized practice of Law\" does not, \"ipso facto\" mean that they will be enforced.\n\nThe American Bar Association proposed model rules regarding the unauthorized practice of law, which Judge Richard Posner characterized as an attempt to perpetuate a monopoly to the disadvantage of consumers. The judge observed that the legal profession is “a cartel of providers of services relating to society’s laws” which cartel's focus is to restrict entry. \"Modern economists call it 'rent seeking', but throughout recorded history, skilled crafts and professions have tried to raise their members’ incomes by using the power of the state to limit entry.\"\n\nThe practice of law was not formally regulated in Arizona for a time. However, the Arizona Supreme Court found independent inherent authority to regulate the practice of law. Arizona's statute criminalizing unauthorized practice of law was allowed to lapse from a sunset law in 1985. Rose suggests that legislative proposals to recriminalize the unauthorized practice of law have heretofore failed because of anti-lawyer sentiment in Arizona politics. Moreover, Rose asserts that resentment lingers from an unpopular interpretation of the old statute in \"State Bar v. Arizona Land Title & Trust Co.\", 90 Ariz. 76 (1961). This ruling imposed sanctions on a title and realty company engaged in drafting contracts. Rose says, \"Throughout the country, various jurisdictions have developed numerous tests for defining the practice of law. But none is broader nor more all-encompassing than that articulated in \"Arizona Title\".\"\n\nIn the United States, the rules of professional conduct generally prohibit an attorney from assisting a non-attorney from engaging in the unauthorized practice of law. An attorney therefore may not partner with or split fees with a non-attorney in the performance of any sort of legal work. Furthermore, an attorney may not employ a disbarred or suspended attorney in a legal practice where former clients of the disbarred or suspended attorney will be represented. \n\n"}
{"id": "22944030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22944030", "title": "Prima facie right", "text": "Prima facie right\n\nA prima facie right is a right that can be outweighed by other considerations. It stands in contrast with absolute rights, which cannot be outweighed by anything.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3248459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3248459", "title": "Prohibitionism", "text": "Prohibitionism\n\nProhibitionism is a legal philosophy and political theory often used in lobbying which holds that citizens will abstain from actions if the actions are typed as unlawful (i.e. prohibited) and the prohibitions are enforced by law enforcement. This philosophy has been the basis for many acts of statutory law throughout history, most notably when a large group of a given population disapproves of and/or feels threatened by an activity in which a smaller group of that population engages, and seeks to render that activity legally prohibited.\n\nActs of prohibition have included prohibitions on types of clothing (and prohibitions on lack of clothing), prohibitions on gambling and exotic dancing, the prohibition of drugs (for example, alcohol prohibition and cannabis prohibition), prohibitions on tobacco smoking, and gun prohibition. Indeed, the period of Prohibition in the United States between 1920 and 1933 due to the Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead Act often is referred to simply as \"Prohibition\", as is the \"War on Drugs\" that succeeded it. \nAn additional example, called \"nettle war\": Since 2002 in France the sale of nettle liquid manure was prohibited, and since 2006, unauthorized plant protection products (such as nettle liquid manure) to sell, own and operate. Even advertising and recommendations for these products were not allowed. Only since 2011, it was legalized again. The film by Arte about it was completed in 2010 (\"Nettle-war, mysterious plants - Nettle\", 42:04 minutes)\n\nThe success of a measure of prohibitionism has been criticized as often depending too much upon effective enforcement of the relevant legislation. Some people have argued this is because the majority of the targets of prohibitionism are in the category of victimless crime, where they claim the harm that comes from the crime is non-existent, questionable, or only to the person who performs the act and even then the magnitude of the harm being relatively small. Under this interpretation enforcement becomes a conflict between violation of statue and violation of free will. Since the acts prohibited often are enjoyable, enforcement is often the most harmful choice to the individual. This sometimes results in laws which rarely are enforced by anybody who does not have a financial or personal motivation to do so.\n\nThe difficulty of enforcing prohibitionist laws also criticized as resulting in selective enforcement, wherein the enforcers select the people they wish to prosecute based on other criteria, resulting in discrimination based on races, culture, nationality, or financial status. For example, American philosopher Noam Chomsky has criticized drug prohibition as being a technique of social control of the \"so-called dangerous classes\".\n\nProhibitionism based laws have the added problem of calling attention to the behavior that they are attempting to prohibit. This can make the behavior interesting and exciting, and cause its popularity to increase. This is essentially in relation with the Streisand effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51642059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51642059", "title": "Puducherry Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act", "text": "Puducherry Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act\n\nThe Puducherry Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act, 2008 (PPASA) is an act of the Puducherry assembly which provides for preventive detention of boot-leggers, dangerous persons, forest offenders, gamblers, \"goondas\" and property grabbers for prevention of their anti-social and dangerous activities prejudicial to the maintenance of public order.\n\nThe bill was introduced in the assembly on 20 October 2008, and the act came into effect from 27 October 2010.\n"}
{"id": "2149410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2149410", "title": "Right of reply", "text": "Right of reply\n\nThe right of reply generally means the right to defend oneself against public criticism in the same venue where it was published. In some countries, such as Brazil, it is a legal or even constitutional right. In other countries, it is not a legal right as such, but a right which certain media outlets and publications choose to grant to people who have been severely criticised by them, as a matter of editorial policy.\n\nThe Brazilian Constitution guarantees the right of reply (\"direito de resposta\").\n\nIn Europe, there have been proposals for a legally enforceable right of reply that applies to all media, including newspapers, magazines, and other print media, along with radio, television, and the internet. In 1974, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe already voted a resolution granting a right of reply to all individuals. Article 1 of a 2004 Council of Europe recommendation defined a right of reply as: \"offering a possibility to react to any information in the media presenting inaccurate facts … which affect … personal rights\".\n\nIn the federal system of Germany, the individual federal states are responsible for education, cultural affairs, and also the press and electronic media. All press laws of the 16 federal states guarantee the right to a counter presentation of factual statements which are deemed to be wrong by the individuals and organisations concerned. This is based on article 11 the national press law of 1874, and is found in all 16 laws as §11 or §10 in slightly modified versions.\n\nAustria and Switzerland have similar laws on the book. In Austria this is in article 9 of the national media law, in Switzerland in article 28g of the civil code.\n\nIn France, the right to a corrective reply goes back to the and is renewed and extended to broadcast and digital media via various laws and decrees.\n\nThe Belgian law on the right to reply emerged in 1831 as article 13 of the 1831 decree on the press. This was replaced 130 years later by the law on the \"droit de réponse\" or «loi du 23 juin 1961». Originally referring only to the printed press, this law was amended in 1977 by the law of «4 mars 1977 relative au droit de réponse dans l’audiovisuel» i.e. audiovisual media, published in the \"Moniteur Belge\" of March 15, 1977. Since the federalisation of the Belgian state in 1980, the language communities are responsible for the media, and so the Flemish community has passed in 2005 a decrée dated March 4, 2005, which regulates the right to reply in articles 177 to 199, and the German language community has passed the decree of 27 June 2005, which simply refers to the law of 1961 as amended in 1977.\n\nThe United Nations recognises the \"International Right of Correction\" through the \"Convention on the International Right of Correction\", which entered into force on August 24, 1962.\n\nA Florida right of reply law (referring to print media) was overturned by \"Miami Herald Publishing Co. v. Tornillo\", 418 U.S. 241 (1974), while a FCC policy (referring to broadcast media) was affirmed in \"Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC\", 395 U.S. 367 (1969).\n\nA right of reply can also be part of the editorial policy of a news publication or an academic journal. The BBC's Editorial Guidelines state:\n\nWhen our output makes allegations of wrongdoing, iniquity or incompetence or lays out a strong and damaging critique of an individual or institution the presumption is that those criticised should be given a \"right of reply\", that is, given a fair opportunity to respond to the allegations.\n\nThe \"Australasian Journal of Philosophy\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s editorial policy says:\n\n[A]uthors of the materials being commented on [in Discussion Notes] may be given a right of reply (subject to the usual refereeing), on the understanding that timely publication of the Note will take priority over the desirability of including both Note and Reply in the same issue of the Journal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2451592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2451592", "title": "Salus populi suprema lex esto", "text": "Salus populi suprema lex esto\n\nThe phrase is the state motto of Missouri, accepted, like many other states, as an element of its state seal. It also appears on many coats of arms, sometimes in variant forms such as , or . These coats of arms include the City of Salford, the London Borough of Lewisham, Eastleigh, Harrow, Lytham St. Anne's, Tipton, Mid Sussex, West Lancashire, Swinton and Pendlebury, Urmston and Willenhall; Manassas Park, Virginia, the Duquesne University School of Law, and is used as the motto of the Vlaams Belang political group in the Belgian Chamber of Representatives. The phrase is also used by the Ministry of Interior of the Slovak Republic as an element on its coat of arms. It is present in a shortened form in an engraving of Oliver Cromwell by William Faithorne.\n\nJohn Locke uses it as the epigraph in the form in his \"Second Treatise on Government\" and refers to it as a fundamental rule for government. It was the inscription on the cornet of Roundhead and Leveller William Rainsborowe during the English Civil War. This motto was also endorsed by Hobbes at the beginning of Chapter 30 of \"Leviathan\" and by Spinoza in Chapter 19 of his \"Theological-Political Treatise.\" It was frequently quoted as } since at least 1737.\n\nThe motto was featured on the masthead of the Irish medical journal Medical Press and Circular.\n\nThe Commissioned Officers Association of the U.S. Public Health Service has adopted the phrase as its motto.\n\nThe Italian Army uses a similar motto, (\"The safeguard of the republic shall be the supreme law\").\n\nMadrid Regional Fire Service uses a similar motto, Salus populi suprema Lex\n\n"}
{"id": "38473049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38473049", "title": "Same-sex union court cases", "text": "Same-sex union court cases\n\nSame-sex marriage is legal (nationwide or in some parts) in the following countries: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Uruguay. Court rulings requiring same-sex marriages have been passed in Austria (not yet in effect until January 2019), Taiwan (not yet in effect until May 2019) and Costa Rica (not yet in effect until 18 months after the publication of the court ruling). Same-sex marriage is recognized, but not performed, in Estonia, Israel, and Armenia. Furthermore, same-sex marriages performed in the Netherlands are recognized in Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten.\n\nSeveral attempts have been made to establish a right to same-sex marriage at the international level through strategic litigation, at the Human Rights Committee of the United Nations and at the European Court of Human Rights, both of which currently have not yet recognized an equal right to marry for same-sex couples. The Human Rights Committee case was in 1999, with two same-sex couples as the plaintiffs/petitioners and the government of New Zealand as the defender/respondent. The ECHR case, \"Schalk and Kopf v Austria\", was in 2010, with a same-sex couple as the plaintiffs/petitioners and the government of Austria as the respondents. Although both New Zealand and Austria then responded against the petitions then in each case, both countries now legally recognize same-sex unions, New Zealand in the form of same-sex marriage and Austria in the form of a registered partnership.\n\n"}
{"id": "34335401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34335401", "title": "Separation of powers in the United Kingdom", "text": "Separation of powers in the United Kingdom\n\nThe conception of the separation of powers has been applied to the United Kingdom and the nature of its executive (UK government, Scottish Government, Welsh Government and Northern Ireland Executive), judicial (England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland) and legislative (UK Parliament, Scottish Parliament, National Assembly for Wales and Northern Ireland Assembly) functions. Historically, the apparent merger of the executive and the legislature, with a powerful Prime Minister drawn from the largest party in parliament and usually with a safe majority, led theorists to contend that the separation of powers is not applicable to the United Kingdom. However, in recent years it does seem to have been adopted as a necessary part of the UK constitution.\n\nThe independence of the judiciary has never been questioned as a principle, although application is problematic. Personnel have been increasingly isolated from the other organs of government, no longer sitting in the House of Lords or in the Cabinet. The court's ability to legislate through precedent, its inability to question validly enacted law through legislative supremacy and parliamentary sovereignty, and the role of the Europe-wide institutions to legislate, execute and judge on matters also define the boundaries of the UK system.\n\nAlthough the United Kingdom recognises parliamentary sovereignty, writers have stressed the importance of the independence of the judiciary in establishing the rule of law, among them Trevor Allan. The role of the separation of powers has changed with the rise of judicial involvement in the affairs of government. Albert Venn Dicey, writing in 1915 in \"Introduction to the Study of the Law of the Constitution\", described the separation of powers as \"the offspring of a double misconception\". More recently Sir Ivor Jennings has argued that it is of little relevance, and, faced with the role of the executive within the legislature, some authors describe only the independence of the judiciary as evidence that the model applies to the modern United Kingdom.\n\nFew critics of the applicability of the separation of powers to the United Kingdom question the basic division.\nThe separation of powers has come under the stress of increasing government intervention into social issues outside its former remit dominated by administration and foreign and military policy – the creation of big government. This has been seen by some as having led to a weakening of the concept of government, replaced with the concept of governance. This lends itself to a more flexible approach considering the wide variation in the sorts of things that the \"executive\" does. A similar approach is to take an approach of public choice theory. The self-interest of political actors, under this theory, bridges the separate sections of government, drawing upon the approach of the Committee on Standards in Public Life which applies the same rules to different organs, although heir approach to judges is separate. Either theory would accept that there are wider decision making processes which are not restricted to a single branch of government. Another important idea is that variations within each separate part of government are as significant as differences in approach between branches, and require similar consideration.\n\nHowever, Lord Mustill summarised the prevailing modern viewpoint in the 1995 judgment, \"R. v Home Secretary ex parte Fire Brigades Union\":\n\nIt is a feature of the peculiarly UK conception of the separation of powers that Parliament, the executive and the courts each have their distinct and largely exclusive domain. Parliament has a legally unchallengeable right to make whatever laws it thinks right. The executive carries on the administration of the country in accordance with the powers conferred on it by law. The courts interpret the laws and see that they are obeyed.\nThe UK Parliament creates law through the authority of the Queen-in-Parliament, securing the support of at least the House of Commons, and usually the House of Lords as well – although since the passing act of the Parliament Act 1911 this has not been necessary. Under the European Communities Act 1972, the organs of the European Communities to legislate for the United Kingdom was recognised, by virtue of that Act. The power to create primary legislation has also been devolved to Scottish and Welsh parliaments and to government ministers and local authorities to create secondary legislation.\n\nThe executive comprises all official and public authorities (including local authorities) that govern the UK, from initiating and implementing legislation to the running of local and national services, such as rubbish collections and the police. The civil service remains non-partisan (having little in common with the Cabinet and Prime Minister in that respect). The executive also exercises a number of powers under the Royal Prerogative, including foreign relations; many other actions are taken in the sovereign's name, from whom executive power is derived. The Council and the Commission of the European Union also exercise executive power, as do devolved governments. Within the executive, there is no longer a clear elected–non-elected divide: decision-makers are of both sorts since the widening of the government's remit. The extent to which the Civil Service serves the government, rather than usurping it, is one character of the executive.\n\nThe judicial function determines the outcome of disputes and performs minor legislative and administrative functions. It oversees both public and private law through civil and criminal courts and a variety of tribunals. The Human Rights Act 1998 has placed a requirement that courts take into account the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nThe introduction of a tax is a legislative function; collecting tax is an executive and administrative function; settling tax disputes is a judicial function, as is judicial review of executive decisions. However, such an approach does not in itself enlighten what each role entails: the audit of public expenditure was a judicial function in the fourteenth century; an executive one in the eighteenth; and is now a legislative function. This is not in itself a measure of efficiency or good process, or what the function actually entails.\n\nThe separation of powers may require, depending on interpretation, that the membership of the three powers must be separate; that one of the three powers does not control the work of another; or that one organ of government should not exercise the powers of another. Keeping all three roles separate is seen as both theoretically and practically impossible.\n\nThe legislature and executive have a close relationship in the UK constitution. This led Walter Bagehot to declare the \"nearly complete fusion\" of the roles in the nineteenth century. Other writers have stressed that the harmonisation of the legislature and executive does not preclude their distinctiveness. By convention, government ministers are drawn from one of the two houses; the weight of democratic responsibility entails that most come from the House of Commons. There is, however, a limit on their number. Most other members of the executive are excluded from holding legislative office, including the Civil Service, the armed forces, and the police, some of whom are prevented from becoming involved in any political affairs. The crossover in personnel is effectively limited to ministers. The Prime Minister wields considerable power on behalf of the executive, as party leader and chief spokesperson for government policy.\n\nWhen the government has a clear majority it wields a lot of power to push through legislation. A 1978 Select Committee report suggested:\n\nThe balance of advantage between Parliament and Government is so weighted in favour of Government that it is inimical to the proper working of our parliamentary democracy.\n\nBetween 1979 and 2010, the government had a safe majority which made the scrutiny of the government more difficult, although not impossible. The government could rely on its legislation being passed, although in some cases this did not happen. The Conservative–Liberal Democrat coalition complicated the party structure, since the leader of the Liberal Democrats, Nick Clegg, served as Deputy Prime Minister under a Conservative Prime Minister. However, the legislature can oust a government through a vote of no confidence, as happened in 1979. This was driven by a growth in the political party structure, enforced through party discipline, as increased suffrage meant a far wider remit of government policy platforms.\n\nSecondary legislation – where Parliament passes limited legislative rights to the executive through an Act of Parliament – is also problematic, although necessary for the efficient working of government. Legal rules should be relatable to the Acts of Parliament on which they are based, but this is not always possible. Proper scrutiny of government actions under secondary legislation is needed to prevent abuse.\n\nThe Judicial Committee of the Privy Council remains an independent court, despite being organisationally part of the executive. The Lord Chancellor, a member of the Cabinet is no longer a judge since the Constitutional Reform Act 2005. The Attorney General (England and Wales) and the Lord Advocate (Scotland) have \"quasi-judicial roles\" but are part of the executive.\n\nIn terms of control, the independence of the judiciary is confirmed through statute, constitutional convention, and weight of opinion. In England and Wales, judges in superior courts cannot be arbitrarily dismissed by the executive, instead serving whilst in \"good behaviour\". Those in lower courts have similar protection from dismissal without due cause. Most members of tribunals cannot be dismissed by members of the government department of which they form part. This is important in cases of judicial review and other judicial methods of preventing government abuse of power.\n\nThe judiciary undertake minor legislative functions in the form of court procedure, which, whilst the performance of a conflicting power, strengthens their independence. Tribunals are tied, but remain independent from, the executive. Government departments adjudicate on many decisions, and are required to take principles such as fairness and transparency into account in return. The courts provide only one method of dispute resolution, albeit one that is important where the government is one party and independence is necessary. The picture of which decision-making processes should be assigned to which body is complicated. There remain problems with the scope of role of the Home Secretary in the penal system and judicial decisions with regard to sentencing. Nolan LJ, in \"M v Home Office\", noted that:\n\nThe proper constitutional relationship of the executive with the courts is that the courts will respect all acts of the executive within its lawful province, and that the executive will respect all decisions of the courts as to what its lawful province is.\nIn matters such as Extradition of British nationals, courts must first consent and the Home Secretary must agree and sign an Extradition Order or the individual cannot be extradited. A recent example of this is autistic computer-hacker Gary McKinnon being extradited to the United States. The courts decreed that he could be extradited and that it would not harm him. However the Home Secretary announced that she refused to sign the order as she believed it would harm his life rights and could lead to him committing suicide.\n\nThe judges of the Supreme Court do not sit in the House of Lords. Until 2009, the judges appointed as Law Lords formed part of the House of Lords in Parliament. The creation of the Supreme Court ended confusion in name of both capacities. No Member of Parliament may hold a full-time position in the judiciary.\n\nThe departure of the judiciary from the House of Lords has led to greater tension between the government, Parliament and the courts, as the senior judges are no longer able to amend and speak on Bills and Peers are no longer able to question the judges and thereby hold them to account.\n\nThe legislature retains the right to impeach members of the judiciary by agreement of both houses, but this has only happened once in three hundred years. There are restrictions on the criticism of judges in parliament. Courts are bound to interpret Acts of Parliament, even retrospectively, and legislative supremacy dictates that they cannot declare properly enacted law invalid. They are not bound by other resolutions of either house. The European Communities Act 1972 places a legislature-imposed requirement on the judiciary to follow European case law in relevant matters. Although the Human Rights Act 1998 allows the courts to make a declaration of incompatibility, they cannot disapply legislation.\n\nEach House of Parliament retains the right to punish offenders within its walls (including exclusive cognisance), with the potential to cause conflict. However, \"R v Chaytor\" confirmed that right was limited in scope, and that it was the court that decided what that scope was. It was considered very unlikely that parliament would seek to protect those guilty of a crime unrelated to parliamentary business in this way. The courts have also exercised a quasi-legislative power through precedent – for example, ending the marital rape exemption in \"\". There is particular scope for the identification and application of personal liberties, and some cases have shaped the judiciary–legislature relationship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27707", "title": "Socialist law", "text": "Socialist law\n\nSocialist law or Soviet law denotes a general type of legal system which has been used in socialist and formerly socialist states. It is based on the civil law system, with major modifications and additions from Marxist-Leninist ideology. There is controversy as to whether socialist law ever constituted a separate legal system or not. If so, prior to the end of the Cold War, \"socialist law\" would be ranked among the major legal systems of the world.\n\nWhile civil law systems have traditionally put great pains in defining the notion of private property, how it may be acquired, transferred, or lost, socialist law systems provide for most property to be owned by the state or by agricultural co-operatives, and having special courts and laws for state enterprises.\n\nMany scholars argue that socialist law was not a separate legal classification. Although the command economy approach of the communist states meant that most types of property could not be owned, the Soviet Union always had a civil code, courts that interpreted this civil code, and a civil law approach to legal reasoning (thus, both legal process and legal reasoning were largely analogous to the French or German civil code system). Legal systems in all socialist states preserved formal criteria of the Romano-Germanic civil law; for this reason, law theorists in post-socialist states usually consider the socialist law as a particular case of the Romano-Germanic civil law. Cases of development of common law into socialist law are unknown because of incompatibility of basic principles of these two systems (common law presumes influential rule-making role of courts while courts in socialist states play a dependent role).\n\nSoviet law displayed many special characteristics that derived from the socialist nature of the Soviet state and reflected Marxist-Leninist ideology. Vladimir Lenin accepted the Marxist conception of the law and the state as instruments of coercion in the hands of the bourgeoisie and postulated the creation of popular, informal tribunals to administer revolutionary justice. One of the main theoreticians of Soviet socialist legality in this early phase was Pēteris Stučka.\n\nAlongside this utopian trend was one more critical of the concept of \"proletarian justice\", represented by Evgeny Pashukanis. A dictatorial trend developed that advocated the use of law and legal institutions to suppress all opposition to the regime. This trend reached its zenith under Joseph Stalin with the ascendancy of Andrey Vyshinsky, when the administration of justice was carried out mainly by the security police in special tribunals.\n\nDuring the de-Stalinization of the Nikita Khrushchev era, a new trend developed, based on socialist legality, that stressed the need to protect the procedural and statutory rights of citizens, while still calling for obedience to the state. New legal codes, introduced in 1960, were part of the effort to establish legal norms in administering laws. Although socialist legality remained in force after 1960, the dictatorial and utopian trends continued to influence the legal process. Persecution of political and religious dissenters continued, but at the same time there was a tendency to decriminalize lesser offenses by handing them over to people's courts and administrative agencies and dealing with them by education rather than by incarceration.\nBy late 1986, the Mikhail Gorbachev era was stressing anew the importance of individual rights in relation to the state and criticizing those who violated procedural law in implementing Soviet justice. This signaled a resurgence of socialist legality as the dominant trend. Socialist legality itself still lacked features associated with Western jurisprudence.\n\nSocialist law is similar to common law or civil law but with a greatly increased public law sector and decreased private law sector.\n\n\nA specific institution characteristic to Socialist law was the so-called burlaw court (or, verbally, \"court of comrades\", Russian товарищеский суд) which decided on minor offences.\n\nAmong the remaining communist governments, some (most notably the People's Republic of China) have added extensive modifications to their legal systems. In general, this is a result of their market-oriented economic changes. However, some communist influence can still be seen. For example, in Chinese real estate law there is no unified concept of real property; the state owns all land but often not the structures that sit on that land. A rather complex \"ad hoc\" system of use rights to land property has developed, and these use rights are the things being officially traded (rather than the property itself). In some cases (for example in the case of urban residential property), the system results in something that resembles real property transactions in other legal systems.\n\nIn other cases, the Chinese system results in something quite different. For example, it is a common misconception that reforms under Deng Xiaoping resulted in the privatization of agricultural land and a creation of a land tenure system similar to those found in Western countries. In actuality, the village committee owns the land and contracts the right to use this land to individual farmers who may use the land to make money from agriculture. Hence the rights that are normally unified in Western economies are split up between the individual farmer and the village committee.\n\nThis has a number of consequences. One of them is that, because the farmer does not have an absolute right to transfer the land, he cannot borrow against his use rights. On the other hand, there is some insurance against risk in the system, in that the farmer can return his land to the village committee if he wants to stop farming and start some other sort of business. Then, if this business does not work, he can get a new contract with the village committee and return to farming. The fact that the land is redistributable by the village committee also ensures that no one is left landless; this creates a form of social welfare.\n\nThere have been a number of proposals to reform this system and they have tended to be in the direction of fully privatizing rural land for the alleged purpose of increasing efficiency. These proposals have usually not received any significant support, largely because of the popularity of the current system among the farmers themselves. There is little risk that the village committee will attempt to impose a bad contract on the farmers, since this would reduce the amount of money the village committee receives. At the same time, the farmer has some flexibility to decide to leave farming for other ventures and to return at a later time.\n\n"}
{"id": "57691114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57691114", "title": "Strawman theory", "text": "Strawman theory\n\nStrawman theory (also called the Strawman illusion) is a pseudolegal theory prevalent in various movements such as sovereign citizen, tax protestor, freeman on the land, and the redemption movement. The theory holds that an individual has two personas, one of flesh and the other a separate legal personality (i.e., the \"strawman\"). The idea is that an individual’s debts, liabilities, taxes and legal responsibilities belong to the strawman rather than the physical individual. The strawman theory is recognized in law as a scam: The FBI considers anyone promoting it a likely fraudster. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) considers it a frivolous argument and fines people that use the theory on their Federal tax returns.\n\nStrawman theory traces its origins to the ancient Roman legal practice of \"capitis deminutio\" (\"decrease of head\"), a term used in Roman trials for the extinguishment of a person's former legal capacity. \"Capitis deminutio minima\" meant a person ceased to belong to a particular family, without loss of liberty or citizenship. \"Capitis deminutio media\" involved loss of citizenship and family, but not liberty. \"Capitis deminutio maxima\" involved loss of family, citizenship and liberty (\"i.e.\", a slave or a prisoner of war). Strawman theory commonly takes the term \"capitis deminutio\" spells it \"Capitis Diminutio\" and claims \"capitis diminutio maxima\" was represented by an individual’s name being written in capital letters. This led to the idea that individuals had a separate legal personality now called a \"strawman\".\n\nThe theory holds that an individual has two personas. One of them is a physical, tangible human being, and the other is the \"legal person\", often referred to as a legal fiction. When a baby is born in the U.S., a birth certificate is issued, and the parents apply for a Social Security number. Sovereigns say the government uses that birth certificate to set up a secret Treasury account which it funds with an amount ranging from $600,000 to $20 million, depending on the particular sovereign belief system. Hence, every newborn's rights are split between those held by the flesh-and-blood baby and the corporate shell account.\n\nProponents of the theory believe the evidence is found on the birth certificate. Because many certificates show all capitals to spell out a baby's name, JOHN DOE (under the Strawman theory) is the name of the \"straw man,\" and John Doe is the baby's \"real\" name. As the child grows, most legal documents will contain capital letters, which means that his state-issued driver's license, his marriage license, his car registration, his criminal court records, his cable TV bill, correspondence from the IRS, etc., pertain to his strawman and not his sovereign identity. In reality, the use of all capital letters is typically done to make certain statements clear and conspicuous, although this is not always the case.\n\nThe main use of strawman theory is in escaping and denying debts, liabilities and legal responsibility. Tax protestors, \"commercial redemption\" and \"get out of debt free\" scams claim that one’s debts and taxes are the responsibility of the strawman and not of the real person. They back this claim by misreading the legal definition of \"person\" and a misunderstanding of the distinction between a \"juridicial person\" and a \"natural person\". In accepted legal theory there is a difference between what is known as a \"natural person\" and that of a \"corporate person\". A \"corporate personhood\" applies to business, charities, governments and other recognized organisations. Courts recognize human beings as 'persons', not as a legal fiction joined to a flesh and blood human being but as one and the same. They have never recognized a right to distance oneself from one's person, or the ability to opt out of personhood.\n\nBelievers of the theory also extend it to law and legal responsibilities, claiming that only their strawman is required to adhere to statutory laws. They also claim that legal proceedings in are taken against strawmen rather than persons and when one appears in court they appear as representing their strawman. The justification for this is the false notion that governments cannot force anybody to do anything. A strawman therefore created which the adherent believes he or she is free to command. Proponents cite a misinterpretation of a passage in chapter 39 of King John's Magna Carta stating in part that, \"no freeman will be seized, dispossessed of his property, or harmed except by the law of the land”.\n\nFreemen believe that separating from their strawman or refusing to be identified as such enables escape from their various liabilities, responsibilities, and laws. This is typically attempted by denying they are a person in the same way as their strawman, or by writing their name in non-standard ways, using red ink, and placing finger prints on court documents.\n\nJudge Norman K. Moon found such tactics an unconvincing argument in 2013 when an individual named Brandon Gravatt tried to overturn a drug conviction and get out of prison. The case was summarily dismissed by the court.\n\nIt is impossible to dodge the law by insisting that an individual is different from his or her person. If a court can establish a person's identity, regardless of consent or cooperation, the court will engage in proceedings and sanctions against the individual. This is due to the legal principle known as \"Idem sonans\" (Latin for \"sounding the same\") which states that similar sounding names are just as valid in referring to a person. The earliest legal precedent is R v Davis in the United Kingdom in 1851.\n\n\"This is not an exhaustive list\"\n\n"}
{"id": "10826158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10826158", "title": "Term of office", "text": "Term of office\n\nA term of office is the length of time a person serves in a particular elected office. In many jurisdictions there is a defined limit on how long terms of office may be before the officeholder must be subject to re-election. Some jurisdictions exercise term limits, setting a maximum number of terms an individual may hold in a particular office.\n\nBeing the origin of the Westminster system, aspects of the United Kingdom's system of government are replicated in many other countries.\nThe monarch serves as head of state until his or her death or abdication.\n\nIn the United Kingdom Members of Parliament (MPs) in the House of Commons are elected for the duration of the parliament. Following dissolution of the Parliament, a general election is held which consists of simultaneous elections for all seats. For most MPs this means that their terms of office are identical to the duration of the Parliament, though an individual's term may be cut short by death or resignation. An MP elected in a by-election mid-way through a Parliament, regardless of how long they have occupied the seat, is not exempt from facing re-election at the next general election.\n\nThe Septennial Act 1715 provided that a Parliament expired seven years after it had been summoned; this maximum period was reduced to five years by the Parliament Act 1911. Prior to the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 parliaments had no minimum duration. Parliaments could be dissolved early by the monarch at the Prime Minister's request. Early dissolutions occurred when the make-up of Parliament made forming government impossible (as occurred in 1974), or, more commonly, when the incumbent government reasoned an early general election would improve their re-election chances (e.g. 2001). The Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 mandated that Parliaments should last their full five years. Early dissolution is still possible, but under much more limited circumstances.\n\nBecause the government and Prime Minister are effectively indirectly elected through the Commons, the terms of Parliaments and MPs do not directly apply to offices of government, though in practice these are affected by changes in Parliament. While, strictly speaking, a Prime Minister whose incumbency spans multiple Parliaments only serves one, unbroken, term of office, some writers may refer to the different Parliaments as separate terms.\n\nHereditary peers and life peers retain membership of the House of Lords for life, though members can resign or be expelled. Lords Spiritual hold membership of the House of Lords until the end of their time as bishops, though a senior bishop may be made a life peer upon the end of their bishopric (e.g. George Carey, made \"Baron Carey of Clifton\" the day after he ceased being Archbishop of Canterbury).\nThe devolved administrations in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are variations on the system of government used at Westminster.\n\nThe office of the leader of the devolved administrations has no numeric term limit imposed upon it. However, in the case of the Scottish Government and the Welsh Assembly Government there are fixed terms for which the legislatures can sit. This is imposed at four years. Elections may be held before this time but only if no administration can be formed, which has not happened yet.\nOffices of local government other regional elected officials follow similar rules to the national offices discussed above, with persons elected to fixed terms of a few years.\n\nIn the United States, the president of the United States is elected indirectly through the United States Electoral College to a four-year term, with a term limit of two terms (totaling eight years) or a maximum of ten years if the president acted as president for two years or less in a term where another was elected as president, imposed by the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution, ratified in 1951.\n\nThe Vice President serves four-year terms. U.S. Representatives serve two-year terms. U.S. Senators serve six-year terms. \n\nFederal judges have different terms in office. Article I judges; such as those that sit on the United States bankruptcy courts, United States Tax Court, and United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, and certain other federal courts and other forms of adjudicative bodies serve limited terms: The Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces for 15 years, bankruptcy courts for 14. However, the majority of the federal judiciary; Article III judges, such as those of the Supreme Court, courts of appeal, and federal district courts; serve for life.\n\nThe terms of office for officials in state governments varies according to the provisions of state constitutions and state law.\n\nThe term for state governors is four years in all states but Vermont and New Hampshire; the Vermont and New Hampshire governors serve for two years.\n\nThe National Conference of State Legislatures reported in January 2007 that among state legislatures :\n\nAmong territories of the United States:\n\nMembers of Council of the District of Columbia serve a four-year term.\n\nAs a former British territory following the Westminster System, there are many similarities with the United Kingdom, although with some variations based on local customs, the federal system of government and the absentee monarch.\nBeing a Commonwealth realm, Canada shares a monarch with the United Kingdom and 14 other countries, who serves as head of state of all 16 realms until their death or abdication.\n\nThe Governor General is appointed by the monarch as his/her personal representative on the advice of the Prime Minister, and serves for an indefinite term, though the normal convention is 5 years. Similarly, the Lieutenant Governors, who represent the monarch at the provincial level, are appointed by the Governor General on the advice of the Prime Minister (usually also with consultation of the relevant provincial premier), and generally also serve 5 year terms by convention. The territories have Commissioners, who are not representatives of the monarch, but are instead appointed by and represent the Governor-in-Council (i.e. the federal cabinet), and conventionally serve for about 5 years.\n\nSimilar to the United Kingdom, MPs serve for the duration of the Parliament. They may resign before the end of a Parliament or be elected in by-elections during the middle of a Parliament.\n\nUnder the Constitution Act, 1867, a Parliament may last for a maximum of 5 years from the most recent election before expiring, although all Parliaments to date have been dissolved before they could expire. Bill C-16, introduced in the 39th Parliament, provided for fixed election dates every 4 years on the third Monday in October, beginning in 2009. However, the Prime Minister may still advise the Governor General to dissolve Parliament at any time. \n\nAs in the United Kingdom, the cabinet and head of government are indirectly elected based on the composition of the House of Commons, they are not technically affected by the terms of legislators or Parliaments. In practice however, the terms of government office holders are affected by changes in the House of Commons, and those who serve for multiple consecutive Parliaments are generally considered to have served a single term. The term of a government generally ends when it is defeated on a confidence matter or the governing party fails to gain enough seats in a general election.\n\nSenators are appointed to the Canadian Senate to represent a province by the Governor General of Canada on the advice of the Prime Minister, and serve until the mandatory retirement age of 75. Senators appointed before the passage of the British North America Act, 1965 served for life. Senators may also resign from office or be expelled from the Senate.\n\nProvincial legislatures and the legislature of the Yukon function very similarly to the federal House of Commons. MLAs (called MPPs in Ontario, MNAs in Quebec, and MHAs in Newfoundland and Labrador) serve for the duration of the legislature, though they may resign before the legislature is dissolved or be elected in by-elections between general elections. The legislatures of the Northwest Territories and Nunavut operate using a consensus model, but are similar otherwise. The premiers and their cabinets are selected in the same way as in the House of Commons, and like at the federal level, the term of a provincial government can be ended by defeat in a general election or the loss of the legislature's confidence.\n\nAll provincial legislatures except that of Nova Scotia have fixed-term election legislation in place, as does the legislature of the Northwest Territories. Premiers may also advise Lieutenant Governors to dissolve legislatures at any time before the prescribed election date.\n\nNumbers in years unless stated otherwise. Note that some countries where fixed-term elections are uncommon, the legislature is almost always dissolved earlier than its expiry date. \"Until removed from office\" refers to offices that don't have fixed terms; in these cases, the officeholder(s) may serve indefinitely until death, abdication, resignation, retirement, or forcible removal from office (such as impeachment).\n\nIn cases where the head of government is a different person from the head of state, its term of office is identical to the chamber that elected it (the legislature if it is unicameral, or most usually the lower house if it is bicameral), unless it doesn't survive a vote of no confidence.\n<nowiki>**</nowiki>The Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is composed of three members as a collective head of state, all elected at the same time via popular vote, by different constituencies each, every four years.<br>\n<nowiki>***</nowiki>The Federal Council of Switzerland is composed of seven members as a collective head of state, all elected at the same time by the Federal Assembly of Switzerland every four years.\n\n"}
{"id": "19824516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19824516", "title": "Tulane Environmental Law Clinic", "text": "Tulane Environmental Law Clinic\n\nThe Tulane Environmental Law Clinic (TELC) is a legal clinic that Tulane Law School has operated since 1989 to offer law students the practical experience of representing real clients in actual legal proceedings under state and federal environmental laws.\n\nTELC's mission is to 1) train effective and ethical lawyers by guiding law students through actual client representation; 2) expand access to the legal system, especially for those who could not otherwise afford competent legal help on environmental issues; and 3) bolster community members' capacity to participate effectively in environmental decisions.\n\nTELC is part of Tulane University School of Law's environmental law program and has become one of Louisiana's premier public interest legal services organizations, known especially for its work on environmental justice issues. On behalf of their clients, TELC students and supervising attorneys litigate environmental citizen suits to abate industrial pollution, appeal permits for environmental pollution or destruction of wetlands, challenge agency regulations that fall short of legislative mandates, and prod agencies to perform statutory duties. Louisiana state courts, and most federal courts in Louisiana, have adopted \"student practice\" rules that allow TELC students to appear and argue in court.\n\nThe American Bar Association honored TELC as co-recipient of its first \"Award for Distinguished Achievement in Environmental Law and Policy\" in 2000. In 2010, the New Orleans chapter of the Federal Bar Association honored TELC with its Camille F. Gravel Jr. Pro Bono Award In addition, TELC was a runner up for the National Law Journal's Lawyer of the Year award in 1998.\n\nAttorney Suzanne S. Dickey has explained that TELC student attorneys have \"handled cases involving all aspects of environmental law, including air pollution, conservation of natural resources, urban land use and siting of waste facilities.\" Some examples appear below.\n\n\nIn addition to funding from Tulane Law School, TELC relies on donations by individuals, families and corporations, foundation grants, and attorney-fee recoveries.\n\nMany of TELC's cases involve large corporations or issues of community, statewide, or national concern. For this reason, TELC's work on behalf of its clients can be controversial. John R. Kramer, the law school's dean at the time of TELC's inception, publicly defended TELC's work when it frustrated Louisiana chemical and oil companies during his tenure through 1996.\n\n\nLargely as a result of these events, the Times-Picayune has described TELC as the bane of former Governor Mike Foster and business groups. Even after EPA's objection to the polyvinyl chloride plant, however, Governor Foster met cordially with a TELC student attorney on Clean Water Act issues in January 2003.\n\n\n\n"}
