{"id": "24891124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24891124", "title": "Across the Universe (message)", "text": "Across the Universe (message)\n\nAcross the Universe is an interstellar radio message (IRM) consisting of the song \"Across the Universe\" by The Beatles that was transmitted on 4 February 2008, at 00:00 UTC by NASA in the direction of the star Polaris. This transmission was made using a 70-meter dish in the Deep Space Network's (DSN) Madrid Deep Space Communication Complex, located in Robledo, near Madrid, Spain.\n\nThis action was done in order to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the song's recording, the 45th anniversary of the DSN, and the 50th anniversary of NASA. The idea was hatched by Beatles historian Martin Lewis, who encouraged all Beatles fans to play the track as it was beamed to the distant star. The event marked the second time a song had ever been intentionally transmitted into deep space (the first being Russia's Teen Age Message in 2001), and was approved by Paul McCartney, Yoko Ono, and Apple Records.\n\nThis IRM project has some significant defects in that the message was aimed at Polaris, which is 431 light years distant from us and whose planetary system, even if it exists, may not be suited for life, because it is a supergiant star, spectral type F7Ib. In addition, the transmission rate was very high, about 128 kbit/s, for such moderate transmitter power (about 18 kW).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13168320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13168320", "title": "Active SETI", "text": "Active SETI\n\nActive SETI (Active Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence) is the attempt to send messages to intelligent extraterrestrial life. Active SETI messages are usually sent in the form of radio signals. Physical messages like that of the Pioneer plaque may also be considered an active SETI message. Active SETI is also known as METI (Messaging to Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence). The term METI was coined by Russian scientist Alexander Zaitsev, who denoted the clear-cut distinction between Active SETI and METI:\n\nThe science known as SETI deals with searching for messages from aliens. METI deals with the creation and transmission of messages to aliens. Thus, SETI and METI proponents have quite different perspectives. SETI scientists are in a position to address only the local question “does Active SETI make sense?” In other words, would it be reasonable, for SETI success, to transmit with the object of attracting ETI’s attention? In contrast to Active SETI, METI pursues not a local and lucrative impulse, but a more global and unselfish one – to overcome the Great Silence in the Universe, bringing to our extraterrestrial neighbors the long-expected annunciation “You are not alone!”\n\nIn 2010, Douglas A. Vakoch of the SETI Institute addressed concerns about the validity of Active SETI alone as an experimental science by proposing the integration of Active SETI and Passive SETI programs to engage in a clearly articulated, ongoing, and evolving set of experiments to test various versions of the Zoo Hypothesis, including specific dates at which a first response to messages sent to particular stars could be expected.\n\nOn 13 February 2015, scientists (including Douglas Vakoch, David Grinspoon, Seth Shostak, and David Brin) at an annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, discussed Active SETI and whether transmitting a message to possible intelligent extraterrestrials in the Cosmos was a good idea; That same week, a statement was released, signed by many in the SETI community including Berkeley SETI Research Center director Andrew Siemion, advocating that a \"worldwide scientific, political and humanitarian discussion must occur before any message is sent\". On 28 March 2015, an essay with a different point of view was written by Seth Shostak and published in \"The New York Times\".\n\nIn the paper Rationale for METI, transmission of the information into the Cosmos is treated as one of the pressing needs of an advanced civilization. This view is not universally accepted, and it does not agree to those who are against the transmission of interstellar radio messages, but at the same time are not against SETI searching. Such duality are called The SETI Paradox.\n\nThe lack of an established communications protocol is a challenge for METI.\n\nFirst of all, while trying to synthesize an Interstellar Radio Message (IRM), we should bear in mind that Extraterrestrials will first deal with a physical phenomenon and, only after that, perceive the information. At first, ET's receiving system will detect the radio signal; then, the issue of extraction of the received information and comprehension of the obtained message will arise. Therefore, above all, the Constructor of an IRM should be concerned about the ease of signal determination. In other words,\nthe signal should have maximum openness, which is understood here as an antonym of the term security. This branch of signal synthesis can be named anticryptography.\n\nTo this end, in 2010, Michael W. Busch created a general-purpose binary language, later used in the Lone Signal project to transmit crowdsourced messages to extraterrestrial intelligence. Busch developed the coding scheme \nand provided Rachel M. Reddick with a test message, in a blind test of decryption. Reddick decoded the entire message after approximately twelve hours of work. This was followed by an attempt to extend the syntax used in the Lone Signal hailing message to communicate in a way that, while neither mathematical nor strictly logical, was nonetheless understandable given the prior definition of terms and concepts in the hailing message.\n\nAlso characteristics of the radio signal such as wavelength, type of polarization, and modulation have to be considered.\n\nOver galactic distances, the interstellar medium induces some scintillation effects and artificial modulation of electromagnetic signals. This modulation is higher at lower frequencies and is a function of the sky direction. Over large distances, the depth of the modulation can exceed 100%, making any METI signal very difficult to decode.\n\nIn METI research, it is implied that any message must have some redundancy, although the exact amount of redundancy and message formats are still in great dispute.\n\nUsing ideograms, instead of binary sequence, already offers some improvement against noise resistance. In faxlike transmissions, ideograms will be spread on many lines. This increases its resistance against short bursts of noise like radio frequency interference or\ninterstellar scintillation.\n\nOne format approach proposed for interstellar messages was to use the product of two prime numbers to construct an image. Unfortunately, this method works only if all the bits are present. As an example, the message sent by Frank Drake from the Arecibo Observatory in 1974 did not have any feature to support mechanisms to cope with the inevitable noise degradation of the interstellar medium.\n\nError correction tolerance rates for previous METI messages\n\nThe 1999 Cosmic Call transmission was far from being optimal (from our terrestrial point of view) as it was essentially a monochromatic signal spiced with a supplementary information. Additionally, the message had a very small modulation index overall, a condition not viewed as being optimal for interstellar communication.\n\nThese projects have targeted stars between 17 and 69 light-years from the Earth. The exception is the Arecibo message, which targeted globular cluster M13, approximately 24,000 light-years away.\n\nThe first message to reach its destination will be RuBisCo Stars, which should reach Teegarden's star, a brown dwarf in 2021.\n\n\nStars to which messages were sent, are the following:\n\nActive SETI has been heavily criticized due to the perceived risk of revealing the location of the Earth to alien civilizations, without some process of prior international consultation. Notable among its critics is scientist and science fiction author David Brin, particularly in his article \"expose.\"\n\nHowever, Russian and Soviet radio engineer and astronomer Alexander L. Zaitsev has argued against these fears. Indeed, Zaitsev argues that we should consider the risks of not reaching out to extraterrestrial civilizations.\n\nTo lend a quantitative basis to discussions of the risks of transmitting deliberate messages from Earth, the SETI Permanent Study Group of the International Academy of Astronautics adopted in 2007 a new analytical tool, the San Marino Scale. Developed by Prof. Ivan Almar and Prof. H. Paul Shuch, the San Marino Scale evaluates the significance of transmissions from Earth as a function of signal intensity and information content. Its adoption suggests that not all such transmissions are created equal, thus each must be evaluated on a case-by-case basis before establishing blanket international policy regarding Active SETI.\n\nIn 2012, Jacob Haqq-Misra, Michael Busch, Sanjoy Som, and Seth Baum argued that while the benefits of radio communication on Earth likely outweigh the potential harms of detection by extraterrestrial watchers, the uncertainty regarding the outcome of contact with extraterrestrial beings creates difficulty in assessing whether or not to engage in long-term and large-scale METI.\n\nIn 2015, João Pedro de Magalhães proposed transmitting an invitation message to any extraterrestrial intelligences watching us already in the context of the Zoo Hypothesis and inviting them to respond. By using existing television and radio channels, de Magalhães argued this would not put us in any danger, \"at least not in any more danger than we are already if much more advanced extraterrestrial civilizations are aware of us and can reach the solar system.\"\n\nDouglas Vakoch, president of METI, argues that passive SETI itself is already an endorsement of active SETI, since \"If we detect a signal from aliens through a SETI program, there’s no way to prevent a cacophony of responses from Earth.\"\n\nOne proposal for a 10 billion watt interstellar SETI beacon was dismissed by Robert A. Freitas Jr. to be infeasible for a pre-Type I civilization on the Kardashev scale. However, this 1980s technical argument assumes omni-directional beacons which may not be the best way to proceed on many technical grounds. Advances in consumer electronics have made possible transmitters that simultaneously transmit many narrow beams, covering the million or so nearest stars but not the spaces between. This multibeam approach can reduce the power and cost to levels that are reasonable with current mid-2000s Earth technology.\n\nOnce civilizations have discovered each other's locations, the energy requirements for maintaining contact and exchanging information can be significantly reduced through the use of highly directional transmission technologies.\n\nA 2018 study estimated an 1 to 2 megawatt infrared laser focused through a 30 to 45 meter telescope could be seen from about 20,000 light years away.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18385178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18385178", "title": "Age segregation", "text": "Age segregation\n\nAge segregation is the separation of people based on their age, and may be observed in many aspects of some societies. Examples of institutionalized age segregation include age segregation in schools, and age-segregated housing.There are studies of informal age segregation among adolescents. Age segregation in schools, age grading, or graded education is the separation of students into years of education (grades, forms) by approximately the same age.\n\nIn the United States, graded education was introduced during 1848 to 1870.Age segregation in the U.S. was a product of industrialization, Western formal schooling, child labor laws, social services agencies, and the rise of disciplines such as psychology and education. A combination of these caused a shift from family working as a unit to separation of economic activities and childcare emerged. Some communities have different cultural practices and integrate children into mature activities of the family and community. This is common among Indigenous American communities.\n\nAge segregation is seen by some like Peter Uhlenberg and Jenny Gierveld to benefit individuals by bringing like-minded individuals together to share similar facilities, network and information. The elderly are however disadvantaged by segregation in that they risk being excluded from economic and social developments.\n\nResearchers have argued that age grading in school has significant impact on age segregation among adolescent peer groups. It is also present in the work force, which can make it more difficult for older adults to find jobs or change employment paths because of their age. They are often either expected to have a significantly larger background of experience in the field, or be far enough away from retirement to be considered. Although seen less in younger adults and children, there is evidence that younger populations segregate within themselves. Until around ages 7 and 8, children tend to only associate with people within 2 years of their own age. Children mostly segregate from adults, showing less adult interaction as they move into their teenage and young adult years. Studies suggest that the gap in age segregation will grow because of technological knowledge seen in younger adults that is not seen in older adults. It is predicted that younger adults will have to teach older adults about new social environments that will be essential to healthy living. Without these teachings, age segregation is set to increase.\n\nSome of the prospects for designing social life to overcome the entrenched practices of age segregation and the cultural assumptions through the life course is through a steady flock of opportunities for cross-age interaction, some settings facilitate age-integrated social relations. The most distinguished example is the family, in which children, parents, and grandparents frequently develop close cross-age relationships. Age relations within families vary across cultures and subcultures. According to Uhlenberg and Gierveld, many lower class black families in the United States have high levels of interaction with kin, and older adults. This often provides significant care for younger members in the neighborhood.\n\nA statistical analysis of survey data of a survey data for 390 elderly people living in studio apartments found that age-segregation have a humongous impact on the quality of life of the elderly people because the perception of the elderly in relation to factors that are most outstanding to their quality of life is at variance with that of the policy makers.\n\nIn the United States some portions of a person's life involves being with the same age cohort. Industrialization brought an increased specialization of all kinds, and age was an important category used to sort people. Society expected teachers to be experts on a particular age group, family members to specialize in different kinds of work, and people to move through major life roles in a fixed pattern. The work force involvement of older women and men declined, and it was replaced by leisure retirement. Martin Kohli argues that over the length of the twentieth century, age was enormously used to assign people to or prohibit them from particular activities. The result was a tendency toward a firmly fixed life course. According to Riley and Riley, this tendency toward age-segregated structures began to approximate the age-differentiated \"ideal type\" structure in which people gain their education when young, work in middle-age, and enjoy their well-earned leisure time when they are old. Age-based grades, teams, jobs, and leisure activities seemed normal; people were expected to spend major portions of their days and lives with people of their own age.\n\nIn a 2010 article for \"Perspectives on Psychological Science\", authors Rogoff et al state that age-segregated housing can hold some advantages for the elderly such as a higher chance of having more things in common with their peers. This segregation can also decrease their involvement with societies that are preoccupied with the desirability of youth and give them the ability to discuss their fears of death and the frequent deaths of others. Some retirement villages are heavily secured, which can give the elders a sense of safety and protection. An older person is more likely to be noticed in an age segregated community if he or she is in need of help. The elderly people living in such a community also receive lower rates because of the quantity of similar goods and services needed by their communities. Some of the disadvantages of age-segregated housing are isolation from mainstream society, preventing older people from sharing wisdom and experiences with younger people and leading old people to have restricted sets of friendships and neighbors. In some elderly people age-segregated housing can contribute to low morale and feelings of uselessness and rejection.\n"}
{"id": "91869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91869", "title": "Ascribed characteristics", "text": "Ascribed characteristics\n\nAscribed characteristics, as used in the social sciences, refers to properties of an individual attained at birth, by inheritance, or through the aging process. The individual has very little, if any, control over these characteristics. Typical examples include race, ethnicity, gender, caste, height, and appearance. The term is apt for describing characteristics chiefly caused by \"nature\" (e.g. genetics) and for those chiefly caused by \"nurture\" (e.g. parenting during early childhood), See: Nature versus Nurture.\n\nDemography being the statistical study of populations requires the ability to differentiate between populations. Most populations self-ascribe themselves as being different than another by the creation of a country. This allows Demographers to draw lines between countries and compare them. However useful, countries have significant complex populations that require more exacting definitions. Commonly seen are uses of Race, Gender and Ethnicity. In the scope of academic demography, all of these are Social Constructs, ASCRIBED to groups or individuals for Stratification . With these theories in place, many new theories can be formed and data collected to either prove or disprove them. Ascribed characteristics can have large by-products weather perceived or not. Discussed below are Race, Gender, Social Status / Caste and Hiring / Promotion.\n\nAscribed characteristics are not always used for academic purposes. People with certain ascribed characteristics can be systematically treated with prejudice. Thus, the study of racism can be seen, at least superficially, as the study of the ways that people with a certain skin color and cultural background are systematically treated differently by society at large. Race does not entirely have a \n\nFrank van Tubergen studied the how ascribed characteristics and achieved characteristics effect their Social Capital in the article \"Personal networks in Saudi Arabia: The role of ascribed and achieved characteristics\". The article highlighted that women have less social capital than men in Saudi Arabia citing specifically that it was \"due to fewer non-family connections\". There are many arguments that stem from disagreements over the definition of what is a fact when it comes to gender, showing the fluidity of ascribed characteristics. For example, people who find homosexuality morally objectionable may attempt to justify this by insisting that homosexuals make a conscious decision about the nature of the sexual desire they experience however, it would difficult to condemn homosexuality if homosexuality was predetermined, either genetically or from early childhood. (See Sexual orientation.). Both Groups do however use the term all the same, simply ascribing different definitions to those individuals.\n\nMany different societies have had varying types of social stratification both historically and in the modern era. One of the most obvious examples is India, and its Caste System. In its essence, it was a system that ascribed sweepers the lowest status, making this one group literally untouchable. Although India officially states that discrimination against lower castes is illegal. \n\nRonald P. Dore was a British sociologist that was a specialist in the Japanese Economy. His view will be expressed here. In his largest work, \"British Factory, Japanese Factory\" , Dore investigates whether decisions on hiring and promotion, in the Japanese firm Hitachi, over a particular time were based chiefly on \"achievement\" or chiefly on \"ascribed characteristics\". The context of the discussion implied that achievement-based decisions are good, while those based on ascribed characteristics are bad. His discussion admits explicitly and, implicitly, that there are several complications to moral judgement that include:\n\n\nDore also points out that what counts as an ascribed characteristic can vary depending on context. In evaluating the fairness of hiring standards, he viewed an applicant's success in the educational system as a good approximation of achievement. Thus, he noted that hiring decisions at Hitachi, during the time of his study, were \"regulated by very strict qualification standards\" and not very significantly influenced by ascribed characteristics. When he turned to evaluate opportunities for advancement within the firm, however, Dore noted that \"educational qualifications...limit the range of posts which one can achieve\". Meaning even if one's level of achievement increases, one may still be kept down by a relative lack of achievement in the educational system. Therefore, in investigating opportunities for promotions, educational achievement \" the two become another form of ascribed characteristic.\" These additional forms of ascribed characteristics expand on the definition of an ascribed characteristic allowing for it to have more applications. \n"}
{"id": "151107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=151107", "title": "Body Worlds", "text": "Body Worlds\n\nBody Worlds (German title: Körperwelten) is a traveling exposition of dissected human bodies, animals, and other anatomical structures of the body that have been preserved through the process of plastination. Gunther von Hagens developed the preservation process which \"unite[s] subtle anatomy and modern polymer chemistry\", in the late 1970s.\n\nA series of \"Body Worlds\" anatomical exhibitions has toured many countries worldwide, sometimes raising controversies about the sourcing and display of actual human corpses and body parts. Nevertheless, Von Hagens maintains that all human specimens were obtained with full knowledge and consent of the donors before they died, and his organization keeps extensive documentation of this permission. Von Hagens emphasizes both educational and artistic aspects of his complex and innovative dissections, and offers online teaching guides for educators. He also tries to distinguish his efforts from those of competitors who may have been less thorough in obtaining advance permission from their specimen sources.\n\nThe exhibit states that its purpose and mission is the education of laymen about the human body, leading to better health awareness. All the human plastinates are from people who donated their bodies for plastination via a body donation program. Each Body Worlds exhibition contains approximately 25 full-body plastinates with expanded or selective organs shown in positions that enhance the role of certain systems.\n\nTo produce specimens for \"Body Worlds\", von Hagens employs 340 people at five laboratories in three countries, China, Germany and Kyrgyzstan. Each laboratory is categorized by specialty, with the China laboratory focusing on animal specimens. One of the most difficult specimens to create was the giraffe that appears in \"Body Worlds & The Cycle of Life\". The specimen took three years to complete – ten times longer than it takes to prepare a human body. Ten people are required to move the giraffe, because its final weight (like all specimens after plastination) is equal to the original animal.\n\nMore than 200 specimens of real human organs and organ systems are displayed in glass cases, some showing various medical conditions. Some of the specimens, such as the Tai Chi Man, demonstrate interventions, and include prosthetics such as artificial hip joints or heart valves. Also featured is a liver with cirrhosis and the lungs of a smoker and non-smoker are placed side by side. A prenatal display features fetuses and embryos, some with congenital disorders.\n\nBody Worlds exhibitions have received more than 37 million visitors, making them the world's most popular touring attraction. \"Body Worlds\" was first presented in Tokyo in 1995. Body Worlds exhibitions have since been hosted by more than 50 museums and venues in North America, Europe and Asia. \"Body Worlds 2 & The Brain – Our Three Pound Gem\" (concerning the brain and nervous system) opened in 2005 at the California Science Center in Los Angeles. it is showing at the Telus World of Science in Vancouver. Several Body Worlds exhibits (as well as Von Hagens himself) were featured in the 2006 film \"Casino Royale\". Among the plastinates featured were the \"Poker Playing Trio\" (which plays a key role in one scene) and \"Rearing Horse and Rider\".\n\n\"Body Worlds 3 & The Story of the Heart\" (concerning the cardiovascular system) opened on 25 February 2006, at the Houston Museum of Natural Science. On 9 July 2009 this show appeared at the Buffalo Museum of Science in Buffalo, New York. , it is showing at the Denver Museum of Nature and Science in Denver, Colorado. \"Body Worlds 4\" debuted 22 February 2008 at the Museum of Science and Industry in Manchester in England and was in the Cureghem Cellars in Brussels until March 2009. \"Body Worlds & The Mirror of Time\" (featuring human development and aging) debuted at The O in London in October 2008. \"Körperwelten & Der Zyklus Des Lebens (The cycle of life)\" opened in Heidelberg in January 2009. \"Body Worlds Vital\" was inaugurated at the Universum museum of the National Autonomous University of Mexico in 2012.\n\nIn July 2008, the Czech Senate passed a law to address illegal trading in human tissue and ban \"advertising of donation of human cells and tissues for money or similar advantages\".\n\nOn Tuesday 21 April 2009, a French judge ruled concerning the Paris exhibition of \"Our Body: The Universe Within\", that exhibiting dead bodies for profit was a \"violation of the respect owed to them\". \"Under the law, the proper place for corpses is in the cemetery\", said Judge Louis-Marie Raingeard. Raingeard ordered the exhibition to close within 24 hours or face a fine of 20,000 euro (over 26,000 dollars) for each day it stayed open. The judge also ordered authorities to seize the 17 bodies on display and all of the organs on display from an unknown number of people for proper burial. Gunther Von Hagens issued a press statement denying any connection between the closed Chinese exhibition and his Body Worlds franchise. Similar exhibitions had already been successfully staged in Lyon and Marseille.\n\nThe UK Parliament created legislation for exhibits of human remains, including plastinated bodies and body parts, in England and Wales under the Human Tissue Act 2004. This requires a licence to be granted by the Human Tissue Authority. The Human Tissue Act superseded the Anatomy Act 1832, which had been found by an independent commission (The Redfern Report) to be inadequate on contemporary collection and use of human tissues, following the Alder Hey organs scandal. In March 2008, the Manchester Museum of Science and Industry was granted such a licence to hold \"Body Worlds 4\" and a further licence was granted to the exhibition in the O2, London, in 2008.\n\nThe Human Tissue (Scotland) Act 2006 – which amended the Anatomy Act 1984 – covers Scotland. Under the terms of this Act, licences for the handling of human remains, including display, must be granted directly by the Scottish Ministry.\n\nVarious organizations gave evidence to the Scottish Executive during the consultation process, including the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, the Wellcome Trust, and the Museums Association.\n\nVarious legislation has been proposed and enacted in different American states. Most proposals concentrate on issues regarding the sale of human remains and the consent of the donors.\n\nNational legislation on consent and tissue donation issues is expressed in the Uniform Anatomical Gift Act (2006) passed by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws which states that \"an anatomical gift of a donor's body or part may be made during the life of the donor for the purpose of transplantation, therapy, research, or education\" and prohibits trafficking in donated human organs for profit.\n\nIn early 2008, former U.S. Republican Representative W. Todd Akin proposed an amendment to the Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act of 1930 to \"make it unlawful for a person to import plastinated human remains into the United States.\" The President of the American Association of Anatomists has expressed concern that the scope of the act is \"too broad\" and that \"Preventing importation of all plastinated specimens could severely restrict their use for medical education.\". The bill of amendment was not enacted during the 2007–2008 Congressional session.\n\nCalifornia's proposed bill AB1519 (Ma), sponsored by Assemblywoman Fiona Ma, tried to \"require exhibitors to get a county permit; to do so, they would have to prove to county health officials that the people whose cadavers were on display — or their next of kin — had consented\".\n\nAssembly Bill 1519 would have made California the first state to require such proof. It was vetoed by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger on 26 September 2008.\n\nThe state of Florida prohibits the sale or purchase of human remains and \"Authorizes certain science centers located in this state to transport plastinated bodies into, within, or out of this state and exhibit such bodies for the purpose of public education without the consent of this state's anatomical board if the science center notifies the board of any such transportation or exhibition, as well as the location and duration of any exhibition, at least 30 days before such transportation or exhibition\".\n\nIn January 2009, Rep. Marcus Oshiro introduced two bills prompted by presentation of the BODIES Exhibition in that state.\n\nHB28 Relating to Dead Human Bodies would add to the prohibition against buying dead human bodies, the selling of dead human bodies and defines the term \"dead human body\" to include plastinated bodies and body parts. It would increase the fine for buying or selling a dead human body to up to $5,000.\n\nHB29 Relating to Dead Human Bodies. Would prohibit the commercial display of dead human bodies without a permit from the Department of Health.\n\nIn June 2008, New York State Senate passed legislation regulating body exhibits. A bill that was sponsored by Senator Jim Alesi requires anyone showing an exhibit that uses real human bodies in New York museums to produce a permit detailing their origin.\n\nRepresentative Mike Fleck's proposed bill would require evidence of informed consent from the decedent or relatives of all humans whose remains are put on display.\n\nThe state of Washington considered a bill that would \"require written authorization to display human remains for a commercial purpose\".\n\nReligious groups, including representatives of the Catholic Church and some Jewish rabbis have objected to the display of human remains, stating that it is inconsistent with reverence towards the human body.\n\nIn 2003, while promoting a display in the Hamburg Museum of Erotica, von Hagens announced his intention to create a sex plastinate. In May 2009 he unveiled a plastinate of a couple having sex, intended for a Berlin exhibition.\n\nIn 2007, the Bishop of Manchester launched a campaign to coincide with the opening of Body Worlds in that city, accusing the exhibitors of being \"body snatchers\" and \"robbing the NHS\", arguing that donation of bodies for plastination would deprive the National Health Service of organs for transplant. The site included a government petition calling for \"a review of the law regarding the policies and practices of touring shows involving corpses\".\n\nConsent is a primary focus of discussion. In January 2004, the German news magazine \"Der Spiegel\" reported that von Hagens had acquired corpses of executed prisoners in China; von Hagens countered that he did not know the origin of the bodies, and returned seven disputed cadavers to China. In 2004, von Hagens obtained an injunction against \"Der Spiegel\" for making the claims. Paul Harris, director of North Carolina's State Board of Funeral Services, has stated, \"Somebody at some level of government ought to be able to look at a death certificate, a statement from an embalmer, donation documents... That's a reasonable standard to apply.\" Assemblywoman Fiona Ma (D-San Francisco) said, \"These displays do have important educational benefits, but using bodies against a person's will is unacceptable\".\n\nQuestions raised regarding deceased hospital patients from Kyrgyzstan and executed prisoners from China – were categorically stated to have never been used in a Body Worlds exhibition, according to BodyWorlds. \"Five years ago, customs officers intercepted 56 bodies and hundreds of brain samples sent from the Novosibirsk Medical Academy to von Hagens' lab in Heidelberg, Germany. The cadavers were traced to a Russian medical examiner who was convicted last year of illegally selling the bodies of homeless people, prisoners and indigent hospital patients. Von Hagens was not charged with any wrongdoing, and says his cadavers are obtained only through proper legal and ethical channels.\n\nAn Ethical Commission set up by the California Science Center in Los Angeles in 2004 had the following members: \nReverend Richard Benson, Assistant Prof of Moral Theology and Academic Dean, \nSt. John's Seminar, Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles;\nDavid C. Blake, PhD, JD, VP, Mission and Ethics,\nSaint John's Health Center;\nRabbi Morley Feinstein,\nSenior Rabbi, University Synagogue;\nReverend Leonard Jackson,\nAssociate Minister,\nFirst African Methodist Episcopal Church (First AME). \nThey determined that \n\"All the bodies need to be properly donated. Advisors felt that this is the most controversial aspect of the project. Proper body donation should be verified to the Science Center's satisfaction, and involves several components. Several advisors reviewed the Body Donor and felt it should be reviewed to ensure that it meets an adequate standard of disclosure and informed consent. They recommended that the form should be clear to make sure the bodies in the exhibit consented to public display. The source of donated bodies should be verifiable; Ask an independent party to review donor forms, verifying that all bodies are donated properly.; Communicate to guests, near the entrance of the exhibit, that the bodies are donated.\"\nAs an ethical concern, consent is not regulated worldwide according to the same ethics. \"That paperwork is then separated from the bodies, which can be used for displays or sold in pieces to medical schools. No one will know for sure, because each plastinated corpse is made anonymous to protect its privacy.\" Hans Martin Sass, a philosophy professor with a speciality in ethics, was hired by the California Science Center to investigate Body Worlds before the show's U.S. debut in 2004. He matched over 200 donation forms to death certificates, but he did not match the paperwork to specific bodies von Hagens has on display.\n\nInternational trade experts have objected to the way in which bodies for commercial display are imported, because the way their categorization codes (as \"art collections\") do not require Centers for Disease Control stamps or death certificates, both of which are required for medical cadavers. In most countries plastinated human specimens are classified under Customs Classification Code 97050000.48 \"items in anatomical collections\". This customs code encompasses \"zoological, botanical, mineralogical or anatomical collections or items in such collections.\"\n\nIn an ethical analysis, Thomas Hibbs, professor of ethics and culture at Baylor University, a private Baptist-affiliated institution, compared cadaver displays to pornography, in that they reduce the subject to \"the manipulation of body parts stripped of any larger human significance.\"\n\nIn a 2006 lecture entitled \"Plasti-Nation: How America was Won\", Lucia Tanassi, professor of medical ethics and anthropology at Vanderbilt University Medical Center, explored questions for ethicists regarding this new scientific frontier. Tanassi called it provocative that ethics committees have contributed to the popularization of the exhibits without setting forth any process of a line of inquiry, pointing to an ethics report from the California Science Center. As part of that review, bioethicist Hans Martin Sass was sent to Heidelberg to match donor consents with death certificates.\n\nConcerns have been expressed about the educational aspects, especially the inclusion of these displays for school field trips. St. Louis Diocese Archbishop Raymond Burke strongly suggested that Catholic Schools avoid scheduling field trips, stating that parents, and not children, should retain the freedom of deciding whether or not their children will view the exhibit. Concerned with how \"some kids process\" these \"graphic\" images, Des McKay, school superintendent in Abbotsford, British Columbia (near Greater Vancouver), barred field trips to exhibits of plasticized human beings. In an editorial to the Abbotsford News, Rev. Christoph Reiners questions what effect the exhibits will have on the values of children attending for school field trips. Others—such as the Catholic Schools Office of Phoenix—acknowledge the educational content of Body Worlds. Reporting on the exhibition at the O2 bubble in 2008/2009, Melanie Reid of The Times stated \"(Body Worlds) should be compulsory viewing for every child of 10 or over\"\n\nVon Hagens maintains copyright control over pictures of his exhibits. Visitors are not allowed to take pictures, and press photographers are required to sign agreements permitting only a single publication in a defined context, followed by a return of the copyright to Von Hagens. Because of a similar agreement applied to sound bites (O-Töne, in German) a German press organization suggested that the press refrain from reporting about the exhibition in Munich in 2003 .\n\nThe Body Worlds website offers plastinated pieces for sale. There are a wide range of products from plastinated fruit jewelry to entire humans. Although some of the pieces require purchasers to be a qualified user—those intending to use the pieces for \"research, educational, medical or therapeutic purposes\"—many pieces, including animal testicles and baby chicks, require no authorization. There are also extremely realistic plastinate impressions of human hearts and slices (including one slice of copulating humans) for sale to the general public.\n\nThe success of Body Worlds has given rise to several similar shows featuring plastinated cadavers, including \"BODIES... The Exhibition\" and \"Our Body: The Universe Within\" in the United States, \"Bodies Revealed\" in the United Kingdom, \"Body Exploration\" in the Republic of China, \"Mysteries of the Human Body\" in South Korea, \"Jintai Plastomic: Mysteries of the Human Body\" in Japan, \"Cuerpos Entrañables\" in Spain.\n\nSome of these contain exhibits very similar to von Hagens' plastinates; Von Hagens has asserted copyright protection, and has sued \"Body Exploration\" and \"Bodies Revealed\".\nThe suits were based on a presumed copyright of certain positions of the bodies, but the counterparty asserts that the human body in its diversity cannot be copyrighted.\n\nSuch lawsuits have not stopped the competition. While the Korean police in Seoul confiscated a few exhibits from \"Bodies Revealed\", the exhibition went on successfully.\n\nSeveral of the competing exhibitions have been organized by the publicly traded US company Premier Exhibitions. They started their first \"Bodies Revealed\" exhibition in Blackpool, England which ran from August through October 2004. In 2005 and 2006 the company opened their \"Bodies Revealed\" and \"BODIES... The Exhibition\" exhibitions in Seoul, Tampa, Miami, New York City, and Seattle. Other exhibition sites in 2006 are Mexico City, Atlanta (GA), London, Great Britain and Las Vegas (Nevada).\n\nUnlike Body Worlds, none of the competing exhibitions or their suppliers have a body donation programme. Dr. Roy Glover, a spokesperson for \"BODIES... The Exhibition\" said all their exhibits use unclaimed cadavers, deposited at the University of Dalian by Chinese authorities. In May 2008, a settlement with the attorney general of New York obliged Premier Exhibitions to offer refunds to visitors when it could not prove consent for the use of the bodies in its exhibitions. New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo commented: \"Despite repeated denials, we now know that Premier itself cannot demonstrate the circumstances that led to the death of the individuals. Nor is Premier able to establish that these people consented to their remains being used in this manner.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53469157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53469157", "title": "Catherine Amelia Fay Ewing", "text": "Catherine Amelia Fay Ewing\n\nCatherine Amelia Fay Ewing (née Catherine Amelia Fay; nickname, Aunt Katy; July 18, 1822 - April 4, 1897) was an American educator, missionary, philanthropist, activists, and social reformer from the U.S. state of Massachusetts. In 1857, she took in children from the Washington County Infirmary, thus organizing the first children's home in the state of Ohio. \n\nEwing taught school in Ohio before becoming a missionary among the Choctaw. Ten years later, upon her return to Ohio, she founded a home for destitute children. Through her efforts, the Ohio Legislature passed a bill in Columbus, which entitled every county to establish a children's home. Ewing also authored a comprehensive historical report on the origin and growth of the children's home movement in Washington County.\n\nCatherine A. Fay was born in Westboro, Massachusetts, July 18, 1822. Her parents, William (a veteran of the War of 1812) and Elizabeth (Lankton) Fay, lived comfortably. She was the seventh of eleven children, of whom all grew up and nine reached an advanced age. On her father's side, Ewing was descended from Huguenot ancestry. Through the mother's influence, the 12 children became Christians in early life. Ewing's mother was of Scotch descent, and in the long line of Christian ancestors, there were many ministers and missionaries.\n\nIn 1835, the family removed to Washington County, Ohio, and settled east of Marietta, near Marietta College. The father came here both to aid the struggling college and to give his sons the benefit of its advantages. Ewing attended the Marietta Female Seminary, remaining in Marietta through her girlhood, even as her health began to decline.\n\nEwing offered herself to the American Board for Foreign Mission work among the Native Americans, who were at that time included in the field of the Board's activities. She was 18 when she left home and became a mission teacher among the Choctaw, who had been removed in 1830 from their homes in the South to Indian Territory. Her salary as a teacher was US$100 a year plus her board. For 10 years, she labored among the Choctaw, much of the time the only non-Native American among them, living beyond the nearest post office. \n\nIn the fall of 1853, while working as a missionary among the Choctaw, a physician called upon Ewing and asked her to visit a poor family where the mother, a New England woman, had died leaving five small children. They had been committed to his care, and he was trying to find homes for them, their drunken father having deserted them. The physician wanted Ewing to adopt a little girl who as two years old. She took the youngest for a little while, and became deeply attached to the child, but she felt the decision was impracticable as she was a poor teacher, hundreds of miles from home. The child was then taken by a married couple. Following a drunken fight, the child was thrown down the steps of the house and killed. This affected Ewing so deeply that she became determined to have a home of her own where she could care for orphan and homeless children. To achieve this objective, she began saving every dollar possible. Eventually, however, malaria and nervous exhaustion compelled her return to Marietta.\n\nHer father, sympathizing with her purpose, assisted Ewing to some extent, so from these and other sources she gathered a modest amount from sympathetic friends, borrowed $150, till her resources amounted to $500. In 1857, she purchased of land at Moss Run, about east of Marietta, and set about building. Meanwhile, soon after her return from the missionary work, she had chanced to visit the county infirmary, and was drawn to the young children there, living in the same environment with adults. These children were often diseased and depraved, but she fell in love with them nonetheless, and determined to make for them a home. Many thought her crazy, others suspected a moneymaking scheme, some appreciated her motives and sacrifices and helped her. \n\nOn 1 April, 1858, in a cottage of two rooms, she received from the County Poor House, nine children, all under 10 years of age. The county agreed to pay her $1.00 a week (\"The Marietta Register\" said the sum was $0.75 cents a week) and half the expense of medical attendance and burial in case of death. Each child was to have a new suit of clothes when brought to her, but for all other needs she was herself to be responsible. \nThe first few weeks were very hard ones, the trustees of the district school refusing to allow the children to attend school because they were paupers, and they were unwilling to have their own children associate with them. After a lawsuit, she obtained permission to send them to school, but the children were taunted as poorhouse children. A few months later, before the ensuing winter, she moved into the new home with 20 rooms, and the first children’s home was an accomplished fact. Its cost was $2000, and in five years, $4000 had been expended on the property. She also built her own school house and engaged a teacher. \n\nAfter the American Civil War broke out in 1861, many soldiers' children were added to her care. Her allowance for the increased cost of living was brought up to $1.25 a week and in response to her appeal for such children, the State opened at Xenia, Ohio a home for soldiers' orphans. For 10 years, she successfully managed the home and cared for 101 needy children of Washington County. She faced problems of feeding and clothing so many, especially in war times, when prices went up and the attention of those who had helped her before was drawn away. There was also the issue of sickness when diphtheria and scarlet fever invaded the home.\n\nBut Ewing knew that the need of other counties was as great and some even greater. As early as 1862, she began an \"agitation\" for a State law in behalf of neglected children. She personally went to Columbus and pleaded with the Legislature. In 1864, she conferred with the commissioners about the process at the state legislature to bring about this change. The bill was presented that year, but failed. In 1865, it was again presented and rejected. Finally in 1866, a bill prepared by Hon. Samuel S. Knowles of Washington County was passed, authorizing the County Commissioners throughout the State to establish children's homes. So the plan which she at first thought of only as a relief to her own Children's Home became in the course of time the means of creating homes in the different counties of the State. \n\nWashington County was one of the first to act under this law and a farm of was purchased for this purpose. When all was ready for the children's arrival, she was asked to take the Superintendency of the home, in 1870. But she declined the offer as she had married by then.\n\nIn 1866, at the age of 44, she married Archibald S. D. Ewing (1828-1900), who had been an adviser and assistant on her farm. After 1867, she lived quietly in Marietta, still active in good works. For many years, she taught the primary department of the Presbyterian Sunday School, and was “Aunt Katie” to a large part of the children and young people in the upper part of the city. She was interested in the temperance cause. \n\nThough the Ewings had no natural children, Mrs. Ewing had adopted five. She died April 4, 1897, leaving her property by will to the Missionary Society of the women of Marietta but this society had a temporary existence and had disbanded at the time of the death of her husband, so by direction of the Probate Court it was divided among her brothers and sisters and their heirs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14938524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14938524", "title": "Clan Mother", "text": "Clan Mother\n\nClan Mother is a traditional role of elder matriarch women within certain Native American clans, who was typically in charge of appointing tribal chiefs and Faithkeepers.\n\nThe Hopi (in what is now the Hopi Reservation in northeastern Arizona), according to Alice Schlegel, had as its \"gender ideology ... one of female superiority, and it operated within a social actuality of sexual equality.\" According to Diana LeBow (based on Schlegel's work), in the Hopi, \"gender roles ... are egalitarian ... [and] [n]either sex is inferior.\" LeBow concluded that Hopi women \"participate fully in ... political decision-making.\" According to Schlegel, \"the Hopi no longer live as they are described here\" and \"the attitude of female superiority is fading\". Schlegel said the Hopi \"were and still are matrilinial\" and \"the household ... was matrilocal\".\n\nSchlegel explains why there was female superiority as that the Hopi believed in \"life as the highest good ... [with] the female principle ... activated in women and in Mother Earth ... as its source\" and that the Hopi \"were not in a state of continual war with equally matched neighbors\" and \"had no standing army\" so that \"the Hopi lacked the spur to masculine superiority\" and, within that, as that women were central to institutions of clan and household and predominated \"within the economic and social systems (in contrast to male predominance within the political and ceremonial systems)\", the Clan Mother, for example, being empowered to overturn land distribution by men if she felt it was unfair, since there was no \"countervailing ... strongly centralized, male-centered political structure\".\n\nThe Iroquois clan mother is responsible for the welfare of the clan. She names all the people of the clan and holds a position in nominating, installing and removing the male chief, the \"Hoyaneh\" (\"Caretaker of the Peace\"). They are considered the life givers. Each clan mother has a Faithkeeper who is responsible for ceremonial preparations, weddings, funerals, and other rituals. The clan mother's position is hereditary; her title rests within the clan and is usually passed on to her female relatives, looking first at her eldest sisters, other sisters, then her eldest daughter and other daughters. The Kanien'kéha word for clan mother, \"Oiá:ner\", translates to English as \"righteous\" or \"she is good\". The Iroquois had 9 clans divided into three elements. The land element was represented by the wolf, deer and bear clans; the air element by the heron, snipe and hawk clans; and the water element by the beaver, eel and turtle clans. The basic unit of the traditional Haudenosaunee society was the clan forming \"firesides\" of a husband, wife and their children; a typical clan in a village would number between 50-200 people. Every clan was divided into two groups called \"moeities\" which carried out various rituals. Every clan was headed by a clan mother. Some of the most famous Haudenosaunee leaders have been clan mothers, most notably the half-French Madam Montour and her daughter French Margaret and her granddaughter Queen Esther.\n\nThe Haudenosanuee League was founded according to their legends by a prophet known as the Great Peacemaker who brought the Five Nations together sometime in the 12th century, and since his first convert was a woman named Jigonhsasee and generally his first followers were women, the institution of the clan mothers was a tribute to this aspect of the story. In Haudenosaunee legend, before the Great Peacemaker, what became the Five Nations were dominated by a brutal struggle between an all-male, cannibal cult called the \"Hunters\" vs. the all-female society of farmers called the \"Cultivators\". In the story, not all the men joined the cannibal cult, and instead stand by their women, revering the \"corn mothers\" (another term for clan mother) who knew how to farm, and defeat the cannibal cult. In tribute to Jigonhasee's work and his other female followers, the Great Peacemaker had decreed that men and women were to be equal and the clan mothers were to choose the leaders of the League.\n\nFor the Haudenosaunnee, the universe was divided into two halves that needed each other to co-exist as for them, the concept of east was meaningless without the west and the concept of the west was meaningless without the east. In this way of understanding the universe, male and female were different aspects of the world that needed each other to co-exist in order for the world to continue, and as such, women were seen as the equals of men. The councils of the clan mothers, whose powers were equal to the councils of the chiefs, were a way of balancing out the male and female to achieve social harmony. One Iroquois told the American author Jeanette Rodriguez: \"Within our society, we maintain a balance between the responsibilities of the women, the responsibilities of men, of the chiefs and of the faithkeepers. All of our men in between have to keep this balance so that at no time and no place does anyone have more power than the rest; for our leadership to function, all must have equal power. They must speak to one another\". In Haundenosaunee mythology, it was the Sky Woman who came from the Sky world inhabited by the supernatural beings who fell from the Sky world down to what became the earth, and who is the mother of all life in this world, thus making women more worthy of respect. For the Haudenosaunee, it was the Sky woman who created all life on the earth, and women as the bearers of life, are seen as her heirs, being seen as spiritually part of the \"mother earth\" that nurtures all life. The Sky woman was considered to be the First Clan Mother, and her daughter, the Lynx Woman, the Second Clan Mother. Since Turtle Island (i.e. North America) was created for the Sky Woman when she fell to the earth, the Haudenosuanee traditionally gave ownership of the land to women.\n\nReflecting this identification of \"mother earth\" with the feminine, for the Haudenosaunee farming was strictly women's work, and the staple crops of corn, squash and beans were known as the \"Three Sisters\". One of the laws credited to the Great Peacemaker declared that: \n\nThe lineal descent of the People of the Five Nations shall run in the female line. Women shall be considered proprietors of the nation. They shall own the land and the soil. Men and women shall the status of the mother.\n\nHowever, the Haudenosaunee were by no means anti-male; in the Sky Woman story, the spirit of the North Wind seeks to seduce her teenage daughter, the Lynx Woman, by taking the forms of various animals until finally the North Spirit spirit takes a form she cannot resist, that of a handsome young man, and thereby fathers two twins. The 19th century American feminist Matilda Joslyn Gage was greatly influenced by seeing the power of the clan mothers, which she deemed \"mother rule\" or a \"matriarchate\", and by their Haudenosaunee creation story, where it is a goddess who lives in harmony with nature rather than a patriarchal God who created all life in the world.\n\nFinally, the clan mothers conduct the cross-over ceremony which marks the end of childhood and the beginning of adolescence. The cross-over ceremonies consists of much fasting, teaching, a period of seclusion and finally a ceremony involving singing and dancing that marks the symbolic beginning of adolescence. The Haudenosaunee view life as consisting of several stages starting with conception itself with sex regarded as a sacred act that symbolically united the dual male and female aspects of the universe in order to create new life. Sex is often described by the Haudenosaunnee as the sacred \"Rite of Conception\" that begins new life, and for the Haudenosaunee the Christian concept of Jesus's virgin birth is bizarre. Birth is viewed as the second stage of life, with the clan mothers formally welcoming the newly born child into the world. The end of \"toothlessness\" when toddlers grow their teeth is seen as the end of infancy and the beginning of childhood, which is the third stage of life. The crossover ceremonies marking the end of childhood and the beginning of first adolescence and then the end of adolescence and the beginning of adulthood are seen as the fourth and fifth states of life. The cross-over ceremonies involved much fasting over a 20-day period, and clan mothers generally provide advice and encouragement to the young people undergoing the fast. During the fasting phrase of the cross-over ceremonies, clan mothers often provide advice and encouragement to the fasting young people.\n\nHistorically, the clan mothers selected the 50 sachems who ran the Haudenosaunee League that comprised the Five Nations of the Cayuga, Mohawk, Oneida, Onondaga, and Seneca, and who became the Six Nations when the Tuscarora joined the League in 1722. The clan mothers would consult other senior women in her clan before naming a chief. The clans formed the local government in the League, and most importantly, the clans cut across the differences between the Five Nations as each of the Five Nations were divided into the 9 clans. The clan mothers also had the power to dismiss any chief or sachem who was felt to be falling in his duties, though the clan mother had to give three warnings first. The power of the clan mothers to name and dismiss chiefs ensured that a female perspective was always maintained on political decisions. Anyone seeking to be adopted into an Haudenosaunee family had to approved by the clan mothers. When the Tuscarora joined the League, they had petition the clan mothers of the Five Mothers for permission to join, starting in 1711, and it was not until 11 years in 1722 that permission was finally granted. The Iroquois call themselves the Haudenosaunee (\"the people of the longhouse\") and reject the name Iroquois, which was the derogatory name given to them by the Algonquins meaning the \"killer people\". As the French were in contact with the Algonquins before they met the Haudenosaunee, the French adopted the Algonquin name for them, much to the chagrin of the Haudenosaunee, who consider the name Iroquois to be offensive.\n\nThe clan mothers were in charge of the various clans that made up the Iroquois League and as the Iroquois were a matrilateral society this meant that children were born into their mother's clan (i.e. if a woman belonged to the bear clan, then all her children belonged to the bear clan). It was considered to be incest by the Iroquois to marry within one's own matrilineal clan so traditionally marriages were between clans. Marrying someone from the same patrilineal clan was considered acceptable. The importance of the clan mothers was often missed by Europeans in the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries, who coming from patriarchal societies, tended to assume that the chiefs and sachems had the same powers as European kings, which was not the case. The scholar Barbara Mann has charged that the impression that the councils of the clan mothers was \"secondary\" to the councils of the chiefs is a misunderstanding caused by Europeans who could not understand the gender equality in Iroquois society, and in fact the councils were equal. The councils of the clan mothers met the councils of the chiefs at least every month under a full moon, but meetings could be held more frequently if there was an emergency. The American scholar Elisabeth Tooker denied the popular claim that the Haudenosaunee League inspired the U.S. constitution of 1787, noting the U.S. constitution did not allow women to vote or hold office until 1920, and even today there is no guaranteed female representation in the executive, legislative or judicial arms of the U.S. government; in short, there is no counterpart to the clan mothers within the American system of governance.\n\nThe clan mothers traditionally launched the \"mourning wars\" to take captives who would become Haudenosaunee by being adopted by a family to replace a family member who had died or alternatively be tortured to death, by announcing that a family was grieving because of a death of a family member and accused the young men in their villages of being cowards. At which point, the young men could either go on the war path by taking part in a \"mourning war\" or be branded cowards, which would make then unmarriageable. Usually in order to prove their courage, the young men would take up the challenge issued by the clan mothers by going on a \"mourning war\".\n\nA sign of the power of the clan mothers occurred in 1713 when a delegation representing the Palatines of 6 men had to ask a meeting of the council of clan mothers for permission to settle in Kanienkeh (\"the land of the flint\"-the Iroquois name for their homeland in what is now upstate New York), as only the clan mothers had that power. The Palatine delegates and their interpreter had been expecting to meet the sachems, and were surprised to be meeting the clan mothers instead. The Canadian historian D. Peter MacLeod writing about the relationship between the Canadian Iroquois and the French in the time of the Seven Years' War wrote: \"Most critically, the importance of clan mothers, who possessed considerable economic and political power within Canadian Iroquois communities, was blithely overlooked by patriarchal European scribes. Those references that do exist, show clan mothers meeting in council with their male counterparts to take decisions regarding war and peace and joining in delegations to confront the \"Onontio\" [the Iroquois term for the French governor-general] and the French leadership in Montreal, but only hint at the real influence wielded by these women\".\n\nSignificantly, the famous Mohawk chief Joseph Brant did not acquire political power despite his successes as a Loyalist commander in the American Revolutionary War until he married his third wife, Adonwentishon (also known as Catherine Croghan), who was a clan mother in 1780. It was only after Brant's marriage to the clan mother Adonwentishon that Brant become politically powerful within the Iroquois League, and his power rested on the fact that his wife was the clan mother of the turtle clan. Before then, the political power in the Brant family had been Joseph Brant's sister, Molly Brant, who was a clan mother of the wolf clan. Brant was the second common-in-law wife of Sir William Johnson, the superintendent of northern Indian affairs with the first being a Palatine named Catherine Weisenberg. Brant had been in a relationship with Johnson from her teenage years on, and after Weisenberg died in 1759, promptly moved into Johnson's house to become the lady of the house. Unlike Weisenberg, Brant featured prominently in Johnson's letters as his strong-willed and much younger wife, who managed both Johnson Hall and assisted his work. In common with clan mothers, Brant was never deferential to her husband and insisted on attending political meetings with British leaders as befitting her status, where she was outspoken in defense of her people's best interests. Molly Brant like her brother was a Loyalist, and was considered by the British to be one of their most powerful allies within the Iroquois League, able because of her position as a clan mother to rally the Iroquois warriors to fight for the Crown against the Americans despite the wishes of many Iroquois to be neutral in the war. Daniel Claus, an agent for the Indian Department wrote that \"one word from her is more taken notice of by the Five Nations than a thousand from any white man without exception\".\n\nRegarding the role of women in Iroquois society, Doug George-Kanentiio (2000) writes:\n\nIn our society, women are the center of all things. Nature, we believe, has given women the ability to create; therefore it is only natural that women be in positions of power to protect this function. ... We traced our clans through women; a child born into the world assumed the clan membership of its mother. Our young women were expected to be physically strong. ... The young women received formal instruction in traditional planting. ... Since the Iroquois were absolutely dependent upon the crops they grew, whoever controlled this vital activity wielded great power within our communities. It was our belief that since women were the givers of life they naturally regulated the feeding of our people. ... In all countries, real wealth stems from the control of land and its resources. Our Iroquois philosophers knew this as well as we knew natural law. To us it made sense for women to control the land since they were far more sensitive to the rhythms of the Mother Earth. We did not own the land but were custodians of it. Our women decided any and all issues involving territory, including where a community was to be built and how land was to be used. ... In our political system, we mandated full equality. Our leaders were selected by a caucus of women before the appointments were subject to popular review...Our traditional governments are composed of an equal number of men and women. The men are chiefs and the women \"clan-mothers\". ... As leaders, the women closely monitor the actions of the men and retain the right to veto any law they deem inappropriate. ... Our women not only hold the reigns of political and economic power, they also have the right to determine all issues involving the taking of human life. Declarations of war had to be approved by the women, while treaties of peace were subject to their deliberations.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "55206266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55206266", "title": "Clarissa Caldwell Lathrop", "text": "Clarissa Caldwell Lathrop\n\nClarissa Caldwell Lathrop (1847 – September 11, 1892) was an American social reformer and autobiographer. Her prominence came from her remarkable experience, being confined and unlawfully imprisoned in the Utica Lunatic Asylum for 26 months (October 1880 – December 1882), through a plot of a secret enemy to kill her. She eventually managed to communicate with James Bailey Silkman, a lawyer who, like herself, was confined in the same asylum under similar circumstances. He succeeded in obtaining a writ of \"habeas corpus\", and Judge George G. Barnard of the New York Supreme Court pronounced Lathrop sane and unlawfully incarcerated.\n\nAfter that time, she devoted her life to ameliorating the laws relating to lunacy. Lathrop felt she owed it to women to take her case before the New York State Legislature, and demand reform in this direction, but she was unsuccessful in two efforts and found herself penniless and facing the need to support herself. After several efforts, she became a court stenographer, and ten years after her release, wrote a book, the story of her own institutionalization, entitled \"A Secret Institution.\" Published at her own expense, this book led to the formation of the Lunacy Law Reform League, in 1889, a national organization with headquarters in New York City, of which Lathrop became the secretary and was the national organizer.\n\nClarissa Caldwell Lathrop was born in Rochester, New York. She was a daughter of Gen. William E. Lathrop, a Brigadier General of the National Guard. Lathrop’s father had met and married Lathrop’s mother, Jemima, at the age of 42 – Jemima was only 19.  Lathrop had been one of five children, but had lost her eldest brother to disease in 1865 and her second eldest brother moved to the southern part of the country to look for work.  Lathrop’s father passed away in 1877 leaving his wife, and his three daughters to open their home to board strangers for income.\n\nShe graduated from the Rochester Academy.\n\nLathrop also often traveled significant distances and visited friends around Rochester.\n\nLathrop became a teacher, which, owing to her father's failure in business, became a means of support to her family as well as to herself. She continued to teach successfully until her unlawful imprisonment in the Utica State Hospital (formerly known as the New York State Lunatic Asylum at Utica).\n\nLathrop feared that Miss Hamlo, a boarder in her mother's house, was poisoning her. Lathrop was obsessed with a Mr. Zell, a former lover who married another woman after Lathrop rejected him. After repenting her decision to reject Zell, Lathrop became convinced that Hamlo was in alliance with Zell's wife. After Lathrop began seeing Zell eveywhere, she believed he had divorced, and would now marry her if Lathrop survived Hamlo's poisonings. When Lathrop's life was saved on two occasions by friends, she took some of the aconite-poisoned tea to a chemist for analysis, as she sought reliable proof before making open charges against any one. At the instigation of a doctor who was in sympathy with the plot to incarcerate Lathrop, she went to Utica to consult Dr. John P. Gray, Superintendent of the State Lunatic Asylum in Utica, New York. Instead of seeing Grey, upon her arrival, she was incarcerated with the insane, without the commitment papers required by law, and kept a prisoner at the asylum for 26 months.\n\nShe was sent to the asylum at the insistence of her mother and sisters, who lived in Rochester, and who asserted that Lathrop was suffering from the delusion that somebody was trying to poison her. Her answer was that it was not a delusion, that somebody was endeavoring to poison her. But she was willing to accept proof to the contrary, which was also evidence that there was no delusion. Nonetheless, her incarceration ensued. By the time Lathrop was admitted to the asylum, she was 32 years old and unmarried despite engagements to two different men.  Her first engagement was broken off by her fiancé due to cold feet and her second betrothed died from consumption.\n\nThe hospital, according to Lathrop was “a living tomb.”\n\nWithin a few weeks of her arrival at Utica, Lathrop had written letters to two of her physician friends only to find out later that her letters had never been mailed.  The attending physician claimed they were not sent because the asylum was not obliged to send her letters “all over the country.”  Lathrop was “amazed and dumbfounded” at the idea that not only would her letters be read by the asylum doctors, but that they would never reach their intended destination. Lathrop had easily made a friend who had revealed to her how she would be able to communicate to the outside world without getting caught by the authorities. She obtained paper through another patient who had hidden the contraband in her room. The woman would not out rightly give the paper to Lathrop for fear of punishment for aiding and abetting, but hinted that there was nothing she could do if Lathrop took a page or two while she was elsewhere. Lathrop also wrote on newspaper edges and scraps of wrapping paper which she also hid in her skirt.\n\nEventually, she managed to communicate with Silkman, a New York lawyer, who had been forcibly carried off and imprisoned in the same insane asylum. He obtained a writ of \"habeas corpus\" at once on behalf of Lathrop, and in December, 1882, Judge Barnard of the New York Supreme Court pronounced Lathrop to be sane and unlawfully incarcerated.\n\nImmediately upon her release, Lathrop went before the New York State Legislature. She described her experience and the necessity for reform. After making another fruitless effort the succeeding year, she found herself homeless and penniless, and dependent upon a cousin's generosity for shelter and support, forced to begin her new life under the most difficult circumstances.\nLathrop collected money for a charitable society on a commission, spending her evenings studying stenography and typewriting. She soon started a business of her own and was successful as a court stenographer. Ten years after her release, she wrote her book, \"A Secret Institution\", which was a history of her own life, written in the style of a novel, and descriptive of what she experienced or witnessed while an inmate of the Utica asylum.\n\nKeeping true to her vow “to devote the rest of [her] life to the cause of the insane,” Lathrop formed the Lunacy Law Reform and the Anti-Kidnapping Leagues.  The Leagues provided legal services to asylum patients who felt they were victims of a corrupt legal system. The goal of the leagues was to “protect sane people from false imprisonment.”  Both groups had helped several individuals who had been unjustly incarcerated secure their freedom. The Lunacy Law Reform League in 1889, was a national organization having its headquarters in New York City, of which she was secretary and national organizer.\n\nLathrop died in Saratoga, New York, on September 11, 1892, and is buried at Mount Hope Cemetery, in Rochester.\n\nAlbert Bach, legal counsel to Lathrop, held that the interesting point in the case was the question of the deprivation of Lathrop's postal rights while in the asylum. She was not permitted to have writing materials, and even though she succeeded in obtaining them, the asylum authorities disposed of her letters as they pleased. The claim was asserted that asylum managers have no such control over inmates as have prison managers; that the former institutions have more of the character of hospitals. Bach found nothing in the by-laws of the Utica asylum giving the right to this close supervision. He said that there were many instances of wrongful incarceration, and that justice would seem to dictate that inmates of asylums should have access to the mails. Even though much of it would be trash, it would be well worth while to endure that if information could be obtained to the release of a person improperly detained.\n\nReports suggested that Lathrop would bring a suit of U$25,000 damages against the management of the Utica State Insane Asylum. The grounds alleged were the wrongful detention of herself, and the seizure of her letters written to friends asking them to help her to regain her liberty. Lathrop’s lawyer gave the following statement of the scope of the lawsuit: Of course the main point is in regard to the interception of letters that she wrote to friends asking for assistance. If the managers of the asylums have the right to intercept letters, they have the power to shut a person entirely from the world, whether the person be insane or not. This is a difference between a criminal and a lunatic. In the case of a criminal he is in his position through his own fault, but the insane person is a patient, and deserves all possible consideration. If they stop a person’s letters, they virtually remove from that person the possibility of obtaining release. The suit is brought not so much for the sake of damages, as to test the point whether or not the managers of asylums have a right to enforce such a rule. I have become interested in the matter, and intend to follow it up and test the question thoroughly. One of the things I will do will be to write to the Postmaster General, asking if it would not be advisable in case we can prove that the authorities are wrong in prohibiting the forwarding of letters, to place free delivery boxes in all asylums, that the patients may have a chance to correspond without difficulty with their friends. I believe such a system would do away with much of the abuse that without doubt exists in many asylums, and would greatly lessen the chance of sane persons being held in confinement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2919515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2919515", "title": "Criminal intelligence", "text": "Criminal intelligence\n\nCriminal Intelligence is information compiled, analyzed, and/or disseminated in an effort to anticipate, prevent, or monitor criminal activity.\n\nThe United States Army Military Police Corps defines criminal intelligence in more detail; criminal intelligence is information gathered or collated, analyzed, recorded/reported and disseminated by law enforcement agencies concerning types of crime, identified criminals and known or suspected criminal groups.\n\nIt is particularly useful when dealing with organized crime. Criminal intelligence is developed by using surveillance, informants, interrogation, and research, or may be just picked up on the \"street\" by individual police officers.\n\nSome larger law enforcement agencies have a department, division or section specifically designed to gather disparate pieces of information and develop criminal intelligence. One of the most effective ways of applying criminal intelligence is first to record it (store in a computer system) which can be \"mined\" (searched) for specific information.\n\nCriminal intelligence:\n\nCRIMINT is the result of the collection, analysis, and interpretation of all available information concerning known and potential criminal threats and vulnerabilities of supported organizations. Army law enforcement agencies are the primary liaison representatives of the Army to federal, state, local, and host nation (HN) agencies for exchanging police intelligence. They collect criminal intelligence (\"CRIMINT\") and human intelligence (HUMINT) within the provisions of applicable statutes and regulations. Army law enforcement agencies have the capability to analyze and disseminate collected time-sensitive information concerning a criminal threat against Army interests. The value of such intelligence cannot be overemphasized; it not only serves the purpose of police investigations, it also contributes to the development of countermeasures to safeguard Army personnel, materials, information, and other resources.\n\nThe CRIMINT process is effective intelligence results from a series of interrelated activities. The intelligence process is a continuous process of collecting and converting data into intelligence products to be integrated into operations. The process consists of several phases with continuous evaluation and feedback at each phase and at the end of the process. With the minor modification of adding “reporting” to the second phase, the following text outlines the intelligence process as discussed in Army Regulation (AR) 525-13.\n\n\n\"Criminal intelligence analysis\" has been recognized by law enforcement as a useful support tool for over twenty-five years and is successfully used within the international community. International organizations, such as the International Police (INTERPOL), European Police (EUROPOL) and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), and while there are many definitions of Criminal Intelligence Analysis in use throughout the world, the one definition agreed in June 1992 by an international group of twelve European INTERPOL member countries and subsequently adopted by other countries is as follows:\n\nThe identification of and provision of insight into the relationship between crime data and other potentially relevant data with a view to police and judicial practice.\n\nAs such, criminal intelligence is a more intense or specific application towards investigations than criminology.\n\nThere are several techniques intended for criminal investigation analysis. One of them is link analysis which is dedicated to evaluate relationships between nodes. In this specific category there are several applications such as IBM i2 that provides integrated tools to support crime investigators and next-generation, single platforms as DataWalk that imports, integrates and links structured and unstructured data at massive scale for further visual analysis, investigation and collaboration.\n\n"}
{"id": "5031680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5031680", "title": "Dating violence", "text": "Dating violence\n\nDating abuse or dating violence is defined as the perpetration or threat of an act of violence by at least one member of an unmarried couple on the other member within the context of dating or courtship. It is also when one partner tries to maintain power and control over the other through abuse/violence. This abuse/violence can take a number of forms: sexual assault, sexual harassment, threats, physical violence, verbal, mental, or emotional abuse, social sabotage, and stalking. It can include psychological abuse, emotional blackmail, sexual abuse, physical abuse and psychological manipulation.\n\nDating violence crosses all racial, age, economic and social lines. The Center for Relationship Abuse Awareness describes dating abuse as a \"pattern of abusive and coercive behaviors used to maintain power and control over a former or current intimate partner.\" The Family & Community Development support group at eCitizen in Singapore has described what it calls tell-tale signs of an abusive relationship.\n\nIndividuals of all walks of life can find themselves in an abusive relationship. Abuse can occur regardless of the couple's age, race, income, or other demographic traits. There are, however, many traits that abusers and victims share in common. \n\nThe Centre for Promoting Alternatives to Violence describes abusers as being obsessively jealous and possessive, overly confident, having mood swings or a history of violence or temper, seeking to isolate their partner from family, friends and colleagues, and having a tendency to blame external stressors.\n\nMeanwhile, victims of relationship abuse share many traits as well, including: physical signs of injury, missing time at work or school, slipping performance at work or school, changes in mood or personality, increased use of drugs or alcohol, and increasing isolation from friends and family. Victims may blame themselves for any abuse that occurs or may minimize the severity of the crime. This often leads to victims choosing to stay in abusive relationships.\n\nStrauss (2005) argues that while men inflict the greater share of injuries in domestic violence, researchers and society at large must not overlook the substantial minority of injuries inflicted by women. Additionally, Strauss notes that even relatively minor acts of physical aggression by women are a serious concern:\n\nSimilarly, Deborah Capaldi reports that a 13-year longitudinal study found that a woman's aggression towards a man was equally important as the man's tendency towards violence in predicting the likelihood of overall violence: \"Since much IPV [Intimate Partner Violence] is mutual and women as well as men initiate IPV, prevention and treatment approaches should attempt to reduce women's violence as well as men's violence. Such an approach has a much higher chance of increasing women's safety.\" However, Capaldi's research only focused on at-risk youth, not women in general, and, therefore, may not apply to the entire population.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "151604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=151604", "title": "Deception", "text": "Deception\n\nDeception is an act or statement which misleads, hides the truth, or promotes a belief, concept, or idea that is not true. It is often done for personal gain or advantage. Deception can involve dissimulation, propaganda, and sleight of hand, as well as distraction, camouflage, or concealment. There is also self-deception, as in bad faith. It can also be called, with varying subjective implications, beguilement, deceit, bluff, mystification, ruse, or subterfuge.\n\nDeception is a major relational transgression that often leads to feelings of betrayal and distrust between relational partners. Deception violates relational rules and is considered to be a negative violation of expectations. Most people expect friends, relational partners, and even strangers to be truthful most of the time. If people expected most conversations to be untruthful, talking and communicating with others would require distraction and misdirection to acquire reliable information. A significant amount of deception occurs between some romantic and relational partners.\n\nDeceit and dishonesty can also form grounds for civil litigation in tort, or contract law (where it is known as misrepresentation or fraudulent misrepresentation if deliberate), or give rise to criminal prosecution for fraud. It also forms a vital part of psychological warfare in denial and deception.\n\nDeception includes several types of communications or omissions that serve to distort or omit the complete truth. Examples of deception range from false statements to misleading claims in which relevant information is omitted, leading the receiver to infer false conclusions. For example, a claim that 'sunflower oil is beneficial to brain health due to the presence of omega-3 fatty acids' may be misleading, as it leads the receiver to believe sunflower oil will benefit brain health more so than other foods. In fact, sunflower oil is relatively low in omega-3 fatty acids and is not particularly good for brain health, so while this claim is technically true, it leads the receiver to infer false information. Deception itself is intentionally managing verbal or nonverbal messages so that the message receiver will believe in a way that the message sender knows is false. Intent is critical with regard to deception. Intent differentiates between deception and an honest mistake. The Interpersonal Deception Theory explores the interrelation between communicative context and sender and receiver cognitions and behaviors in deceptive exchanges.\n\nSome forms of deception include:\n\nMany people believe that they are good at deception, though this confidence is often misplaced.\n\nBuller and Burgoon (1996) have proposed three taxonomies to distinguish motivations for deception based on their Interpersonal Deception Theory:\n\nDeception detection between relational partners is extremely difficult, unless a partner tells a blatant or obvious lie or contradicts something the other partner knows to be true. While it is difficult to deceive a partner over a long period of time, deception often occurs in day-to-day conversations between relational partners. Detecting deception is difficult because there are no known completely reliable indicators of deception. Deception, however, places a significant cognitive load on the deceiver. He or she must recall previous statements so that his or her story remains consistent and believable. As a result, deceivers often leak important information both verbally and nonverbally.\n\nDeception and its detection is a complex, fluid, and cognitive process that is based on the context of the message exchange. The interpersonal deception theory posits that interpersonal deception is a dynamic, iterative process of mutual influence between a sender, who manipulates information to depart from the truth, and a receiver, who attempts to establish the validity of the message. A deceiver's actions are interrelated to the message receiver's actions. It is during this exchange that the deceiver will reveal verbal and nonverbal information about deceit. Some research has found that there are some cues that may be correlated with deceptive communication, but scholars frequently disagree about the effectiveness of many of these cues to serve as reliable indicators. Noted deception scholar Aldert Vrij even states that there is no nonverbal behavior that is uniquely associated with deception. As previously stated, a specific behavioral indicator of deception does not exist. There are, however, some nonverbal behaviors that have been found to be correlated with deception. Vrij found that examining a \"cluster\" of these cues was a significantly more reliable indicator of deception than examining a single cue.\n\nMark Frank proposes that deception is detected at the cognitive level. Lying requires deliberate conscious behavior, so listening to speech and watching body language are important factors in detecting lies. If a response to a question has a lot disturbances, less talking time, repeated words, and poor logical structure, then the person may be lying. Vocal cues such as frequency height and variation may also provide meaningful clues to deceit.\n\nFear specifically causes heightened arousal in liars, which manifests in more frequent blinking, pupil dilation, speech disturbances, and a higher pitched voice. The liars that experience guilt have been shown to make attempts at putting distance between themselves and the deceptive communication, producing “nonimmediacy cues” These can be verbal or physical, including speaking in more indirect ways and showing an inability to maintain eye contact with their conversation partners. Another cue for detecting deceptive speech is the tone of the speech itself. Streeter, Krauss, Geller, Olson, and Apple (1977) have assessed that fear and anger, two emotions widely associated with deception, cause greater arousal than grief or indifference, and note that the amount of stress one feels is directly related to the frequency of the voice.\n\nThe camouflage of a physical object often works by breaking up the visual boundary of that object. This usually involves colouring the camouflaged object with the same colours as the background against which the object will be hidden. In the realm of deceptive half-truths, camouflage is realized by 'hiding' some of the truths.\n\nMilitary camouflage as a form of visual deception is a part of military deception.\n\nA disguise is an appearance to create the impression of being somebody or something else; for a well-known person this is also called incognito. Passing involves more than mere dress and can include hiding one's real manner of speech.\n\nExample:\n\nIn a more abstract sense, 'disguise' may refer to the act of disguising the nature of a particular proposal in order to hide an unpopular motivation or effect associated with that proposal. This is a form of political spin or propaganda. \"See also\": rationalisation and transfer within the techniques of propaganda generation.\n\nExample:\n\nExample:\n\nThe term \"deception\" as used by a government is typically frowned upon unless it’s in reference to military operations. The terms for the means by which governments employ deception are:\n\n\nSimulation consists of exhibiting false information. There are three simulation techniques: mimicry (copying another model or example, such as non-poisonous snakes which have the colours and markings of poisonous snakes), fabrication (making up a new model), and distraction (offering an alternative model)\n\nIn the biological world, mimicry involves \"unconscious\" deception by similarity to another organism, or to a natural object. Animals for example may deceive predators or prey by visual, auditory or other means.\n\nTo make something that appears to be something that it is not, usually for the purpose of encouraging an adversary to reveal, endanger, or divert that adversary's own resources (\"i.e.\", as a decoy). For example, in World War II, it was common for the Allies to use hollow tanks made out of wood to fool German reconnaissance planes into thinking a large armor unit was on the move in one area while the real tanks were well hidden and on the move in a location far from the fabricated \"dummy\" tanks. Mock airplanes and fake airfields have also been created.\n\nTo get someone's attention from the truth by offering bait or something else more tempting to divert attention away from the object being concealed. For example, a security company publicly announces that it will ship a large gold shipment down one route, while in reality take a different route. A military unit trying to maneuver out of a dangerous position may make a feint attack or fake retreat, to make the enemy think they are doing one thing, while in fact they have another goal.\n\nA seventeenth-century story collection, Zhang Yingyu's \"The Book of Swindles\" (ca. 1617), offers multiple examples of the bait-and-switch and fraud techniques involving the stimulation of greed in Ming-dynasty China.\n\nDeception is particularly common within romantic relationships, with more than 90% of individuals admitting to lying or not being completely honest with their partner at one time.\n\nThere are three primary motivations for deception in relationships.\n\nDeception impacts the perception of a relationship in a variety of ways, for both the deceiver and the deceived. The deceiver typically perceives less understanding and intimacy from the relationship, in that they see their partner as less empathetic and more distant. The act of deception can also result in feelings of distress for the deceiver, which become worse the longer the deceiver has known the deceived, as well as in longer-term relationships. Once discovered, deception creates feelings of detachment and uneasiness surrounding the relationship for both partners; this can eventually lead to both partners becoming more removed from the relationship or deterioration of the relationship. In general, discovery of deception can result in a decrease in relationship satisfaction and commitment level, however, in instances where a person is successfully deceived, relationship satisfaction can actually be positively impacted for the person deceived, since lies are typically used to make the other partner feel more positive about the relationship.\n\nIn general, deception tends to occur less often in relationships with higher satisfaction and commitment levels and in relationships where partners have known each other longer, such as long-term relationships and marriage. In comparison, deception is more likely to occur in casual relationships and in dating where commitment level and length of acquaintanceship is often much lower.\n\nUnique to exclusive romantic relationships is the use of deception in the form of infidelity. When it comes to the occurrence of infidelity, there are many individual difference factors that can impact this behavior. Infidelity is impacted by attachment style, relationship satisfaction, executive function, sociosexual orientation, personality traits, and gender. Attachment style impacts the probability of infidelity and research indicates that people with an insecure attachment style (anxious or avoidant) are more likely to cheat compared to individuals with a secure attachment style, especially for avoidant men and anxious women. Insecure attachment styles are characterized by a lack of comfort within a romantic relationship resulting in a desire to be overly independent (avoidant attachment style) or a desire to be overly dependent on their partner in an unhealthy way (anxious attachment style). Those with an insecure attachment style are characterized by not believing that their romantic partner can/will support and comfort them in an effective way, either stemming from a negative belief regarding themselves (anxious attachment style) or a negative belief regarding romantic others (avoidant attachment style). Women are more likely to commit infidelity when they are emotionally unsatisfied with their relationship whereas men are more likely to commit infidelity if they are sexually unsatisfied with their current relationship. Women are more likely to commit emotional infidelity than men while men are more likely to commit sexual infidelity than women; however, these are not mutually exclusive categories as both men and women can and do engage in emotional or sexual infidelity.\n\nExecutive control is a part of executive functions that allows for individuals to monitor and control their behavior through thinking about and managing their actions. The level of executive control that an individual possesses is impacted by development and experience and can be improved through training and practice. Those individuals that show a higher level of executive control can more easily influence/control their thoughts and behaviors in relation to potential threats to an ongoing relationship which can result in paying less attention to threats to the current relationship (other potential romantic mates). Sociosexual orientation is concerned with how freely individuals partake in casual sex outside of a committed relationship and their beliefs regarding how necessary it is to be in love in order to engage in sex with someone. Individuals with a less restrictive sociosexual orientation (more likely to partake in casual sex) are more likely to engage in infidelity. Individuals that have personality traits including (high) neuroticism, (low) agreeableness, and (low) conscientiousness are more likely to commit infidelity. Men are generally speculated to cheat more than women, but it is unclear if this is a result of socialization processes where it is more acceptable for men to cheat compared to women or due to an actual increase in this behavior for men. Research conducted by Conley and colleagues (2011) suggests that the reasoning behind these gender differences stems from the negative stigma associated with women who engage in casual sex and inferences about the sexual capability of the potential sexual partner. In their study, men and women were equally likely to accept a sexual proposal from an individual who was speculated to have a high level of sexual prowess. Additionally, women were just as likely as men to accept a casual sexual proposal when they did not anticipate being subjected to the negative stigma of sexually permissible women as slutty.\n\nResearch on the use of deception in online dating has shown that people are generally truthful about themselves with the exception of physical attributes to appear more attractive. According to the Scientific American, “nine out of ten online daters will fib about their height, weight, or age” such that men were more likely to lie about height while women were more likely to lie about weight. In a study conducted by Toma and Hancock, “less attractive people were found to be more likely to have chosen a profile picture in which they were significantly more attractive than they were in everyday life”. Both genders used this strategy in online dating profiles, but women more so than men. Additionally, less attractive people were more likely to have “lied about objective measures of physical attractiveness such as height and weight”. In general, men are more likely to lie on dating profiles the one exception being that women are more likely to lie about weight.\n\nSome methodologies in social research, especially in psychology, involve deception. The researchers purposely mislead or misinform the participants about the true nature of the experiment. In an experiment conducted by Stanley Milgram in 1963 the researchers told participants that they would be participating in a scientific study of memory and learning. In reality the study looked at the participants' willingness to obey commands, even when that involved inflicting pain upon another person. After the study, the subjects were informed of the true nature of the study, and steps were taken in order to ensure that the subjects left in a state of well being. Use of deception raises many problems of research ethics and it is strictly regulated by professional bodies such as the American Psychological Association.\n\nPsychological research often needs to deceive the subjects as to its actual purpose. The rationale for such deception is that humans are sensitive to how they appear to others (and to themselves) and this self-consciousness might interfere with or distort from how they actually behave outside of a research context (where they would not feel they were being scrutinized). For example, if a psychologist is interested in learning the conditions under which students cheat on tests, directly asking them, \"how often do you cheat?,\" might result in a high percent of \"socially desirable\" answers and the researcher would in any case be unable to verify the accuracy of these responses. In general, then, when it is unfeasible or naive to simply ask people directly why or how often they do what they do, researchers turn to the use of deception to distract their participants from the true behavior of interest. So, for example, in a study of cheating, the participants may be told that the study has to do with how intuitive they are. During the process they might be given the opportunity to look at (secretly, they think) another participant's [presumably highly intuitively correct] answers before handing in their own. At the conclusion of this or any research involving deception, all participants must be told of the true nature of the study and why deception was necessary (this is called debriefing). Moreover, it is customary to offer to provide a summary of the results to all participants at the conclusion of the research.\n\nThough commonly used and allowed by the ethical guidelines of the American Psychological Association, there has been debate about whether or not the use of deception should be permitted in psychological research experiments. Those against deception object to the ethical and methodological issues involved in its use. Dresser (1981) notes that, ethically, researchers are only to use subjects in an experiment after the subject has given informed consent. However, because of its very nature, a researcher conducting a deception experiment cannot reveal its true purpose to the subject, thereby making any consent given by a subject misinformed (p. 3). Baumrind (1964), criticizing the use of deception in the Milgram (1963) obedience experiment, argues that deception experiments inappropriately take advantage of the implicit trust and obedience given by the subject when the subject volunteers to participate (p. 421).\n\nFrom a practical perspective, there are also methodological objections to deception. Ortmann and Hertwig (1998) note that \"deception can strongly affect the reputation of individual labs and the profession, thus contaminating the participant pool\" (p. 806). If the subjects in the experiment are suspicious of the researcher, they are unlikely to behave as they normally would, and the researcher's control of the experiment is then compromised (p. 807). Those who do not object to the use of deception note that there is always a constant struggle in balancing \"the need for conducting research that may solve social problems and the necessity for preserving the dignity and rights of the research participant\" (Christensen, 1988, p. 670). They also note that, in some cases, using deception is the only way to obtain certain kinds of information, and that prohibiting all deception in research would \"have the egregious consequence of preventing researchers from carrying out a wide range of important studies\" (Kimmel, 1998, p. 805).\n\nAdditionally, findings suggest that deception is not harmful to subjects. Christensen's (1988) review of the literature found \"that research participants do not perceive that they are harmed and do not seem to mind being misled\" (p. 668). Furthermore, those participating in experiments involving deception \"reported having enjoyed the experience more and perceived more educational benefit\" than those who participated in non-deceptive experiments (p. 668). Lastly, it has also been suggested that an unpleasant treatment used in a deception study or the unpleasant implications of the outcome of a deception study may be the underlying reason that a study using deception is perceived as unethical in nature, rather than the actual deception itself (Broder, 1998, p. 806; Christensen, 1988, p. 671).\n\nDeception is a recurring theme in modern philosophy. In 1641 Descartes published his meditations, in which he introduced the notion of the Deus deceptor, a posited being capable of deceiving the thinking ego about reality. The notion was used as part of his hyperbolic doubt, wherein one decides to doubt everything there is to doubt. The Deus deceptor is a mainstay of so-called skeptical arguments, which purport to put into question our knowledge of reality. The punch of the argument is that all we know might be wrong, since we might be deceived. Stanley Cavell has argued that all skepticism has its root in this fear of deception.\n\nDeception is a common topic in religious discussions. Some sources focus on how religious texts deal with deception. But, other sources focus on the deceptions created by the religions themselves. For example, Ryan McKnight is the founder of an organization called FaithLeaks. He stated that the organizations \"goal is to reduce the amount of deception and untruths and unethical behaviors that exist in some facets of religion\".\n\nIn its purest form, Christianity encourages the pursuit of truth. But, in practice, many Christians are criticized as being deceptive and otherwise problematic. The prominent political speech writer Michael Gerson said that evangelicals were \"associating evangelicalism with bigotry, selfishness and deception.\" His comments were directed specifically towards those evangelicals who support Donald Trump.\n\nIn Islam the concept of Taqiyya is often interpreted as legitimized deception. But, many Muslims view Taqiyya as a necessary means of alleviating religious persecution. In the city of Basking Ridge, New Jersey the town's residents used the concept of Taqivya to block a mosque from being built. The dispute went on for years. In a related story, journalist Ian Wilkie of Newsweek asserted that Taquivya provides evidence that Assad has used chemical weapons on the Syrian people.\n\nFor legal purposes, deceit is a tort that occurs when a person makes a factual misrepresentation, knowing that it is false (or having no belief in its truth and being reckless as to whether it is true) and intending it to be relied on by the recipient, and the recipient acts to his or her detriment in reliance on it. Deceit may also be grounds for legal action in contract law (known as misrepresentation, or if deliberate, fraudulent misrepresentation), or a criminal prosecution, on the basis of fraud.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "733886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=733886", "title": "Emotional labor", "text": "Emotional labor\n\nEmotional labor is the process of managing feelings and expressions to fulfill the emotional requirements of a job. More specifically, workers are expected to regulate their emotions during interactions with customers, co-workers and superiors. This includes analysis and decision making in terms of the expression of emotion, whether actually felt or not, as well as its opposite: the suppression of emotions that are felt but not expressed.\n\nRoles that have been identified as requiring emotional labor include but are not limited to Mother/Wife, those involved in public administration (especially the palace intrigues of a ruling body, these being an eternal literary theme), guarded professions of secrecy (such as espionage, national security, military intelligence, psychiatry, clerisy, and law), flight attendant, daycare worker, nursing home worker, nurse, doctor, store clerk, call center worker, teacher, librarian, social worker; most roles in a hotel, motel, tavern, bar, pub, and restaurant; and jobs in the media, such as television and radio. As particular economies move from a manufacturing- to a service-based economy, more workers in a variety of occupational fields are expected to manage their emotions according to employer demands when compared to sixty years ago.\n\nThe sociologist Arlie Hochschild provides the first definition of emotional labor, which is a form of emotion regulation that creates a publicly visible facial and bodily display within the workplace. The related term emotion work (also called \"emotion management\") refers to \"these same acts done in a private context\", such as within the private sphere of one's home or interactions with family and friends. Hochschild identified three emotion regulation strategies: cognitive, bodily, and expressive. Within cognitive emotion work, one attempts to change images, ideas, or thoughts in hopes of changing the feelings associated with them. For example, one may associate a family picture with feeling happy and think about said picture whenever attempting to feel happy. Within bodily emotion work, one attempts to change physical symptoms in order to create a desired emotion. For example, one may attempt deep breathing in order to reduce anger. Within expressive emotion work, one attempts to change expressive gestures to change inner feelings. For example, one may attempt to smile when trying to feel happy. One becomes aware of emotion work most often when one's feelings do not fit the situation. For instance, when one does not feel sad at a funeral, one becomes acutely aware of the feelings appropriate for that situation.\n\nWhile emotion work happens within the private sphere, emotional labor is emotion management within the workplace according to employer expectations. According to Hochschild (1983), the emotion management by employers creates a situation in which this emotion management can be exchanged in the marketplace. According to Hochschild (1983), jobs involving emotional labor are defined as those that:\n\n\nHochschild (1983) argues that within this commodification process, service workers are estranged from their own feelings in the workplace.\n\n\nOriginal description of this emotion management process, researchers have focused on surface acting and deep acting as the primary strategies that employees use to regulate their emotions. Surface acting involves a \"faking\" process through which outward expressions are altered, yet internal feelings are left intact (2013). Conversely, deep acting is an effortful process through which employees change their internal feelings to align with organizational expectations, producing more natural and genuine emotional displays (Grandey et al., 2013) (3). Although the underlying regulatory processes involved in each approach differ, the objective of both, is typically to show positive emotions, which are presumed to impact the feelings of customers and bottom-line outcomes (e.g., sales, positive recommendations, and repeat business; Pugh, 2001; Tsai, 2001). However, as previously mentioned, research generally has found surface acting to be more consistently problematic for employee well-being than deep acting (Grandey, 2003; Hülsheger & Schewe, 2011).\n\nIn the past, emotional labor demands and display rules were viewed as a characteristic of particular occupations, such as restaurant workers, cashiers, hospital workers, bill collectors, counselors, secretaries, and nurses. However, display rules have been conceptualized not only as role requirements of particular occupational groups, but also as interpersonal job demands, which are shared by many kinds of occupations.\n\nIn 1991, Sutton did an in-depth qualitative study into bill collectors at a collection agency. He found that unlike the other jobs described here where employees need to act cheerful and concerned, bill collectors are selected and socialized to show irritation to most debtors. Specifically, the collection agency hired agents who seemed to be easily aroused. The newly hired agents were then trained on when and how to show varying emotions to different types of debtors. As they worked at the collection agency, they were closely monitored by their supervisors to make sure that they frequently conveyed urgency to debtors.\n\nBill collectors' emotional labor consists of not letting angry and hostile debtors make them angry and to not feel guilty about pressuring friendly debtors for money. They coped with angry debtors by publicly showing their anger or making jokes when they got off the phone. They minimized the guilt they felt by staying emotionally detached from the debtors.\n\nIn her 1991 study of waitresses in Philadelphia, Paules examines how these workers assert control and protect their self identity during interactions with customers. In restaurant work, Paules argues, workers' subordination to customers is reinforced through \"cultural symbols that originate from deeply rooted assumptions about service work.\" Because the waitresses were not strictly regulated by their employers, waitresses' interactions with customers were controlled by the waitresses themselves. Although they are stigmatized by the stereotypes and assumptions of servitude surrounding restaurant work, the waitresses studied were not negatively affected by their interactions with customers. To the contrary, they viewed their ability to manage their emotions as a valuable skill that could be used to gain control over customers. Thus, the Philadelphia waitresses took advantage of the lack of employer-regulated emotional labor in order to avoid the potentially negative consequences of emotional labor.\n\nThough Paules highlights the positive consequences of emotional labor for a specific population of waitresses, other scholars have also found negative consequences of emotional labor within the waitressing industry. Through eighteen months of participant observation research, Bayard De Volo (2003) found that casino waitresses are highly monitored and monetarily bribed to perform emotional labor in the workplace. Specifically, Bayard De Volo (2003) argues that through a sexualized environment and a generous tipping system, both casino owners and customers control waitresses' behavior and appearance for their own benefit and pleasure. Even though the waitresses have their own forms of individual and collective resistance mechanisms, intense and consistent monitoring of their actions by casino management makes it difficult to change the power dynamics of the casino workplace.\n\nBy using participant observation and interviews, Leidner (1993) examines how employers in fast food restaurants regulate workers' interactions with customers. According to Leidner (1993), employers attempt to regulate workers' interactions with customers only under certain conditions. Specifically, when employers attempt to regulate worker-customer interactions, employers believe that \"the quality of the interaction is important to the success of the enterprise\", that workers are \"unable or unwilling to conduct the interactions appropriately on their own\", and that the \"tasks themselves are not too complex or context-dependent.\" According to Leidner (1993), regulating employee interactions with customers involves standardizing workers' personal interactions with customers. At the McDonald's fast food restaurants in Leidner's (1993) study, these interactions are strictly scripted, and workers' compliance with the scripts and regulations are closely monitored.\n\nAlong with examining employers' attempts to regulate employee-customer interactions, Leidner (1993) examines how fast-food workers' respond to these regulations. According to Leidner (1993), meeting employers' expectations requires workers to engage in some form of emotional labor. For example, McDonald's workers are expected to greet customers with a smile and friendly attitude independent of their own mood or temperament at the time. Leidner (1993) suggests that rigid compliance with these expectations is at least potentially damaging to workers' sense of self and identity. However, Leidner (1993) did not see the negative consequences of emotional labor in the workers she studied. Instead, McDonald's workers attempted to individualize their responses to customers in small ways. Specifically, they used humor or exaggeration to demonstrate their rebellion against the strict regulation of their employee-customer interactions.\n\nAccording to Larson and Yao (2005), empathy should characterize physicians' interactions with their patients because, despite advancement in medical technology, the interpersonal relationship between physicians and patients remains essential to quality healthcare. Larson and Yao (2005) argue that physicians consider empathy a form of emotional labor. Specifically, according to Larson and Yao (2005), physicians engage in emotional labor through deep acting by feeling sincere empathy before, during, and after interactions with patients. On the other hand, Larson and Yao (2005) argue that physicians engage in surface acting when they fake empathic behaviors toward the patient. Although Larson and Yao (2005) argue that deep acting is preferred, physicians may rely on surface acting when sincere empathy for patients is impossible. Overall, Larson and Yao (2005) argue that physicians are more effective and enjoy more professional satisfaction when they engage in empathy through deep acting due to emotional labor.\n\nAccording to Martin (1999), police work involves substantial amounts of emotional labor by officers, who must control their own facial and bodily displays of emotion in the presence of other officers and citizens. Although policing is often viewed as stereotypically masculine work that focuses on fighting crime, policing also requires officers to maintain order and provide a variety of interpersonal services. For example, police must have a commanding presence that allows them to act decisively and maintain control in unpredictable situations while having the ability to actively listen and talk to citizens. According to Martin (1999), a police officer who displays too much anger, sympathy, or other emotion while dealing with danger on the job will be viewed by other officers as someone unable to withstand the pressures of police work, due to the sexist views of many police officers. While being able to balance this self-management of emotions in front of other officers, police must also assertively restore order and use effective interpersonal skills to gain citizen trust and compliance. Ultimately, the ability of police officers to effectively engage in emotional labor affects how other officers and citizens view them.\n\nMany scholars argue that the amount of emotional work required between all levels of government is greatest on the local level. It is at the level of cities and counties that the responsibility lies for day to day emergency preparedness, firefighters, law enforcement, public education, public health, and family and children's services. Citizens in a community expect the same level of satisfaction from their government, as they receive in a customer service-oriented job. This takes a considerate amount of work for both employees and employers in the field of public administration. There are two comparisons that represent emotional labor within public administration, \"Rational Work versus Emotion Work\", and \"Emotional Labor versus Emotional Intelligence.\"\n\nWhen public administrators perform emotional labor, many scholars argue administrators are dealing with significantly more sensitive situations than employees in the service industry. The reason for this is because they are on the front lines of the government, and are expected to by citizens to serve them quickly and efficiently. When confronted by a citizen or a co-worker public administrators use emotional sensing to size up the emotional state of the citizen in need. Workers then take stock of their own emotional state in order to make sure that the emotion they are expressing is appropriate to their roles. Simultaneously, they have to determine how to act in order to elicit the desired response from the citizen as well as from co-workers. Public Administrators perform emotional labor through five different strategies: Psychological First Aid, Compartments and Closets, Crazy Calm, Humor, and Common Sense.\n\nAccording to Mary Guy, Public administration does not only focus on the business side of administration but also on the personal side as well. It is not just about collecting the water bill or land ordinances to construct a new property, it is also about the quality of life and sense of community that is allotted to individuals by their city officials. Rational work is the ability to think cognitively and analytically, while emotional work means to think more practically and with more reason.\n\nKnowing how to suppress and manage one's own feelings is known as emotional intelligence, the ability to control one's emotions and to be able to do this at a high level guarantees one's own ability to serve those in need. Emotional intelligence is performed while performing emotional labor, and without one the other can not be there.\n\nMacdonald and Sirianni (1996) use the term \"emotional proletariat\" to describe service jobs in which \"workers exercise emotional labor wherein they are required to display friendliness and deference to customers.\" Because of deference, these occupations tend to be stereotyped as female jobs, independent of the actual number of women working the job. According to Macdonald and Sirianni (1996), because deference is a characteristic demanded of all those in disadvantaged structural positions, especially women, when deference is made a job requirement, women are likely to be overrepresented in these jobs. Macdonald and Sirianni (1996) claim that \"[i]n no other area of wage labor are the personal characteristics of the workers so strongly associated with the nature of the work.\" Thus, according to Macdonald and Sirianna (1996), although all workers employed within the service economy may have a difficult time maintaining their dignity and self-identity due to the demands of emotional labor, such an issue may be especially problematic for women workers.\n\nEmotional labor also affects women by perpetuating occupational segregation and the gender wage gap. Job segregation, which is the systematic tendency for men and women to work in different occupations, is often cited as the reason why women lack equal pay when compared to men. According to Guy and Newman (2004), occupational segregation and ultimately the gender wage gap can at least be partially attributed to emotional labor. Specifically, work-related tasks that require emotional work thought to be natural for women, such as caring and empathizing are requirements of many female-dominated occupations. However, according to Guy and Newman (2004), these feminized work tasks are not a part of formal job descriptions and performance evaluations: \"Excluded from job descriptions and performance evaluations, the work is invisible and uncompensated. Public service relies heavily on such skills, yet civil service systems, which are designed on the assumptions of a bygone era, fail to acknowledge and compensate emotional labor.\" According to Guy and Newman (2004), women working in positions that require emotion labour in addition to regular work are not compensated for this additional labour because of the sexist notion that the additional labour is to be expected of them by the fact of being a woman. This suggests that Guy and Newman believe a man conducting emotional labour would be compensated more than a woman would, however, if women are inproportionately hired for positions requiring emotional work, that does not immediately explain a wage gap comparable to men.\n\nPositive affective display in service interactions, such as smiling and conveying friendliness, are positively associated with customer positive feelings, and important outcomes, such as intention to return, intention to recommend a store to others, and perception of overall service quality. There is evidence that emotional labor may lead to employees' emotional exhaustion and burnout over time, and may also reduce employees' job satisfaction. That is, higher degree of using emotion regulation on the job is related to higher levels of employees' emotional exhaustion, and lower levels of employees' job satisfaction.\n\nThere is empirical evidence that higher levels of emotional labor demands are not uniformly rewarded with higher wages. Rather, the reward is dependent on the level of general cognitive demands required by the job. That is, occupations with high cognitive demands evidence wage returns with increasing emotional labor demands; whereas occupations low in cognitive demands evidence a wage \"penalty\" with increasing emotional labor demands.\n\nCoping occurs in response to psychological stress—usually triggered by changes—in an effort to maintain mental health and emotional well-being. Life stressors are often described as negative events (loss of a job). However, positive changes in life (a new job) can also constitute life stressors, thus requiring the use of coping skills to adapt. Coping strategies are the behaviors, thoughts, and emotions that you use to adjust to the changes that occur in your life. The use of coping skills will help a person better themselves in the work place and perform to the best of their ability to achieve success. There are many ways to cope and adapt to changes. Some ways include: sharing emotions with peers, having a healthy social life outside of work, being humorous, and adjusting expectations of self and work. These coping skills will help turn negative emotion to positive and allow for more focus on the public in contrast to oneself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33744845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33744845", "title": "Environmental inequality in the United Kingdom", "text": "Environmental inequality in the United Kingdom\n\nEnvironmental inequality in the United Kingdom is the way in which the quality of the environment differs between different communities in the UK. These differences are felt across a number of aspects of the environment, including air pollution, access to green space and exposure to flood risk.\n\nThe Environment Agency, a British non-departmental public body of the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), defines 'environmental inequality' as follows: 'To observe or claim an environmental inequality is to point out that an aspect of the environment is distributed unevenly amongst different social groups (differentiated by social class, ethnicity, gender, age, location, etc.)'.\n\nThe Sustainable Development Research Network (SDRN) define environmental inequality as follows: 'Environmental inequality refers to the unequal distribution of environmental risks and hazards and access to environmental goods and services.'\n\nGordon Walker (Department of Geography, Lancaster Environment Centre, Lancaster University and Malcolm Eames (University of Cardiff) define 'environmental inequality' as 'covering a wide range of questions of difference or unevenness, including:\n\n\nSociologist Liam Downey (2005) has distinguished five different ways of defining environmental inequality:\n\ni) Intentional racism definitions: According to this definition, environmental inequalities arise when environmental hazards are intentionally placed in minority neighbourhoods by private companies.\n\nii) Disparate exposure definitions: According to this definition, environmental inequalities arise 'when members of a specific social group are more highly exposed to some set of environmental pollutants than we would expect if group members were randomly distributed across residential space'.\n\niii) Disparate health impact definitions: According to this definition, environmental inequalities arise 'when the negative health effects of residential proximity or exposure to environmental hazards are distributed unequally across social groups.'\n\niv) Disparate social impacts definitions: According to this definition, environmental inequalities arise 'when members of a specific social group are more likely to live in environmentally hazardous neighborhoods than we would expect if group members were randomly distributed across residential space.'\n\nv) Relative distribution of burdens versus benefits definitions: According to this definition, environmental inequalities arise when groups that receive greater benefits from capitalist social relations (according to proponents of this definition, this means whites and the middle and upper classes) are less burdened by industrial pollution than groups that receive fewer benefits from capitalist social relations (according to proponents of this definition, this means people of colour, the poor and the working classes).\n\nThe concept of environmental inequality emerged in the context of the movement for Environmental Justice. The Environmental Justice movement originated in the US in the 1980s in response to concerns about communities from poor, black and minority ethnic environments being disproportionately affected by environmental issues and excluded from environmental decision-making.\n\nMuch initial progress on promoting an Environmental Justice agenda in the UK was made in Scotland, beginning with a speech made by Jack McConnell, First Minister of the Scottish Executive in 2002. McConnell said: '... the reality is that the people who have the most urgent environmental concerns in Scotland are those who daily cope with the consequences of a poor quality of life, and live in a rotten environment – close to industrial pollution, plagued by vehicle emissions, streets filled by litter and walls covered in graffiti. This is true for Scotland and also true elsewhere in the world. These are circumstances which would not be acceptable to better off communities in our society, and those who have to endure such environments in which to bring up a family, or grow old themselves are being denied environmental justice.'\n\nFollowing this speech, and in light of Environmental Justice campaigning by Friends of the Earth Scotland, references to Environmental Justice have been made in several Scottish policy documents ( e.g. Scottish Executive 2002c, 2003, 2003a (the Partnership Agreement); Scottish Executive Development Department, 2001, 2003, 2004, and 2005). The Scottish Executive, in 2005, commissioned research into ways of making environmental information more accessible to the public, and has also recently commissioned a study that investigates the social impacts of flooding.\n\nAn Environmental Justice agenda has also been emerging in England since the late 1990s. In 1999, Environment Minister Michael Meacher wrote, in a foreword to 'Equality and the Environment' by Brenda Boardman: 'environmental problems are serious and impact most heavily on the most vulnerable members of society: the old, the very young and the poor.' In a 2001 speech, Prime Minister Tony Blair spoke about the need to address environmental issues such as access to green space and air quality in deprived urban areas and in a speech given to the UN in New York, 2007, Prime Minister Gordon Brown said that 'the consequences of climate change will be disproportionately felt by the poorest who are least responsible for it – making the issue of climate change one of justice as much as economic development...economic progress social justice and environmental care now go together.'\n\nThe presence of this agenda became clear at a policy level in England, in DEFRA's 1999 Sustainable Development Strategy 'A Better Life', in which there was a focus on access to environmental information, decision making and justice. The Environmental Justice theme was evident again in the 2004 Sustainable Development Strategy, which commissioned a public consultation on issues around environmental justice and equality. Further, in 2003, the government's Social Exclusion Unit published a report that examined issues around inequalities in transport and pollution. One governmental actor involved in pushing forward the Environmental Justice agenda was The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister. In 2004, it included environmental factors in its indices of deprivation and, in 2005, it commissioned research into the links between social and economic conditions and environmental quality. The UK Environmental Justice agenda was also taken on by the government's Sustainable Development Commission (SDC). In their November 2001 review of the UK's Sustainable Development Strategy, SDC approached issues of regeneration, poverty and the environment with an environmental justice perspective, and in their 2002 report 'Vision for Sustainable Regeneration, Environment and Poverty', SDC stressed the need for a new approach to sustainable regeneration that acknowledges the importance of environmental inequalities and the links between poverty and the environment.\n\nThe discourse around environmental justice in the UK is often framed in terms of 'environmental equality', following DEFRA's decision to use environmental equality as one of its sustainable development indicators.\n\nThe Environment Agency states that 'People who are socially and economically disadvantaged often live in the worst environments. For example, those living in the most deprived parts of England experience the worst air quality and have less access to green space and adequate housing. These problems can affect people's health and well being and can add to the burden of social and economic deprivation. They can also limit the opportunities available for people to improve their lives and undermine attempts to renew local neighbourhoods. Those affected tend to be the most vulnerable and excluded in society.'\n\nThere is also evidence that people from BME (black and minority ethnic) backgrounds suffer the worst environmental conditions, and are excluded from environmental decision-making. UK NGO and think-tank Capacity Global, in 'BMEs – Tackling Social and Environmental Justice', argue that several barriers exist, which hinder BAME communities' action on tackling environmental problems.\n\nThe most affluent 20 per cent of council wards have five times the amount of parks or general green space (excluding gardens) per person than the most deprived 10 per cent of wards. Wards with a population with fewer than 2% black and minority ethnic residents have six times as many parks and eleven times more public green space as wards where more than 40 per cent of the population are people from black and minority ethnic groups.\n\nAccording to a 2011 DEFRA White Paper on the Natural Environment, people in deprived areas are nearly six times less likely than those in affluent ones to describe their area as 'green', and 'those living in deprived areas, minority ethnic communities, elderly people and those with disabilities have less access to green spaces or tend to use them less.' This paper also noted that the frequency of exposure to the natural environment (incorporating a broad array of living things including wildlife, forests, rivers, streams, lakes, seas, countryside, farmed land and urban green space) is 'significantly lower' amongst those aged above 65, BME populations and those on low incomes (members of DE socioeconomic groups).\n\nAccording to the government's Forestry Commission, several factors interact to prevent black and minority ethnic groups from having the same access to woodland as other groups. These are: economic factors; lack of awareness, familiarity, knowledge, confidence or interest; cultural attitudes and preferences; feeling unwelcome and out of place.\n\nDeprived communities are more exposed to flood risk, with eight times more people in the most deprived 10% of the population living in tidal floodplains than the least deprived 10%. People in deciles 1 and 2 (decile 1 being the most deprived 10% of the population and decile 2 the second most deprived 10%) are 47 per cent more likely to be living at risk of flooding than the rest of the population for zone 2 floodrisk areas, and 62% more likely for zone 3.\n\nThe worst levels of air pollution are experienced by people in the most deprived 10% areas in England. These people are also subject to 41% higher concentrations of nitrogen dioxide from transport and industry than the average. The average black or black-British African in the UK person is exposed to 27.25 micrograms per cubic metre of harmful pollutant PM10. This is over 28% higher than the average urban white person.\n\nA 1999 Friends of the Earth report found that 82% of all carcinogenic chemical emissions were released by factories in the most deprived 20% wards. Further, the report suggested that because 70% of all people from ethnic minorities in the UK live in the 88 most deprived wards, this exposure to harmful chemicals disproportionately affects these people.\n\nOver a quarter of child pedestrian casualties happen in the most deprived 10% of wards. In Wales, children and people aged over 65 are twice as likely to be injured by motor vehicles in deprived areas than in more advantaged areas.\n\nAn investigation by the Environment Agency into Environmental Justice in South Yorkshire revealed that in South Yorkshire, people in decile 1 are twice as likely to be living next to a recycling site, a waste transfer site or a landfill site as the rest of the population and three times more likely to be living near to an amenity site. In the UK as a whole, deprived communities are more likely to live near waste sites except landfill sites, where it is the least deprived populations that are located nearby.\n\nInnospec, a company based in Ellesmere Port, is the last remaining manufacturer of tetraethyl lead in the world. The product is banned for general sale in the UK, but has been exported to countries such as Afghanistan, Burma, Iraq and Yemen. The firm has admitted paying bribes to foreign officials. Journalist George Monbiot has argued that Innospec was let off lightly for the bribery and has termed the continued permissiveness in allowing Innospec to export its product as 'environmental racism'.\n\nAs for the causes of environmental inequalities in the UK, the Environment Agency writes: 'The causes of these inequalities are often complex and long-standing. Some problems are due to the historical location of industry and communities; others are the result of the impacts of new developments such as traffic. Often these environmental problems are caused by the actions of others who do not live in the affected community. Often those most affected have not been involved in the decisions that affect the quality of their environment.' Environmental equity advocates often argue that environmental inequalities are entrenched due to the fact that the vulnerable communities exposed to environmental burdens lack the means necessary to change their situation due to factors such as limited economic means, exclusion from decision-making processes and institutionalised racism.\n\nThe UK government has included environmental equality as one of its sustainable development indicators since the establishment of these indicators in 1992. Further, DEFRA have incorporated an environmental inequalities analysis into its work, and the Environment Agency have published several reports on environmental inequality.\n\nIn Wales, action around environmental inequalities has primarily been coordinated through the Welsh Assembly's Community First initiative, which has attempted to enable deprived communities to take action themselves on sustainable development issues, with a particular focus on health inequalities and the health benefits of access to environmental goods. The Welsh Assembly have recognised the environmental aspects of deprivation, incorporating this into its 2008 index of multiple deprivation.\n\nSeveral UK academics have published widely around environmental inequalities. Academics working on environmental inequalities include Gordon Walker of Lancaster University and Professor Malcolm Eames of Cardiff University. In 2006, Brunel University and Lancaster University organised a series of seminars on environmental inequalities. This was supported by the Economic & Social Research Council, the Natural Environment Research Council, the Sustainable Development Research Council, the Environment Agency and DEFRA.\n\nThe following UK NGOs work on issues around environmental inequalities:\n\n"}
{"id": "1704142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704142", "title": "Escalation of commitment", "text": "Escalation of commitment\n\nEscalation of commitment is a human behavior pattern in which an individual or group facing increasingly negative outcomes from some decision, action, or investment nevertheless continues the same behavior rather than alter course. The actor maintains behaviors that are irrational, but align with previous decisions and actions.\n\nEconomists and behavioral scientists use a related term, \"sunk-cost fallacy\", to describe the justification of increased investment of money, time, lives, etc. in a decision, based on the cumulative prior investment (\"sunk cost\") despite new evidence suggesting that the cost, beginning immediately, of continuing the decision outweighs the expected benefit.\n\nIn sociology, \"irrational escalation of commitment\" or \"commitment bias\" describe similar behaviours. The phenomenon and the sentiment underlying it are reflected in such proverbial images as \"throwing good money after bad\", \"in for a penny, in for a pound\", and \"if at first you don't succeed, try, try again\".\n\nEscalation of commitment was first described by Barry M. Staw in his 1976 paper, \"Knee deep in the big muddy: A study of escalating commitment to a chosen course of action\".\n\nResearchers, inspired by the work of Staw, conducted studies that tested factors, situations and causes of escalation of commitment. The research introduced other analyses of situations and how people approach problems and make decisions. Some of the earliest work stemmed from events in which this phenomenon had an effect and help explain the phenomenon.\n\nOver the past few decades, researchers have followed and analyzed many examples of the escalation of commitment to a situation. The heightened situations are explained in three elements. Firstly, a situation has a costly amount of resources such as time, money and people invested in the project. Next, past behavior leads up to an apex in time where the project has not met expectations or could be in a cautious state of decline. Lastly, these problems all force a decision-maker to make choices that include the options of continuing to pursue a project until completion by adding additional costs, or canceling the project altogether.\n\nResearchers have also developed an argument regarding how escalation of commitment is observed in two different categories. Many researchers believe that the need to escalate resources is linked to expectancy theory. \"According to such a viewpoint, decision makers assess the probability that additional resource allocations will lead to goal attainment, as well as the value of goal attainment (i.e., rewards minus costs), and thereby generate a subjective expected utility associated with the decision to allocate additional resources.\" The next phase of the escalation process is self-justification and rationalizing if the decision the leader made used resources well, if the resources being used were used to make positive change, and assuring themselves that the decision they chose was right. Leaders must balance costs and benefits of any problem to produce a final decision. What matters most often in assuring the leader that they made the right choice regardless of the final outcome is if their decision is what others believed in.\n\nResearch conducted on the topic has been taken from many other forms and theories of psychology. Many believe that what researchers have done thus far to explain this behavior is best analyzed and tested through situational development and resource allocation.\n\nOther research has identified circumstances that lead to the opposite of escalation of commitment, namely deescalation of commitment. This research explains the factors that influence whether escalation or deescalation of commitment is more likely to occur through the role of budgeting and mental accounting.\n\nEscalation of commitment can many times cause behavior change by means of locking into resources. One of the first examples of escalation of commitment was described by George Ball, who wrote to President Lyndon Johnson to explain to him the predictions of the war outcome:\n\nSelf-justification thought process is a part of commitment decisions of leaders and managers of a group and can therefore cause a rise in commitment levels. This attitude provides \"one explanation for why people escalate commitment to their past investments.\" Managers make decisions that reflect previous behavior. Managers tend to recall and follow information that is aligned to their behavior to create consistency for their current and future decisions. If a group member or outside party recognizes inconsistent decision making, this can alter the leadership role of the manager. Managers have external influence from society, peers, and authority, which can significantly alter a manager's perception on what factors realistically matter when making decisions.\n\nProspect theory helps to describe the natural reactions and processes involved in making a decision in a risk-taking situation. Prospect theory makes the argument for how levels of wealth, whether that is people, money, or time, affect how a decision is made. Researchers were particularly interested in how one perceives a situation based on costs and benefits. The framing to how the problem is introduced is crucial for understanding and thinking of the probability that the situation will either work in favor or against you and how to prepare for those changes. \"Whyte (1986) argued that prospect theory provides the psychological mechanism by which to explain escalating commitment to a failing course of action without the need to invoke self-justification processes. (Fiegenbaum & Thomas, 1988: 99)\" Prospect theorists believe that one's use of this process is when there is a negative downfall in the stakes that will affect the outcome of the project. To ensure they will not fail, the individual may add more resources to assure them that they will succeed. Although this theory seems realistic, researchers \"Davis and Bobko (1986) found no effect of personal responsibility on continued commitment to the previous course of action in the positive frame condition.\" Which means that escalation of commitment will be lower in the higher responsibility situation.\n\nThe attribution theory, originating from Fritz Heider, \"attempts to find causal explanations for events and human behaviors.\" This theory approaches two methods of inquiry including locus of causality and stability. Locus of causality reflects on internal characteristics of an individual, such as intelligence levels and attention seeking, with the relationship of the external space such as weather forecasts and task difficulty. Aspects of control become a significant factor in how a manager justifies a decision made. Managers will use the relationship between internal and external factors to describe why they made a decision to a single point of view. Managers may justify their actions by explaining that this was out of their personal control of the event, or they could believe that the decision could not be controlled by anyone else. Research suggests that \"the type of attribution made by an employee across these dimensions is likely to impact an employee's tendency to engage in the negative emotional activity referred to as escalation of commitment.\"\n\nIdentity is a large part of how we move through the world. Private thoughts and opinions as well as the effect of others create the social identity theory. People make connections between their use of groups and their own view of themselves, which researchers have discovered motivates people to keep their social status and to defend it whenever it is endangered.\n\nGroups engage in temporal comparisons, which means that you compare actions and behaviors at \"different points in time.\" This is a form of social identity scenario. This type of comparison can be made when a decision seems unproductive and forces team members to consider any threat to the group.\n\n\"The aggregate model's emphasis is upon the accumulation and balance of forces rather than the ordering of effects over time.\" The model is general and can provide an ideal view as to how. The effects whether positive or negative are defined by micro and macro forces. This model goes by situation rather than what researchers have defined as the norm. There is no process to follow, which makes it very useful for researchers because they can understand a situation more clearly as well as see the bigger picture of the situation.\n\nThe main drivers of the tendency to continue investing in losing propositions are project, psychological, social, and structural.\n\nProject determinants are those that refer to the original commitments and decisions made at a project's beginning. This includes general project characteristics and initial financial costs. Among them, decision risk, opportunity cost information, and information acquisition have been found to have negative relationships with escalation of commitment. Decision uncertainty, positive performance trend information, and expressed preference for initial decision have been found to have positive relationships.\n\nHigh costs of ending a project or changing its course, potential financial gain upon completion, and extensive structure can factor in to escalation of commitment, making it difficult to walk away from the project. Preventing future monetary loss, potential savings, and having clearly available alternatives can allow for avoidance of the behavior. In studies by Teger and later Ross and Staw, situations where ending an action costs more than completing it resulted in decision makers being trapped in their current, costly behaviors.\n\nPsychological determinants are those that refer to internal views on the actions and information involved in a project. This can include cognitive factors, personality, and emotions as they relate to project elements. Of these, sunk costs, time investment, decision maker experience and expertise, self-efficacy and confidence, personal responsibility for the initial decision, ego threat, and proximity to project completion have been found to have positive relationships with escalation of commitment, while anticipated regret and positive information framing have been found to have negative relationships.\n\nOptimism and belief that one has control over what will still be positive outcomes lead to continued self-justification of commitment to actions. People add to their initial personal investments in the hope they will overcome currently negative results. This was illustrated in a case study by Staw, where providing business students with manipulated responsibilities for initial decisions and their outcomes resulted in the greatest commitment to increased actions and resources when the initial decision assigned was made directly by the student with poor outcomes. In these instances, people take further risk in an attempt to avoid further problems. This is even more likely when subjects view current issues as having unstable reasoning rather than stable reasoning, or when the individual is unwilling to admit mistakes. They then believe the situation will stabilize or turn around. Confirmation bias can also lead to escalation of commitment as individuals are then less likely to recognize the negative results of their decisions. On the other hand, if the results are recognized, they can be blamed on unforeseeable events occurring during the course of the project.\n\nThe effect of sunk costs is often seen escalating commitment. When the amount of investment is greater and can not be recovered, the desire to avoid complete loss of those resources and keeping with impression management prompts continued investment over pulling out. Relatedly, as invested resources can include time, closeness to completion of a project yields similar results. More value is placed on project when they are early or late in their process due to the clarity of completion goals at those points. It's more likely that risks will be taken at these points than in a project closer to a visible midpoint.\n\nSocial determinants are those that refer to the expectations and influence of other individuals or groups on project actions. Included in these, group identity or cohesive strength has been found to have the most influence on escalation of commitment while public evaluation of decision and resistance to decision from others has little significance in relation.\n\nIndividuals present themselves cautiously to others in the environment. They don't concentrate on themselves and what they believe is accurate and competent—they are only interested in their organization appearing competent. Escalation of commitment is about decision making that usually comes in a form of a group or individual deciding a course of action. Managers have a responsibility to choose the fate of what a group of people have been working on. A manager who decides to back a team out of a project isn't concerned that the project failed, they are concerned that team members may think the manager is incompetent. Studies that tested this phenomenon included factors such as policy resistance, job insecurity (Fox & Staw 1979), and audience size (Rubin & Lang 1981). All showed a spike in commitment when these realistic factors are present. This mental and emotional response is referred to as the face-saving effect. Individuals who are responsible for others are constantly checking themselves to assure that their actions and beliefs are parallel to the expectations for their viewers. One's social identity to the public can decide your fate. For example, a team can identify a level of commitment and personal connection to an idea or project. Team members consistently use statements like \"that project is Bob's baby,\" or \"oh, we had the same idea.\" Both ends of the spectrum are crucial to how others view and analyze a situation, especially something that failed.\n\nLeaders are responsible for guiding a team through the difficult problems into a solution. Although many times, the negative aspects of commitments can discussed in more detail and importance, there are many social rewards that are positive. One example of this phenomenon is persistence. A project on the verge of failure is a manager's responsibility to revive, but with persistence, a manager can get rewarded to turning a bad project into something great. Rewards are earned for turning around a team to produce something successful. When managers stick to their goals, and get their team to produce responsibly.\n\nStructural determinants are those that refer to the cultural and environmental features and resources of the project's overall organization. The minimal research available on them indicates that agency problems most influence escalation of commitment.\n\nThere are macro-level variables that affect the organizational structure of a team and how the make decisions. Decisions are made based on individuals in a group setting with specific roles and responsibilities and effect decisions that are a product of interaction in the team. The determinant that affects escalation of commitment is institutional inertia. This phenomenon is used to describe how individual attitudes and behavior changes frequently, so therefore, a group's stature is also unpredictable and controllable. \"Organizations have very imperfect sensory systems, making them relatively impervious to changes in their environments.\"\n\nThis is one factor that plays a role in how issues are addressed. When there are a group of individuals involved in communication, decisions, and change, with the lack of consistency in the group, most of the tasks fail to complete. This phenomenon occurs in situations such as policy change, rulings and procedures.\n\nThis issue can also cause havoc for an organization when they are too attached to a policy, thought process or identity because they are not free to change. \"On occasion, a project, product, or policy can become so closely tied to the values and purposes of the organization that it becomes almost unthinkable to consider withdrawal.\" One primary example of this phenomenon is the downfall of the Pan American World Airways company, commonly known as Pan Am. Pan Am was a well known airlines and hotel with hundreds of employees. With the turn of industry, airline policies were deregulated and caused financial downfall for Pan Am. The company over time made cuts to their company to stay afloat. The company believed that their image of being an airline was more important than being a successful company that they removed all of the assets that were in fact making them the largest amount of revenue only to save the image they thought they needed to remain to be Pan Am.\n\nIn groups, it can be more difficult to attribute issues to a single, simpler determinant. While determinants are still applicable, oftentimes there are more complex factors when organizational goals and actions misalign. Groups, especially as they grow larger, can be resistant to changing course.\n\nEven if the need to change course or cease action is recognized, communication speed, policies, and business politics can be hindrances. A larger organization, especially one with a spread of subgroups, has to communicate the argument and decision to go against previous actions across the appropriate levels. If this communication does not occur in a timely manner or is blocked, the final decision may not be made and acted upon. A decision that goes against existing rules and processes may also reach resistance even with support from those within the organization. Individuals and groups that are directly employed due to a project, have financial stake in it may provide enough opposition to prevent changes from being made as well. They feel personally responsible for the parts they've worked on and can also feel that they too are being replaced or terminated. Escalation of commitment can then occur in any of these situations. External groups can play an even larger part in escalating commitment if their power is greater than that of the group taking action and they use that power to directly lead and influence.\n\nWith a larger number of decision makers included, groups have the opportunity for greater productivity than single individuals, but they also have the opportunity for greater losses and escalation. Members can eliminate some of the escalation potential if they come to a better decision earlier on in the process and avoid the need to change course dramatically. Yet they can also hold onto a larger base of support for their initial actions to the point where escalation potential is increased. In this case, groupthink assists in keeping with the original decision and pressures towards conformity rather than dividing the group with other options. Also, a group whose members are not cohesive can have decreased escalation potential due to conflicts and varying levels of inclusion in the process.\n\nOrganizations that are family businesses are especially prone to escalation of commitment due to the added level of going through the family structure in addition to the business structure, allowing for further conflicts between the two. Business reputation, customer and share loss, and financial loss become risks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50600870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50600870", "title": "Esperanto movement", "text": "Esperanto movement\n\nThe Esperanto movement, less commonly referred to as Esperantism (), is a movement to disseminate the use of the planned international language Esperanto. The movement does not aim to supplant national languages but merely to supplement them. The movement is sometimes used even for all people speaking Esperanto including their culture, which is not a correct use of the sociological term \"movement\".\n\nEsperanto has been placed in a few proposed political situations. The most popular of these is the former minor party \"Europe—Democracy—Esperanto\", which aims to establish Esperanto as the official language of the European Union. Grin's Report, published in 2005 by François Grin found that the use of English language as the lingua franca within the European Union costs billions annually and significantly benefits English-speaking countries financially. The report considered a scenario where Esperanto would be the lingua franca and found that it would have many advantages, particularly economically speaking, as well as ideologically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3948140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3948140", "title": "Francis John McConnell", "text": "Francis John McConnell\n\nFrancis John McConnell (August 18, 1871 – August 18, 1953) was an American social reformer and a bishop in the Methodist Episcopal Church, elected in 1912.\n\nBorn on August 18, 1871, in Trinway, Ohio, he died on August 18, 1953, in Lucasville, Ohio.\n\nMcConnell was a graduate of the Ohio Wesleyan University and the Boston University School of Theology. He was an ordained minister in the Methodist Episcopal Church for many years, serving among other places a large church in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nBefore election to the episcopacy, McConnell served as the president of DePauw University, Greencastle, Indiana, 1909-1912. During his presidency he led the university's first major fund drive, the Campaign for the Seventy-Fifth Anniversary Fund, which produced a total subscription of $550,546.\n\nFrancis John McConnell was a major second-generation advocate of Boston personalism who sought to apply the philosophy to social problems of his time.\n\nMcConnell is best known for his quote \"We need a type of patriotism that recognizes the virtues of those who are opposed to us\".\n\n\nMcConnell, Bishop Francis John, \"The Christlike God\", A survey of the Divine Attributes from the Christian Point of View, copyright 1927 by the author, first edition printed March 1927, The Abingdon Press, New York and Cincinnati.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1777495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1777495", "title": "Global change", "text": "Global change\n\nGlobal change refers to planetary-scale changes in the Earth system. The system consists of the land, oceans, atmosphere, polar regions, life, the planet's natural cycles and deep Earth processes. These constituent parts influence one another. The Earth system now includes human society, so global change also refers to large-scale changes in society.\n\nMore completely, the term \"global change\" encompasses: population, climate, the economy, resource use, energy development, transport, communication, land use and land cover, urbanization, globalization, atmospheric circulation, ocean circulation, the carbon cycle, the nitrogen cycle, the water cycle and other cycles, sea ice loss, sea-level rise, food webs, biological diversity, pollution, health, over fishing, and more.\n\nIn 1980, a group of scientists led by Swedish meteorologist Bert Bolin set up an international program called the World Climate Research Programme (WCRP), to determine whether the climate was changing, whether climate could be predicted and whether humans were in some way responsible for the change. The programme was sponsored by the World Meteorological Organization and the International Council for Science (ICSU). As time went on, there was a growing realisation that climate change was one part of a larger phenomenon, global change. In 1987, a team of researchers, led again by Bert Bolin, James McCarthy, Paul Crutzen, H. Oeschger and others, successfully argued for an international research programme to investigate global change. This programme, sponsored by ICSU, is the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme (IGBP). The programme has eight projects investigating different parts of the Earth system and links between them.\n\nIGBP, WCRP and a third programme, the International Human Dimensions Programme (IHDP, founded in 1996), spearheaded a landmark science conference held in Amsterdam in 2001. The conference, \"Challenges of a Changing Earth: Global Change Open Science Conference\", led to the Amsterdam Declaration which stated, \"In addition to the threat of significant climate change, there is growing concern over the ever-increasing human modification of other aspects of the global environment and the consequent implications for human well-being. Basic goods and services supplied by the planetary life support system, such as food, water, clean air and an environment conducive to human health, are being affected increasingly by global change.\"\n\nThe declaration goes on to say, \"The international global change programmes urge governments, public and private institutions and people of the world to agree that an ethical framework for global stewardship and strategies for Earth System management are urgently needed.\"\n\nMany nations now have their own global change programmes and institutes, for example the US Global Change Research Program and the UK's Quantifying and Understanding the Earth System (QUEST) programme. And since the Amsterdam conference another international programme focusing on biodiversity has been set up, DIVERSITAS. These programmes form the Earth System Science Partnership.\n\nIn 2012, these international programmes held another major science conference in London, Planet Under Pressure: new knowledge towards solutions.\n\nIn the past, the main drivers of global change have been solar variation, plate tectonics, volcanism, proliferation and abatement of life, meteorite impact, resource depletion, changes in Earth's orbit around the sun and changes in the tilt of Earth on its axis. There is overwhelming evidence that now the main driver of planetary-scale change, or global change, is the growing human population's demand for energy, food, goods, services and information, and its disposal of its waste products. In the last 250 years, global change has caused climate change, widespread species extinctions, fish-stock collapse, desertification, ocean acidification, ozone depletion, pollution, and other large-scale shifts.\n\nScientists working on the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme have said that Earth is now operating in a \"no analogue\" state. Measurements of Earth system processes, past and present, have led to the conclusion that the planet has moved well outside the range of natural variability in the last half million years at least. \"Homo sapiens\" have been around for about 200,000 years.\n\nWhat this means for the planet and society remains unclear. But, in the last 20 years there has been an enormous international research effort to understand global change and the Earth system. An aim of this research is to work out if there are planetary boundaries and are we approaching them. Scientists, international governmental organizations and lobbying organizations like World Wide Fund for Nature argue that current consumption levels, particularly in developed countries, are not sustainable because there is a very real danger they will push the planet into a new state. What this new state might look like is still being debated, but sea levels are likely to rise several meters, the pH of the oceans, a measure of its acidity, is likely to drop farther than it has in 20 million years, and global atmospheric and ocean circulations may shift markedly. The major cycles – carbon, nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorus, water – and other important parameters would alter, bringing drought to some places, floods to others. Governments will no longer be able to take for granted the relative environmental stability that has allowed human society to flourish and led to rapid globalization. Most of the population of the planet will be affected. The re-insurance industry is already taking measures to protect its interests and maximize profits as turbulent times approach.\n\nHumans have always altered their environment. The advent of agriculture around 10000 years ago led to a radical change in land use that still continues. But, the relatively small human population had little impact on a global scale until the start of the industrial revolution in 1750. This event, followed by the invention of the Haber-Bosch process in 1909, which allowed large-scale manufacture of fertilizers, led directly to rapid changes to many of the planet's most important physical, chemical and biological processes.\n\nThe 1950s marked a shift in gear: global change began accelerating. Between 1950 and 2010, the population more than doubled. In that time, rapid expansion of international trade coupled with upsurges in capital flows and new technologies, particularly information and communication technologies, led to national economies becoming more fully integrated. There was a tenfold increase in economic activity and the world's human population became more tightly connected than ever before. The period saw sixfold increases in water use and river damming. About 70 percent of the world's freshwater resource is now used for agriculture. This rises to 90 percent in India and China. Half of the Earth's land surface had now been domesticated. By 2010, urban population, for the first time, exceeded rural population. And there has been a fivefold increase in fertilizer use. Indeed, manufactured reactive nitrogen from fertilizer production and industry now exceeds global terrestrial production of reactive nitrogen. Without artificial fertilizers there would not be enough food to sustain a population of seven billion people.\n\nThese changes to the human sub-system have a direct influence on all components of the Earth system. The chemical composition of the atmosphere has changed significantly. Concentrations of important greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide are rising fast. Over Antarctica a large hole in the ozone layer appeared. Fisheries collapsed: most of the world's fisheries are now fully or over-exploited. Thirty percent of tropical rainforests disappeared.\n\nIn 2000, Nobel prize-winning scientist Paul Crutzen announced the scale of change is so great that in just 250 years, human society has pushed the planet into a new geological era: the Anthropocene. This name has stuck and there are calls for the Anthropocene to be adopted officially. If it is, it may be the shortest of all geological eras. Evidence suggests that if human activities continue to change components of the Earth system, which are all interlinked, this could heave the Earth system out of a one state and into a new state.\n\nGlobal change in a societal context encompasses social, cultural, technological, political, economic and legal change. Terms closely related to global change and society are globalization and global integration. Globalization began with long-distance trade and urbanism. The first record of long distance trading routes is in the third millennium BC. Sumerians in Mesopotamia traded with settlers in the Indus Valley, in modern-day India.\n\nSince 1750, but more significantly, since the 1950s, global integration has accelerated. This era has witnessed incredible global changes in communications, transportation, and computer technology. Ideas, cultures, people, goods, services and money move around the planet with ease. This new global interconnectedness and free flow of information has radically altered notions of other cultures, conflicts, religions and taboos. Now, social movements can and do form at a planetary scale.\n\nEvidence, if more were needed, of the link between social and environmental global change came with the 2008-2009 global financial crisis. The crisis pushed the planet's main economic powerhouses, the United States, Europe and much of Asia into recession. According to the Global Carbon Project, global atmospheric emissions of carbon dioxide fell from an annual growth rate of around 3.4% between 2000 and 2008, to a growth rate of about 2% in 2008.\n\nHumans are altering the planet's biogeochemical cycles in a largely unregulated way with limited knowledge of the consequences. Without steps to effectively manage the Earth system – the planet's physical, chemical, biological and social components – it is likely there will be severe impacts on people and ecosystems. Perhaps the largest concern is that a component of the Earth system, for example, an ocean circulation, the Amazon rainforest, or Arctic sea ice, will reach a tipping point and flip from its current state to another state: flowing to not flowing, rainforest to savanna, or ice to no ice. A domino effect could ensue with other components of the Earth system changing state rapidly.\n\nIntensive research over the last 20 years has shown that tipping points do exist in the Earth system, and wide-scale change can be rapid – a matter of decades. Potential tipping points have been identified and attempts have been made to quantify thresholds. But to date, the best efforts can only identify loosely defined \"planetary boundaries\" beyond which tipping points exist but their precise locations remain elusive.\n\nThere have been calls for a better way to manage the environment on a planetary scale, sometimes referred to as managing \"Earth's life support system\". The United Nations was formed to stop wars and provide a platform for dialogue between countries. It was not created to avoid major environmental catastrophe on regional or global scales. But several international environmental conventions exist under the UN, including the Framework Convention on Climate Change, Montreal Protocol, Convention to Combat Desertification, and Convention on Biological Diversity. Additionally, the UN has two bodies charged with coordinating environmental and development activities, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).\n\nIn 2004, the IGBP published \"Global Change and the Earth System, a planet under pressure.\" The publication's executive summary concluded: \"An overall, comprehensive, internally consistent strategy for stewardship of the Earth system is required\". It stated that a research goal is to define and maintain a stable equilibrium in the global environment.\n\nIn 2007, France called for UNEP to be replaced by a new and more powerful organization called the \"United Nations Environment Organization\". The rationale was that UNEP's status as a \"programme\", rather than an \"organization\" in the tradition of the World Health Organization or the World Meteorological Organization, weakened it to the extent that it was no longer fit for purpose given current knowledge of the state of the planet.\n"}
{"id": "9980550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9980550", "title": "Grotesque body", "text": "Grotesque body\n\nThe grotesque body is a concept, or literary trope, put forward by Russian literary critic Mikhail Bakhtin in his study of François Rabelais' work. The essential principle of grotesque realism is degradation, the lowering of all that is abstract, spiritual, noble, and ideal to the material level. Through the use of the grotesque body in his novels, Rabelais related political conflicts to human anatomy. In this way, Rabelais used the concept as \"a figure of unruly biological and social exchange\".\n\nIt is by means of this information that Bakhtin pinpoints two important subtexts: the first is \"carnival\" (carnivalesque), and the second is \"grotesque realism\" (grotesque body). Thus, in \"Rabelais and His World\" Bakhtin studies the interaction between the social and the literary, as well as the meaning of the body.\n\nThe Carnival is known as the feast of fools. In today's world, this is better known as Mardi Gras. Mardi Gras is a religious celebration where people consume copious amounts of food and wine and have a large party to celebrate. The grotesqueness in the carnival is seen as the abundance and large amount of food consumed by the body. There is much emphasis put on the mouth (where the body can be entered). Eating, drinking, burping from excess, etc. is all done through the mouth. Rabelais uses the Carnival to refer to politics and critique the world based on human anatomy.\n\nIn the Italian celebration of Carnival, masks play a major role as many people wear them during the celebration. Many of these masks can be seen as an exaggeration of the grotesque as they feature enlarged facial elements such as an enlarged nose (which is a part of the grotesque body). The Italian celebration of carnival is similar to that of Mardi Gras where food and alcohol are consumed in excess.\n\nBoth renditions of Carnival are celebrated immediately before the Christian season of Lent which is about a 40-day season for people of Christian (primarily Catholic) faith to cleanse themselves and become pure before Easter Sunday.\n\nExaggeration, hyperbole, and expressiveness are all key elements of the grotesque style. Certain aspects of the body are referenced when talking about the grotesque. These things include elements of the body that either protrude from the body or a part of the body that can be entered. This is because the body in many cases is seen as pure where as the outside world is not. Therefore, parts of the body that allow the outside world in or allow elements inside the body out, are seen and used as an exaggeration of the grotesque. In the article, \"Absurdity and Hidden Truth: Cunning Intelligence and Grotesque Body Images as Manifestations of the Trickster\", Koepping refers back to Bakhtin's statement, \"The themes of cursing and of laughter are almost exclusively a subject of the grotesqueness of the body.\"\n\nItalian satirist Daniele Luttazzi explained: \"satire exhibits the grotesque body, which is dominated by the primary needs (eating, drinking, defecating, urinating, sex) to celebrate the victory of life: the social and the corporeal are joyfully joint in something indivisible, universal and beneficial\".\n\nBakhtin explained how the grotesque body is a celebration of the cycle of life: the grotesque body is a comic figure of profound ambivalence: its positive meaning is linked to birth and renewal and its negative meaning is linked to death and decay. In Rabelais' epoch (1500–1800) \"it was appropriate to ridicule the king and clergy, to use dung and urine to degrade; this was not to just mock, it was to unleash what Bakhtin saw as the people’s power, to renew and regenerate the entire social system. It was the power of the people’s festive-carnival, a way to turn the official spectacle inside-out and upside down, just for a while; long enough to make an impression on the participating official stratum. With the advent of modernity (science, technology, industrial revolution), the mechanistic overtook the organic, and the officialdom no longer came to join in festive-carnival. The bodily lower stratum of humor dualized from the upper stratum.\"\n\nBefore people began to develop literature or art, leaders would sit in their halls surrounded by their warriors amusing themselves by mocking their opponents and enemies. The warriors would laugh at any weakness or defect, either physical or mental, giving nicknames which exaggerated these traits.\n\nSoon warriors sought to give a more permanent form to their ridicule, which led to rude depictions on bare rocks, or any other surface that was convenient.\n\nIn the Medieval Grotesque Carnival, emphasis is put on the nether regions of the body as the center and creation of meaning. The spirit rather than coming from above comes from the belly, buttocks, and genitals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48088902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48088902", "title": "Henry Fox Bourne", "text": "Henry Fox Bourne\n\nHenry Richard Fox Bourne (24 December 1837 – 2 February 1909) was a British social reformer and writer.\n\nHenry Fox Bourne was born at Grecian Regale, Blue Mountains, Jamaica, on 24 December 1837, one of eight children of Stephen Bourne, magistrate and advocate of the abolition of slavery, and of Elizabeth Quirk. His father had founded in December 1826 the \"World,\" the first nonconformist and exclusively religious journal in England. His parents left Jamaica in 1841 for British Guiana, and moved to London in 1848. There, after attending a private school, Fox Bourne entered London University in 1856, and joined classes at King's College and the City of London College. He also attended, at University College, lectures on English literature and history by Henry Morley, whose intimate friend and assistant he afterwards became. In 1855 he entered the war office as a clerk, devoting his leisure to literary and journalistic work. He regularly contributed to \"The Examiner\" an organ of advanced radical thought, of which Henry Morley was editor, and wrote for Charles Dickens in \"Household Words\".\n\nIn 1862 Fox Bourne made some reputation by his first independently published work, \"A Memoir of Sir Philip Sidney\", which showed painstaking research and critical insight, and remains a standard biography. There followed \"English Merchants\" (1866); \"Famous London Merchants\" (1869), written for younger readers; \"The Romance of Trade\" (1871); \"English Seamen under the Tudors\" (1868), and \"The Story of Our Colonies\" (1869). In these books Fox Bourne traced in a popular style the rise of England's commerce and colonial expansion. In 1870 Fox Bourne retired from the war office, and with the money granted him in lieu of a pension purchased the copyright and control of \"The Examiner\". Although John Stuart Mill, Herbert Spencer, and Frederic Harrison were still among the contributors, the paper proved in Bourne's hands a financial failure, and he disposed of it in 1873 (see F. Harrison's Reminiscences, 1911).\n\nThe next two years he mainly spent on a \"Life of John Locke,\" which he published in 1876. From 1876 to 1887 he was editor of the \"Weekly Dispatch\" which under his auspices well maintained its radical independence. Fox Bourne freely criticised the Gladstonian administration of 1880-5, and his hostility to Gladstone's home rule bill of 1886 led to his retirement from the editorship.\n\nFox Bourne became secretary of the Aborigines Protection Society (APS) on 4 January 1889. He edited its journal, the \"Aborigines' Friend,\" and pressed on public attention the need of protecting native races, especially in Africa. One of the first to denounce publicly the cruel treatment of natives in the Congo Free State in 1890, he used all efforts to secure the enforcement of the provisions of the Brussels Convention of 1890 for the protection of the natives in Central Africa. He forcibly stated his views in \"The Other Side of the Emin Pasha Expedition\" (1891) and in \"Civilisation in Congo Land\" (1903). To his advocacy was largely due the ultimate improvement in native conditions in the Belgian Congo.\n\nAt first, the APS, like the Anti-Slavery Society with which it merged in 1909, supported the work of British chartered companies, and believed that nurturing legitimate and more profitable trade would eliminate slave trafficking. By 1894, the APS retracted its support, protesting against the violence in Mashonaland in 1893 that resulted from the war which the British South Africa Company had entered into with the Matabele under Lobengula. The APS, in contrast with the Anti-Slavery Society, disapproved of the policy of allowing chartered companies to govern colonies, sensing a conflict of interest between maintaining justice and extracting maximum profit. In 1900, Fox Bourne expressed in a policy statement entitled \"The Claims of Uncivilised Races\" that the native had three fundamental rights: to his land, to his rites and institutions, and to an equal share of profits arising from colonisation. These rights should not be taken without his understanding and approval. Colonisation should be for the 'moral advantage' of the colonised more than for the 'material advantage' of the colonising power. \n\nAlthough he failed in his attempts to secure the franchise for natives in the Transvaal and Orange River colonies in 1906, his strong protests against the slave traffic in Angola and the cocoa-growing islands of São Tomé and Príncipe compelled the Portuguese government to admit the necessity of reform. In a series of six pamphlets (1906–8) on Egyptian affairs he denounced alleged abuses of the English military occupation, and advocated Egyptian self-government. Fox Bourne's pertinacious patience in investigation and his clearness of exposition gave his views on native questions wide influence.\n\nFox Bourne died suddenly at Torquay, from bronchitis contracted on his holiday, on 2 February 1909, and was cremated at Woking. A memorial service was held at Araromi chapel, Lagos. He married on 1 May 1862 Emma Deane, daughter of Henry Bleckly, a Warrington ironmaster. His widow, with two sons and a daughter, survived him.\n\nBesides the works mentioned, Fox Bourne published: 1. (with the Earl of Dundonald) \"Life of Thomas, Lord Cochrane,\" 1869. 2. \"Foreign Rivalries in Industrial Products,\" 1877. 3. \"English Newspapers,\" 2 vols. 1887, a serviceable chronicle of journalistic history. 4. \"The Aborigines Protection Society; Chapters in its History,\" 1899.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18556823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18556823", "title": "High energy biscuit", "text": "High energy biscuit\n\nHigh Energy Biscuits (HEB) are wheat biscuits containing high-protein cereals and vegetable fat. Because of their high energy-to-weight ratio they are procured by the World Food Programme, the food aid branch of the United Nations, for feeding disaster victims worldwide.\n\nHEBs have been provided to a variety of geographical locations. For example, HEBs were delivered to Georgia after the 2008 South Ossetia war. HEBs were also airlifted to Kenya, and more recently distributed in aid in the 2010 Haiti earthquake, and 80 tonnes of high energy biscuits were delivered to the Tunisian border in response to the Libyan crisis.\n\nHEBs are usually packaged in cardboard boxes weighing 10 kg each.\n\nPer 100 g, HEBs have a minimum of 450 kcal of energy, 4.5% maximum moisture, a minimum of 10-15 g of protein, a minimum of 15 g fat, and 10-15 g sugar at a maximum.\n\nHEBs have the following micronutrients at a minimum per 100 g:\n\n"}
{"id": "1741474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1741474", "title": "Hootenanny", "text": "Hootenanny\n\nHootenanny is an Appalachian colloquialism that was used in early twentieth century America as a placeholder name to refer to things whose names were forgotten or unknown. In this usage it was synonymous with \"thingamajig\" or \"whatchamacallit\", as in: \"Hand me that hootenanny.\" \"Hootenanny\" was also an old country word for \"party\". Nowadays the word most commonly refers to a folk music party with an open mic, at which different performers are welcome to get up and play in front of an audience.\n\n\"Hootenanny\" was also used by the leadership of early firefighting battalions to describe a \"meeting of the minds\" of higher ups or various department heads. The term has trickled down to working companies and is now used, with some frequency, at working incidents and other circumstances that require a focused discussion between key individuals. Most recently it was adopted for use during the annual Fire Department Instructors Conference. Logistics professionals for the conference employ the word to call together the required personnel needed to accomplish the prodigious assignments placed on them.\n\nAccording to Pete Seeger, in various interviews, he first heard the word \"hootenanny\" in Seattle, Washington in the late 1930s. It was used by Hugh DeLacy’s New Deal political club to describe their monthly music fund raisers. After some debate the club voted in \"hootenanny\", which narrowly beat out \"wingding\". Seeger, Woody Guthrie and other members of the Almanac Singers later used the word in New York City to describe their weekly rent parties, which featured many notable folksingers of the time. In a 1962 interview in \"Time\", Joan Baez made the analogy that a hootenanny is to folk singing what a jam session is to jazz.\n\nDuring the early 1960s at the height of the American folk music revival, the club Gerdes Folk City at 11 West 4th Street in Greenwich Village started the folk music hootenanny tradition every Monday night, that featured an open mic and welcomed performers known and unknown, young and old.\n\nThe Hootenanny is an annual one-day rockabilly music festival held at the Oak Canyon Ranch in Irvine, California, which also incorporates a vintage car show.\n\nFor years there have been online hootenannys. The most long-standing example is Small Talk At The Wall, which originated in 1999.\n\n\nSeveral different television shows are named and styled after it, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35604930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35604930", "title": "International Science Festival in Gothenburg", "text": "International Science Festival in Gothenburg\n\nThe International Science Festival in Gothenburg (Swedish: Vetenskapsfestivalen) is an annual festival in Gothenburg with science activities.\n\nThe International Science Festival in Gothenburg took place for the first time in April 1997 and is since then an annual recurrent event.\nThe purpose is to communicate science to the public and schools in an easy accessible and in a thought provoking manner. Another objective is to create a positive attitude to research and science which is intended to encourage higher education.\n\nAbout come each year. This makes it the largest popular science event in Sweden and one of the largest popular science events in Europe.\n\nUniversity of Gothenburg and Chalmers University of Technology contributes with the knowledge.\n\nThe International Science Festival in Gothenburg is a member of the \"European Science Events Association\", EUSCEA.\n\nEach year a special theme that the festival focuses on is chosen: (translated)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40772594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40772594", "title": "James Oglethorpe", "text": "James Oglethorpe\n\nJames Edward Oglethorpe (22 December 1696 – 30 June 1785) was a British soldier, Member of Parliament, and philanthropist, as well as the founder of the colony of Georgia. As a social reformer, he hoped to resettle Britain's worthy poor in the New World, initially focusing on those in debtors' prisons.\n\nJames Oglethorpe was born in Surrey, the son of Sir Theophilus Oglethorpe (1650–1702) of Westbrook Place, Godalming, and his wife Eleanor Lady Oglethorpe (1662–1732). He entered Corpus Christi College, Oxford in 1714, but in the same year left to join the army of Prince Eugene of Savoy. Through the recommendation of John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough he became aide-de-camp to the prince, and during the Austro-Turkish War of 1716–18 he served with distinction in the campaign against the Turks.\n\nAfter his return to England, he was elected Member of Parliament for Haslemere in 1722. He became a leading humanitarian, and in 1728 he advocated reform of the terrible conditions experienced by sailors in the British Royal Navy by publishing an anonymous pamphlet, 'The Sailors Advocate.'\n\nIn 1728, three years before conceiving the Georgia colony, Oglethorpe chaired a Parliamentary committee on prison reform. The committee documented horrendous abuses in three debtors' prisons. As a result of the committee's actions, many debtors were released from prison with no means of support. Oglethorpe viewed this as part of the larger problem of urbanisation, which was depleting the countryside of productive people and depositing them in cities, particularly London, where they often became impoverished or resorted to criminal activity. To address this problem, Oglethorpe and a group of associates, many of whom served on the prison committee, petitioned in 1730 to form the Trustees for the Establishment of the Colony of Georgia in America. The petition was finally approved in 1732, and the first ship, led by Oglethorpe, departed for the New World in November.\n\nOglethorpe and the Trustees formulated a contractual, multi-tiered plan for the settlement of Georgia (see the Oglethorpe Plan). The plan envisioned a system of \"agrarian equality\", designed to support and perpetuate an economy based on family farming, and prevent social disintegration associated with unregulated urbanisation. Land ownership was limited to fifty acres, a grant that included a town lot, a garden plot near town, and a forty-five-acre farm. Self-supporting colonists were able to obtain larger grants, but such grants were structured in fifty-acre increments tied to the number of indentured servants supported by the grantee. Servants would receive a land grant of their own upon completing their term of service. No one was permitted to acquire additional land through purchase or inheritance.\n\nWith Oglethorpe on that ship were cotton seeds provided by the Chelsea Medicinal Garden in London. Originally established by the Apothecaries' Company in 1673 for the cultivation and study of medicinal plants (many hospitals are nearby, including the Royal Hospital), the Garden's mission soon expanded to collect and study plants, shrubs, and trees from all over the world. The cotton seeds given to Oglethorpe (and his colony's success in growing cotton) were instrumental in establishing the cotton industry in the U.S. South. As discussed below, the plan for the colony was originally anti-slavery, emphasizing small family-owned farms. But economic pressures eventually led to the lifting of the ban on slavery, as described below—and slavery was indispensable to the rise of large cotton-growing plantations throughout the Deep South.\n\nOglethorpe and the first colonists arrived at South Carolina on the ship \"Anne\" in late 1732, and settled near the present site of Savannah, Georgia on 1 February 1733. He negotiated with the Yamacraw tribe for land (Oglethorpe became great friends with Chief Tomochichi, who was the chief of the Creek Indian village of Yamacraw), and built a series of defensive forts, most notably Fort Frederica, of which substantial remains can still be visited. He then returned to England and arranged to have slavery banned in Georgia after being emotionally moved by an intercepted letter from Ayuba Suleiman Diallo, a slave in Maryland. (For more on the story of Oglethorpe's involvement, see Ayuba Suleiman Diallo's Wikipedia page.) Oglethorpe and his fellow trustees were granted a royal charter for the Province of Georgia between the Savannah and Altamaha rivers on 9 June 1732.\n\nGeorgia was a key contested area, lying in between the English Carolinas and Spanish Florida. It was Oglethorpe's idea that British debtors should be released from prison and sent to Georgia. Although it is often repeated that this would theoretically rid Britain of its so-called undesirable elements, in fact it was Britain's \"worthy poor\" whom Oglethorpe wanted in Georgia. Ultimately, few debtors ended up in Georgia. The colonists included many Scots whose pioneering skills greatly assisted the colony, and many of Georgia's new settlers consisted of poor English tradesmen and artisans and religious refugees from Switzerland, France and Germany, as well as a number of Jewish refugees. There were also 150 Salzburger Protestants who had been expelled by edict from the Archbishopric of Salzburg in present-day Austria (see Religious conflict in Salzburg), and established the settlement of Ebenezer near Savannah. The colony's charter provided for acceptance of all religions except Roman Catholicism. The ban on Roman Catholic settlers was based on the colony's proximity to the hostile settlements in Spanish Florida.\n\nOn 21 February 1734, Oglethorpe established the first Masonic Lodge within the British Colony of Georgia. Now known as Solomon's Lodge No. 1, F. & A. M. it is the \"Oldest Continuously Operating English Constituted Lodge of Freemasons in the Western Hemisphere\". For a period in 1736, Oglethorpe's secretary was Charles Wesley, later well known as a hymnwriter of Methodism.\n\nHe built a home outside the walls of Fort Fredrica (GPS Lat: 31.12.59.779 Long: 81.22.41.7600) that is marked by a small historical marker.\n\nOwing to the colony's primary role as a military buffer between English and Spanish-held territories, the original model for the colonisation of Georgia excluded the use of slave labour, fearing that runaway slaves could internally weaken the colony and assist the enemy at St. Augustine, Florida. But, instead of slaves defecting southwards to the Spanish, runaways from the Carolinas found refuge in Georgia, thus irritating its northern neighbour. The banning of slavery also reduced the work force, and this was felt to be a constraint on Georgia's early economic growth. Many settlers thus began to oppose Oglethorpe, regarding him as a misguided and \"perpetual dictator\". Many new settlers soon set their eyes on South Carolina as a less restrictive and, they hoped, a more profitable place to settle. In 1743, after Oglethorpe had left the colony, the ban on slavery was lifted. Various forces united including the English who always urged it and as a result large numbers of slaves were soon imported.\n\nIn 1734 Oglethorpe visited Britain aboard , taking with him a delegation of Creek Indians, who met George II and his family at Kensington Palace. Oglethorpe was widely acclaimed in London, although his expansionism was not welcomed in all quarters. The Duke of Newcastle, who directed British foreign policy, had tried to restrain James Oglethorpe's efforts in the colony for fear of offending the Spanish, whom Newcastle wished unsuccessfully to court as an ally. Newcastle eventually relented, and became a supporter of the colony admitting \"it will now be pretty difficult to give up Georgia\". The colony's existence was one of several disputes which worsened Anglo-Spanish relations in the late 1730s.\n\nIn early 1740, during the War of Jenkins' Ear, fought between British Georgia and Spanish Florida as part of a larger conflict, the War of Austrian Succession, Oglethorpe was responsible for a number of successful raids on Spanish forts, as well as the unsuccessful Siege of St. Augustine in 1740. Oglethorpe showed poor military leadership but he received little help from South Carolina or from his Indian allies, from the Ordnance Board, or from the Royal Navy, despite his best efforts to gain their support.\n\nAmong Oglethorpe's most valuable Indian allies in this siege were the Creeks, influenced by Mary Musgrove. Her Indian name was Coosaponakeesa (lovely fawn), and she was married to John Musgrove, a trader. Following the failed attempt to strike against Florida, Oglethorpe commanded British forces during the Spanish invasion of Georgia, defeating them at the Battle of Bloody Marsh and forcing them to withdraw.\n\nAfter his exploits in Georgia, Oglethorpe returned to London in 1743 and rose steadily through the ranks of the British Army. He would never return to Georgia. There is some evidence that he returned to Europe under a pseudonym, with the assistance of Field Marshal Keith.\n\nOn the death of his brother Theophilus Oglethorpe, Jr. in about 1737, he inherited the title of Baron Oglethorpe of Oglethorpe in the Jacobite peerage.\n\nThese were the days of the \"Young Pretender\" and incursions by the Jacobite troops from Scotland into the North of England. Oglethorpe had been busy forming a unit of Rangers which were to be shipped out to defend Georgia from future Spanish attacks. He immediately put his troops at the disposal of the government forces, under the command of the Duke of Cumberland, who were attempting to suppress the rebellion. Oglethorpe and his troops joined with Cumberland at Preston and attempted to harry the retreating Jacobite army as they tried to escape back to Scotland. He fought a skirmish at Shap Fell in Westmorland, but he was forced to break off the engagement by the intense weather and take shelter for the night. Overnight the Jacobites managed to withdraw and escape over the fell. Because of this Oglethorpe was court-martialled on the accusation of not pursuing the invaders more aggressively. He was acquitted, attained the rank of General, but never again given a command.\n\nAlthough a strong supporter of the British war effort in the Seven Years War, Oglethorpe took no active role in the conflict.\n\nIn 1785, Oglethorpe visited John Adams (the first US minister plenipotentiary to the Court of St. James's, i.e., the first US ambassador to Britain) shortly after the latter arrived in London. The meeting included an expression by Oglethorpe of his sadness at the ill-will that had existed between the countries.\n\nOglethorpe died at Cranham in 1785, and was buried at the centre of All Saints' parish church which immediately adjoins Cranham Hall (rebuilt c. 1790, but sketched prior by John Pridden in 1789). Elizabeth survived him a few years and was subsequently buried at his side. The site was lost until re-discovered by Thornwell Jacobs in 1922.\n\nOglethorpe County and Oglethorpe University in Atlanta, as well as the town of Oglethorpe, Georgia are all named in his honour. Also, The James Oglethorpe Primary School in Cranham is named after him.\n\nIn 1986 the Corps of Cadets at the University of North Georgia in Dahlonega, Georgia officially adopted the name of the unit as the \"Boar's Head Brigade\". The name came from the Boar's Head on the Department Crest approved by the U.S. Army Adjutant General on August 11, 1937. The Boar's Head was a part of the family crest of James Oglethorpe, and is a symbol of fighting spirit and hospitality so deeply a part of Georgia's heritage and the spirit of the Corps of Cadets at the University of North Georgia.\n\nAll Saints' was rebuilt c.1871. However, the new church stands on the same foundations as the old one, and Oglethorpe's poetic marble memorial is on the south wall of the chancel, as before. In the 1930s, the president of Oglethorpe University Thornwell Jacobs excavated the Oglethorpe family vault in the centre of the chancel at All Saints', although permission to translate the General's relics to a purpose-built shrine at Oglethorpe University (Atlanta) had been refused by the Archdeacon.\n\nThere is a bronze statue in Chippewa Square, Savannah, Georgia, created by sculptor Daniel Chester French and unveiled in 1910. Oglethorpe faces south, toward Georgia's one-time enemy in Spanish Florida, and his sword is drawn.\n\nOglethorpian anniversaries have since led to the donation of the altar rail at All Saints' by a ladies charity in Georgia. In 1996, then Georgia Governor Zell Miller attended Oglethorpe tercentenary festivities in Godalming and at Corpus Christi College, Oxford.\n\nCorpus Christi College holds two portraits of Oglethorpe, a drawing of the general as an old man, which hangs in the Senior Common Room, and a portrait in oils, which hangs in the Breakfast Room.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17392705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17392705", "title": "KioskNet", "text": "KioskNet\n\nKioskNet is a system, developed at the University of Waterloo, to provide very low cost Internet access to rural villages in developing countries, based on the concept of delay-tolerant networking. It uses vehicles, such as buses, to ferry data between village kiosks and Internet gateways in nearby urban centers. The data is re-assembled at a Proxy Server for interaction with legacy servers. The system is free and open source.\n\nA video describing the KioskNet system can be found here . The dead page has been archived, and the video is still available on YouTube here.\n"}
{"id": "54496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54496", "title": "Lawrence Lessig", "text": "Lawrence Lessig\n\nLester Lawrence Lessig III (born June 3, 1961) is an American academic, attorney, and political activist. He is the Roy L. Furman Professor of Law at Harvard Law School and the former director of the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics at Harvard University. Lessig was a candidate for the Democratic Party's nomination for President of the United States in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, but withdrew before the primaries.\n\nLessig is a proponent of reduced legal restrictions on copyright, trademark, and radio frequency spectrum, particularly in technology applications. In 2001, he founded Creative Commons, a non-profit organization devoted to expanding the range of creative works available for others to build upon and to share legally. Prior to his most recent appointment at Harvard, he was a professor of law at Stanford Law School, where he founded the Center for Internet and Society, and at the University of Chicago. He is a former board member of the Free Software Foundation and Software Freedom Law Center; the Washington, D.C. lobbying groups Public Knowledge and Free Press; and the Electronic Frontier Foundation.\n\nAs a political activist, Lessig has called for state-based activism to promote substantive reform of government with a Second Constitutional Convention. In May 2014, he launched a crowd-funded political action committee which he termed Mayday PAC with the purpose of electing candidates to Congress who would pass campaign finance reform. Lessig is also the co-founder of Rootstrikers, and is on the boards of MapLight and Represent.Us. He serves on the advisory boards of the \"Democracy Café\" and the Sunlight Foundation.\n\nIn August 2015, Lessig announced that he was exploring a possible candidacy for President of the United States, promising to run if his exploratory committee raised $1 million by Labor Day. After accomplishing this, on September 6, 2015, Lessig announced that he was entering the race to become a candidate for the 2016 Democratic Party's presidential nomination. Lessig has described his candidacy as a referendum on campaign finance reform and electoral reform legislation. He stated that, if elected, he would serve a full term as president with his proposed reforms as his legislative priorities. He ended his campaign in November 2015, citing rule changes from the Democratic Party that precluded him from appearing in the televised debates.\n\nLessig earned a B.A. degree in economics and a B.S. degree in management (Wharton School) from the University of Pennsylvania, an M.A. degree in philosophy from the University of Cambridge (Trinity) in England, and a J.D. degree from Yale Law School in 1989. After graduating from law school, he clerked for a year for Judge Richard Posner, at the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago, Illinois, and another year for Justice Antonin Scalia at the Supreme Court.\n\nLessig started his academic career at the University of Chicago Law School, where he was professor from 1991 to 1997. As co-director of the Center for the Study of Constitutionalism in Eastern Europe there, he helped the newly-independent Republic of Georgia draft a constitution. From 1997 to 2000, he was at Harvard Law School, holding for a year the chair of Berkman Professor of Law, affiliated with the Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society. He subsequently joined Stanford Law School, where he established the school's Center for Internet and Society.\n\nLessig returned to Harvard in July 2009 as professor and director of the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics. In 2013, Lessig was appointed as the Roy L. Furman Professor of Law and Leadership; his chair lecture was titled \"Aaron's Laws: Law and Justice in a Digital Age.\"\n\nLessig was portrayed by Christopher Lloyd in \"The Wake Up Call\", during season 6 of \"The West Wing\".\n\nLessig has been politically liberal since studying philosophy at Cambridge in the mid-1980s. By the late 1980s, two influential conservative judges, Judge Richard Posner and Justice Antonin Scalia, selected him to serve as a law clerk, choosing him for his supposed \"brilliance\" rather than for his ideology and effectively making him the \"token liberal\" on their staffs. Posner would later call him \"the most distinguished law professor of his generation.\"\n\nLessig has emphasized in interviews that his philosophy experience at Cambridge radically changed his values and career path. Previously, he had held strong conservative or libertarian political views, desired a career in business, was a highly active member of Teenage Republicans, served as the Youth Governor for Pennsylvania through the YMCA Youth and Government program in 1978, and almost pursued a Republican political career.\n\nWhat was intended to be a year abroad at Cambridge convinced him instead to stay another two years to complete an undergraduate degree in philosophy and develop his changed political values. During this time, he also traveled in the Eastern Bloc, where he acquired a lifelong interest in Eastern European law and politics.\n\nLessig remains skeptical of government intervention but favors some regulation, calling himself \"a constitutionalist.\" On one occasion, Lessig also commended the John McCain campaign for discussing fair use rights in a letter to YouTube where it took issue with YouTube for indulging overreaching copyright claims leading to the removal of various campaign videos.\n\nIn computer science, \"code\" typically refers to the text of a computer program (the source code). In law, \"code\" can refer to the texts that constitute statutory law. In his 1999 book \"Code and Other Laws of Cyberspace\", Lessig explores the ways in which code in both senses can be instruments for social control, leading to his dictum that \"Code is law.\" Lessig later updated his work in order to keep up with the prevailing views of the time and released the book as \"\" in December 2006.\n\nLessig has been a proponent of the remix culture since the early 2000s. In his 2008 book \"Remix\" he presents this as a desirable cultural practice distinct from piracy. Lessig further articulates remix Culture as intrinsic to technology and the Internet. Remix culture is therefore an amalgam of practice, creativity, \"read/write\" culture and the hybrid economy.\n\nAccording to Lessig, the problem with the remix comes when it is at odds with stringent US copyright law. He has compared this to the failure of Prohibition, both in its ineffectiveness and in its tendency to normalize criminal behavior. Instead he proposes more lenient licensing, namely Creative Commons licenses, as a remedy to maintain \"rule of law\" while combating plagiarism.\n\nOn March 28, 2004 he was elected to the FSF's board of directors. He proposed the concept of \"free culture\". He also supports free and open-source software and open spectrum. At his free culture keynote at the O'Reilly Open Source Convention 2002, a few minutes of his speech was about software patents, which he views as a rising threat to free software, open source software and innovation.\n\nIn March 2006, Lessig joined the board of advisors of the Digital Universe project. A few months later, Lessig gave a talk on the ethics of the Free Culture Movement at the 2006 Wikimania conference. In December 2006, his lecture \" On Free, and the Differences between Culture and Code\" was one of the highlights at 23C3 \"Who can you trust?\".\n\nLessig claimed in 2009 that, because 70% of young people obtain digital information from illegal sources, the law should be changed.\n\nIn a foreword to the Freesouls book project, Lessig makes an argument in favor of amateur artists in the world of digital technologies: \"there is a different class of amateur creators that digital technologies have ... enabled, and a different kind of creativity has emerged as a consequence.\"\n\nLessig is also a well-known critic of copyright term extensions.\n\nLessig has long been known to be a supporter of net neutrality. In 2006, he testified before the US Senate that he believed Congress should ratify Michael Powell's four Internet freedoms and add a restriction to access-tiering, i.e. he does not believe content providers should be charged different amounts. The reason is that the Internet, under the neutral end-to-end design is an invaluable platform for innovation, and the economic benefit of innovation would be threatened if large corporations could purchase faster service to the detriment of newer companies with less capital. However, Lessig has supported the idea of allowing ISPs to give consumers the option of different tiers of service at different prices. He was reported on CBC News as saying that he has always been in favour of allowing internet providers to charge differently for consumer access at different speeds. He said, \"Now, no doubt, my position might be wrong. Some friends in the network neutrality movement as well as some scholars believe it is wrong—that it doesn't go far enough. But the suggestion that the position is 'recent' is baseless. If I'm wrong, I've always been wrong.\"\n\nDespite presenting an anti-regulatory standpoint in many fora, Lessig still sees the need for legislative enforcement of copyright. He has called for limiting copyright terms for creative professionals to five years, but believes that creative professionals' work, many of them independent, would become more easily and quickly available if bureaucratic procedure were introduced to renew trademarks for up to 75 years after this five-year term.\nLessig has repeatedly taken a stance that privatization through legislation like that seen in the 1980s in the UK with British Telecommunications is not the best way to help the Internet grow. He said, \"When government disappears, it's not as if paradise will take its place. When governments are gone, other interests will take their place,\" \"My claim is that we should focus on the values of liberty. If there is not government to insist on those values, then who?\" \"The single unifying force should be that we govern ourselves.\"\n\nFrom 1999 to 2002, Lessig represented a high-profile challenge the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act. Working with the Berkman Center for Internet and Society, Lessig led the team representing the plaintiff in \"Eldred v. Ashcroft\". The plaintiff in the case was joined by a group of publishers who frequently published work in the public domain and a large number of \"amici\" including the Free Software Foundation, the American Association of Law Libraries, the Bureau of National Affairs, and the College Art Association.\n\nIn March 2003, Lessig acknowledged severe disappointment with his Supreme Court defeat in the Eldred copyright-extension case, where he unsuccessfully tried to convince Chief Justice William Rehnquist, who had sympathies for de-regulation, to back his \"market-based\" approach to intellectual property regulation.\n\nIn August 2013, Lawrence Lessig brought suit against Liberation Music PTY Ltd., after Liberation issued a takedown notice of one of Lessig's lectures on YouTube which had used the song \"Lisztomania\" by the band Phoenix, whom Liberation Music represents. Lessig sought damages under section 512(f) of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which holds parties liable for misrepresentations of infringement or removal of material. Lessig was represented by the Electronic Frontier Foundation and Jones Day. In February 2014, the case ended with a settlement in which Liberation Music admitted wrongdoing in issuing the takedown notice, issued an apology, and paid a confidential sum in compensation.\n\nIn October 2014, \"Killswitch\", a film featuring Lawrence Lessig, as well as Aaron Swartz, Tim Wu, and Edward Snowden received its World Premiere at the Woodstock Film Festival, where it won the award for Best Editing. In the film, Lessig frames the story of two young hacktivists, Swartz and Snowden, who symbolize the disruptive and dynamic nature of the Internet. The film reveals the emotional bond between Lessig and Swartz, and how it was Swartz (the mentee) that challenged Lessig (the mentor) to engage in the political activism that has led to Lessig's crusade for campaign finance reform.\n\nIn February 2015, \"Killswitch\" was invited to screen at the Capitol Visitor's Center in Washington DC by Congressman Alan Grayson. The event was held on the eve of the Federal Communications Commission's historic decision on Net Neutrality. Lessig, Congressman Grayson, and Free Press (organization) CEO Craig Aaron spoke about the importance of protecting net neutrality and the free and open Internet.\n\nCongressman Grayson states that Killswitch is \"One of the most honest accounts of the battle to control the Internet -- and access to information itself.\". Richard von Busack of the Metro Silicon Valley, writes of \"Killswitch\", \"Some of the most lapidary use of found footage this side of The Atomic Café\". Fred Swegles of the Orange County Register, remarks, \"Anyone who values unfettered access to online information is apt to be captivated by \"Killswitch\", a gripping and fast-paced documentary.\" Kathy Gill of GeekWire asserts that \"\"Killswitch\" is much more than a dry recitation of technical history. Director Ali Akbarzadeh, producer Jeff Horn, and writer Chris Dollar created a human centered story. A large part of that connection comes from Lessig and his relationship with Swartz.\"\n\nIn December 2016 Lawrence Lessig and Laurence Tribe established The Electors Trust under the aegis of EqualCitizens.US to provide pro bono legal counsel as well as a secure communications platform for those of the 538 members of the United States Electoral College who are regarding a vote of conscience against Donald Trump in the presidential election \n\nAt the iCommons iSummit 07, Lessig announced that he would stop focusing his attention on copyright and related matters and work on political corruption instead, as the result of a transformative conversation with Aaron Swartz, a young internet prodigy whom Lessig met through his work with Creative Commons. This new work was partially facilitated through his wiki, Lessig Wiki, which he has encouraged the public to use to document cases of corruption. Lessig criticized the revolving door phenomenon in which legislators and staffers leave office to become lobbyists and have become beholden to special interests.\n\nIn February 2008, a Facebook group formed by law professor John Palfrey encouraged him to run for Congress from California's 12th congressional district, the seat vacated by the death of U.S. Representative Tom Lantos. Later that month, after forming an \"exploratory project\", he decided not to run for the vacant seat.\n\nDespite having decided to forgo running for Congress himself, Lessig remained interested in attempting to change Congress to reduce corruption. To this end, he worked with political consultant Joe Trippi to launch a web based project called \"Change Congress\". In a press conference on March 20, 2008, Lessig explained that he hoped the Change Congress website would help provide technological tools voters could use to hold their representatives accountable and reduce the influence of money on politics. He is a board member of MAPLight.org, a nonprofit research group illuminating the connection between money and politics.\n\nChange Congress later became \"Fix Congress First\", and was finally named Rootstrikers. In November 2011, Lessig announced that Rootstrikers would join forces with Dylan Ratigan's \"Get Money Out\" campaign, under the umbrella of the United Republic organization. Rootstrikers subsequently came under the aegis of Demand Progress, an organization co-founded by Aaron Swartz.\n\nIn 2010, Lessig began to organize for a national Article V convention. He co-founded \"Fix Congress First!\" with Joe Trippi. In a speech in 2011, Lessig revealed that he was disappointed with Obama's performance in office, criticizing it as a \"betrayal\", and he criticized the president for using \"the (Hillary) Clinton playbook\". Lessig has called for state governments to call for a national Article V convention, including by supporting Wolf PAC, a national organization attempting to call an Article V convention to address the problem. The convention Lessig supports would be populated by a \"random proportional selection of citizens\" which he suggested would work effectively. He said \"politics is a rare sport where the amateur is better than the professional.\" He promoted this idea at a September 24–25, 2011, conference he co-chaired with the Tea Party Patriots' national coordinator, in Lessig's October 5, 2011, book, \"Republic, Lost: How Money Corrupts Congress—and a Plan to Stop It,\" and at the Occupy protest in Washington, DC. Reporter Dan Froomkin said the book offers a manifesto for the Occupy Wall Street protestors, focusing on the core problem of corruption in both political parties and their elections. An Article V convention does not dictate a solution, but Lessig would support a constitutional amendment that would allow legislatures to limit political contributions from non-citizens, including corporations, anonymous organizations, and foreign nationals, and he also supports public campaign financing and electoral college reform to establish the one person, one vote principle.\n\nThe New Hampshire Rebellion is a walk to raise awareness about corruption in politics. The event began in 2014 with a 185-mile march in New Hampshire. In its second year the walk expanded to include other locations in New Hampshire.\n\nFrom January 11 to 24, 2014, Lessig and many others, like New York activist Jeff Kurzon, marched from Dixville Notch, New Hampshire to Nashua (a 185-mile march) to promote the idea of tackling \"the systemic corruption in Washington\". Lessig chose this language over the related term \"campaign finance reform,\" commenting that \"Saying we need campaign finance reform is like referring to an alcoholic as someone who has a liquid intake problem.\" The walk was to continue the work of NH Native Doris \"Granny D\" Haddock, and in honor of deceased activist Aaron Swartz. The New Hampshire Rebellion marched 16 miles from Hampton to New Castle on the New Hampshire Seacoast. The initial location was also chosen because of its important and visible role in the quadrennial \"New Hampshire primaries\", the traditional first primary of the presidential election.\n\nLessig announced the launch of his presidential campaign on September 6, 2015.\nOn August 11, 2015, Lessig announced that he had launched an exploratory campaign for the purpose of exploring his prospects of winning the Democratic Party's nomination for President of the United States in the 2016 election. Lessig pledged to seek the nomination if he raised $1 million by Labor Day 2015. The announcement was widely reported in national media outlets, and was timed to coincide with a media blitz by the Lessig 2016 Campaign. Lessig was interviewed in \"The New York Times\" and Bloomberg. Campaign messages and Lessig's electoral finance reform positions were circulated widely on social media. His campaign was focused on a single issue: The Citizen Equality Act, a proposal that couples campaign finance reform with other laws aimed at curbing gerrymandering and ensuring voting access. As an expression of his commitment to the proposal, Lessig initially promised to resign once the Citizen Equality Act became law and turn the presidency over to his vice president, who would then serve out the remainder of the term as a typical American president and act on a variety of issues. In October 2015, Lessig abandoned his automatic resignation plan and adopted a full policy platform for the presidency, though he did retain the passage of the Citizen Equality Act as his primary legislative objective.\n\nHe announced the end of his campaign on November 2, 2015.\n\nIn 2017, Lessig announced a movement to challenge the winner-take-all Electoral College vote allocation in the various states, called \"Equal Votes\". Lessig is counsel for plaintiffs in \"Nemanich v. Williams\", an electoral law case in Colorado.\n\nIn 2002, Lessig received the Award for the Advancement of Free Software from the Free Software Foundation (FSF). He also received the Scientific American 50 Award for having \"argued against interpretations of copyright that could stifle innovation and discourse online.\" Then, in 2006, Lessig was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nIn 2011, Lessig was named to the Fastcase 50, \"honoring the law's smartest, most courageous innovators, techies, visionaries, and leaders.\" Lessig was awarded honorary doctorates by the Faculty of Social Sciences at Lund University, Sweden in 2013 and by l'Université Catholique de Louvain in 2014. Lessig received the 2014 Webby Lifetime Achievement award for co-founding Creative Commons and defending net neutrality and the free and open software movement.\n\nLessig was born in Rapid City, South Dakota, the son of Patricia, who sold real estate, and Lester L. \"Jack\" Lessig, an engineer. He grew up in Williamsport, Pennsylvania.\n\nIn May 2005, it was revealed that Lessig had experienced sexual abuse by the director at the American Boychoir School, which he had attended as an adolescent. Lessig reached a settlement with the school in the past, under confidential terms. He revealed his experiences in the course of representing another student victim, John Hardwicke, in court. In August 2006, he succeeded in persuading the New Jersey Supreme Court to restrict the scope of immunity radically, which had protected nonprofits that failed to prevent sexual abuse from legal liability.\n\nLessig is married to Bettina Neuefeind, a German-born Harvard University colleague. The two married in 1999. He and Neuefeind have three children: Willem, Teo, and Tess.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13706125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13706125", "title": "List of emerging technologies", "text": "List of emerging technologies\n\nEmerging technologies are those technical innovations which represent progressive developments within a field for competitive advantage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30716793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30716793", "title": "List of virtual communities with more than 100 million active users", "text": "List of virtual communities with more than 100 million active users\n\nThis is a list of current virtual communities with more than 100 million active users. , 46% of the world's human population (or 3.4 billion) and 4.15 billion have, at the end of December 2017, used the services of the Internet within the past year—over 100 times more people than in 1995 (see Global Internet usage).\nNote: An \"active user\" is defined as a user who has interacted with the community in the last 30 days while logged in. This metric is different from monthly unique visitors, which includes unregistered readers who are only consumers and not creators of content. See also monthly active users.\n\n"}
{"id": "33742208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33742208", "title": "Models of communication", "text": "Models of communication\n\nModels of communication are conceptual models used to explain the human communication process. The first major model for communication was developed in 1948 by Claude Elwood Shannon and published with an introduction by Warren Weaver for Bell Laboratories. Following the basic concept, communication is the process of sending and receiving messages or transferring information from one part (sender) to another (receiver).\n\nIn 1960, David Berlo expanded the linear transmission model with the Sender-Message-Channel-Receiver(SMCR) Model of Communication. Later, Wilbur Schramm introduced a model that identified multiple variables in communication which includes the transmitter, encoding, media, decoding, and receiver. \n\nElwood Shannon and Warren Weaver were engineers that worked for Bell Telephone Labs in the United States. Their goal was to make sure that the telephone cables and radio waves were working at the maximum efficiency. Therefore, they developed the Shannon-Weaver model which had an intention to expand a mathematical theory of communication. The Shannon–Weaver model was developed in 1949 which is referred as the 'mother of all models'. The model is well accepted as a main initial model for Communication Studies which has grown since then.\n\nAs well, the Shannon-Weaver model was designed to mirror the functioning of radio and telephone technology. Their initial model consisted of four primary parts: sender, message, channel, and receiver. The sender was the part of a telephone a person speaks into, the channel was the telephone itself, and the receiver was the part of the phone through which one can hear the person on the other end of the line. Shannon and Weaver also recognized that there may often be static or background sounds that interfere with the process of the other partner in a telephone conversation; they referred to this as noise. Certain types of background sounds can also indicate the absence of a signal.\n\nThe original model of Shannon and Weaver has five elements: information source, transmitter, channel, receiver, and destination. To illustrate the process of the communication the first step is the information source where the information is stored. Next, in order to send the information, the message is encoded into signals, so it can travel to its destination. After the message is encoded, it goes through the channel which the signals are adapted for the transmission. In addition, the channel carried the noise course which is any interference that might happen to lead to the signal receive a different information from the source. After the channel, the message arrives in the receiver step where the message reconstruct (decode) from the signal. Finally, the message arrives at the destination.\n\nIn a simple model, often referred to as \"the transmission model\" or \"standard view of communication\", information or content (e.g. a message in natural language) is sent in some form (as spoken language) from an emissor/ sender/ encoder to a destination/ receiver/ decoder. According to this common communication-related conception, communication is viewed as a means of sending and receiving information. The strengths of this model are its simplicity, generality, and quantifiability. The mathematicians Claude Shannon and Warren Weaver structured this model on the basis of the following elements:\n\n\nShannon and Weaver argued that this concept entails three levels of problems for communication:\n\n\nDaniel Chandler criticizes the transmission model in the following terms:\n\n\nIn 1960, David Berlo expanded Shannon and Weaver's 1949 linear model of communication and created the Sender-Message-Channel-Receiver (SMCR) Model of Communication. The SMCR Model of Communication separated the model into clear parts and has been expanded upon by other scholars.\n\nThe Berlo's communication process is a simple application for communication of person-to-person which include communication source, encoder, message, channel, decoder, and communication receiver. In addition, David Berlo presented some factors that influence the communication process between two people. The factors include communication skills, awareness level, social system, cultural system, and attitude.\n\nThe Berlo's Model of Communication process starts at the source. This is the part where determine the communication skills, attitude, knowledge, social system, and culture of the people involved in the communication. After the message is developed which is elements in a set of symbols. Then the encoder step beginning. The encoder process is where the motor skills take place by speaking or writing. The message goes through the channel which carries the message by hearing, seeing, touching, smelling, or tasting. Then the decoder process takes place. In this process, the receiver interpreter the message with her or him sensory skills. Finally, the communication receiver gets the whole message understood.\n\nCommunication is usually described along a few major dimensions: Message (what type of things are communicated), source / emissor / sender / encoder (by whom), form (in which form), channel (through which medium), destination / receiver / target / decoder (to whom), and Receiver. Wilbur Schramm (1954) also indicated that we should also examine the impact that a message has (both desired and undesired) on the target of the message. Between parties, communication includes acts that confer knowledge and experiences, give advice and commands, and ask questions. These acts may take many forms, in one of the various manners of communication. The form depends on the abilities of the group communicating. Together, communication content and form make messages that are sent towards a destination. The target can be oneself, another person or being, another entity (such as a corporation or group of beings).\n\nCommunication can be seen as processes of information transmission governed by three levels of semiotic rules:\n\nTherefore, communication is social interaction where at least two interacting agents share a common set of signs and a common set of semiotic rules. This commonly held rule in some sense ignores autocommunication, including intrapersonal communication via diaries or self-talk, both secondary phenomena that followed the primary acquisition of communicative competences within social interactions.\n\nIn light of these weaknesses, Barnlund (1970) proposed a transactional model of communication. The basic premise of the transactional model of communication is that individuals are simultaneously engaging in the sending and receiving of messages.\n\nIn a slightly more complex form, a sender and a receiver are linked reciprocally. This second attitude of communication, referred to as the constitutive model or constructionist view, focuses on how an individual communicates as the determining factor of the way the message will be interpreted. Communication is viewed as a conduit; a passage in which information travels from one individual to another and this information becomes separate from the communication itself. A particular instance of communication is called a speech act. The sender's personal filters and the receiver's personal filters may vary depending upon different regional traditions, cultures, or gender; which may alter the intended meaning of message contents. In the presence of \"noise\" on the transmission channel (air, in this case), reception and decoding of content may be faulty, and thus the speech act may not achieve the desired effect. One problem with this encode-transmit-receive-decode model is that the processes of encoding and decoding imply that the sender and receiver each possess something that functions as a [code-book], and that these two code books are, at the very least, similar if not identical. Although something like code books is implied by the model, they are nowhere represented in the model, which creates many conceptual difficulties.\n\nTheories of co-regulation describe communication as a creative and dynamic continuous process, rather than a discrete exchange of information. Canadian media scholar Harold Innis had the theory that people use different types of media to communicate and which one they choose to use will offer different possibilities for the shape and durability of society. His famous example of this is using ancient Egypt and looking at the ways they built themselves out of media with very different properties stone and papyrus. Papyrus is what he called 'Space Binding'. it made possible the transmission of written orders across space, empires and enables the waging of distant military campaigns and colonial administration. The other is stone and 'Time Binding', through the construction of temples and the pyramids can sustain their authority generation to generation, through this media they can change and shape communication in their society.\n\nThere is an additional working definition of communication to consider that authors like Richard A. Lanham (2003) and as far back as Erving Goffman (1959) have highlighted. This is a progression from Lasswell's attempt to define human communication through to this century and revolutionized into the constructionist model. Constructionists believe that the process of communication is in itself the only messages that exist. The packaging can not be separated from the social and historical context from which it arose, therefore the substance to look at in communication theory is style for Richard Lanham and the performance of self for Erving Goffman.\n\nLanham chose to view communication as the rival to the over encompassing use of CBS model (which pursued to further the transmission model). CBS model argues that clarity, brevity, and sincerity are the only purpose to prose discourse, therefore communication. Lanham wrote: \"If words matter too, if the whole range of human motive is seen as animating prose discourse, then rhetoric analysis leads us to the essential questions about prose style\" (Lanham 10). This is saying that rhetoric and style are fundamentally important; they are not errors to what we actually intend to transmit. The process which we construct and deconstruct meaning deserves analysis.\n\nErving Goffman sees the performance of self as the most important frame to understand communication. Goffman wrote: \"What does seem to be required of the individual is that he learn enough pieces of expression to be able to 'fill in' and manage, more or less, any part that he is likely to be given\" (Goffman 73), highlighting the significance of expression.\n\nThe truth in both cases is the articulation of the message and the package as one. The construction of the message from social and historical context is the seed as is the pre-existing message is for the transmission model. Therefore, any look into communication theory should include the possibilities drafted by such great scholars as Richard A. Lanham and Goffman that style and performance is the whole process. lun\n\nCommunication stands so deeply rooted in human behaviors and the structures of society that scholars have difficulty thinking of it while excluding social or behavioral events. Because communication theory remains a relatively young field of inquiry and integrates itself with other disciplines such as philosophy, psychology, and sociology, one probably cannot expect a consensus conceptualization of communication across disciplines.\n\nCommunication Model Terms as provided by Rothwell (11-15):\n\nHumans act toward people or things on the basis of the meanings they assign to those people or things.\n-\"Language is the source of meaning\". \n-Meaning arises out of the social interaction people have with each other.\n\n-Meaning is not inherent in objects but it is negotiated through the use of language, hence the term symbolic interactionism.\nAs human beings, we have the ability to name things.\nSymbols, including names, are arbitrary signs.\nBy talking with others, we ascribe meaning to words and develop a universe of discourse\nA symbol is a stimulus that has a learned/shared meaning and a value for people\nSignificant symbols can be nonverbal as well as linguistic.\n\n-Negative responses can consequently reduce a person to nothing.\n-Our expectations evoke responses that confirm what we originally anticipated, resulting in a self-fulfilling prophecy.\n\nThis is a one-way model to communicate with others. It consists of the sender encoding a message and channeling it to the receiver in the presence of noise. In this model there is no feedback or response which may allow for a continuous \nexchange of information (F.N.S. Palma, 1993).\n\nThe linear model was first introduced by Shannon & Weaver in 1949. In the linear communication model, the message travels one direction from the start point to the endpoint. In other words, once the sender sends the message to the receiver the communication process ends. Many communications online use the linear communication model. For example, when you send an email, post a blog, or share something on social media. However, the linear model does not explain many other forms of communication including face-to-face conversation.\n\nIt is two linear models stacked on top of each other. The sender channels a message to the receiver and the receiver then becomes the sender and channels a message to the original sender. This model has added feedback, indicating that communication is not a one way but a two way process. It also has \"field of experience\" which includes our cultural background, ethnicity geographic location, extent of travel, and general personal experiences accumulated over the course of your lifetime. Draw backs – there is feedback but it is not simultaneous.\n\n\nCommunication theory can be seen from one of the following viewpoints:\n\n\nInspection of a particular theory on this level will provide a framework on the nature of communication as seen within the confines of that theory.\n\nTheories can also be studied and organized according to the ontological, epistemological, and axiological framework imposed by the theorist.\n\nOntology essentially poses the question of what, exactly, the theorist is examining. One must consider the very nature of reality. The answer usually falls in one of three realms depending on whether the theorist sees the phenomena through the lens of a realist, nominalist, or social constructionist. Realist perspective views the world objectively, believing that there is a world outside of our own experience and cognitions. Nominalists see the world subjectively, claiming that everything outside of one's cognitions is simply names and labels. Social constructionists straddle the fence between objective and subjective reality, claiming that reality is what we create together.\n\nEpistemology is an examination of the approaches and beliefs which inform particular modes of study of phenomena and domains of expertise. In positivist approaches to epistemology, objective knowledge is seen as the result of the empirical observation and perceptual experience. In the history of science, empirical evidence collected by way of pragmatic-calculation and the scientific method is believed to be the most likely to reflect truth in the findings. Such approaches are meant to predict a phenomenon. Subjective theory holds that understanding is based on situated knowledge, typically found using interpretative methodology such as ethnography and also interviews. Subjective theories are typically developed to explain or understand phenomena in the social world.\n\nAxiology is concerned with how values inform research and theory development. Most communication theory is guided by one of three axiological approaches. The first approach recognizes that values will influence theorists' interests but suggests that those values must be set aside once actual research begins. Outside replication of research findings is particularly important in this approach to prevent individual researchers' values from contaminating their findings and interpretations. The second approach rejects the idea that values can be eliminated from any stage of theory development. Within this approach, theorists do not try to divorce their values from inquiry. Instead, they remain mindful of their values so that they understand how those values contextualize, influence or skew their findings. The third approach not only rejects the idea that values can be separated from research and theory, but rejects the idea that they should be separated. This approach is often adopted by critical theorists who believe that the role of communication theory is to identify oppression and produce social change. In this axiological approach, theorists embrace their values and work to reproduce those values in their research and theory development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5000516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5000516", "title": "Mommy track", "text": "Mommy track\n\nA mommy track is a path in a woman's life that puts priority to being a mother. It can also specifically refer to work arrangements for women in the workforce that facilitate motherhood, such as flexible hours, but at the same time usually provides fewer opportunities for career advancement. References to the mommy track often go along with being a housewife, \"opting out\" of the workforce, temporarily or even permanently. Women following the mommy track may be contrasted to career women who prioritize their careers more than having children.\n\nWriter Jennifer A. Kingson introduced the term \"mommy track\" in an August 8, 1988, article in The New York Times, in which she described the career hurdles faced by law firm associates who sacrificed advancement potential once they had children.\n\nFelice Schwartz’s 1989 article in the \"Harvard Business Journal\" is sometimes called the first discussion of the mommy track phenomenon. Schwartz claims in the article that while “the cost of employing women in management is greater than the cost of employing men,” this greater cost is due primarily to gendered expectations of the workplace and women’s duties in raising children. Schwartz wrote:\nSchwartz's assertions generated widespread publicity and a new conversation about women in the workplace. \"The New York Times,\" having coined the term in 1988, described \"mommy track\" in greater detail in a March 8, 1989 article, \"Mommy Career Track Sets Off Furor\" which discussed Schwartz's article and the response to it in the public sphere. The article described the mommy track as a phenomenon \"in which women with family responsibilities are shunted into dead-end, lower-paying jobs.\"\n\nAcross different pay levels and socioeconomic groups, women’s earnings tend to plateau after giving birth. Even when controlling for variables, on average mothers in all groups earn lower wages than non-mothers. Beyond this general drop in earnings, though, there are significant differences in mothers’ wage gaps between high-earning women and low-earning women.\n\nHigh-earning women appear to bear much higher costs of childbirth than low-earning women. In the US, choosing to have children will force a woman to give up 21 to 33 percent of her lifetime earnings, a loss that could cost up to hundreds of thousands of dollars. Ten years after having children, a highly skilled woman with children remains at a pay level 24% lower than non-mothers even when time out of the workforce is taken into account. This group of women also seems to face greater discrimination within the workplace; only 16% of all law firm partners are women, a discrepancy absent from lower-skilled professions. Higher-skilled women tend to have flatter wage-earning trajectories than their low-skilled counterparts after giving birth, primarily seen in a lack of wage growth.\n\nLow-earning women who have children are sacrificing about 10 to 14 percent of their total lifetime earnings. Even ten years after having children, a mother in the US in this income bracket earns wages that are about 12% lower than non-mother, low-skilled women. This group of mothers tends to experience a one-time fall in pay immediately after childbirth of about 6%, but after that initial fall the wage gap between women with children and those without does not continue to grow over time.\n\nA theory frequently cited for why mothers earning lower wages than other women that is the fact that mothers tend to spend fewer hours in the workplace than non-mothers. A report in 2014 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics stated that employed men worked 52 minutes more than employed women on the days they worked, and that this difference partly reflects women's greater likelihood of working part-time. Part-time work and flextime or more flexible arrangements are seen as hallmarks of the mommy track, since they point to women not being in the workplace full-time. However, this is changing as more people—men and women alike—choose more flexible work arrangements that allow for more free time.\n\nIn the years since the women’s liberation movement and second-wave feminism, gender roles have become more complicated and less dogmatic. Despite this, the modern ideal of “intensive parenting,” first described by Sharon Hays, ensures that mothers continue to take primary responsibility for raising children due to the engrained social norm that women are better nurturers. This is one of the reasons that while both men and women report having increased trouble with their work-life balance after having a baby, women are the only ones whose hours working decrease as a response to this conflict. Moreover, women who cannot afford to pay someone else to take care of domestic work are faced with the double burden of working outside of the home while continuing to complete the majority of domestic work in the home.\n\nAnother cultural influence on mothers' decreased presence in the workforce is gender discrimination within the U.S. tax code. Since domestic labor in one’s own home is unpaid and untaxed, and women continue to do a majority of domestic labor as a result of societal norms, in many households it may seem less expensive for a woman to take care of this labor than to go to work and pay someone else to cook, clean, and care for children. The tax code also sees men as the primary earners and women as secondary earners, so men benefit from joint filing while women’s earnings are frequently subject to higher taxation.\n\nMany feminists saw the idea of the mommy track as divisive to women and therefore one that could have a detrimental effect to the feminist cause. Since Schwartz’s initial article proposed sorting women into two categories based on their devotion to careers, some saw this as a division between women that both forced them into narrow categories and ignored any existing differences between men.\n\nThere is also an ongoing discussion of whether the wage gap that results from a mommy track is any sort of societal discrimination against women, or basically an effect of mothers choosing to spend more time away from work.\n\nIn a 2005 study, in the US, it has been estimated that 31% of working mothers left the workplace (for an average of 2.2 years), most often precipitated by the birth of the second child. As of 2015, the US was one of only three countries in the world (the other two being Papua New Guinea and Suriname) that does not have laws that require employers to provide paid maternity leave.\n\nJapan’s social norms, like those of the U.S., help to cause many women to move into part-time work upon having children. However, unlike the U.S., Japanese mothers rarely return to full-time work after having children. Even more so than other developed countries, Japan has an especially high proportion of women who work part-time, and a majority of those women are mothers. Common business practices in Japan further penalize mothers who may have taken leave from the workplace at some point, due to companies choosing to only recruit directly from universities and setting upper limits on age for full-time positions.\n\nIn the Netherlands women have entered the workforce relatively recently. Throughout much of the 20th century, women faced many legal and social obstacles preventing them from working. Although in the late 1950s, the Netherlands made important legal changes, such as removing the marriage bar and the marital power of the husband, it was only in 1984 that full legal equality between husband and wife was achieved - prior to 1984 the law stipulated that the husband's opinion prevailed over the wife's regarding issues such as decisions on children's education and the domicile of the family, reflecting the traditional structure of the society.\nAlso, according to \"The Economist\", \"[Dutch] politics was dominated by Christian values until the 1980s\", which meant that Dutch women were slower to enter into the workforce. In the early 1980s, the Commission of the European Communities report \"Women in the European Community\" found that \"it is in the Netherlands (17.6%) and in Ireland (13.6%) that we see the smallest numbers of married women working and the least acceptance of this phenomenon by the general public\". (pg 14). From the 1980s onwards, the numbers of women entering the workplace have increased, but most of the women work part time. In 2012, 76.9% of employed women worked part-time, well above the European Union average of 32.1%.\n\nThe UK has less working mothers than many other Western countries. Lack of sufficient childcare and social stigma against working mothers have been cited as reasons. In general, women in the UK have one of the highest rate of part-time work in Europe. A report by OECD which looked at the OECD members, as well as at other countries from inside and outside Europe, found that only the Netherlands and Switzerland had a higher percentage of women working part-time. Women in the UK face one of the worst motherhood penalties among Western countries: \"[mothers] find significant motherhood wage penalties in several Continental Northern European countries (Austria, the Netherlands and Germany) and Anglophone countries (Canada, the UK and the US)\". The European Council, in a recommendation to the UK (which is non-binding), has criticized the UK because \"The difference in the share of part-time work between women (42,6 % in 2013) and men (13,2 % in 2013) is one of the highest in the Union. The percentage of women who are inactive or work part-time due to personal and family responsibilities (12,5 %) was almost twice as high as the EU average (6,3 %) in 2013...[e]ven if supply in the childcare system has increased recently, the availability of affordable, high-quality, full-time childcare remains a key issue.\"\n\nIn the Nordic countries, marriage and having children have far greater effects on women than on men, partly due to the expectation that women will continue unpaid domestic labor. However, the Nordic countries have worked to make the dual-earner household the norm, with nationalized childcare, parental leave, and flexible working hours making it possible for women to continue to work. According to a 2007 UNICEF report, in Sweden, although parents are given 12 months of parental leave time that can be divided between the two as each couple sees best, gender norms continue to have an effect: mandated maternity leave combined with Sweden allowing women to reduce work hours after giving birth means that nearly half of mothers in dual-income families work less than full-time. Although women in Nordic countries have a high overall labour participation, there is a strong segregation by gender with women being often found in certain work sectors, which have a working culture adapted to family life, with flexible hours and offers of part-time jobs, and men working in other sectors. According to the Nordic Information on Gender \"The gender-segregated labour market is a main reason why women are more likely to work part time in the Nordic countries than elsewhere in Europe\". However, this part-time work culture does not extend to Finland, where for historical reasons there was a shortage of labour in the country, which increased the need for women to work full time - as such, the part-time culture of the other Nordic countries was never established in Finland. Finland has a longer tradition of mothers working, compared to the other Nordic countries: in 1978, 73% of Finnish mothers of 0 - 6 year olds were employed, compared to 69% of Swedish and only 48% of Norwegian.\nAs of 2014, Sweden's employment rate for women was the highest in the EU28, and was only slightly below that of men (73% female rate vs. 76.5% male rate). This compared with the EU28 rate of 58.8% female vs 69% male.\n\n\nPolicies:\n\nGeneral:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55567666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55567666", "title": "New Lab", "text": "New Lab\n\nNew Lab opened in June, 2016, as a multi-disciplinary technology center. Housed in Building 128 of the Brooklyn Navy Yard, the $35 million project serves as a hardware-focused shared workspace, research lab, and hatchery for socially-oriented tech manufacturing.\n\nUsing the MIT Media Lab as a model, the impetus for the independent organization was to provide space and services to new manufacturing enterprises. Current members work in fields such as robotics, connected devices, energy, nanotechnology, life sciences, and urban tech.\n\nMedia coverage of New Lab has focused on the company's role in revitalizing the Brooklyn Navy Yard, its public-private partnership lease structure, and Urban Tech initiative with the New York CIty Economic Development Corporation.\n\nDavid Belt and partner Scott Cohen formed the concept for New Lab in 2011 after prospecting the decaying Building 128 with Navy Yard president David Ehrenberg. The partners found the maritime manufacturing history of the structure, specifically the manufacturing innovations that took place there, synchronous with their aim to provide a platform for emerging hardware technologies in New York City. The city was abundant in resources and opportunities for entrepreneurs working in software, Belt said in a recent interview, but space, tools and resources for those working in the new manufacturing hardware community were lacking.\n\nBelt leveraged his development firm, Macro Sea, a company that specializes \"in bringing historic properties back into cultural relevance,\" to obtain funding, architectural expertise, and begin constructing a lease with the city of New York. The Navy Yard was in the initial stages of its current revitalization at the time and, because the city owned the property, special arrangements were needed to develop there.\n\nCohen began scouting the companies who would comprise their core members and helped work to capitalize them. To date, venture capitalists have invested approximately $250 million in New Lab and its members.\n\nThe land predating New Lab has a rich historical cultural lineage and narrative of experimental and innovative breakthroughs. That past was a major factor in the decision to develop New Lab in the Navy Yard. Before colonial settlement, the area that would become the Navy Yard served as a clamming site for the Lenape Native Americans. It was then settled by the Dutch and sold to a developer, thus beginning its employment as a center for manufacturing. Among the technological advancements that took place at the Navy Yard are: the first use of the steam-powered pile driver; construction of the first undersea telegraph cable; development of a commercialized form of anesthetic ether by E.R. Squibb; and a broadcast of the first woman to sing over the radio, opera singer Eugenia Farrar performed \"I Love You Truly.\"\n\nConstruction of navy ships like the Fulton II, a first-of-its-kind steam-powered warship, and fabrication of the USS Arizona, state-of-the-art among its peers, induced many influential manufacturing process refinements and advancements.\n\nIn interviews, Belt and Cohen both cite this maritime and technological history as inspiration for New Lab, both in guiding the renovation of the facility and in shaping its mission.\n\nAccording to a Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation document,128 was raised in 1899 as a \"steel structure... used to assemble large boiler engines and fabricated sections of naval vessels.\" It served as the primary machine shop for every major ship launched during World Wars One and Two. Designed to accommodate the significant height of a warship, the sequence of its hulking steel girders resembles an airport hangar. 128 has been slated for, but avoided, plans for non-naval readaptation. The City of New York sought to adapt it for reuse as a \"food complex at one point,\" but the effort was not sustained.\n\nMarvel Architects, New Lab's architect of record, along with DBI, Belt's project management firm, worked together to craft and execute the renovation. Press regarding New Lab often states that the company occupies Building 128 of the Navy Yard, but this is slightly misleading in that 128 is a complex of warehouses and New Lab occupies the southernmost portion.\n\nRecladding the building's armature and repurposing of the 51,000 ft machine shop into an 84,000 ft multidisciplinary design, prototyping, and advanced manufacturing space took approximately 5 years and continued until the company's full opening in September 2016. The undertaking utilized approximately 9,000 lbs of steel in total according to the developer.\n\nA guiding principle of the redesign was to harmonize of the needs of the forthcoming lab environment with the original structural features. Modern workplace design elements were fused with the 19th century industrial characteristics of the building's centerline.\n\nNew Lab's open floor design was intended, spatially, to reinforce its mission, the layout meant to encourage member companies to collaborate and cross-pollinate ideas. Communal meeting rooms, office pods, and interior plazas on both floors emphasize the developer’s intention to create a collaborative design and fabrication center.\n\nUpon completion, the rebuild subdivided Building 128's usable space into: Private studios = 31,664 ft; Open private studios = 6,226 ft; Fabrication lab = 6,834 ft; Cafe kitchen = 600 ft; Conference rooms = 2,014 ft; Coworking desks = 144; Flex space = 66 desks.\n\nThere is an additional 6,174 ft of event space which hosts talks, hackathons, and new manufacturing events such as the recent Urban Tech Hub launch.\n\nAdditive Manufacturing (3D printing) technology is a component of the design process for many New Lab residents. Prototyping shops are a distinguishing feature of the hardware-centric facility. New Lab leverages partnerships with firms like AutoDesk, Stratasys, BigRep, Haas, Ultimaker, and others to provide and maintain equipment and filament for printing. The organization has amassed several million dollars of digital fabrication and manufacturing machine assets such as 3D Printers, electronic workbenches, fabrication tools, and CNC equipment since its opening.\nAs of September 2017 eighty companies and 400 people worked at New Lab. By 2018, the number of companies had increased to over 100. Members are typically growth-stage companies with anywhere between 3-20 employees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11324648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11324648", "title": "Open house (school)", "text": "Open house (school)\n\nAn open house (also known as open day and at-home day) is an event held at an institution where its doors are open to the general public to allow people to look around the institution and learn about it. These are often held at schools and universities to attract prospective students, familiarize them (and their parents) with the facilities, allow new students to become familiar with facilities and meet others, or to open informal communication channels between school staff and the students and their parents.\n\nSchool open houses are about two hours long, the length of a good movie or show . . . a well-executed event sets the stage for a successful school year. The face-to-face meetings with families help build relationships, increase the visibility of the parent group, and develop a sense of community at school.\nContrary to what its name might seem to imply, an open house at the average school is not intended for general members of the public, but rather, specifically, for the parents and family members of the students who either attend or are considering attending a school. In the overwhelming majority of schools in the United States, open house is held once a year, typically in the first month or first quarter of the school year. It is common for open houses to be held in the evenings or weekends, to allow for parents who work during the standard the work-week hours to attend, but holding open house in the daytime is not unusual, especially at elementary schools.\n\nIn elementary schools, open houses often have no schedule; parents come and go during the scheduled hours as they please, and some teachers may be willing to discuss individual students' progress with their parents. Some schools may schedule displays of school activities, such as a performance by a student choir.\n\nIn secondary schools—divided into middle schools (also called junior high schools) and high schools (also called senior high schools)—the single most important purpose of the open house is to allow parents and teachers meet each other face-to-face. In many middle schools and high schools, parents are given a schedule, often the same schedule their child follows during the school day. The parents go from one class to another, in the sequence that their child attends them, usually in the very same classrooms. Typically in such open houses the parents have only 5–15 minutes with their child's teacher, which provides time for the teacher to explain their class expectations, but not enough time to discuss individual children.\n\n\nFor examples of open houses as informative events, see the following:\n"}
{"id": "37747762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37747762", "title": "Pandaemonium (history book)", "text": "Pandaemonium (history book)\n\nPandaemonium, 1660-1886: The Coming of the Machine as Seen by Contemporary Observers is a book of contemporary observations of the coming, development, and impact of the Industrial Revolution in the United Kingdom, collected by documentary film-maker Humphrey Jennings and published posthumously in 1985 by Icon Books having received funding for the project from the Elephant Trust. The book takes its title from the first excerpt within it, the section in Book I of \"Paradise Lost\" (1660) in which John Milton describes the building of Pandaemonium, the capital city of Hell. \n\nJennings collated the excerpts between 1937 and his early death in 1950. Jennings' daughter, Mary-Louise Jennings, and a co-founder with Jennings of Mass Observation, Charles Madge, brought his work to publication in 1985. The first edition was published by André Deutsch Ltd, where Diana Athill was its editor. Reviewing \"Pandaemonium\", the \"New York Times\" said, \"Many of the early milestones of industrialization and its effects have become textbook cliches, and a routine anthology devoted to the subject would hardly call for special attention. But \"Pandaemonium\" is far from routine; it reflects the deeply felt preoccupations of an unusual man\", and said that through the texts selected, the book \"conveys the heroic promise of industrialism as well as the devastation, the humanistic spirit of science as well the dehumanizing dangers\".\n\nWriter Frank Cottrell Boyce, a longtime fan of the book, said of it \"When I first held this book in my hand, I swear I could feel it shaking with its own internal energy.\" Director Danny Boyle was working on a West End theatrical production of Mary Shelley's \"Frankenstein\", which opened in February 2011, and Cottrell Boyce had given Boyle a copy of \"Pandaemonium\" to help inform the Industrial Revolution sequence in the play. At the same time, Boyle and Cottrell Boyce were developing the opening ceremony for the 2012 Summer Olympics, with Boyle as its artistic director and Cottrell Boyce as the writer. Cottrell Boyce commented \"Danny had a very clear idea that in the first 15 minutes [of the ceremony] you had to have a great, startling image that could go around the world. It had to climax with something that made people go, Oh my God!\", and Boyle decided that \"the journey from the pastoral to the industrial, ending with the forging of the Olympic rings\" was that image. Boyle made \"Pandaemonium\" required reading for his opening ceremony team. The resulting section of the ceremony was named \"Pandemonium\", in acknowledgement of both Milton and Jennings' works.\n\nFollowing an attempt to get the out-of-print 1985 edition published as an e-book, a new condensed edition of the book was published in October 2012, with a foreword by Frank Cottrell Boyce. It represents about a third of the original edition. Writing of the new edition, Diana Athill observed \"[On its original publication in 1985] it received many perceptive and enthusiastic reviews, but it has taken Boyle to shift it from academic appreciation to the general readership for which it was intended and which it deserves.\"\n"}
{"id": "7949664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7949664", "title": "Participatory media", "text": "Participatory media\n\nParticipatory media is media where the audience can play an active role in the process of collecting, reporting, analyzing and disseminating content. Citizen / Participatory journalism, citizen media and democratic media are related principles.\n\nParticipatory media includes community media, blogs, wikis, RSS, tagging and social bookmarking, music-photo-video sharing, mashups, podcasts, participatory video projects and videoblogs. All together they can be described as \"e-services, which involve end-users as active participants in the value creation process\". However, \"active [...] uses of media are not exclusive to our times\". \"In the history of mediated communication we can find many variations of participatory practices. For instance, the initial phase of the radio knew many examples of non-professional broadcasters\".\n\nMarshall MacLuhan discussed the participatory potential of media already in the 1970s but in the era of digital and social media, the theory of participatory culture becomes even more acute as the borders between audiences and media producers are blurring.\n\nThese distinctly different media share three common, interrelated characteristics:\n\n\nFull-fledged participatory news sites include NowPublic, OhmyNews, DigitalJournal.com, On the Ground News Reports and GroundReport.\n\nWith participatory media, the boundaries between audiences and creators become blurred and often invisible. In the words of David Sifry, the founder of Technorati, a search engine for blogs, one-to-many \"lectures\" (i.e., from media companies to their audiences) are transformed into \"conversations\" among \"the people formerly known as the audience\". This changes the tone of public discussions. The mainstream media, says David Weinberger, a blogger, author and fellow at Harvard University's Berkman Center for Internet & Society, \"don't get how subversive it is to take institutions and turn them into conversations\". That is because institutions are closed, assume a hierarchy and have trouble admitting fallibility, he says, whereas conversations are open-ended, assume equality and eagerly concede fallibility.\n\nSome proposed that journalism can be more \"participatory\" because the World Wide Web has evolved from \"read-only\" to \"read-write\". In other words, in the past only a small proportion of people had the means (in terms of time, money, and skills) to create content that could reach large audiences. Now the gap between the resources and skills needed to consume online content versus the means necessary to produce it have narrowed significantly to the point that nearly anyone with a web-connected device can create media. As Dan Gillmor, founder of the Center for Citizen Media declared in his 2004 book We the Media, journalism is evolving from a lecture into a conversation. He also points out that new interactive forms of media have blurred the distinction between producers of news and their audience. In fact, some view the term \"audience\" to be obsolete in the new world of interactive participatory media. New York University professor and blogger Jay Rosen refers to them as \"the people formerly known as the audience.\" In \"We Media\", a treatise on participatory journalism, Shayne Bowman and Chris Willis suggest that the \"audience\" should be renamed \"participants\". One of the first projects encompassing participatory media prior to the advent of social media was The September 11 Photo Project. The exhibit was a not-for-profit community based photo project in response to the September 11 attacks and their aftermath. It provided a venue for the display of photographs accompanied by captions by anyone who wished to participate. The Project aimed to preserve a record of the spontaneous outdoor shrines that were being swept away by rain or wind or collected by the city for historical preservation.\n\nSome even proposed that \"all mass media should be abandoned\", extending upon one of the four main arguments given by Jerry Mander in his case against television: Corporate domination of television used to mould humans for a commercial environment, and all mass media involve centralized power. Blogger Robin Good wrote, \"With participatory media instead of mass media, governments and corporations would be far less able to control information and maintain their legitimacy... To bring about true participatory media (and society), it is also necessary to bring about participatory alternatives to present economic and political structures... In order for withdrawal from using the mass media to become more popular, participatory media must become more attractive: cheaper, more accessible, more fun, more relevant. In such an atmosphere, nonviolent action campaigns against the mass media and in support of participatory media become more feasible.\"\n\nAlthough 'participatory media' has been viewed uncritically by many writers, others, such as Daniel Palmer, have argued that media participation must also \"be understood in relation to defining characteristics of contemporary capitalism – namely its user-focused, customised and individuated orientation.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47595561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47595561", "title": "Politics and technology", "text": "Politics and technology\n\nThe combination of politics and technology covers concepts, mechanisms, personalities, efforts, and social movements including but not necessarily limited to the Internet and other information and communication technologies (ICTs).\n\nA growing body of scholarship has begun to explore how Internet technologies are influencing political communication and participation, especially in terms of what is known as the public sphere.\n\nOne of the most influential and transformational information and communication technologies is the mobile phone or smartphone, which can include: talk, text messaging, Internet and Web access, electronic mail, faxing, pictures, video, and a wide variety of apps. Mobile devices are proving to increase political participation and are now even being portrayed as a voting gadget in even the least developed countries. Increased availability of this technology and subsequent access to the public sphere has enhanced the ability of individuals and groups to bring attention to and organize around specialized issues.\n\nMore recently, social media has emerged to become one of the main areas of influence for politics, where millions of users are able to learn about politicians' policies and statements, interact with political leaders, organize, and voice their own opinions on political matters.\n\nThe idea of the public sphere has generally come to be understood as the open social spaces and public spaces in which private citizens interact and share information and ideas relevant to the society. These can include, for example, town halls, public squares, markets, coffee shops, or what ancient Greeks called agoras. Many scholars have argued that these spaces are vitally important for creating and maintaining an active and informed public in a democratic society.\n\nIn Jürgen Habermas' book \"The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere – An Inquiry into a Category of Bourgeois Society\", he defines the public sphere as \"a realm of social life in which public opinion can be formed.\" In principle, the public sphere should be open to all citizens, and free from influence from governments or private businesses. Habermas goes on to argue that:\"A portion of the public sphere is constituted in every conversation in which private persons come together to form a public. They are then acting neither as business or professional people conducting their private affairs, nor as legal consociates subject to the legal regulations of a state bureaucracy and obligated to obedience. Citizens act as a public when they deal with matters of general interest without being subject to coercion; thus with the guarantee that they may assemble and unite freely, and express and publicize their opinions freely.\"Howard Rheingold argues that, \"There is an intimate connection between informal conversations, the kind that take place in communities... and the ability of large social groups to govern themselves without monarchs or dictators.” Rheingold and others have also gone on to argue that virtual spaces created through the Internet and related information and communications technologies have led to the emergence of a new type of digital public sphere. Some scholars have conceptualized this alternately as a virtual public sphere or a networked public sphere, while still others have similarly described what they call a networked society or networked publics. Essentially, these new virtual spaces can be used in much the same way as traditional, offline spaces; that is, as a \"free space\" to discuss and debate ideas of public importance. Just as the public sphere is a combination of \"every conversation in which private persons come together to form a public\" the digital public sphere also comprises all forms of new media, such as chat rooms, website comment sections, and social media, in which private citizens engage in discourse as a public. Virtual spaces may overlap or interact with offline spaces as well, forming what has been called \"hybrid networks\".\n\nMany scholars argue that social media affords increasing opportunities for political discourse and mobilization within the digital public sphere. Research has shown that increased use of social media correlates with increases in certain types of political engagement and participation. The digital public sphere thus has the potential to enliven democratic culture and enhance the ability of citizens to challenge the political and economic power of governments and corporations such as through online protests, activism campaigns, and social movements. Other scholars have also highlighted, alongside economic globalization, the role of Internet technologies to reach across national borders to contribute to a growing transnational public sphere.\n\nThe traditional, offline public sphere has been criticized for not being as inclusive in practice as it is in theory. For example, Feminist scholars like Nancy Fraser have argued that the public sphere has historically not been as open or accessible to disadvantaged or marginalized groups in a society, such as women or people of color; therefore, such groups are forced to form their own separate public spheres, which she refers to as a counter-public or \"subaltern counter public\".\n\nSome scholars contend that online spaces are more open and thus may help to increase inclusive political participation from marginalized groups. In particular, anonymous online spaces should allow all individuals to speak with an equal voice to others. However, other have pointed out that many contemporary online spaces are not anonymous, such as Facebook. Avatars and social media profiles often portray an individual's offline identity, which can lead to practices of online discrimination and exclusion which mirror offline inequalities. Now, more and more historically disadvantaged or marginalized groups are also using Internet technology to carve out new online spaces for their own \"networked counterpublics\" such as through the use of hashtags like #Ferguson and #BlackLivesMatter.\n\nAnother factor which affects access to the digital public sphere is the digital divide, which refers to how people from less developed countries tend to have less access to information and communications technologies compared to those from more developed countries. For example, the most developed regions of the world, such as North America and Western Europe, have the highest Internet penetration rates at over 80% each, while the least developed countries such as in Africa and South Asia have less than 30% each. On the other hand, the reduced cost and increasing availability of mobile devices such as smartphones throughout less developed regions is helping to reduce this disparity at an exponential rate. In just two years, between 2013 and 2015, the number of Internet users in developing nations has risen by 9%, according to the Pew Research Center. Other research has shown, though, that even within more developed countries like the United States, the digital divide continues to persist between upper and lower socioeconomic classes and between different education levels. Furthermore, scholars like Mark Warschauer argue that it is not just access to technology that matters, but the knowledge of how to put that technology to use in meaningful ways.\n\n"}
{"id": "2621705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2621705", "title": "Program on Negotiation", "text": "Program on Negotiation\n\nThe Program on Negotiation (PON) is a university consortium dedicated to developing the theory and practice of negotiation and dispute resolution. As a community of scholars and practitioners, PON serves a unique role in the world negotiation community. Founded in 1983 as a special research project at Harvard Law School, PON includes faculty, students, and staff from Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Tufts University.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation publishes the quarterly \"Negotiation Journal\" and the monthly \"Negotiation Briefings\" newsletter, and distributes the annual \"Harvard Negotiation Law Review\". Throughout the year PON offers a number of courses and training opportunities ranging in length from one day to an entire semester.\n\nIn 1979, co-authors of the bestseller \"Getting to Yes: Negotiating Agreement without Giving In\", Roger Fisher and William Ury, along with Bruce Patton founded the Harvard Negotiation Project (HNP), with a mission to improve the theory, teaching, and practice of negotiation and dispute resolution, so that people could deal more constructively with conflicts ranging from the interpersonal to the international. Fisher began by asking the question of what kind of advice could be given to both sides of a dispute, and in researching this question he came in contact with various professors, including James Sebenius, Lawrence Susskind, Frank Sander, and Howard Raiffa, who collaborated to form the Program on Negotiation.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation was founded in 1983 as the world's first teaching and research center dedicated to negotiation and dispute resolution. As an umbrella organization with founding members from both Harvard and MIT, it soon expanded to include Tufts University as one of its consortium schools. Since the beginning, the Program on Negotiation has been multi-disciplinary, with scholars from economics, government, law, business, psychology, anthropology, education, and the arts. Faculty have focused on a wide range of research topics, including deal-making, diplomatic negotiations, international negotiations, psychological aspects of negotiations, decision-making, issues relating to ethics and trust, and labor negotiations.\n\nChair of the Program on Negotiation since 1994, Professor Robert H. Mnookin is Samuel Williston Professor of Law at Harvard Law School. Among his recent publications are the books, \"Beyond Winning: Negotiating to Create Value in Deals and Disputes\", and \"Bargaining with the Devil: When to Negotiate, When to Fight\".\n\nThe Program on Negotiation is responsible for multiple publications, including books, special reports, the \"Negotiation Briefings\" newsletter and the quarterly \"Negotiation Journal\", a multidisciplinary international journal published by Wiley-Blackwell detailing the latest advances in the field. PON also regularly produces free reports that are available through their website, such as: \"Teaching Negotiation: Understanding The Impact Of Role-Play Simulations\", \"Business Negotiation Strategies: How to Negotiate Better Business Deals\", \"Negotiation Skills: Negotiation Strategies and Negotiation Techniques to Help You Become a Better Negotiator\", \"Dealmaking: Secrets of Successful Dealmaking in Business Negotiations\", \"Negotiation Strategies for Women: Secrets to Success\", \"Dealing with Difficult People\", \"BATNA Basics: Boost Your Power at the Bargaining Table\", \"Sally Soprano: Role-Play Simulation\", \"Harborco: Role-Play Simulation\", and \"Win-Win or Hardball: Learn Top Strategies from Sports Contract Negotiations\". All of PONs publications including books, case studies, and DVDs can be obtained through the PON Clearinghouse.\n\nPON offers a number of training programs throughout the year on a variety of topics including negotiation, mediation, conflict resolution, deal design, difficult conversations, and many more. PON seminars and courses are open to the public.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation offers one day Author Sessions focused on recent book publications by PON faculty members as part of its Executive Education Series. Recent courses included: Deal-Making and Negotiauctions, Creating a World-class Negotiating Organization, Bargaining with the Devil, and Negotiating International Deals.\n\nExecutive Education courses last for three days, covering strategies for business leaders to handle both successful day-to-day management and long-term strategies for healthy workplace environments. Executives learn tactics for dealing with dirty tricks, threats, attacks, and stonewalls from the other side of the table.\n\nHarvard Negotiation Institute (HNI) classes are offered every June and September on the Harvard Law School campus and cover a broad range of negotiation and mediation skills, ranging from beginning to advanced techniques. Most of the courses offered are five-day classes. However, a 2-day Intensive Negotiation Workshop for Lawyers and Working Professionals is also offered. Recent course offerings included: a mediation workshop, Creating Value in Deals and Disputes, Tools for Preparing and Negotiating Effectively, Deal Design and Implementation, and Difficult Conversations.\n\nOpen to participants from all disciplines and professional fields, the PON Seminars provide negotiation and mediation courses to the community. These semester-length courses are designed to increase public awareness and understanding of successful conflict resolution efforts.\n\nTwo courses are taught each year: Negotiation and Dispute Resolution in the fall, and Mediation and Conflict Management in the spring. Both courses provide participants with a conceptual framework and practical advice for professional and personal development in dispute resolution. Faculty is drawn from the PON community of scholars and practitioners of alternative dispute resolution.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation also hosts a variety of smaller workshops and intensive two-day courses in addition to their normal course offerings, including on-site training.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation established the Great Negotiator Award in 2000 to honor individuals of extraordinary achievement in dispute resolution. The award is designed not only to honor the accomplishments of outstanding negotiators, but also to focus public attention on the important role of negotiation as society faces increasingly complex disputes in all sectors–public and private, technological and ethical, personal and professional. PON has recognized a diverse cast of distinguished negotiators from their respective fields: Juan Manuel Santos, Nobel Peace Prize recipient and President of Colombia (2017); Martti Ahtisaari, Nobel Peace Prize recipient and former President of Finland (2010); Christo and Jeanne-Claude, the artists who created The Gates in Central Park (2008); Bruce Wasserstein, Chairman and CEO of Lazard, an international financial advisory and asset management firm (2007); Sadako Ogata, former United Nations high commissioner for refugees (2005); Richard Holbrooke, former United States ambassador to the United Nations (2004); Stuart Eizenstat, former U.S. ambassador to the European Union (2003); Ambassador Lakhdar Brahimi, the United Nations’ special envoy for Afghanistan (2002); Charlene Barshefsky, U.S. trade representative in the second Clinton administration (2001); and former U.S. Senator George Mitchell for his work in Northern Ireland (2000).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1168433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1168433", "title": "Public editor", "text": "Public editor\n\nThe job of the public editor is to supervise the implementation of proper journalism ethics at a newspaper, and to identify and examine critical errors or omissions, and to act as a liaison to the public. They do this primarily through a regular feature on a newspaper's editorial page. Because public editors are generally employees of the very newspaper they're criticizing, it may appear as though there is a possibility for bias. However, a newspaper with a high standard of ethics would not fire a public editor for a criticism of the paper; the act would contradict the purpose of the position and would itself be a very likely cause for public concern.\n\nMany major newspapers in the U.S. use the public editor column as the voice for their ombudsman, though this is not always so. Public editor columns cover a broader scope of issues and do not have an accreditation process, while in order to qualify as an ombudsman of any standing one must be a member of the Organisation of News Ombudsmen.\n\nThe first newspaper to appoint an ombudsman was Tokyo's \"Asahi Shimbun\" in 1922; the first American newspapers to appoint a public editor were the \"Louisville Courier-Journal\" and \"Louisville Times\" in 1967.\n\nAt \"The New York Times\", the position was created in response to the Jayson Blair scandal. The \"Times\"' first public editor was Daniel Okrent, who held the position from December 2003 through May 2005. Okrent's successor was Byron Calame, who was followed by Clark Hoyt, who held the position for three years. In August 2010, Arthur S. Brisbane assumed the post and held it until 2012, when Margaret M. Sullivan took the position. in April, 2016, Sullivan left the position to become a media columnist at the \"Washington Post\"; her last column for the \"Times\" was dated April 16. She was replaced by Elizabeth Spayd in July 2016.\nOn May 31, 2017, the \"Times\" announced that it was eliminating the public editor position.\n"}
{"id": "49050369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49050369", "title": "Religion and video games", "text": "Religion and video games\n\nThe study of religion and video games is a subfield of digital religion, which the American scholar of communication, Heidi Campbell, defines as \"Religion that is constituted in new ways through digital media and cultures.\" (Campbell, 2012, p. 3). Video games once struggled for legitimacy as a cultural product, today, however, they are both business and art. Video games increasingly turn to religion not just as ornament but as core elements of their video game design and play.\n\nReligion has several definitions. Religions that are organized can be seen as cultural systems, with corresponding behavior and practice. They often have sacred texts and holy places. A religious experience, however, does not necessarily have to be understood through an established religious framework.\n\nThemes and questions about life and death, innocence and guilt and violence are existential in nature; while they are not immediately understood as \"religious\", they are about the meaning of life.\n\nVideo game developers use religious and spiritual themes to involve the player more deeply in the game. Video game developer Shigeru Miyamoto, who used to play outside as a child, used his experiences and memories of exploring the forest and discovering a Buddhist temple in the design of his video games. Canadian developer BioWare (\"Mass Effect\", \"Dragon Age\") has in its offices several encyclopedias on religion, as well as the Book of the Dead.\n\nThe negative portrayal of religions has been criticized.\n\nReligious elements are used in two ways: explicit and implicit. They are seen side-by-side in video games and do not exclude each other. Religion in \"Mass Effect\", for instance, can be understood as an \"unseen character\".\n\nAn explicit reference to a religious or spiritual concept is one that is clear to what it is referring. These can be based upon real-world religions, but also on fictional ones. Stories, motifs and names of characters from religious texts are used as reference points.\n\nAncient religions and their deities are used in various ways. The religions portrayed are often no longer practiced, like ancient Greek religion. In the real-time strategy game \"Age of Mythology\" the player has to choose a \"major god\", which gives certain gameplay benefits. In \"Prince of Persia\" the nameless Prince has to fight Ahriman, an evil deity from Zoroastrianism.\n\nReal world historical religions and events are used as inspiration for video games. For instance, while \"Assassin's Creed\" (2007) is fictional, it is set during the Third Crusade in the Holy Land; the player takes on the role of the Assassin Altaïr Ibn-La'Ahad and is involved in the conflict between Catholic Christians, Orthodox Christians, Sunni Muslims and Shi'ite Muslims. While these religions appear, they are portrayed in a \"sanitized manner\".\n\nReligion is often institutionalized, having a certain organisational structure. Most games in the \"Megami Tensei\" series involve a religion, or a cult.\n\nIn the action role-playing game \"\" (2011) a civil war is about to erupt between the Empire and the Stormcloaks. The Stormcloaks wish to worship Talos, a human ascended to godhood. The Empire suffered a defeat against the powerful Aldmeri Dominion, an alliance of Elves who have made the worship of Talos illegal. It is up to the player to help in the conflict.\n\nThe stories of action-adventure and role-playing games often involve world-saving quests. The player, as the protagonist, takes on the role of the hero. The player character is often destined to save the world, which in itself is a prophecy.\n\n\"The Legend of Zelda\" uses religious elements and motifs like the Triforce.\n\nPlayers and developers use games to express their existential and spiritual feelings. Video games as cultural objects can also provide religious and spiritual experiences, like \"Journey\" (2012). Developer Jenova Chen said that \"I feel that \"Journey\" is a very spiritual game. People from around the world ask me if the game has a religious connection. Many religions share an affinity with \"Journey\"—this is because many religions partly share a common structure\". Chen said \"Journey\" is based upon Joseph Campbell's book on comparative mythology \"The Hero with a Thousand Faces\" and the \"Hero's Journey\" narrative structure.\n\nAfter the death of Leonard Nimoy, \"Star Trek Online\" added two statues in his honor, and \"World of Warcraft\" added a non-player character (NPC) based upon Robin Williams after his death. Developer Gearbox Software honored a late fan of \"Borderlands\", cancer victim Michael John Mamaril, by adding a NPC named after him in the sequel. Additionally, Gearbox posted a eulogy to Mamaril in the voice of the game character Claptrap. For their game \"MechWarrior Online\", developer Piranha Games sold a custom in-game unit called a Jenner, honoring the daughter of a player of the game. CAD122,210 was donated to the Canadian Cancer Society. Losing his wife Pauline to ovarian cancer, \"Minecraft\" player \"GasBandit\" built a memorial for her. When players of the online game \"Final Fantasy XIV\" heard that fellow gamer \"Codex Vahla\" was in the hospital on life support, they held a digital wake.\n\nSome religious groups use video games for education. An example is the Christian game \"\".\nIn May 2012, the Exeter Cathedral used \"Flower\" during its Sunday service.\n\nOpinions on video games differ from religion and denomination; there are religious groups that use games actively to convert people, while some games are banned for religious reasons. Scholars of religious studies are also studying video games, by looking at the game and to the players and their experiences, with games like \"Journey\" Religion is considered a serious real world topic, while video games are an art and entertainment. As such, developers and publishers sometimes take precaution not to offend people's religious beliefs. Religious references in the Japanese role-playing video game series \"Final Fantasy\" were originally censored for the U.S. release of the games. It was after the franchise switched to Sony's PlayStation with \"Final Fantasy VII\" (1997) that the religious references were left largely intact. Ubisoft's \"Assassin's Creed\" series show a disclaimer: \n\nDespite efforts from some companies, there have been incidents with religious groups and video games. The German video game rating board USK gave \"The Binding of Isaac\" a 16+ rating, considering it \"blasphemous\".\n\nThe game \"BioShock Infinite\" is heavily based on the notion of American exceptionalism at the turn of the 19th century, and incorporates notions taken from Christianity to support the game's dystopian themes. One aspect of this was the use of baptism. One developer on Irrational Games staff expressed strong concern to the lead developer, Ken Levine, that the game's presentation of baptism was highly controversial, leading Levine to with the developer to recast the baptism aspect as a notion of forgiveness rather than a religious tenet. At least one player objected to the final changes, prompting them to request a refund from Steam. The scene was otherwise well received by critics as less a commentary on Christianity but on as a representation of themes such as free will, evil, rebirth and redemption that were central to the game.\n\nOn October 22, 2008, Microsoft announced that \"Fallout 3\" would not be released in India on the Xbox 360 platform. Religious and cultural sentiments were cited as the reason. Although the specific reason was not revealed in public, it is possible that it is because the game contains two-headed mutated cows called Brahmin, or that Brahmin is also the name of an ancient, powerful hereditary caste of Hindu priests and religious scholars in India, or its similarity to the spelling of brahman, a type of cow that originated in India. Brahman, a breed of Zebu, are revered by Hindus.\n\nThe action game \"Hanuman: Boy Warrior\" was criticized by Rajan Zed, president of the Universal Society of Hinduism, for portraying the Hindu deity Hanuman. Developed and published in India by Aurona Technologies, the player controls Hanuman. \"Controlling and manipulating Lord Hanuman with a joystick/button/keyboard/mouse [is] denigration\", said Zed. \"Lord Hanuman was not meant to be reduced to just a 'character' in a video game to solidify [a] company/product's base in the growing economy of India.\" He urged Sony, the publisher of the game, to pull the game. Sony's regional manager however said that \"Hanuman: Boy Warrior\" sold beyond their expectations.\n\nZed was also critical of the use of Hindu deities in the MOBA game \"Smite\". In response, developer Hi-Rez Studios COO Todd Harris said that \"Smite\" would still be featuring Hindu deities, possibly adding more. GameSpot asked if characters based upon Abrahamic religions would be added as well, but Harris said that \"the key Abrahimic figures—Adam, Noah, Moses, Jesus, Mohammed, are not that interesting in character design or gameplay\".\n\n\"LittleBigPlanet\" (2008) had a last-minute delay involving a licensed song in the game's soundtrack, after a PlayStation Community member reported the lyrics to one of the licensed songs in the game included passages from the Qur'an and could therefore be offensive to Muslims. However, no actual complaints regarding the music were made. The song, entitled \"Tapha Niang\", was by Malian artist Toumani Diabaté, himself a devout Muslim. The game was patched twice, the day before its release for players who had received the game early, before its intended release date. The first update did not affect the song, whilst the second updated the game to remove the vocals from the track, leaving only an instrumental. Some American Muslims responded to the recall and stated that they were offended by the restriction of freedom of speech. M. Zuhdi Jasser M.D., head of the American Islamic Forum for Democracy, was quoted as saying, \"Muslims cannot benefit from freedom of expression and religion and then turn around and ask that anytime their sensibilities are offended that the freedom of others be restricted.\"\n\nThe fighting game \"\" was temporarily banned in the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. Originally, the title of the game was rebranded as \"Injustice: The Mighty Among Us\" for promotional uses in those areas. It is speculated that \"Injustice\" was banned because of the inclusion of the word 'Gods' in the title, the cleavage exposed in the outfits of some female characters, and overall bloodiness. Eventually, the ban in the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait was lifted.\n\n\"\" (2002) sparked controversy due to a level featuring the killing of Sikhs within a depiction of their most holy site, the Harmandir Sahib, where hundreds of Sikhs were massacred in 1984. An altered version of \"Silent Assassin\" was eventually released with the related material removed from the game.\n\nA study released by the University of Missouri stated that video games often emphasize the violent aspects of religion. Researcher Greg Perreault said \"It doesn't appear that game developers are trying to purposefully bash organized religion in these games, I believe they are only using religion to create stimulating plot points in their story lines\".\n\nFor many years video games were seen as mere entertainment, a form of \"low culture\". Playing video games was seen as a form of escapism and the medium was not regarded as a valid object of scientific research. To \"play\" games as a scholarly pursuit was thought of as \"ludicrous\". It has only been in recent years that video games have become the object of scientific study. Looking at the game as an object, researchers can explore religious and spiritual references. Video game research is done in two ways; the game can be studied as an object, while actor-focused research looks at the player.\n\nVideo games, as products of human culture, can be seen and read as \"texts\". They carry myths, stories and symbols of the time in which they were created. By \"reading\" video games, philosophers, sociologists and theologians have the opportunity to study the religious and spiritual themes in video games. This can be done in several ways.\n\n\nVideo games are interactive; it requires input from the player to happen. While a video game developer designs the game, including its rules and story, it is up to the player to make the game \"happen\". As such, it is up to individual player to give meaning to their experience.\n\nVideo games allow the player to think, form and possibly change their own opinion about religious and spiritual matters. Players often discuss these elements on online platforms. For instance, some players made their own version of the player character Commander Shepard of the \"Mass Effect\" series an atheist, while others thought of him/her as a Christian. As such, video games also give new meaning to the concept of religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "980971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=980971", "title": "Schismogenesis", "text": "Schismogenesis\n\nSchismogenesis literally means \"creation of division\". The term derives from the Greek words σχίσμα \"skhisma\" \"cleft\" (borrowed into English as schism, \"division into opposing factions\"), and γένεσις \"genesis\" \"generation, creation\" (deriving in turn from \"gignesthai\" \"be born or produced, creation, a coming into being\").\n\nThe concept of schismogenesis was developed by the anthropologist Gregory Bateson in the 1930s, to account for certain forms of social behavior between groups among the Iatmul people of the Sepik River. Bateson first published the concept in 1935, but elaborated on schismogenesis in his classic 1936 ethnography \"Naven: A Survey of the Problems suggested by a Composite Picture of the Culture of a New Guinea Tribe drawn from Three Points of View\", reissued with a new Epilogue in 1958. The word \"naven\" refers to an honorific ceremony among the Iatmul (still practiced) whereby certain categories of kin celebrate first-time cultural achievements. In a schematic summary, Bateson focused on how groups of women and groups of men (especially the honorees mothers' brothers) seemingly inverted their everyday, gendered-norms for dress, behavior, and emotional expression. For the most part, these groups of people belonged to different patrilineages who not only did not regularly renew their marriage alliances, but also interacted through the mode he called schismogenesis. Men and women, too, interacted in this mode. And thus the naven ritual served to correct schismogenesis, enabling the society to endure.\n\nIn his 1936 book \"Naven\", Bateson defined schismogenesis as \"a process of differentiation in the norms of individual behaviour resulting from cumulative interaction between individuals\" (p. 175). He continued:\n\n\"It is at once apparent that many systems of relationship, either between individuals or groups of individuals, contain a tendency towards progressive change. If, for example, one of the patterns of cultural behaviour, considered appropriate in individual A, is culturally labelled as an assertive pattern, while B is expected to reply to this with what is culturally regarded as submission, it is likely that this submission will encourage a further assertion, and that this assertion will demand still further submission. We have thus a potentially progressive state of affairs, and unless other factors are present to restrain the excesses of assertive and submissive behaviour, A must necessarily become more and more assertive, while B will become more and more submissive; and this progressive change will occur whether A and B are separate individuals or members of complementary groups.\"\n\n\"Progressive changes of this sort we may describe as complementary schismogenesis. But there is another pattern of relationships between individuals or groups of individuals which equally contains the germs of progressive change. If, for example, we find boasting as the cultural pattern of behaviour in one group, and that the other group replies to this with boasting, a competitive situation may develop in which boasting leads to more boasting, and so on. This type of progressive change we may call symmetrical schismogenesis\" (pp. 176-77). \n\nSomewhat analogous to Émile Durkheim's concepts of mechanical and organic solidarity (see functionalism), Bateson understood the symmetrical form of schismogenic behavior among Iatmul men to be one of a competitive relationship between categorical equals (e.g., rivalry). Thus one man, or a group of men, boast, and another man/group must offer an equal or better boast, prompting the first group to respond accordingly, and so forth. Complementary schismogenesis among the Iatmul was seen by Bateson between mainly men and women, or between categorical unequals (e.g., dominance and submission). Men would act dominant, leading women to act submissive, to which men responded with more dominance, and so forth. In both types of schismogenesis, the everyday emotional norms or ethos of Iatmul men and women prevented a halt to schismogenesis. The crux of the matter for Bateson was that, left unchecked, either form of schismogensis would cause Iatmul society simply to break apart. Thus some social or cultural mechanism was needed by society to maintain social integration. That mechanism among the Iatmul was the naven rite. Bateson's specific contribution was to suggest that certain concrete ritual behaviors either inhibited or stimulated the schismogenic relationship in its various forms.\n\nBateson's treatment of conflict escalation has been used to explain how conflicts arise over natural resources, including human-predator conflicts in Norway and also for conflicts among stakeholder groups in shared fisheries, In the latter case, Harrison and Loring compare conflict schismogenesis to the Tragedy of the Commons, arguing that it is a similar kind of escalation of behavior also caused by the failure of social institutions to ensure equity in fisheries management outcomes.\n\nSteven Feld (1994, p. 265-271), apparently in response to R. Murray Schafer's \"schizophonia\" and borrowing the term from Bateson, employs \"schismogenesis\" to name the recombination and recontextualization of sounds split from their sources.\n\nBateson, in \"Steps to an Ecology of Mind\" describes the two forms of schismogenesis and proposes that both forms are self-destructive to the parties involved. He goes on to suggest that researchers look into methods that one or both parties may employ to stop a schismogenesis before it reaches its destructive stage.\n\nThe first type of schismogenesis is best characterized by a class struggle, but is defined more broadly to include a range of other possible social phenomena. Given two groups of people, the interaction between them is such that a behavior \"X\" from one side elicits a behavior \"Y\" from the other side, The two behaviors complement one another, exemplified in the dominant-submissive behaviors of a class struggle. Furthermore, the behaviors may exaggerate one another, leading to a severe rift and possible conflict. Conflict can be reduced by narrowing information asymmetries between the two groups.\n\nThe second type of schismogenesis is best shown by an arms race. The behaviors of the parties involved elicit similar or symmetrical behaviors from the other parties. In the case of the United States and the Soviet Union, each party continually sought to amass more nuclear weapons than the other party, a clearly fruitless but seemingly necessary endeavor on both sides.\n\nA form of symmetrical schismogenesis exists in common sporting events, such as baseball, where the rules are the same for both teams.\n\nIn the field of communication, complementary schismogenesis is a force that can take effect in a conversation where people have different conversational styles, \"creating a split in a mutually aggravating way\". The effect causes two well-meaning individuals having a conversation to ramp up different styles, resulting in a disagreement that does not stem from actual difference of opinion. For example, if one person's conversational style favoured louder voices, while the other favoured softer speech, the first person might increase the loudness in their voice while the other spoke softer and softer, each trying to lead the conversation towards their style's conception of normal talking.\nSystems of holding back are also a form of schismogenesis. They are defined as \"mutually aggregating spirals which lead people to hold back contributions they could make because others hold back contributions they could make.\"\n\nIn Systems intelligence literature, it is held that human interaction has a tendency to fall into such systems unless conscious effort is made to counter this tendency. For example, although most managers would want to give support to their team and most team members would like to receive such support many times support does not result. This is because both parties might feel that the other party is not giving enough and thus they will themselves hold back what they in the best case could give. It has been suggested that systems of holding back are \"the single most important key to life-decreasing, reciprocity-trivializing and vitality-downgrading mechanisms in human life.\" \n"}
{"id": "1737582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1737582", "title": "School violence", "text": "School violence\n\nSchool violence encompasses physical violence, including student-on-student fighting and corporal punishment; psychological violence, including verbal abuse; sexual violence, including rape and sexual harassment; many forms of bullying, including cyberbullying; and carrying weapons in school. It is widely held to have become a serious problem in recent decades in many countries, especially where weapons such as guns or knives are involved. It includes violence between school students as well as physical attacks by students on school staff.\n\nA distinction is made between internalizing and externalizing behavior. Internalizing behaviors reflect withdrawal, inhibition, anxiety, and/or depression. Internalizing behavior has been found in some cases of youth violence although in some youth, depression is associated with substance abuse. Because they rarely act out, students with internalizing problems are often overlooked by school personnel. Externalizing behaviors refer to delinquent activities, aggression, and hyperactivity. Unlike internalizing behaviors, externalizing behaviors include, or are directly linked to, violent episodes. Violent behaviors such as punching and kicking are often learned from observing others. Just as externalizing behaviors are observed outside of school, such behaviors also observed in schools.\n\nA number of other individual factors are associated with higher levels of aggressiveness. Compared to children whose antisocial conduct begins in adolescence, early starters have a worse prognosis in terms of future aggression and other antisocial activities. Lower IQ is related to higher levels of aggression. Other findings indicate that in boys early problematic motor skills, attentional difficulties, and reading problems predict later persistent antisocial conduct.\n\nThe home environment is thought to contribute to school violence. The Constitutional Rights Foundation suggests long-term exposure to gun violence, parental alcoholism, domestic violence, physical abuse of the child, and child sexual abuse teaches children that criminal and violent activities are acceptable. Harsh parental discipline is associated with higher levels of aggressiveness in youth. There is some evidence indicating that exposure to television violence and, to a lesser extent, violent video games is related to increased aggressiveness in children, which, in turn, may carry over into school.\n\nStraus adduced evidence for the view that exposure to parental corporal punishment increases the risk of aggressive conduct in children and adolescents. Straus's findings have been contested by Larzelere and Baumrind. A meta-analysis of the vast literature on corporal punishment, however, indicates that corporal punishment is related to poorer outcomes in children and youth. The methodologically soundest studies indicate \"positive, moderately sized associations between parental corporal punishment and children’s aggression.\" Gershoff found that the trajectory of mean effect sizes (the size of the effect of corporal punishment on children's problem behavior) was curvilinear with the largest mean effect size in middle school (\"M\" = 0.55; on average the mean of corporal punishment group was more than half a standard deviation higher than the mean of the non-punishment group) and slightly smaller effect sizes in grade school (\"M\" = 0.43) and high school (\"M\" = 0.45).\n\nGerald Patterson's social interactional model, which involves the mother's application and the child's counterapplication of \"coercive\" behaviors, also explains the development of aggressive conduct in the child. In this context, coercive behaviors include behaviors that are ordinarily punishing (e.g., whining, yelling, hitting, etc.). Abusive home environments can inhibit the growth of social cognitive skills needed, for example, to understand the intentions of others. Short-term longitudinal evidence is consistent with the view that a lack of social cognitive skills mediates the link between harsh parental discipline and aggressive conduct in kindergarten. Longer-term, follow-up research with the same children suggests that partial mediating effects last until third and fourth grade. Hirschi's (1969) control theory advances the view that children with weak affective ties to parents and school are at increased risk of engaging in delinquent and violent behavior in and out of school. Hirschi's cross-sectional data from northern California high-school students are largely consistent with this view. Findings from case-control and longitudinal studies are also consistent with this view.\n\nNeighbourhoods and communities provide the context for school violence. Communities with high rates of crime and drug use teach youth the violent behaviors that are carried into schools. Children in violent neighborhoods tend to perceive that their communities are risky, and that these feelings of vulnerability carry over to the school environment. Dilapidated housing in the neighbourhood of the school has been found to be associated with school violence. Teacher assault was more likely to occur in schools located in high-crime neighbourhoods. Exposure to deviant peers is a risk factor for high levels of aggressivity. Research has shown that poverty and high population densities are associated with higher rates of school violence. Well controlled longitudinal research indicates that children's exposure to community violence during the early elementary school years increases the risk of aggression later in elementary school, as reported by teachers and classmates. Other, well controlled longitudinal research that utilized propensity score matching indicates that exposure to gun violence in early adolescence is related to the initiation of serious physical violence in later adolescence. Neighbourhood gangs are thought to contribute to dangerous school environments. Gangs use the social environment of the school to recruit members and interact with opposing groups, with gang violence carrying over from neighbourhoods into some schools. Alternatively, many children who grow up in violent neighborhoods learn to deliberately find and make \"street-oriented\" friends as an instrumental tactic used to avoid being victimized. Without the threat of violence, children more commonly develop friendships based on homophily, or shared traits.\n\nRecent research has linked the school environment to school violence. Teacher assaults are associated with a higher percentage male faculty, a higher proportion of male students, and a higher proportion of students receiving free or reduced cost lunch (an indicator of poverty). In general, a large male population, higher grade levels, a history of high levels of disciplinary problems in the school, high student to teacher ratios, and an urban location are related to violence in schools. In students, academic performance is inversely related to antisocial conduct. The research by Hirschi and others, cited above in the section on the home environment, is also consistent with the view that lack of attachment to school is associated with increased risk of antisocial conduct.\n\nThe goal of prevention and intervention strategies is to stop school violence from occurring. According to the CDC, there are at least four levels at which violence-prevention programs can act: at the level of society in general, the school community, the family, and the individual.\n\n\n\nResearch on violence affecting children in schools is challenging for a variety of reasons.\n\nWhen trying to measure the scope of violence in schools and to find out about the types of violence experienced by students, some key issues include: from what categories of the school community to collect the data; what data should be collected from each categories; and using which methods. For example, should there be studies or surveys where researchers ask students directly about violence in school, through self-reports about the violence they experienced as targets or perpetrators? Or should they be asked about incidents of violence that they have witnessed as bystanders? Should any of these questions be asked via self-administered questionnaires or questionnaires administered by researchers in schools? Does it make more sense to collect this data outside of schools, for example, through household surveys? Or through online surveys where students have access to the internet? Or is it better to rely on mechanisms for reporting incidents of violence in educational institutions when they are available, either in the schools themselves or outside schools (governmental hotlines, internet-based reporting systems, police and justice sectors, etc.)? What questions can be asked of children, using terminology that is easy to understand, age-appropriate and culturally sensitive?\n\nIn most countries there are strict rules related to research involving children, as they are under the age of consent. Therefore, requesting informed consent from the children in a study involves their parents and guardians. Asking children about violence, and particularly violence they have experienced themselves, can be traumatic. Finally, researching issues related to sexual orientation and gender identity/orientation in education and in relation to children has additional challenges. In some contexts it is not legal to discuss these issues either in schools or even outside of schools. Where it is legal, it may be considered as a very sensitive topic to be discussed with children and young people. Asking children and young people questions related to their sexual orientation and gender identity in the school setting is ethically questionable, as it could embarrass them and expose them to stigma and discrimination, unless questions are asked in strict confidence and anonymity is granted by independent researchers external to schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "761234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761234", "title": "Sexual network", "text": "Sexual network\n\nA sexual network is a social network that is defined by the sexual relationships within a set of individuals.\n\nLike other forms of social networks, sexual networks can be formally studied using the mathematics of graph theory and network theory.\n\nRecent epidemiological studies have investigated sexual networks, and suggest that the statistical properties of sexual networks are crucial to the spread of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). Sub-graphs, both large and small, can be defined within the overall sexual network graph; for example, people who frequent particular bars or clubs, belong to a particular ethnic group or take part in a particular type of sexual activity, or are part of a particular outbreak of an STD. In particular, assortative mixing between people with large numbers of sexual partners seems to be an important factor in the spread of STD.\n\nIn a surprising result, mathematical models predict that the sexual network graph for the human race appears to have a single giant component that indirectly links almost all people who have had more than one sexual partner, and a great many of those who have had only one sexual partner (if their one sexual partner was themselves part of the giant component). .\n\nFor more detailed epidemiological work, the time sequence of sexual contacts is important.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15144375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15144375", "title": "Social network aggregation", "text": "Social network aggregation\n\nSocial network aggregation is the process of collecting content from multiple social network services, such as Instagram, Tumblr, Flickr, LinkedIn, Twitch, YouTube, etc. into one unified presentation. The task is often performed by a social network aggregator (such as Hootsuite, Taggbox and FriendFeed), which pulls together information into a single location, or helps a user consolidate multiple social networking profiles into one profile. Various aggregation services provide tools or widgets to allow users to consolidate messages, track friends, combine bookmarks, search across multiple social networking sites, read RSS feeds for multiple social networks, see when their name is mentioned on various sites, access their profiles from a single interface, provide \"lifestreams\", etc. Social network aggregation services attempt to organize or simplify a user's social networking experience, although the idea has been satirized by the concept of a \"social network aggregator aggregator\".\n\nThere are other related uses of social media aggregators aside from simplifying the user's social networking experiences. Some aggregators are designed to help companies (and bloggers) improve engagement with their brand(s) by creating aggregated social streams that can be embedded into an existing website and customized to look visually intrinsic to the site. This allows potential customers to interact with all the social media posts maintained by the brand without requiring them to jump from site to site. This has the benefit of keeping customers on the brand's site for a longer period of time (increasing \"time on site\" metrics).\n\nSocial network aggregation platforms allow social network members to share social network activities like Twitter, YouTube, Stumbleupon, Digg, Delicious, with other major platforms. All content appears in real time to other members who subscribe to a particular community, which eliminates the need to jump from one social media network to another, trying to keep an eye on one's interests.\n\nSocial network aggregation systems can rely on initiation by publishers or by readers. In the publisher-initiated aggregation systems, the publishers combine their own identities, which make their readers see all aggregated content once subscribed. In the reader-initiated systems (such as Windows Phone 7 people hub and Linked Internet UI), the readers combine the identities of others, which has no impact on the publishers or other readers. The publishers can still keep separate identities for different readers.\n\nTechnically, the aggregation is enabled by APIs provided by social networks. For the API to access a user's actions from another platform, the user will have to give permission to the social-aggregation platform, by specifying the user-id and password of the social media to be syndicated. This concept resembles open ID. In March 2008, \"The Economist\" reported that social network services are only beginning the move away from \"walled gardens\" to more open architectures. Some sites are working together on a \"data portability workgroup\", while others are focusing on a single sign-on system called OpenID to allow users to log on across multiple sites. Historically, the trend from private services to more open ones can be seen across many Internet services from email and instant messaging to the move that early online service providers made to become websites. The OpenSocial initiative aims to bridge the member overlap between various online social network services.\n\nThe attraction of social network aggregation comes from the fact that some users tend to use multiple social networks: they have accounts on several social-networking sites. In November 2007, Alex Patriquin of Compete.com reported on the member overlap between various online social network services:\n\nA 2009 study of 11,000 users\nreported that the majority of MySpace, LinkedIn, and Twitter users also have Facebook accounts.\n\n"}
{"id": "4430300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4430300", "title": "Sociocultural system", "text": "Sociocultural system\n\nA sociocultural system is a \"human population viewed (1) in its ecological context and (2) as one of the many subsystems of a larger ecological system\".\n\nIn 1979, Marvin Harris outlined a universal structure of sociocultural systems. He mentioned infrastructure (production and population), structure (which is behavioural, like corporations, political organizations, hierarchies, castes), and a superstructure (which is mental, like beliefs, values, norms).\n\n"}
{"id": "48678928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48678928", "title": "Technology readiness", "text": "Technology readiness\n\nTechnology readiness refers to people’s propensity to embrace and use new technologies for accomplishing goals in home life and at work. The construct can be viewed as an overall state of mind resulting from a gestalt of mental enablers and inhibitors that collectively determine a person’s predisposition to use new technologies.\n\nThe Technology Readiness Index can be viewed as a variation on the Technology acceptance model (TAM). It is a multidimensional psychographic construct, offering a way to segment online customers based upon their underlying positive and negative technology beliefs.\n\nTechnology readiness has four underlying dimensions:\n\nWhile optimism and innovativeness are contributors to technology readiness, discomfort and insecurity are inhibitors.\n"}
{"id": "6900765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6900765", "title": "Timeline of the American Old West", "text": "Timeline of the American Old West\n\nThis timeline of the American Old West is a chronology ordered list of events significant to the development of the American West as a region of the United States prior to 1912. The term \"American Old West\" refers to a vast geographical area and lengthy time period of imprecise boundaries, and historians' definitions vary. The events in this timeline occurred primarily in the contiguous portion of the modern United States west of the Mississippi River, and mostly in the period between the Louisiana Purchase in 1803 and the admission of the last mainland states into the Union in 1912. A small section summarizing early exploration and settlement prior to 1803 is included to provide a foundation for later developments. Rarely, events significant to the history of the West but which occurred within the modern boundaries of Canada and Mexico are included as well.\n\nWestern North America was inhabited for millennia by various groups of Native Americans, and later served as a frontier to European powers, beginning with Spanish colonization in the 16th century. British, French, and Russian claims followed in the 18th and 19th centuries. After the American Revolution, the newly independent United States began securing its own frontier from the Appalachian Mountains westward for settlement and economic investment by American citizens. The long history of American expansion into these lands has played a central role in shaping American culture, iconography, and the modern national identity, and remains a popular topic for study by scholars and historians.\n\nEvents listed below are notable developments for the region as a whole, not just for a particular state or smaller subdivision of the region; as historians Hine and Faragher put it, they \"tell the story of the creation and defense of communities, the use of the lands, the development of markets, and the formation of states... It is a tale of conquest, but also one of survival, persistence, and the merging of peoples and cultures.\"\n\nFor almost three centuries after Columbus' voyages to the New World, much of western North America remained unsettled by European colonists, despite various territorial claims made by imperialist nations. Europeans interest in the vast territory was motivated by the search for precious metals, especially gold, and the fur trade, with miners, trappers, and hunters among the first people of European descent to permanently settle in the West. The early years were also a period of scientific exploration and survey, such that by 1830 the rough outline of the western half of the continent had been mapped to the Pacific Ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "233241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233241", "title": "Unisex", "text": "Unisex\n\nUnisex refers to things that are not sex-specific, being suitable for either sex. It can also be another term for gender-blindness.\n\nThe term was coined in the 1960s and was used fairly informally. Though the combining form \"uni-\" is from the Latin \"unus\" meaning \"one\", the term seems to have been influenced by words such as \"united\" and \"universal\" where the \"uni-\" prefix takes on the sense of \"shared\". In this sense, it can be seen as meaning \"shared by sexes\".\n\nHair stylists and beauty salons that serve both men and women are often referred to as unisex. This is also typical of other services and products that had traditionally been separated by sexes, such as clothing shops or beauty products. A facility that is usually sex segregated but is not so designated may be referred to as unisex, such as a public toilet. Unisex clothing includes garments like T-shirts; versions of other garments may be tailored for the different fits depending on one's sex, such as jeans. The sharing of a pool, beach or other water or recreational facility by swimmers and others of various sexes is commonly referred to as mixed bathing. 'Mates' was the first unisex store created by Irvine Sellar in England. When a school admits students of various sexes, it may be called coeducational or a mixed-sex school.\n\n"}
{"id": "1970885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1970885", "title": "Unrest", "text": "Unrest\n\nUnrest (also called disaffection) is a sociological phenomenon, for instance:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28206372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28206372", "title": "Virginity fraud", "text": "Virginity fraud\n\nVirginity fraud (also known as chastity fraud, or the virginity lie) is held to occur when someone lies about his or her virginity in order to obtain something of value. The concept is controversial, especially in view of fundamental societal disagreement over the definition and importance of virginity and gender roles (including the sexual double standard).\n\nThe archetypal case is of a woman who falsely claims to be a virgin for the sake of marriage to a man whom she suspects of insisting on, or at least valuing, virginity in his bride. (Other situations – such as two lovers who claimed to lose their virginity together on the internet as a publicity stunt – may technically qualify, but are rarely discussed in the same context.)\n\nFemale virginity may either be defined solely according to the presence or absence of a hymen, or else according to more ambiguous, philosophical criteria.\n\nIn many societies, for a woman to date or have boyfriends – even if refraining from full sexual intercourse – would already be viewed as a violation of traditional values. (See technical virginity; honor killing.) On the other hand, lesbian sexual activity would not normally be an object of concern. Meanwhile, a rape victim would be viewed as having lost her virginity by force.\n\nAn ancient wedding ritual, east European Slavic, involves relatives of the bride and/or groom waiting to receive the bloody sheet on which the bride was \"deflowered\", as \"proof\" of her former virginity (which would often be specified in the marriage contract). Techniques to simulate the bleeding and/or physical sensation of rupture are equally ancient. In rural Egypt, chicken blood is used if – for whatever reason – there is no real blood on the wedding night. The bloody sheet is then shown to the neighborhood as proof of virginity \"deflowering\".\n\nSeveral methods of \"virginity fraud detection\" claim to be available, but cannot adequately determine the status of virginity.\n\n\nIn the West, awareness of hymen replacement surgery has led to criticisms of the procedure, on the grounds that it is medically unnecessary and contributes to pernicious social practices; alongside recognition that women's reasons for undergoing it are not frivolous (as might be claimed of other forms of elective plastic surgery). Little, if any, concern has been expressed for the intended victims of virginity fraud. Muslim responses have questioned the motives of women undergoing the procedure, as well as of prospective grooms whose attitudes have made the procedure so prevalent.\n\nIn 2006, a French Muslim man in Lille sought an annulment on the grounds that his bride (also Muslim) turned out not to be a virgin. She denied having misled him, but did not contest the appeal, which was duly granted. In 2009, amidst a wave of media attention, French justice minister Rachida Dati ordered the government to appeal this decision (on the grounds that an important element of French public policy was at issue). Ronald Sokol, in an editorial for the \"Christian Science Monitor\", writes that\n\nThe appeals court reversed the judgment. Sokol continues:\n\nIt became known as the \"Virginity Lie\" case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28831284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28831284", "title": "Voluntary association", "text": "Voluntary association\n\nA voluntary group or union (also sometimes called a voluntary organization, common-interest association, association, or society) is a group of individuals who enter into an agreement, usually as volunteers, to form a body (or organization) to accomplish a purpose. Common examples include trade associations, trade unions, learned societies, professional associations, and environmental groups.\n\nMembership is not necessarily voluntary: in order for particular associations to function correctly they might need to be mandatory or at least strongly encouraged, as is common with many teachers unions in the US. Because of this, some people use the term common-interest association to describe groups which form out of a common interest, although this term is not widely used or understood.\n\nVoluntary associations may be incorporated or unincorporated; for example, in the US, unions gained additional powers by incorporating. In the UK, the terms Voluntary Association or Voluntary Organisation cover every type of group from a small local Residents' Association to large Associations (often Registered Charities) with multimillion-pound turnover that run large-scale business operations (often providing some kind of public service as subcontractors to government departments or local authorities).\n\nIn many jurisdictions no formalities are necessary to start an association. In some jurisdictions, there is a minimum for the number of persons starting an association.\n\nSome jurisdictions require that the association register with the police or other official body to inform the public of the association's existence. This could be a tool of political control or intimidation, and also a way of protecting the economy from fraud.\n\nIn many such jurisdictions, only a registered association (or in the UK an incorporated body) is a juristic person whose members are not responsible for the financial acts of the association. Any group of persons may, of course, work as an informal association, but in such cases, each person making a transaction in the name of the association takes responsibility for that transaction, just as if it were that individual's personal transaction.\n\nThere are many countries where the formation of truly independent Voluntary Associations is effectively proscribed by law or where they are theoretically legally permitted, but in practice are persecuted; for example, where membership brings unwelcome attention from police or other state agencies.\n\nVoluntary groups are a broad and original form of nonprofit organizations, and have existed since ancient history. In Ancient Greece, for example, there were various organizations ranging from elite clubs of wealthy men (\"hetaireiai\") to private religious or professional associations.\n\nIn preindustrial societies, governmental administrative duties were often handled by voluntary associations such as guilds. In medieval Europe, guilds often controlled towns. Merchant guilds enforced contracts through embargoes and sanctions on their members, and also adjudicated disputes. However, by the 1800s, merchant guilds had largely disappeared. Economic historians have debated the precise role that merchant guilds played in premodern society and economic growth.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, craft guilds were more successful than merchant guilds and formed livery companies which exerted significant influence on society.\n\nA standard definition of an unincorporated association was given by Lord Justice Lawton in the English trust law case \"Conservative and Unionist Central Office v Burrell\" (1981):\n\nIn most countries, an unincorporated association does not have separate legal personality, and few members of the association usually enjoy limited liability. However, in some countries they are treated as having separate legal personality for tax purposes. However, because of their lack of legal personality, legacies to unincorporated associations are sometimes subject to general common law prohibitions against purpose trusts.\n\nAssociations that are organized for profit or financial gain are usually called partnerships. A special kind of partnership is a co-operative which is usually founded on one person—one vote principle and distributes its profits according to the amount of goods produced or bought by the members. Associations may take the form of a non-profit organization or they may be not-for-profit corporations; this does not mean that the association cannot make benefits from its activity, but all the benefits must be reinvested. Most associations have some kind of document or documents that regulate the way in which the body meets and operates. Such an instrument is often called the organization's bylaws, constitution, regulations, or agreement of association.\n\nUnder English law, an unincorporated association consists of two or more members bound by the rules of a society which has at some point in time, been founded.\n\nSeveral theories have been proposed as to the way that such associations hold rights. A transfer may be considered to have been made to the association's members directly as joint tenants or tenants in common. Alternatively, the funds transferred may be considered to have been under the terms of a private purpose trust. Many purpose trusts fail for want of a beneficiary and this may therefore may result in the gift failing. However, some purpose trusts are valid, and, accordingly, some cases have decided that the rights associated with unincorporated associations are held on this basis. The dominant theory, however, is that the rights are transferred to the members or officers absolutely, perhaps on trust for the members, but are importantly bound by contracts \"inter se\".\n\nAccordingly, on dissolution, the distribution of these rights depends on how they were held. A purpose trust may by its nature survive the dissolution of the association, or it may not. If it fails as a result of the dissolution, then the rights will be held on resulting trust for the contributors, unless they can be shown to have renounced their right to such a trust in their favour. If the rights are held subject to contract, then they will be divided among the surviving membership upon dissolution, according to the terms of the contracts \"inter se\" or an implied term according to contribution. If, as a result of this contract or statute, no member can claim, the rights will pass to the Crown as \"bona vacantia\". This conclusion has also been suggested where the association dissolves because only one member remains, although this has been doubted by some commentators who believe the last members should be entitled to the rights.\n\nScottish law on unincorporated associations is essentially the same as English law.\n\nEach state sets its own laws as to what constitutes an unincorporated association and how it is to be treated under the laws. In the United States, voluntary associations which were incorporated were \"pre-eminent\" in collective action.\n\nIn most Australian states and territories, a similar set of laws allows not-for-profit associations to become legal entities with a limit to the liability of their members. An example of such a law, the Associations Incorporation Act that is in force in South Australia, allows for the creation of a legal entity able to buy and sell land and in general, enter into legally binding contracts. Many clubs and societies begin life as an unincorporated body and seek to attain incorporated status to protect its members from legal liability and in many cases to seek government financial assistance only available to an incorporated body. Clubs and societies wishing to incorporate must meet the provisions of the relevant state act and lodge their constitution with the corresponding state government authority.\n\nCertain civil-law systems classify an association as a special form of contractual relationship.\n\nUnder the Quebec Civil Code an association is categorized as a type of statutory specific contract set forth in a constitution. An association can become incorporated with its own legal identity so that it may, e.g., open a bank account, enter into contracts (rent real estate, hire employees, take out an insurance policy), or sue or be sued.\n\nIn France, all voluntary associations are non-profit. They may count as unincorporated (\"association non-déclarée\") or incorporated (\"association déclarée\"), and are created in terms of and governed by the Waldeck-Rousseau Act 1901. This is why \"\" is subjoined to their name, except in Alsace-Moselle area which is governed by local law in this regard (the area was German in 1901) and are therefore called \"\".. If the association responding to defined criteria, like social or medical help for example, they can be declared \"public utility association\" (\"association d'utilité publique\") by French authorities. Associations act 1901 let an important large of freedom about internal operation, like direction or authorized members for example.\n\nThe German Civil Code sets out different rights and rules for an unincorporated association (\"nicht eingetragener Verein\") with legal identity (\"Vereine\", art. 21-79 BGB) versus an incorporated association (\"eingetragener Verein\") with full legal personality, which the law treats as partnerships (\"Gesellschaften\", art. 705-740 BGB). Associations can be for-profit (\"wirtschaftlicher Verein\"), non-for-profit (\"Idealverein\"), or public (\"gemeinnütziger Verein\").\n\nIn Israel, many non-profit organizations (NPOs) and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are established as registered nonprofit associations (Hebrew \"amutah,\" plural \"amutot\") (some are established as public benefit companies (Hebrew \"Chevrah LeTo’elet Hatzibur\") not to be confused with public benefit corporations). ‘‘Amutot’’ are regulated by the Associations Law, 1980. An \"amutah\" is a body corporate, though not a company. The \"amutah\" is successor to the Ottoman Society which predated the State of Israel, and was established by the now-superseded Ottoman Societies Law of 1909, based on the French law of 1901. An \"amutah\" must register with the \"Rasham Ha’amutot\" ('Registrar of Amutot'), under the purview of the \"Rashot Hata’agidim\" ('Corporations Authority') of the Ministry of Justice.\n\nThe freedom of association stands in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: \nArticle 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights also protects the right to freedom of assembly and association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34375832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34375832", "title": "Vorlage", "text": "Vorlage\n\nA Vorlage (; from the German for \"prototype\" or \"template\") is a prior version or manifestation of a text under consideration. It may refer to such a version of a text itself, a particular manuscript of the text, or a more complex manifestation of the text (e.g., a group of copies, or a group of excerpts). Thus, the original-language version of a text which a translator then works into a translation is called the \"Vorlage\" of that translation. For example, the Luther Bible is a translation of the Textus Receptus. So in this case the Textus Receptus is the \"Vorlage\" of the Luther Bible. \n\nSometimes the \"Vorlage\" of a translation may be lost to history. In some of these cases the \"Vorlage\" may be reconstructed from the translation. Such a reconstructed \"Vorlage\" may be called a \"retroversion\", and it invariably is made with some amount of uncertainty. Nevertheless, the \"Vorlage\" may still be reconstructed in some parts at such a level of confidence that the translation and its retroversion can be used as a witness for the purposes of textual criticism. This reconstructed \"Vorlage\" may stand on its own as the sole witness of the original-language text, or it may be compared and used along with other witnesses. Thus, for example, scholars use the reconstructed \"Vorlage\" of the Greek Septuagint translation of the Hebrew Bible at parts to correct the Hebrew Masoretic version when trying to determine oldest version of the Hebrew Bible that they can infer. Or, as another example, the Coptic fragments of Plato's Republic included among the Nag Hammadi library are used to help attest to the original Greek text which Plato himself wrote. For the bulk of the Gospel of Thomas, the \"Vorlage\" exists only as a retroversion of the Coptic translation, as no other witness to the original Greek text for most of the sayings recorded therein is known.\n"}
