{"id": "7611815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7611815", "title": "Abecedarian Early Intervention Project", "text": "Abecedarian Early Intervention Project\n\nThe Carolina Abecedarian Project was a controlled experiment that was conducted in 1972 in North Carolina, United States, by the Frank Porter Graham Child Development Institute to study the potential benefits of early childhood education for poor children to enhance school readiness. It has been found that in their earliest school years, poor children lag behind others, suggesting the fact that they were ill-prepared for schooling. The Abecedarian project was inspired by the fact that few other early childhood programs could provide a sufficiently well-controlled environment to determine the effectiveness of early childhood training.\n\nThe participants in this experiment were 111 infants born between 1972 and 1977. Of these, 57 were given high-quality intervention, consisting in part of educational games based on the latest in educational theory. The other 54 acted as a control group. An overwhelming majority (98 percent) of the children who participated in the experiment were African-American. The average starting age of participants was 4.4 months. Whereas other childhood programs started at age two, the Abecedarian Project started from infancy and continued for five years, a period longer than most other programs. The participants received child care for 6–8 hours a day, five days a week. Educational activities were game-based and emphasized language. The control group was provided with nutritional supplements, social services, and health care to ensure that these factors did not affect the outcomes of the experiment. All the 111 infants were identified as \"high risk\" based on maternal education (which was on average 10th grade), family income, and other factors. The teacher-child ratio was low. It ranged from 1:3 for infants to 1:6 at age 5.\n\nFollow-up assessment of the participants involved in the project has been ongoing. So far, outcomes have been measured at ages 3, 4, 5, 6.5, 8, 12, 15, 21, and 30. The areas covered were cognitive functioning, academic skills, educational attainment, employment, parenthood, and social adjustment. The significant findings of the experiment were as follows:\n\nImpact of child care/preschool on reading and math achievement, and cognitive ability, at age 21:\n\n\nImpact of child care/preschool on life outcomes at age 21:\n\n\nStatistically significant outcomes at age 30:\n\n\nThe project concluded that high quality, educational child care from early infancy was therefore of utmost importance.\n\nOther, less intensive programs, notably the Head Start Program, but also others, have not been as successful. It may be that they provided too little too late compared with the Abecedarian program.\n\nThe total per-child cost of the project was ~$67,225, or ~$13,900 for each of the five years (2002 dollars); Masse & Barnett 2002 estimated that the total annual cost of a comparable program for all poor children in 2002 would have been ~$3 billion.\n\nSome researchers have advised caution about the reported positive results of the project. Among other things, they have pointed out analytical discrepancies in published reports, including unexplained changes in sample sizes between different assessments and publications. Herman Spitz has noted that a mean cognitive ability difference of similar magnitude to the final difference between the intervention and control groups was apparent in cognitive tests already at age six months, indicating that \"4 1/2 years of massive intervention ended with virtually no effect.\" Spitz has suggested that the IQ difference between the intervention and control groups may have been latently present from the outset due to faulty randomization. In fact, it is known that randomization was compromised in the Abecedarian program, with seven families assigned to the experimental group and one family assigned to the control group dropping out of the program after learning about their random assignment.\n\n\n\nCampbell, Frances A., Craig T. Ramey, Elizabeth Pungello, Joseph Sparling, and Shari Miller-Johnson. “Early Childhood Education: Young Adult Outcomes From the Abecedarian Project,” Applied Developmental Science, 2002, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 42-57.\n\nLeonard N. Masse and W. Steven Barnett, A Benefit-Cost Analysis of the Abecedarian Early Childhood Intervention, New Brunswick, N.J.: National Institute for Early Education Research, 2002. https://web.archive.org/web/20030315145225/http://nieer.org/resources/research/AbecedarianStudy.pdf\n\nCampbell, Frances A., Elizabeth Pungello, Shari Miller-Johnson, Margaret Burchinal, and Craig T. Ramey. “The Development of Cognitive and Academic Abilities: Growth Curves From an Early Childhood Educational Experiment,” Developmental Psychology, 2001, vol. 37, no. 2, pp. 231-242.\n\nThe research program has been featured in the TV program \"My Brilliant Brain\" sent by National Geographic Channel in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "50618747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50618747", "title": "Adjunct professor", "text": "Adjunct professor\n\nAdjunct professor (adjunct lecturer and adjunct instructor, or adjunct faculty collectively) is a type of academic appointment in higher education. \n\n"}
{"id": "30873725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873725", "title": "Adult learner", "text": "Adult learner\n\nAn adult learner (North America) or mature student (UK) (sometimes also called adult student, returning adult, and adult returner) is a person who is 25 years and up who is involved in forms of learning. Adult learners fall in a specific criteria of being experienced, and do not have the high school diploma. Many of the adult learners go back to school to finish a degree, or earn a new one.\n\nMalcolm Knowles's work distinguished adult learners as distinct from adolescent and child learners in his principle of andragogy. He established 5 assumptions about the adult learner. This included self-concept, adult learner experience, readiness to learn, orientation to learning, and motivation to learning.\n\nIn the US, adult learners fall into the category of nontraditional students, whom the National Center for Education Statistics defines as meeting at least one of the following seven criteria:\n\nNot all nontraditional students are adult learners, as the term refers to the brain development of the person, but adult learners are considered nontraditional students. This can be due to the wide range of cultural, job, and educational backgrounds.\n\nIn the UK, a student is normally classified as a mature student if he or she is an (undergraduate) student who is at least 25+ years old at the start of his or her course, or in the Irish case on the first of January of the year of entry, and usually having been away from school for at least two years. The normal entry requirements for school-leavers wishing to start an undergraduate degree are often not applied to mature students. \n\nAdult students are frequently referred to as nontraditional students in higher education. Adult students are contrasted with traditional students, who are typically aged 18–22, attend full-time, live on campus, do not work, and have few, if any, family responsibilities. In 2008, 36 percent of postsecondary students were age 25 or older and 47 percent were independent students.\n\nAs opposed to a child or adolescent, adult learners typically have more life experience and their brains are more fully developed. When confronted with new knowledge or an experience, adult learners construe new meaning based on their life experiences and their more developed brains process these experiences differently than someone with a less developed brain (children and adolescents).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3719215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3719215", "title": "Animated narrative vignette", "text": "Animated narrative vignette\n\nAn animated narrative vignette (ANV) is an instructional technology used to motivate and facilitate role-playing, problem solving, and discussion. Teachers develop the ANVs to present in class or in online training. Students might also create them in experiential learning exercises. They provide computer animation representations of teachable situations that encourage critical thinking and may also provide an instrument for assessing attitudes and behaviors. Vignettes have been used to teach mathematics and science, management skills, problem solving, and character education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29581013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29581013", "title": "Assessment centre", "text": "Assessment centre\n\nAn assessment center is a process where candidates are examined to determine their suitability for specific types of employment, especially management or military command. The candidates' personality and aptitudes are determined by techniques including interviews, group exercises, presentations, examinations and psychometric testing.\n\nAn early example of assessment is the story of Gideon selecting the most suitable Israelite warriors:\n\nIn modern times, the German army introduced assessment techniques for selecting its officers in the 1930s. Psychologist was appointed to head the army's laboratory and introduced leadership tests. These were terminated in 1941 after too many favoured candidates had failed them.\n\nAssessment centres were created in World War II to select officers and are still commonly used in military recruitment today. Examples include the Admiralty Interview Board of the Royal Navy and the War Office Selection Board of the British Army.\nAfter World War 2, The OSS type of assessment center was essentially abandoned in The United States except for some internal use in intelligence gathering operations by the CIA. The British Civil Service Selection Board and Australians identified participants still used it for selection on their military college. Also, south Africans used the technique to identify supervisors in gold mines.\nAssessment centers specifically applied for industrial usage can be traced back to the early 1950s and the pioneering work of Robert K Greenleaf and Douglas W. Bray of the American Telephone & Telegraph Company (AT&T). Douglas W. Bray as a director of human resources at AT&T, directed a study that lasted over 20 years and followed the careers of young business managers as they progressed up the telephone company rankings. This study showed that the assessment center method could successfully predict organizational achievement and was later implemented throughout AT&T and later on adopted by many other companies: IBM, Standard Oil (Ohio) and Sears for example.\n\nIn 1975, the first guidelines on the use of assessment centers was created as a statement of the considerations believed to be most important for all users of the assessment center method. The guidelines ensure the integrity of the process, the validity of the data, qualifications of assessors, and the rights of the participants. The guidelines have since been revised several times to reflect current legality issues, global insights, and technological advances in the field. The most current version of the Guidelines and Ethical Considerations for Assessment Center Operations was endorsed by the 38th International Congress on Assessment Methods in Alexandria, Virginia in October 2014.\nToday, The ACM is used by organizations all over the world in both private and public sectors to better select of employees and identifying their development in different areas. \n\nAT&T created a building for recruitment of staff in the 1950s. This was called The Assessment Centre and was influential on subsequent personnel methods in other businesses.\n\nOther companies use this method to recruit for their graduate programmes by assessing the personality and intellect of potential employees who have recently graduated from university and have nil or limited work history. The big four accountancy firms conduct assessment centre days to recruit their trainees. 68% of employers in the UK and USA now use some form of assessment centre as part of their recruitment/promotion process. In recent years companies have been set up to support assessment centre coaching.\n\nAssessment center is not just a building for assessing a job candidate. it is a process of evaluation of behaviour based on multiple evaluation including: job related simulations, interviews and/or psychological test \n\nThe ultimate reason for having an assessment centre in any organization is to gather all relevant information under a standardized conditions about an individual’s capabilities to perform a given task. Assessment centers are often the method of choice for selecting senior leaders in government and municipal jobs, including police chief and fire captains.\n\nDuring the process of assessing candidates, series of exercises that are designed to simulate the condition of a given job are given to the candidate to do. This help the assessor to determined if the candidate possesses the necessary skill and behaviour needed for the job.\n\nThe assessment center method provides a sort of wide-ranging, multidimensional assessment that has a strong record of both research significance and practical effectiveness to be accepted by participants and decision-makers alike. \nIn essence, the purpose of assessment centre is to examine the skills and psychological state of an individual in order to determine his or her performance.\n"}
{"id": "30046267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30046267", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Gujranwala", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Gujranwala\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Gujranwala (BISE Gujranwala) is a body corporate under section 3(2) of Punjab Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education Act 1976. The Gujranwala city is located on the famous GT road 68 km on north side from Lahore and 220 km on southern side from the capital city of Islamabad & Rawalpindi.The campus of Board is 1 km away from Lohianwala Bypass, GT road. This Board conducted its first examination in 1976.\n\nBoard started functioning by obtaining buildings on rent. These building were actually residential houses in the area of Satellite Town, Gujranwala. First building acquired on rent was 162-D satellite town Gujranwala. Then during the tenure of Qari Ghulam Sadiq Chairman with his devoted team Ch. Nisar Ahmad Secretary and Mr. Abdul Sattar Rashid Security Officer acquired a piece of land comprising 231 kanals or 28.8 acres near sialkot bypass, Lohianwala under Punjab Land Acquisition Act 1894 and started construction of its own campus. The boundary wall was completed during the tenure of Prof. Muhammad Amin, Chairman and under his supervision a team composed of Ch. Muhammad Ahsan, Secretary, Mr. Fazal Karim Engineer and Mr. Abdul Sattar Rashid Security Officer completed the task to take over the area with construction of a boundary wall around the campus. Then services of a famous consultant M/s Elire H.N. Murat Khan and Associates were hired for supervision of construction of the campus. The main office building was constructed by M/s Alicon (Pvt) Limited under the technical supervision of the consultant during the tenure of Dr. Sardar Muhammad Mian and Dr. Abdul Qayyum Khan Lodhi, Chairman with the help of their team composed of Ch. Muhammad Sharif Abid, Secretary, Mr. Najeeb Ashraf Warraich, Estate Officer, Mr. Abdul Sattar Rashid, Security Officer and Mr. Fazal Karim Engineer. The offices were shifted during December 1992 to March 1993. \n\nThe jurisdiction of the Gujranwala Board includes following districts:\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education conducts Matriculation and Intermediate Exams every year within its jurisdiction. Matriculation and Intermediate Exams are mostly held in March and April respectively and the result of both exams is mostly announced in July and August or in the start of September.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54174493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54174493", "title": "Busy Beavers", "text": "Busy Beavers\n\nBusy Beavers (also known as We Are Busy Beavers) is an online children’s educational program. It is aimed at parents and teachers of toddlers who speak English or are learning English as a second language, and parents of children with a learning disability, autism or delayed speech.\nThe Busy Beavers YouTube channel and website provide interactive media to help teach children. Their YouTube channel has over 2 billion views, and over 2 million subscribers.\n\nIn 2004, Dave Martin created Busy Beavers as an online business that produces children’s educational videos on YouTube and DVDs.\nIn March 2014, he launched a YouTube premium channel called \"Busy Beavers TV\" that gives the subscribers, all of Busy Beavers’ existing videos ad-free and in high definition.\n\nIn 2015, Busy Beavers joined the Channel Frederator Network, and is the number one channel (by views) of the Multi-Channel Network.\n\nIn April 2016, Busy Beavers and Baby Beavers have both been added to Roku, and Kidoodle.TV in September 2016.\n\nThey have also created an app for iOS and Android called \"Busy Beavers Jukebox\".\n"}
{"id": "37339205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37339205", "title": "Controversia", "text": "Controversia\n\nA controversia is an exercise in rhetoric; a form of declamation in which the student speaks for one side in a notional legal case such as treason or poisoning. The facts of the matter and relevant law are presented in a persuasive manner, in the style of a legal counsel.\n\nThe exercise was used in ancient Rome, where it was, with the \"suasoria\", the final stage of a course in rhetoric at an academy. The \"controversia\" is distinguished from this rhetorical practice because of the complexity of its structural system of argument and the greater range of situations and characters employed. The distinction can also be explained in the way students who focused on this exercise end up as forensic orators while those who trained in \"suasoria\" followed a career in deliberative rhetoric. \n\nSeneca the Elder was an expert rhetorician and, from memory, compiled a set of classical themes for this exercise: the \"Controversiæ\". \"Controversia\" is demonstrated in the case of Quintillian's \"Declamationes Minores\" where \"suasoria\" was turned into this exercise by using a courtroom as a setting. The plot addressed the issue of a son who married the daughter of his father's enemy so he could use the dowry to ransom his who was captured by pirates.\n"}
{"id": "6130036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6130036", "title": "Curriculum theory", "text": "Curriculum theory\n\nCurriculum Theory (CT) is an academic discipline devoted to examining and shaping educational curricula. There are many interpretations of CT, being as narrow as the dynamics of the learning process of one child in a classroom to the lifelong learning path an individual takes. CT can be approached from the educational, philosophical, psychological and sociological perspectives. James MacDonald states \"one central concern of theorists is identifying the fundamental unit of curriculum with which to build conceptual systems. Whether this be rational decisions, action processes, language patterns, or any other potential unit has not been agreed upon by the theorists.\" Curriculum theory is fundamentally concerned with values, the historical analysis of curriculum, ways of viewing current educational curriculum and policy decisions, and theorizing about the curricula of the future. \n\nPinar defines the contemporary field of curriculum theory as \"the effort to understand curriculum as a symbolic representation\".\n\nThe first mention of the word \"curriculum\" in university records was in 1582, at the University of Leiden, Holland: \"having completed the curriculum of his studies\". However, curriculum theory as a field of study is thought to have been initiated with the publication of The Yale Report on the Defense of the Classics in 1828, which promoted the study of a classical curriculum, including Latin and Greek, by rote memorization.\n\nThe school of faculty psychology, dominating the field from 1860-1890 in the United States, believed that the brain was a muscle that could be improved by the exercise of memorization (with comprehension a secondary consideration). This supports the classical theory, which previously emphasized a method of teaching school subjects using memorization and recitation as primary instructional tools. The theory itself claims three constituent faculties or power:\n\n\nThe idea is that education should expand the faculty of the mind and this is achieved through the key concepts of discipline and furniture. The faculty theory, which steered curriculum policy for elementary, secondary, and high schools, was institutionalized by three committees appointed by the National Education Association (NEA) in the 1890s to follow faculty psychology principles: the Committee of Ten on Secondary School Studies (1893), the Committee of Fifteen on Elementary Education (1895) and the Committee on College Entrance Requirements. \n\nDifferent schools of Curriculum Theory developed as a reaction to the classicism of faculty psychology, including the Herbartians, who organized the Herbart Club in 1892, and later the National Herbart Society (1895-1899). Their philosophy was based on the thoughts of Johann Frederich Herbart, a German philosopher, psychologist and educator, who believed that \"the mere memorizing of isolated facts, which had characterized school instruction for ages, had little value of either educational or moral ends\".\nThe publication of John Bobbitt's The Curricula in 1918 took the prevalent industrial revolutionary concepts of experimental science and social efficiency and applied them to the classroom. He believed that \"curriculum must directly and specifically prepare students for tasks in the adult world\". He also believed that \"human life...consists in the performance of specific activities. Education that prepares for life is one that prepares definitely and adequately for these specific activities.\" From this idea, he suggested that curriculum was a series of experiences that children have in order to meet \"objectives,\" or abilities and habits that people need for particular activities.\n\nOther famous theorists of this movement included Edward L. Thorndyke (1874-1949), the father of experimental psychology in education, Frederick Winslow Taylor (1856-1915), with his theory of scientific management, David Snedden, an educational sociologist who promoted social efficiency and vocational education, and W.W. Charters (1875-1952), a teacher educator who felt that \"curriculum was those methods by which objectives are determined\". By using education as an efficiency tool, these theorists believed that society could be controlled. Students were scientifically evaluated by testing (such as IQ tests), and educated towards their predicted role in society. This involved the introduction of vocational and junior high schools to address the curriculum designed around specific life activities that correlated with each student's determined societal future. The socially efficient curriculum consisted of minute parts or tasks that together formed a bigger concept.\n\nThe progressive reform movement began in the late 1870s with the work of Colonel Francis Parker, but is most identified with John Dewey, and also John Mayer Rice and Lester Frank Ward. Dewey's 1899 book The School and Society is often credited with starting the movement. These reformers felt that curriculum should be child driven and at the child's present capacity level. To aid in understanding the relationship of curriculum and child, Dewey described curriculum as, \"a map, a summary, an arranged and orderly view of previous experiences, serves as a guide to future experience; it gives direction; it facilitates control; it economizes effort, preventing useless wandering, and pointing out the paths which lead most quickly and most certainly to a desired result\". He envisioned \"the child and the curriculum are simply two limits which define a single process\".\n\nThe Social Efficiency and Progressive Reform movements were rivals throughout the 1920s in the United States, with the 1930s belonging to the Progressives, or a curriculum combining aspects of both. Ralph W. Tyler's Basic Principles of Curriculum and Instruction (1949) swung the pendulum of curriculum theory away from child centeredness toward more generalized behaviors.\n\nTyler's theory was based on four fundamental questions which became known as the \"Tyler Rationale\":\n\nThere is a racial crisis in America, which is exacerbated by the widening gap between the rich and the poor. In order to address this gap within the multicultural education movement there is a body of knowledge which argues for the need to reconceptualise, re-envision, and rethink American schooling. Numerous authors advocate the need for fundamental changes in the educational system which acknowledges that there is a plurality within teaching and learning for students of diversity. Current research suggests that educational structure is oppressive to students of diversity and is an obstacle to integration into society and student achievement. Current multicultural education theory suggests that curriculum and institutional change is required to support the development of students from diverse ethnic and cultural backgrounds. This is a controversial view but multicultural education argues that traditional curriculum does not adequately represent the history of the non dominant group. Nieto (1999) supports this concern for students who do not belong to the dominant group and seem to have challenging curriculum experiences that conflict with their personal cultural identity and their wider community reference groups.\n\nThe launch of Sputnik in 1957 created a focus on science and math in the United States curriculum. Admiral Hyman Rickover accused the American public of indifference to intellectual achievement. \"Our schools must return to the tradition of formal education in Western civilization-transmission of cultural heritage, and preparation for life through rigorous intellectual training of young minds to think clearly, logically, and independently\". The result was a return to curricula similar to the classicists of the 1890s and the modern birth of the traditionalists, with massive federal funding for curriculum development provided by the National Defense Act of 1958.\n\nJoseph J. Schwab was instrumental in provoking curriculum developers to think beyond the traditionalist approach. In his 1969 paper \"The Practical: A Language for Curriculum\" he declared the curriculum field \"moribund\". This, plus the social unrest of the 1960s and '70s stirred a new movement of \"reconceptualization\" of curricula. A group of theorists, including James Macdonald, Dwayne Huebner, Ross Mooney, Herbert M. Kliebard, Paul Klohr, Michael Apple, W.F. Pinar, and others, created ways of thinking about curriculum and its role in the academy, in schools, and in society in general. Their approach included perspectives from the social, racial, gender, phenomenological, political, autobiographical and theological points of view.\n\nW.F. Pinar describes the present field \"balkanized...divided into relatively separate fiefdoms or sectors of scholarship, each usually ignoring the other except for occasional criticism.\" The top-down governmental control of educational curriculum in the Anglophone world, including the United States, has been criticized as being \"ahistorical and atheoretical, and as a result prone to difficult problems in its implementation\". But there are theorists who are looking beyond curriculum as \"simply as a collection of study plans, syllabi, and teaching subjects. Instead, the curriculum becomes the outcome of a process reflecting a political and societal agreement about the what, why, and how of education for the desired society of the future.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5203924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5203924", "title": "Diploma Supplement", "text": "Diploma Supplement\n\nThe Diploma Supplement is a document accompanying a European higher education diploma, providing a standardised description of the nature, level, context, content and status of the studies completed by its holder.\n\nThe Diploma Supplement is designed to provide a description of the nature, level, context, content and status of the studies that were successfully completed by the individual named on the original qualification to which the supplement is appended. It should be free from any value-judgements, equivalence statements or suggestions about recognition. The Diploma Supplement provides a common structure to translate qualifications across the EU. It is a flexible, non-prescriptive tool which has been shown to save time, money and workload by an EU working party.\n\nDiploma Supplements were gradually implemented at European universities as part of the Bologna Process, since approximately 1999. Students graduating from European Universities since this date, and depending on what year the country in which their university is located became signatory to his Process, typically will have received a Diploma Supplement. However, even as late as 2013 there were still some European universities, who despite their country's years-old membership of the Bologna Process, had not yet finished the necessary procedures for issuing Diploma Supplements to their graduates. \n\nIt is important for countries and educational institutions located outside of the European Higher Education Area to realize that Diploma Supplements cannot be retroactively issued, hence why students who graduated before their institution's country became signatory to the Bologna Convention cannot possibly have a diploma supplement for that degree. Consequently, requesting a Diploma Supplement from a student who graduated from a European university in 1995 or earlier is nonsensical since the Bologna Process was not even in place before that date.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10518721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10518721", "title": "Direct instruction", "text": "Direct instruction\n\nDirect instruction (DI) is a general term for the explicit teaching of a skill-set using lectures or demonstrations of the material to students. A particular subset of direct instruction, denoted by capitalization as Direct Instruction, refers to a specific example of the approach developed by Siegfried Engelmann and Wesley C. Becker. DI teaches by explicit instruction, in contrast to exploratory models such as inquiry-based learning. DI includes tutorials, participatory laboratory classes, discussion, recitation, seminars, workshops, observation, active learning, practica, or internships.\n\nDI relies on a systematic curriculum design, delivered by implementation of a prescribed behavioral script. On the premise that all students can learn and all teachers successfully teach if given effective training in specific techniques, teachers may be evaluated based on measurable student learning.\n\nIn some special education programs, direct instruction is used in resource rooms, when teachers assist with homework completion and academic remediation.\n\nThe term \"Direct Instruction\" applies specifically to a pedagogical model developed by Siegfried Engelmann in 1964 at the University of Illinois Institute for Research on Exceptional Children.\n\nDISTAR was a specific direct instruction model developed by Siegfried Engelmann and Wesley C. Becker. Engelmann and Becker sought to identify teaching methods that would accelerate the progress of historically disadvantaged elementary school students.\n\nDISTAR, an acronym for Direct Instruction System for Teaching Arithmetic and Reading, gained prominence during Project Follow Through, the largest educational study ever conducted in America.\n\nFeatures of DI include:\n\nDirect Instruction has been effectively delivered through peers to students with learning disabilities.\nPeer delivery offers teachers new ways to use the curriculum. The approach has also been examined as a model to assist students in a resource room with homework completion, bolster executive functioning skills and improve teacher efficiency.\n\nAnother popular direct instruction approach is the Success for All program, which uses scripted teaching to instruct elementary children in phonics intensive reading instruction program. What the teacher says is carefully scripted in the program. The program was designed by Johns Hopkins University professor Robert Slavin in the mid 1980s for failing schools in Baltimore. The program requires a dedicated 90 minutes of reading instruction each day in which the teacher must follow a pre-ordained lesson plan that has every minute filled with scripted instruction and specific activities designed to teach reading. Kozol criticized the program in his book, \"The Shame of the Nation\", for being excessively dogmatic, utilitarian, and authoritarian.\n\nDebates about the efficacy of DI have raged since before the final results of Project Follow Through were published; however, there is substantial empirical research supporting its effectiveness. A meta-analysis published by Adams & Engelmann (1996), a chief architect of the DI program, finds a \"mean effect size average per study...(as) more than .75, which confirms that the overall effect is substantial.\"\n\nIn some special education programs, it is used in a resource room with small groups of students. Some research has shown benefit with this model.\n\nDirect Instruction is used with students from every population segment (with regard to poverty, culture, and race). In Project Follow Through, the DI model was ranked first in achievement for poor students, students who were not poor, urban students, rural students, African American students, Hispanic students, and Native American students. Today, many of the Bureau of Indian Affair's highest-performing schools use Direct Instruction materials. The Baltimore Curriculum Project has many schools with Free and Reduced Lunch Rates above 75% serving student populations that are more than 90% African American. These schools have shown strong achievement gains using Direct Instruction.\n\nMeta-analysis of 85 single-subject design studies comparing direct instruction to other teaching strategies found the effects to be substantial for students with learning disabilities; however, when qualified by IQ and reading levels strategy instruction (SI) had better effects for the high IQ group. For the low-IQ discrepancy groups, higher effect sizes were yielded for a Combined DI and SI Model when compared to all competing models. With the exception of handwriting, DI's effects were all above .8 (i.e., reading and mathematics).\n\nJohn Hattie's Visible Learning: A Synthesis of Over 800 Meta-Analyses Relating to Achievement (2009) summarizes the results of four meta-analyses that examined Direct Instruction. These analyses incorporated 304 studies of over 42,000 students. Across all of these students, the average effect size was .59 and was significantly larger than those of any other curriculum Hattie studied.\n\nDirect Instruction is recognized as one of two effective models of comprehensive school reform and, in many cases, can be integrated into a tiered model system to address students with developing problems. The findings from Project Follow Through, conducted in a variety of selected communities throughout the United States, suggested that Direct Instruction is the most effective model for teaching academic skills and for affective outcomes (e.g., self-esteem) of children. Recent large-scale studies (1997–2003), such as the Baltimore Curriculum Project, show that it is possible to help schools that are in the lowest twenty percent with respect to academic achievement steadily improve until they are performing well above average. In some cases, school achievement improved from the 16th percentile to above the 90th percentile.\n\nOne three-year study of methods of teaching reading showed that highly scripted, teacher-directed methods of teaching reading were not as effective as traditional methods that allowed a more flexible approach. Urban teachers in particular expressed great concern over the DI's lack of sensitivity to issues of poverty, culture, and race.\n\nThe former president of the National Science Teachers Association (NSTA), Anne Tweed, questioned whether direct instruction was the most effective science teaching strategy. In the December 15, 2004 NSTA Reports she concluded that \"direct instruction alone cannot replace the in-depth experience with science concepts that inquiry-based strategies provide.\"\n\nSome critics also see DI as a betrayal of the humanistic, egalitarian foundations of public education, or as a \"canned\" or \"teacher proof\" curriculum deliverable via unskilled teachers.\n\nIn Australia, where DI has been used in schools among several remote Indigenous Australians communities in Queensland, DI has been criticised for its high cost in return for at best modest improvements in literacy and numeracy levels, as well as its US-centric theme which is alien to indigenous Australian cultures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18103379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18103379", "title": "Education in Kiribati", "text": "Education in Kiribati\n\nEducation in Kiribati is free and compulsory from age 6 to 14, which includes primary school through grade six, and Junior Secondary School for three additional grade levels. In 1998, the gross primary enrollment rate was 84.4 percent, and net primary enrollment rate was 70.7 percent. School quality and access to education are better in urban areas; schools in small communities on isolated islands are expensive to maintain. Mission schools are slowly being absorbed into the government primary school system.\n\nThere are primary schools on most of the inhabited islands. Secondary schools are located on some of the islands with students travelling to live at their school. For example, Abaiang, which is in the northern Gilbert Islands, has three secondary schools, in 2011 there were 212 students at the Ministry of Education school, Ueen Abaiang, which is located between the villages of Koinawa and Aonobuaka. A further 135 students are enrolled at St Joseph’s College in Tabwiroa and 23 students at Steven Whitmee High School in Morikao, making 370 secondary school students in total. The two high schools at Morikao and Tabuiroa accommodate students from all over Kiribati who have passed the entrance examinations to get into the schools.\n\nSt. Joseph's College was founded in 1939. Its alumni include both current President Anote Tong, and previous incumbent Teburoro Tito.\n\nThere are primary schools and secondary schools operated by the Christian denominations including the Roman Catholic Church (such as St. Joseph's College) and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, (such as Moroni High School in South Tarawa, of which Waitea Abiuta has been the headmaster).\n\nThe Kiribati Teacher College and King George V and Elaine Bernachi School, the Government High School, are in Bikenibeu in South Tarawa.\n\nHigher education is expanding; students may seek technical, teacher or marine training, or study in other countries. To date, most choosing to do the latter have gone to Fiji to attend University of the South Pacific, and those wishing to complete medical training have been sent to Cuba.\n\nThe University of the South Pacific has a campus in Kiribati for distant/flexible learning, but also to provide preparatory studies towards obtaining certificates, diplomas and degrees at other campus sites.\n\nKiribati Ministry of Education is the education ministry. Kiribati has 94 elementary schools, 24 junior high schools, and 16 senior high schools. The government high schools are King George V and Elaine Bernacchi School, Tabiteuea North Senior Secondary School, and Melaengi Tabai Secondary School; Tabiteuea North, in Eita, is also known as Teabike College. Previously KGV/EBS was the sole government high school.\n\n13 high schools are operated by Christian churches. They are:\n"}
{"id": "40721376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40721376", "title": "Effective schools", "text": "Effective schools\n\n\"Effective Schools\" is both an educational movement and body of research which examines school-based factors which positively influence learning outcomes in K-12 schools. Effective schools research has been widely adopted by school districts worldwide.\n\nEarly research into the essential qualities of successful schools emerged in North America as a response to the controversial 1966 Coleman Report, which concluded that family background and socio-economics were the major determinants of student achievement. Research published by Christopher Jencks in 1972 contributed to Coleman's findings, suggesting that \"school quality has little effect on achievement.\"\n\nThe Coleman Report prompted U.S. policymakers to focus on \"compensatory programs\" which focused on changing the behavior of less advantaged students. The report also stimulated vigorous reaction from educational researchers who believed, to the contrary, that schools \"could\" make a significant difference on student achievement. Their research formed the foundation of the 'Effective Schools Movement', and enabled them to assert that \"all children can learn and that the school controls the factors necessary to assure student mastery of the core curriculum.\"\n\nEarly effective schools researchers attempted to locate schools that were successful in educating students of all backgrounds, regardless of socio-economic status or family background. Such schools were found in varying locations and communities, and researchers tried to isolate which philosophies, policies, and practices those schools had in common.\n\nLarry Lezotte and Wilbur B. Brookover conducted studies at eight Michigan elementary schools in the mid-1970s, identifying characteristics of schools that were improving or declining. A notable finding was that \"staff in the declining schools had low opinions of their students' abilities, while the staff in the improving schools had high opinions of student abilities\".\n\nGeorge Weber, and later Ronald Edmonds, conducted research in inner-city U.S. schools where students of low socio-economic background were able to equal or surpass the national average. Edmonds' 1979 article \"Effective Schools for the Urban Poor\" is noted for drawing professional attention to the effective schools movement. Edmonds outlined six characteristics essential to effective schools, including:\n\nEducational researchers soon dropped \"capacity to divert energy and resources\" from the list, and Edmonds' “five-factor model” was widely proclaimed as a framework for reforming low-performing schools.\n\nIn 1979, \"Fifteen Thousand Hours\" documented effective schools research in high schools in the United Kingdom, and found that school characteristics could positively alter student achievement.\n\nEdmonds published \"Programs of School Improvement: An Overview\" in 1982, describing the \"correlates of effective schools\", a now widely used phrase commonly associated with the later work of Lezotte. Edmonds' correlates described effective schools as the following:\n\nIn 1991, Lezotte published \"Correlates of Effective Schools: The First and Second Generation\", describing the \"Seven Correlates of Effective Schools\":\n\nThe correlates of effective schools have remained a cornerstone for many school districts.\n\nThe Council of Ontario Directors of Education describes Lezotte's seven correlates as \"being necessary for ensuring high levels of student achievement\", adding that educators should also consider the importance of home and an empathic community.\n\nThe District of Columbia Public Schools has broadened its description of effective schools to include:\n\nA key finding regarding the implementation of effective schools reforms is that the positive support the school principal is fundamental to success. Also, teacher support for, belief in, and commitment to a particular reform tended to follow months or years of successful practice.\n"}
{"id": "545590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=545590", "title": "Experiential learning", "text": "Experiential learning\n\nExperiential learning is the process of learning through experience, and is more specifically defined as \"learning through reflection on doing\". Hands-on learning is a form of experiential learning but does not necessarily involve students reflecting on their product. Experiential learning is distinct from rote or didactic learning, in which the learner plays a comparatively passive role. It is related to, but not synonymous with, other forms of active learning such as action learning, adventure learning, free-choice learning, cooperative learning, service-learning, and situated learning.\n\nExperiential learning is often used synonymously with the term \"experiential education\", but while experiential education is a broader philosophy of education, experiential learning considers the individual learning process. As such, compared to experiential education, experiential learning is concerned with more concrete issues related to the learner and the learning context.\n\nThe general concept of learning through experience is ancient. Around 350 BCE, Aristotle wrote in the \"\" \"for the things we have to learn before we can do them, we learn by doing them\". But as an articulated educational approach, experiential learning is of much more recent vintage. Beginning in the 1970s, David A. Kolb helped to develop the modern theory of experiential learning, drawing heavily on the work of John Dewey, Kurt Lewin, and Jean Piaget.\n\nExperiential learning has significant teaching advantages. Peter Senge, author of \"The Fifth Discipline\" (1990), states that teaching is of utmost importance to motivate people. Learning only has good effects when learners have the desire to absorb the knowledge. Therefore, experiential learning requires the showing of directions for learners.\n\nExperiential learning focuses on the learning process for the individual. One example of experiential learning is going to the zoo and learning through observation and interaction with the zoo environment, as opposed to reading about animals from a book. Thus, one makes discoveries and experiments with knowledge firsthand, instead of hearing or reading about others' experiences. Likewise, in business school, internship, and job-shadowing, opportunities in a student’s field of interest can provide valuable experiential learning which contributes significantly to the student’s overall understanding of the real-world environment.\n\nA third example of experiential learning involves learning how to ride a bike, a process which can illustrate the four-step experiential learning model (ELM) as set forth by Kolb and outlined in Figure 1 below. Following this example, in the \"concrete experience\" stage, the learner physically experiences the bike in the \"here-and-now\". This experience forms \"the basis for observation and reflection\" and the learner has the opportunity to consider what is working or failing (reflective observation), and to think about ways to improve on the next attempt made at riding (abstract conceptualization). Every new attempt to ride is informed by a cyclical pattern of previous experience, thought and reflection (active experimentation).\n\nFigure 1 – David Kolb's Experiential Learning Model (ELM)\n\nExperiential learning can exist without a teacher and relates solely to the meaning-making process of the individual's direct experience. However, though the gaining of knowledge is an inherent process that occurs naturally, a genuine learning experience requires certain elements. According to Kolb, knowledge is continuously gained through both personal and environmental experiences. Kolb states that in order to gain genuine knowledge from an experience, the learner must have four abilities:\n\n\nExperiential learning requires self-initiative, an \"intention to learn\" and an \"active phase of learning\". Kolb's cycle of experiential learning can be used as a framework for considering the different stages involved. Jennifer A. Moon has elaborated on this cycle to argue that experiential learning is most effective when it involves: 1) a \"reflective learning phase\" 2) a phase of learning resulting from the actions inherent to experiential learning, and 3) \"a further phase of learning from feedback\". This process of learning can result in \"changes in judgment, feeling or skills\" for the individual and can provide direction for the \"making of judgments as a guide to choice and action\".\n\nMost educators understand the important role experience plays in the learning process. The role of emotion and feelings in learning from experience has been recognised as an important part of experiential learning. While those factors may improve the likelihood of experiential learning occurring, it can occur without them. Rather, what is vital in experiential learning is that the individual is encouraged to directly involve themselves in the experience, and then to reflect on their experiences using analytic skills, in order that they gain a better understanding of the new knowledge and retain the information for a longer time.\n\nReflection is a crucial part of the experiential learning process, and like experiential learning itself, it can be facilitated or independent. Dewey wrote that \"successive portions of reflective thought grow out of one another and support one another\", creating a scaffold for further learning, and allowing for further experiences and reflection. This reinforces the fact that experiential learning and reflective learning are iterative processes, and the learning builds and develops with further reflection and experience. Facilitation of experiential learning and reflection is challenging, but \"a skilled facilitator, asking the right questions and guiding reflective conversation before, during, and after an experience, can help open a gateway to powerful new thinking and learning\". Jacobson and Ruddy, building on Kolb's four-stage Experiential Learning Model and Pfeiffer and Jones's five stage Experiential Learning Cycle, took these theoretical frameworks and created a simple, practical questioning model for facilitators to use in promoting critical reflection in experiential learning. Their \"5 Questions\" model is as follows:\n\nThese questions are posed by the facilitator after an experience, and gradually lead the group towards a critical reflection on their experience, and an understanding of how they can apply the learning to their own life. Although the questions are simple, they allow a relatively inexperienced facilitator to apply the theories of Kolb, Pfeiffer, and Jones, and deepen the learning of the group.\n\nWhile it is the learner's experience that is most important to the learning process, it is also important not to forget the wealth of experience a good facilitator also brings to the situation. However, while a facilitator, or \"teacher\", may improve the likelihood of experiential learning occurring, a facilitator is not essential to experiential learning. Rather, the mechanism of experiential learning is the learner's reflection on experiences using analytic skills. This can occur without the presence of a facilitator, meaning that experiential learning is not defined by the presence of a facilitator. Yet, by considering experiential learning in developing course or program content, it provides an opportunity to develop a framework for adapting varying teaching/learning techniques into the classroom.\n\nExperiential learning is supported in different school organizational models and learning environments.\n\nAs higher education continues to adapt to new expectations from students, experiential learning in business and accounting programs has become more important. For example, Clark & White (2010) point out that \"a quality university business education program must include an experiential learning component\". With reference to this study, employers note that graduating students need to build skills in \"professionalism\" – which can be taught via experiential learning. Students also value this learning as much as industry.\n\nLearning styles also impact business education in the classroom. Kolb transposes four learning styles, \"Diverger, Assimilator, Accommodator \" and \"Converger\", atop the Experiential Learning Model, using the four experiential learning stages to carve out \"four quadrants\", one for each learning style. An individual’s dominant learning style can be identified by taking Kolb’s Learning Style Inventory (LSI). Robert Loo (2002) undertook a meta-analysis of 8 studies which revealed that Kolb’s learning styles were not equally distributed among business majors in the sample. More specifically, results indicated that there appears to be a high proportion of assimilators and a lower proportion of accommodators than expected for business majors. Not surprisingly, within the accounting sub-sample there was a higher proportion of convergers and a lower proportion of accommodates. Similarly, in the finance sub-sample, a higher proportion of assimilators and lower proportion of divergers was apparent. Within the marketing sub-sample there was an equal distribution of styles. This would provide some evidence to suggest that while it is useful for educators to be aware of common learning styles within business and accounting programs, they should be encouraging students to use all four learning styles appropriately and students should use a wide range of learning methods.\n\nProfessional education applications, also known as management training or organizational development, apply experiential learning techniques in training employees at all levels within the business and professional environment. Interactive, role-play based customer service training is often used in large retail chains. Training board games simulating business and professional situations such as the Beer Distribution Game used to teach supply chain management, and the Friday Night at the ER game used to teach systems thinking, are used in business training efforts.\n\nExperiential business learning is the process of learning and developing business skills through the medium of shared experience. The main point of difference between this and academic learning is more “real-life” experience for the recipient.\n\nThis may include for example, learning gained from a network of business leaders sharing best practice, or individuals being mentored or coached by a person who has faced similar challenges and issues, or simply listening to an expert or thought leader in current business thinking.\n\nProviders of this type of experiential business learning often include membership organisations who offer product offerings such as peer group learning, professional business networking, expert/speaker sessions, mentoring and/or coaching.\n\nExperiential learning is most easily compared with academic learning, the process of acquiring information through the study of a subject without the necessity for direct experience. While the dimensions of experiential learning are analysis, initiative, and immersion, the dimensions of academic learning are constructive learning and reproductive learning. Though both methods aim at instilling new knowledge in the learner, academic learning does so through more abstract, classroom-based techniques, whereas experiential learning actively involves the learner in a concrete experience.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30810141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30810141", "title": "FlashNotes", "text": "FlashNotes\n\nFlashnotes is an online marketplace that allows college students to buy and sell course specific notes, study guides, flashcards and other items to help students study and/or earn money throughout their college years.\n\nIn December 2009, Flashnotes was founded by Kent State University student Michael Matousek. After seeing other students struggle in several classes, and hearing them constantly ask to borrow other students' notes, Matousek created a solution that would help classmates by providing additional, student-created study resources. The result was Flashnotes. In 2012, Flashnotes moved to Boston. Flashnotes has partnered with other education companies including Cengage and Barnes and Nobles. In February 2014, this organization raised $3.6M in the funding round that included Stage 1 Ventures, Runa Capital and Atlas Ventures as the main investors. In 2014, Flashnotes purchased Moolaguides, a Florida-based ed-tech start-up. From 2015, the platform was called Luvo. As of 2016, Flashnotes raised up to $14 million from different funding rounds.\n\nIn May 2016, Flashnotes was shut down.\n\nFlashnotes works a reference tool for college students that are looking for additional help while studying for a variety of college courses. Flashnotes can also be a way for students to make extra money during their college years. Students interested in sharing their notes must create an account with the site. Then, they can upload as many notes as they want, and set their own price for each set of notes. If the notes are sold, the student keeps 70% of the price of the notes, while Flashnotes keeps the other 30%. Once the notes have been uploaded to the site, other students with an account can browse through all of the notes available at their school, narrow the search by course number or subject, or even search through all of the notes available from students at other colleges and universities throughout the country.\n\nFlashnotes is currently being used to buy and sell notes at 367 colleges and universities throughout the United States and Bishop's University in Sherbrooke, Quebec. If a user is the first person to upload notes from their school, that college or university will be added to the list of schools as soon as the notes have been uploaded.\n"}
{"id": "190235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190235", "title": "Humanistic education", "text": "Humanistic education\n\nHumanistic education (also called person-centered education) is an approach to education based on the work of humanistic psychologists, most notably Abraham Maslow and Carl Rogers. Carl Rogers has been called the \"Father of Humanistic Psychology\" and devoted much of his efforts toward applying the results of his psychological research to person-centered teaching where empathy, caring about students, and genuineness on the part of the learning facilitator were found to be the key traits of the most effective teachers. He edited a series of books dealing with humanistic education in his \"Studies of the Person Series,\" which included his book, \"Freedom to Learn\" and \"Learning to Feel - Feeling to Learn - Humanistic Education for the Whole Man,\" by Harold C. Lyon, Jr. In the 1970s the term \"humanistic education\" became less popular after conservative groups equated it with \"Secular Humanism\" and attacked the writings of Harold Lyon as being anti-Christian. That began a successful effort by Aspy, Lyon, Rogers, and others to re-label it \"person-centered teaching\", replacing the term \"humanistic education.\" In a more general sense the term includes the work of other humanistic pedagogues, such as Rudolf Steiner, and Maria Montessori. All of these approaches seek to engage the \"whole person\": the intellect, feeling life, social capacities, and artistic and practical skills are all important focuses for growth and development. Important objectives include developing children's self-esteem, their ability to set and achieve appropriate goals, and their development toward full autonomy.\n\nHumanistic education has its roots in Renaissance philosophers who emphasised the study of the humanities: grammar, rhetoric, history, poetry, and moral philosophy; these in turn built upon Classical models of education.\n\nThe growing Humanist-inspired emphasis on education in Scotland cumulated with the passing of the Education Act 1496.\n\nThe humanistic approach places a great deal of emphasis on students' choice and control over the course of their education. Students are encouraged to make choices that range from day-to-day activities to periodically setting future life goals. This allows for students to focus on a specific subject of interest for any amount of time they choose, within reason. Humanistic teachers believe it is important for students to be motivated and engaged in the material they are learning, and this happens when the topic is something the students need and want to know.\n\nHumanistic education tends to focus on the felt concerns and interests of the students intertwining with the intellect. It is believed that the overall mood and feeling of the students can either hinder or foster the process of learning.\n\nHumanistic educators believe that both feelings and knowledge are important to the learning process. Unlike traditional educators, humanistic teachers do not separate the cognitive and affective domains. This aspect also relates to the curriculum in the sense that lessons and activities provide focus on various aspects of the student and not just rote memorization through note taking and lecturing.\n\nHumanistic educators believe that grades are irrelevant and that only self-evaluation is meaningful. Grading encourages students to work for a grade and not for intrinsic satisfaction. Humanistic educators disagree with routine testing because they teach students rote memorization as opposed to meaningful learning. They also believe testing doesn't provide sufficient educational feedback to the teacher.\n\n\"The tutor or lecturer tends to be more supportive than critical, more understanding than judgmental, more genuine than playing a role.\" Their job is to foster an engaging environment for the students and ask inquiry-based questions that promote meaningful learning.\n\nDavid Aspy and Flora Roebuck performed the largest field study ever done, in 42 states and 7 countries, in the 1970s and 80s, funded by the National Institute of Mental Health over a 12-year period, focusing on what led to achievement, creativity, more student thinking and interactivity, less violence, and both teacher and student satisfaction. Their conclusions corroborated the earlier findings of Carl Rogers's that the more effective teachers were empathic, caring for or prizing their students, and were authentic or genuine in their classroom presence. In 2010 Jeffrey Cornelius-White and Adam Harbaugh published a large meta-analysis on Learner Centered Instruction including in their analysis all the higher quality studies on person-centered or humanistic education ever done since 1948. In 2013, Rogers, Lyon, and Tausch published \"On Becoming an Effective Teacher -- Person-centered Teaching, Psychology, Philosophy, and Dialogues with Carl R. Rogers and Harold Lyon\", which contained Rogers' last unpublished work on teaching and documented the research results of four highly related, independent studies which comprise the largest collection of data ever accumulated to test a person-centered theory in the field of education.\n\nThe environment in a school which focuses their practice on humanistic education tends to have a very different setting than a traditional school. It consist of both indoor and outdoor environments with a majority of time being spent outdoors. The indoor setting may contain a few tables and chairs, bean bags for quiet reading and relaxation, book shelves, hide-aways, kitchens, lots of color and art posted on the walls. The outdoor environment is very engaging for students. You might find tree houses, outdoor kitchens, sand boxes, play sets, natural materials, sporting activities etc. The wide range of activities are offered for students allowing for free choices of interest.\n\nA number of contemporary school movements incorporate humanistic perspectives within a larger, holistic context: these include the Waldorf, Montessori, Reggio Emilia, and Neohumanist schools. These originated independently of the humanistic psychology movement and at least some of them incorporate spiritual perspectives absent from the traditional humanistic approach.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35325039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35325039", "title": "ISpring Suite", "text": "ISpring Suite\n\niSpring Suite is a rapid learning authoring toolkit produced by iSpring for developing training courses in PowerPoint with embedded (or standalone) quizzes, surveys, and interactions. Its output is compatible with mainstream LMS standards (SCORM/AICC), and there is also an option to publish courses specially for BlackBoard LMS. The new xAPI (Tin Can) format for LRSes is supported as well. Output can be a solid SWF file(s), EXE file, HTML page or ZIP archive. Additionally, the cross-platform output format (Flash + HTML5) allows published content to be viewed on any type of modern device.\n\nIn 2005, Flashspring Pro, the prototype of all iSpring products, was released. It was a simple PowerPoint-to-Flash converter with free and commercial versions. Later, iSpring released Flashspring Ultra and SCORM compatibility became available. The companion products FlashSpring Lite and FlashSpring Server were released in 2006 and 2007, respectively. In 2008 the name was changed to iSpring. \n\nThe current version of iSpring Suite, iSpring Suite 9.0, came out in April 24th, 2018.\n\nOne enhancement made to iSpring Suite 7 was the support of combined, cross-platform Flash + HTML5 format. It allowed users to create mobile-ready projects that adapt to any screen size and orientation.\n\niSpring Suite 7 came with free mobile apps for iOS and Android, which allow offline content viewing. The apps collect statistics on learning activity even with no Internet connection and send them to an LMS once the connection is restored.\n\niSpring Suite 8 introduces several new features to the toolkit.\n\nIn version 8, a conversation simulator was added, allowing users to create simulated dialogues. Also, iSpring Suite 8 has a screen recording tool, allowing users to capture the screen and insert the recording on a PowerPoint slide, an audio/video editor both for screen recordings and audio/video narrations, and a video lecture player to show PowerPoint slides and lecture video side by side.\n\nReleased in April 2018, the 9th version introduced 14 new interactions, a new built-in video editor with extended capabilities for screen recording, and major improvements of the quiz editor: the new drag-and-drop question, the new built-in equation editor, extended feedback options, and 7 new survey question templates.\n\niSpring Suite includes 5 authoring components: the iSpring add-in, iSpring QuizMaker, conversation simulator, screen recording tool and iSpring Visuals — a set of standalone tools that can be used both separately and together. Additional components available in the publishing interface are PowerPoint-to-Video/YouTube (available separately as iSpring SlideAlloy), and iSpring Cloud hosting and sharing platform.\n\niSpring Converter Pro turns PowerPoint projects into mobile-ready online presentations. It supports the standard PowerPoint features such as animation, transition effects and narration facilities and contains additional features that aren't provided by PowerPoint, such as publishing to the Web or an LMS. \n\niSpring QuizMaker allows users to create quizzes and surveys.\n\niSpring Visuals adds rich media interactions to PowerPoint presentations.\n\niSpring TalkMaster is a conversation simulator that allows users to create simulated dialogues for customer support training and other purposes.\n\niSpring ScreenRecorder allows users to capture all or part of a screen and insert the recording on a PowerPoint slide, save it to MP4 video, or publish it to a YouTube account.\n\niSpring SlideAlloy converts PowerPoint presentations to videos in .mp4 format, or publishes them to YouTube.\n\niSpring Cloud is a hosting and delivery platform for PowerPoint presentations, Microsoft documents and spreadsheets, images, video, audio, and PDF files.\n\n"}
{"id": "57694955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57694955", "title": "Instructional materials", "text": "Instructional materials\n\nInstructional Materials are any collection of materials including animate and inanimate objects and human and non-human resources that a teacher may use in teaching and learning situations to help achieve desired learning objectives. Instructional materials may aid a student in concretizing a learning experience so as to make learning more exciting, interesting and interactive.\nThey are tools used in instructional activities, which include active learning and assessment. The term encompasses all the materials and physical means an instructor might use to implement instruction and facilitate students achievement of instructional objectives.\n\nThe value of instructional materials as a pedagogical aid can be seen in Vachel Lindsay's poem \"Euclid\":\n\nInstructional materials can be classified on their types, which include prints, visuals, audiovisuals:\n\nThe Peer-Reviewed Instructional Materials Online (PRIMO) Committee \"'promotes and shares peer-reviewed instructional materials created by librarians to teach people about discovering, accessing and evaluating information in networked environments.' In doing so, it reviews librarian-created online tutorials dealing with information literacy and critical thinking skills, and highlights the highest-caliber projects through its “Site of the Month” posts on the ACRL Instruction Section blog (http://acrl.ala.org/IS/category/committees/primo).\" PRIMO's goal is to provide librarians quality tutorials for instructional use on a variety of topics in order to save time, effort and cost. PRIMO accepts non-promotional online instructional material intended for undergraduate or graduate-level audiences emphasizing quality over comprehensiveness.\n\n\"Student Achievement Partners is a nonprofit organization that assembles educators and researchers to design actions based on evidence that will substantially improve student achievement.\" The tool provided by the organization is the Textbook Alignment and Adaptations Instructional Materials Evaluation Tool. The goal of this tool is to assist in evaluation textbooks or series of textbooks for alignment to the Common Core State Standards Initiative.\n"}
{"id": "217280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217280", "title": "Kindergarten", "text": "Kindergarten\n\nKindergarten (, ; from German , literally meaning 'garden for the children') is a preschool educational approach based on playing, singing, practical activities such as drawing, and social interaction as part of the transition from home to school. Such institutions were originally created in the late 18th century in Bavaria and Strasbourg to serve children whose parents both worked outside home. The term was coined by the German Friedrich Fröbel, whose approach globally influenced early-years education. Today, the term is used in many countries to describe a variety of educational institutions and learning spaces for children ranging from two to seven years of age, based on a variety of teaching methods.\nIn 1779, Johann Friedrich Oberlin and Louise Scheppler founded in Strasbourg an early establishment for caring for and educating pre-school children whose parents were absent during the day. At about the same time, in 1780, similar infant establishments were established in Bavaria. In 1802, Princess Pauline zur Lippe established a preschool center in Detmold, the capital of the then principality of Lippe, Germany (now in the State of North Rhine-Westphalia).\n\nIn 1816, Robert Owen, a philosopher and pedagogue, opened the first British and probably globally the first infants school in New Lanark, Scotland. In conjunction with his venture for cooperative mills Owen wanted the children to be given a good moral education so that they would be fit for work. His system was successful in producing obedient children with basic literacy and numeracy.\n\nSamuel Wilderspin opened his first infant school in London in 1819, and went on to establish hundreds more. He published many works on the subject, and his work became the model for infant schools throughout England and further afield. Play was an important part of Wilderspin's system of education. He is credited with inventing the playground. In 1823, Wilderspin published \"On the Importance of Educating the Infant Poor\", based on the school. He began working for the Infant School Society the next year, informing others about his views. He also wrote \"The Infant System, for developing the physical, intellectual, and moral powers of all children from 1 to seven years of age\".\n\nCountess Theresa Brunszvik (1775–1861), who had known and been influenced by Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, was influenced by this example to open an \"Angyalkert\" (\"angel garden\" in Hungarian) on May 27, 1828, in her residence in Buda, the first of eleven care centers that she founded for young children. In 1836 she established an institute for the foundation of preschool centers. The idea became popular among the nobility and the middle class and was copied throughout the Kingdom of Hungary.\n\nFriedrich Fröbel (1782–1852) opened a \"play and activity\" institute in 1837 in the village of Bad Blankenburg in the principality of Schwarzburg-Rudolstadt, Thuringia, as an experimental social experience for children entering school. He renamed his institute \"\" on June 28, 1840, reflecting his belief that children should be nurtured and nourished \"like plants in a garden\".\n\nWomen trained by Fröbel opened kindergartens throughout Europe and around the world. The first kindergarten in the US was founded in Watertown, Wisconsin in 1856 and was conducted in German by Margaretha Meyer-Schurz.\n\nElizabeth Peabody founded the first English-language kindergarten in the US in 1860. The first free kindergarten in the US was founded in 1870 by Conrad Poppenhusen, a German industrialist and philanthropist, who also established the Poppenhusen Institute. The first publicly financed kindergarten in the US was established in St. Louis in 1873 by Susan Blow.\n\nCanada's first private kindergarten was opened by the Wesleyan Methodist Church in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, in 1870. By the end of the decade, they were common in large Canadian towns and cities. The country's first public-school kindergartens were established in Berlin, Ontario (modern Kitchener), in 1882 T Central School). In 1885, the Toronto Normal School (teacher training) opened a department for kindergarten teaching.\n\nElizabeth Harrison wrote extensively on the theory of early childhood education and worked to enhance educational standards for kindergarten teachers by establishing what became the National College of Education in 1886.\n\nIn Afghanistan, children between the ages of 3 and 6 attend kindergartens (; ). Although kindergartens in Afghanistan are not part of the school system, they are often run by the government.\n\nEarly Childhood Development programs were first introduced during the Soviet occupation with the establishment in 1980 of 27 urban preschools, or kodakistan. The number of preschools grew steadily during the 1980s, peaking in 1990 with more than 270 in Afghanistan. At this peak, there were 2,300 teachers caring for more than 21,000 children in the country. These facilities were an urban phenomenon, mostly in Kabul, and were attached to schools, government offices, or factories. Based on the Soviet model, these Early Childhood Development programs provided nursery care, preschool, and kindergarten for children from 3 months to 6 years of age under the direction of the Department of Labor and Social Welfare.\n\nThe vast majority of Afghan families were never exposed to this system, and many of these families were in opposition to these programs due to the belief that it diminishes the central role of the family and inculcates children with Soviet values. With the onset of civil war after the Soviet withdrawal, the number of kindergartens dropped rapidly. By 1995, only 88 functioning facilities serving 2,110 children survived, and the Taliban restrictions on female employment eliminated all of the remaining centers in areas under their control. In 2007, there were about 260 kindergarten/pre-school centers serving over 25,000 children. Though every government center is required to have an early childhood center, at present, no governmental policies deal with early childhood and no institutions have either the responsibility or the capacity to provide such services.\n\nIn each state of Australia, \"kindergarten\" (frequently referred to as \"kinder\" or \"kindy\") means something slightly different. In Tasmania, New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory, it is the first year of primary school. In Victoria, kindergarten is a form of preschool and may be referred to interchangeably as preschool or kindergarten. In Victoria and Tasmania, the phrase for the first year of primary school is called \"Prep\" (short for \"preparatory\"), which is followed by grade 1. \n\nIn Queensland, kindergarten is usually an institution for children around the age of 4 and thus it is the precursor to preschool and primary education. In recent years though, Kindergartens have been taking children as young as 6 months old. \n\nThe year preceding the first year of primary school education in Western Australia, South Australia or the Northern Territory is referred to respectively as \"pre-primary\", \"reception\" or \"transition\".\n\nIn Bangladesh, the term \"kindergarten\", or \"KG School\" (Kindergarten School), is used to refer to the schooling children attend from 3 to 6 years of age. The names of the levels are nursery, \"shishu\" (children), etc. But the view of kindergarten education has changed much from previous years. Almost every rural area now has at least one Kindergarten School, with most being run in the Bengali language. They also follow the textbooks published by the National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB) with a light modification, adding some extra books in syllabus. The grades generally start from Nursery (sometimes \"Play\"), \"KG\" afterwards, and ends with the 5th grade. Separate from the National Education System, kindergarten is contributing greatly toward achieving the Millennium Development Goal of universal primary education in Bangladesh.\n\nIn Bulgaria, the term \"detska gradina\" (деτска градина) refers to the schooling children attend from 3 to 7 (in some cases 6) years of age. Since 2012, two years of pre-school education are compulsory. These two years of mandatory pre-school education may be attended either at kindergarten or in preparatory groups at primary schools.\n\nSchools outside of Ontario and the Northwest Territories generally provide one year of kindergarten, except some private schools offer junior kindergarten for 4-year-olds (school before kindergarten is most commonly referred to as pre-school). After kindergarten, the child begins grade one. The province of Nova Scotia refers to Kindergarten as Grade Primary.\n\nThe province of Ontario and the Northwest Territories provide two years of kindergarten. Within the province of Quebec, junior kindergarten is called \"prématernelle\" (which is not mandatory), is attended by 4-year-olds, and senior kindergarten is called \"maternelle\", which is also not mandatory by the age of 5, this class is integrated into primary schools. Within the French school system in the province of Ontario, junior kindergarten is called \"maternelle\" and senior kindergarten is called \"jardin d'enfants\", which is a calque of the German word \"Kindergarten\".\n\nIn Chile, the term equivalent to Kindergarten is \"\"Educación parvularia\", sometimes also called \"Educación Preescolar\". It is the first level of the Chilean educational system. It meets the needs of boys and girls integrally from their birth until their entry to the \"Educación Básica\" (Primary education), without being considered as compulsory. Generally, schools imparting this level, the JUNJI (National Council of Kindergarten Schools) and other private institutions have the following organization of groups or subcategories of levels:\n\nIn China, pre-school education, before the child enters formal schooling at 6 years of age, is generally divided into a \"nursery\" or \"preschool\" stage and a \"kindergarten\" (幼儿园 (yòu'éryuán) stage. These can be two separate institutions, or a single combined one in different areas. Where there are two separate institutions, it is common for the kindergarten to consist of the two upper years, and the preschool to consist of one lower year. Common names for these three years are:\n\nIn some places, children at 5-6 years may in addition or instead attend \"reception\" or \"preparatory\" classes (学前班/xué qián bān) focusing on preparing children for formal schooling.\n\nState (public) kindergartens only accept children older than 3 years, while private ones do not have such limitations.\n\nKindergarten is a day-care service offered to children from age three until the child starts attending school. Kindergarten classes (grade 0) are voluntary and are offered by primary schools before a child enters 1st grade.\n\nTwo-thirds of established day-care institutions in Denmark are municipal day-care centres while the other third are privately owned and are run by associations of parents or businesses in agreement with local authorities. In terms of both finances and subject-matter, municipal and private institutions function according to the same principles.\n\nDenmark is credited with pioneering (although not inventing) forest kindergartens, in which children spend most of every day outside in a natural environment.\n\nIn Egypt, children may go to kindergartens for two years (KG1 and KG2) between the ages of four and six.\n\nIn France, pre-school is known as ' (French for \"nursery school\", literally \"maternal school\"). Free ' schools are available throughout the country, welcoming children aged from 3 to 6 (although in many places, children under three may not be granted a place). The ages are divided into ' (GS: 5-year-olds), ' (MS: 4-year-olds), ' (PS: 3-year-olds) and ' (TPS: 2-year-olds). It is not compulsory, yet almost all children aged 3 to 5 attend. It is regulated by the Ministry of National Education.\n\nIn Germany, a ' (masculine: \"der\" Kindergarten, plural ') is a facility for the care of pre-school children who are typically at least three years old. By contrast, ' or ' refers to a crèche for the care of children before they enter ' (9 weeks to about three years), '—literally \"children's day site\", usually shortened to \"\"—is an umbrella term for any day care facility for pre-schoolers.\n\nAttendance is voluntary, and usually not free of charge. Pre-school children over the age of one are entitled to receive local and affordable daycare. Within the federal system, fall under the responsibility of the states, which usually delegate a large share of the responsibility to the municipalities. Due to the subsidiarity principle stipulated by §4 , there are a multitude of operators, from municipalities, churches and welfare societies to parents' initiatives and profit-based corporations. Many follow a certain educational approach, such as Montessori, Reggio Emilia, \" or Waldorf; forest kindergartens are well established. Most \" are subsidised by the community councils, with the fees depending on the income of the parents.\n\nEven in smaller townships, there are often both Roman Catholic and Lutheran kindergartens available. Places in crèches and kindergarten are often difficult to secure and must be 'reserved' in advance, although the situation has improved with a new law in effect August 2013. The availability of childcare, however, varies greatly by region. It is usually better in eastern regions, and in big cities in the north, such as Berlin or Hamburg, and poorest in parts of Southern Germany.\n\nAll caretakers in ' or ' must have a three-year qualified education, or are under special supervision during training.\n\n' can be open from 7am to 5pm or longer and may also house a crèche (') for children between the ages of eight weeks and three years, and possibly an afternoon ' (often associated with a primary school) for school-age children aged 6 to 10 who spend the time after their lessons there. Alongside nurseries, there are day-care nurses (' or \"\") working independently of any pre-school institution in individual homes and looking after only three to five children, typically up to the age of three. These nurses are supported and supervised by local authorities.\n\nThe term ' (\"pre-school\") is used both for educational efforts in ' and for a mandatory class that is usually connected to a primary school. Both systems are handled differently in each German state. The ' is a type of '.\n\nPre-primary Services in Hong Kong refers to provision of education and care to young children by kindergartens and child care centres. Kindergartens, registered with the Education Bureau, provide services for children from three to six years old. Child care centres, on the other hand, are registered with the Social Welfare Department and include nurseries, catering for children aged two to three, and creches, looking after infants from birth to two.\n\nAt present, most of the kindergartens operate on half-day basis offering upper, lower kindergarten classes and nursery classes. Some kindergartens operate full-day kindergarten classes too. Child care centres also provide full-day and half-day services with most centres providing full-day services.\n\nThe aim of pre-primary education in Hong Kong is to provide children with a relaxing and pleasurable learning environment to promote a balanced development of different aspects necessary to a child's development such as the physical, intellectual, language, social, emotional and aesthetic aspects.\n\nTo help establish the culture of self-evaluation in kindergartens and to provide reference for the public in assessing the quality and standard of pre-primary education, the Education Bureau has developed Performance Indicators for pre-primary institutions in Hong Kong. Commencing in the 2000/01 school year, Quality Assurance Inspection was launched to further promote the development of quality Early Childhood Education.\n\nIn Hungary a kindergarten is called an \"\" (\"place for caring\"). Children attend kindergarten between ages 3–6/7 (they go to school in the year in which they have their 7th birthday). Attendance in kindergarten is compulsory from the age of 3 years, though exceptions are made for developmental reasons. Though kindergartens may include programs in subjects such as foreign languages and music, children spend most of their time playing. In their last year, children begin to be prepared to attend elementary school.\n\nMost kindergartens are state-funded. Kindergarten teachers are required to have a diploma.\n\nIn India, there are only informal directives pertaining to pre-primary education, for which pre-primary schools and sections need no affiliation. Directives state that children who are three years old on 30 May in the given academic year are eligible to attend Nursery and Kindergarten classes. Typically, children spend 3 to 4 years of their time in pre-primary school after which they are eligible to attend 1st Standard in Primary School which falls under HRD ministry norms. Primary education is now compulsory in India, and accompanied with mid-day meals, in most parts of the country run by the government. Pre-primary is not mandatory, however preferred. All government schools and affiliated private schools allow children who are 5 years of age as of 30 May to enroll to standard 1 of a primary school.\n\nIn Italy, pre-school education refers to two different grades:\n\nItalian \" were officially instituted in a 1971 State Law (L. 1044/1971), and may be ruled by either private or public institutions. They were originally established to allow mothers a chance to work out of their homes, and were therefore seen as a social service. Today, they mostly serve the purpose of general education and social interaction. In Italy, much effort has been spent on developing a pedagogical approach to children's care: well known is the so-called Reggio Emilia approach, named after the city of Reggio Emilia, in Emilia-Romagna.\n\n' normally occupy small one-story buildings, surrounded by gardens; usually suitable for no more than 60 or 70 children. The heart of the ' are the classrooms, split into playroom and restroom; the playroom always has windows and doors leading to the outside playground and garden.\n\nMaternal schools (') were established in 1968 after State Law n. 444 and are a full part of the official Italian education system, though attendance is not compulsory. Like ' (nursery schools), maternal schools may be held either by public or private institutions.\n\nEarly childhood education begins at home, and there are numerous books and television shows aimed at helping mothers & fathers of preschool children to educate their children and to parent more effectively. Much of the home training is devoted to teaching manners, proper social behavior, and structured play, although verbal and number skills are also popular themes. Parents are strongly committed to early education and frequently enroll their children in preschools.\nKindergartens (幼稚園 yōchien), predominantly staffed by young female junior college graduates, are supervised by the Ministry of Education but are not part of the official education system. The 58% of kindergartens that are private accounted for 77% of all children enrolled. In addition to kindergartens, there exists a well-developed system of government-supervised day-care centers (保育園 hoikuen), supervised by the Ministry of Labor. Whereas kindergartens follow educational aims, preschools are predominantly concerned with providing care for infants and toddlers. Just as there are public and private kindergartens, there are both public and privately run preschools. Together, these two kinds of institutions enroll well over 90 percent of all preschool-age children prior to their entrance into the formal system at first grade. The Ministry of Education's 1990 Course of Study for Preschools, which applies to both kinds of institutions, covers such areas as human relationships, health, environment, language, and expression. Starting from March 2008 the new revision of curriculum guidelines for kindergartens as well as for preschools came into effect.\n\nIn South Korea, children normally attend kindergarten ( \"yuchi won\") between the ages of three or four and six or seven in the Western age system. (Korean ages are calculated differently from Western ages: when they are born they are considered one-year-olds, rather than one day old. Additionally, every January 1, everyone's age increases by one year regardless of when their birthday is. Hence in Korea, kindergarten children are called five-, six- and seven-year-olds.) The school year begins in March. It is followed by primary school. Normally the kindergartens are graded on a three-tier basis.\n\nKorean kindergartens are private schools, and monthly costs vary. Korean parents often send their children to English kindergartens to give them a head start in English. Such specialized kindergartens can be mostly taught in Korean with some English lessons, mostly taught in English with some Korean lessons, or completely taught in English. Almost all middle-class parents send their children to kindergarten.\n\nKindergarten programs in South Korea attempt to incorporate much academic instruction alongside more playful activities. Korean kindergartners learn to read, write (often in English as well as Korean) and do simple arithmetic. Classes are conducted in a traditional classroom setting, with the children focused on the teacher and one lesson or activity at a time. The goal of the teacher is to overcome weak points in each child's knowledge or skills.\n\nBecause the education system in Korea is very competitive, kindergartens are becoming more intensely academic. Children are pushed to read and write at a very young age. They also become accustomed to regular and considerable amounts of homework. These very young children may also attend other specialized afternoon schools, taking lessons in art, piano or violin, taekwondo, ballet, soccer or mathematics.\n\nIn Kosovo, kindergarten is known as \"Çerdhe\" or \"Kopshti i fëmijëve\", and they serve as Day Care Centers. There are public and private kindergartens, and they are for children under the age of 3. Children between 3–6 years old go to \"Institucione parashkollore\", which are different from the Day Care Centers, because here children start the basic learning process, and they serve as preparatory institutions for the Primary School. After the age of 6, children continue in Primary School. However, neither the Day Care Centers nor the Preparatory Institutions are mandatory.\n\nIn Kuwait, Kuwaiti children may go to free government kindergartens for two years (KG1 and KG2) between the ages of four and six.\n\nIn Luxembourg, a Kindergarten is called \"Spillschoul\" (literally \"Playschool\", plural \"Spillschoulen\"). It is a public education facility which is attended by children between the age of 4 (or 5) and 6 when they advance to the \"Grondschoul\" (elementary school).\n\nThe Macedonian equivalent of kindergarten is \"detska gradinka\" (), sometimes called \"zabavishte\" () when the kids are younger than 4 years. \"Detska gradinka\" is not part of the state's mandatory education, because the educational process in the country begins at the age of 5 or 6, i.e. first grade.\n\nIn Malaysia, kindergarten is known as \"\". Most kindergartens are available to children of ages five and six (and some are available to children as young as four). For children up to the age of three (or four), there are pre-school playgroups. There are no fixed rules for when a child needs to go to a kindergarten, but the majority will when the child turns 5 years old. The child will usually attend kindergarten for two years, before proceeding to primary school at age 7.\n\nIn Mexico, kindergarten is called \"kínder\", with the last year sometimes referred to as \"preprimaria\" (\"primaria\" is the name given to grades 1 through 6, so the name literally means \"prior to elementary school\"). The kindergarten system in Mexico was developed by professor Rosaura Zapata, who received the country's highest honor for her contribution. It consists of three years of pre-school education, which are mandatory before elementary school. Previous nursery is optional and may be offered in either private schools or public schools.\n\nAt private schools, kinders usually consist of three grades, and a fourth one may be added for nursery. The fourth one is called maternal. It goes before the other three years and is not obligatory. While the first grade is a playgroup, the other two are of classroom education.\n\nIn 2002, the Congress of the Union approved the \"Law of Obligatory Pre-schooling\", which made pre-school education for three to six-year-olds obligatory, and placed it under the auspices of the federal and state ministries of education.\n\nIn Mongolia, kindergarten is known as \"цэцэрлэг\" or \"tsetserleg\". As of September 2013, there are approximately 152 kindergartens registered in the country. From those 152 kindergartens, 142 are state owned. Children begin kindergarten at the age of 2 and finish it by 5. The education system before kindergarten in Mongolia is called \"ясль\", which accepts children between 0 and 2 years of age.\n\nIn Morocco, pre-school is known as \"école maternelle\", \"kuttab\", or \"ar-rawd\". State-run, free \"maternelle\" schools are available throughout the kingdom, welcoming children aged from 2 to 5 (although in many places, children under 3 may not be granted a place). It is not compulsory, yet almost 80% of children aged 3 to 5 attend. It is regulated by the Moroccan department of education.\n\nIn Nepal, kindergartens are run as private institutions, with their lessons conducted in English. The kindergarten education in Nepal is most similar to that of Hong Kong and India. Children start attending kindergarten from the age of 2 until they are at least 5 years old.\n\nThe kindergartens in Nepal have the following grades:\n\nIn the Netherlands, the equivalent term to kindergarten was '. From the mid-19th century to the mid-20th century the term ' was also common, after Friedrich Fröbel. However, this term gradually faded in use as the verb ' gained a slightly derogatory meaning in everyday language. Until 1985, it used to be a separate non-compulsory form of education (for children aged 4–6 years), after which children (aged 6–12 years) attended the primary school (\"lagere school\"). After 1985, both forms were integrated into one, called ' (Dutch for primary education). For children under 4, the country offers private, subsidized daycares (\"\"), which are noncompulsory but nevertheless very popular.\n\nIn New Zealand, kindergarten can refer to education in the 2 years preceding primary school, from age 3 to 4. Primary Education starts at age 5. \n\nIn Norway, \"barnehage\" (children garden) is the term equivalent to kindergarten, used for children in the ages between 10 months and 6 years. The first \"barnehager\" were founded in Norway in the late 19th century. Although they have existed for 120 years, they are not considered part of the education system. They are both publicly and privately owned and operated. The staff, at minimum the manager, should be educated as \"barnehagelærer\" (kindergarten teacher), previously known as \"førskolelærer\" (pre-school teachers). The children spend most of the time outdoors. There is also an institution called \"barnepark\" (children's park), which does not need to have certified staff.\n\nIn Peru, the term \"nido\" refers to the schooling children attend from 3 to 6 years of age. It is followed by primary school classes, which last for six years. Some families choose to send their children to primary school at the age of 6. In 1902 the teacher Elvira Garcia and Garcia co-founder of the Society cited above, organized the first kindergarten for children 2 to 8 years old, Fanning annex to the Lyceum for ladies. Her studies and concern for children led her to spread through conferences and numerous documents, the importance of protecting children early and to respond to the formation of a personality based on justice and understanding, as well as the use of methods Fröbel and from Montessori and participation of parents in this educational task.\n\nIn the Philippines, education officially starts at the Elementary level and placing children into early childhood education through kindergarten is optional to parents. Early childhood education in the Philippines is classified into:\n\nEarly childhood education was strengthened through the creation of the Early Childhood Care and Development Act of 2000 (Republic Act No. 8980). In 2011, the Department of Education disseminated copies of the Kindergarten Education Act through Republic Act No. 10157 making it compulsory and mandatory in the entire nation. As a provision in this law, children under five years old are required to enroll in a kindergarten in any public elementary school in the country. This goes with the implementation of the K-12 system in the Basic Education Curriculum.\n\nIn Romania, ', which means \"little garden\", is the favored form of education for preschool children usually aged 3–6. The children are divided in three groups: \"little group\" (', age 3–4), \"medium group\" (', age 4-5) and \"big group\" (', age 5-6). In the last few years, private kindergartens have become popular, supplementing the state preschool education system. Kindergarten is optional. The \"preparatory school year\" (\"clasa pregătitoare\") is for children aged 6–7, and since it became compulsory in 2012, it usually takes place at school.\n\nIn the Russian Federation, (\"dyetskiy sad\", literal translation of \"children's garden\") is a preschool educational institution for children, usually 3 to 6 years of age.\n\nKindergartens (commonly known as creche) in South Africa provide from 0-6 years of age spent of preschool programs for children of all ages up to six. The one to three-year program, known as \"nursery\", \"kindergarten 1\" (K1), and \"kindergarten 2\" (K2), prepares children for their first year in primary school education. Some kindergartens further divide nursery into N1 and N2.\n\nIn Spain, kindergarten is called ', ' or ', and serves children from 3 to 6 years of age. It's commonly known by some people as '.\n\n1º ciclo de Educación Infantil (from 0 to 3 years of age)\n2º ciclo de Educación Infantil (from 3 to 6 years of age).\n\nKindergarten in Sudan is divided into private and public kindergarten. Preschool is compulsory in Sudan. The proper kindergarten age spans from 3–6 years. The curriculum covers Arabic, English, religion, mathematics and more.\n\nIn Sweden, kindergarten activities were established in the 19th century, and have been widely expanded since the 1970s. The first Swedish kindergarten teachers were trained by Henriette Schrader-Breymann at the Pestalozzi-Fröbel Haus, which she founded in 1882.\n\nWhile many public kindergartens and preschools exist in Taiwan, private kindergartens and preschools are also quite popular. Many private preschools offer accelerated courses in various subjects to compete with public preschools and capitalize on public demand for academic achievement. Curriculum at such preschools often encompasses subject material such as science, art, physical education and even mathematics classes. The majority of these schools are part of large school chains, which operate under franchise arrangements. In return for annual fees, the chain enterprises may supply advertising, curriculum, books, materials, training, and even staff for each individual school.\n\nThere has been a huge growth in the number of privately owned and operated English immersion preschools in Taiwan since 1999. These English immersion preschools generally employ native English speaking teachers to teach the whole preschool curriculum in an \"English only\" environment. The legality of these types of schools has been called into question on many occasions, yet they continue to prosper. Some members of Taiwanese society have raised concerns as to whether local children should be placed in English immersion environments at such a young age, and have raised fears that the students abilities in their mother language may suffer as a result. The debate continues, but at the present time, the market for English Immersion Preschools continues to grow.\n\nIn 2010, a total of 56% of children aged one to six years old had the opportunity to attend preschool education, the Education and Science Ministry of Ukraine reported in August 2010. Many preschools and kindergartens were closed previously in light of economic and demographic considerations.\n\nThe term kindergarten is rarely used in the UK to describe modern pre-school education or the first year(s) of compulsory primary school education. Pre-schools are usually known as creche, nursery schools or playgroups, while the first year of compulsory schooling is known as Reception in England, \"Dosbarth Derbyn\" in Welsh (\"reception class\") and Primary One in Scotland and Northern Ireland. Nursery forms part of the Foundation Stage of education. In the 1980s, England and Wales officially adopted the Northern Irish system whereby children start school either in the term or year in which they will become five depending on the policy of the local education authority. In Scotland, schooling becomes compulsory between the ages of 4½ and 5½ years, depending on their birthday (school starts in August for children who were 4 by the end of the preceding February).\n\nHowever, the word \"kindergarten\" is used for more specialist organisations such as forest kindergartens and is sometimes used in the naming of private nurseries that provide full-day child care for working parents. Historically the word was used during the nineteenth century when activists like Adelaide Manning were introducing educators to the work of Friedrich Fröbel.\n\nIn the UK, parents have the option of nursery for their children at the ages of three or four years, before compulsory education begins. Before that, less structured childcare is available privately. The details vary between England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.\n\nSome nurseries are attached to state infant or primary schools, but many are provided by the private sector. The Scottish government provides funding so that all children from the age of three until they start compulsory school can attend five sessions per week of two and a half hours each, either in state-run or private nurseries. Working parents can also receive from their employers childcare worth £55 per week free of income tax, which is typically enough to pay for one or two days per week.\n\nThe Scottish Government defines its requirements for nursery schools in the Early Years Framework and the Curriculum for Excellence. Each school interprets these with more or less independence (depending on their management structure) but must satisfy the Care Commission in order to retain their licence to operate. The curriculum aims to develop:\n\nIn the US, kindergarten is usually part of the K-12 educational system. In most state and private schools, children begin kindergarten at age 5 and attend for one year. They do activities such as addition (+), subtraction (-), and playing outside on the playground. Forty-three states require their school districts to offer a kindergarten year.\n\nIn a typical US kindergarten classroom, resources like toys, picture books, and crayons are available for children's use. The daily schedule varies from town to town, but there are some similarities. In the morning, the children usually do circle time. This includes saying the pledge of allegiance, looking at the calendar, and discussing the weather and season that day. Next, the children work on different subjects:\n\nIn math, kindergartners usually do single digit addition and subtraction, learn to count with \"more or less\" games, become acquainted with a clock, and learn skip counting to prepare them for one digit multiplication. \n\nIn language arts (English), children learn sight words, (cat, fun), rhyming, blends, and silent e. They then learn how to write, form sentences, and are required to write three complete sentences by the end of the year.\n\nIn social studies, kindergartners learn about the months, U.S. states, the continents, and sometimes about people performing community functions (e.g. doctor, barber, teacher) and places (e.g.\"You go to a hospital when you're sick or to have surgery.\" \"You go to a park to play.\")\n\nAfter a few lessons, there is a break for lunch. Children either fetch their own lunchboxes brought from home or get a lunch from the cafeteria and eat it (or take) there or in the classroom. Sometimes after lunch the children have recess, some students' favorite part of the day, when they can go outside to play on swings, slides, play basketball, or socialize. After recess kindergartners go back inside to do more learning. Some schools let children take a nap or do free choice (blocks, tic tac toe, play doh, etc.)\nWhen kindergarten is over for the day, parents or guardians come to pick up their child or the children ride a bus home.\n\n\nThe following reading list relates specifically to kindergarten in North America, where it is the first year of formal schooling and not part of the pre-school system as it is in the rest of the world:\n\n"}
{"id": "31680808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31680808", "title": "LIFO (education)", "text": "LIFO (education)\n\nLast in First Out (LIFO) (or otherwise known as \"Last One Hired is the First One Fired\" is a policy often used by school districts and other employers to prioritize layoffs by seniority. Under LIFO layoff rules, junior teachers and other employees lose their jobs before senior ones. Laying off junior employees first is not exclusive to the education sector or to the United States, but is perhaps most controversial there. LIFO's proponents claim that it protects teachers with tenure and gives them job stability, and that it is an easily administered way of accomplishing layoffs following a budget cut. LIFO's critics respond that it is bad for students. They prefer that the best teachers remain regardless of how long they have been teaching.\n\nLIFO and tenure were originally intended to provide college professors with academic freedom and ensure that they could research topics of their own choosing. In the K-12 sector, tenure was introduced to lower high teacher turnover rates. In 1932, over 20% of teachers were dismissed due to personal disagreements and difference of opinion. By 2010, LIFO was criticized on grounds that \"seniority based layoffs result in promising, inexperienced teachers losing their positions, while their less effective, but more senior, peers continue to teach.\" As of early 2014, 2 states provided that seniority could not be considered when deciding which teachers to layoff, 18 states and the District of Columbia left the layoff criteria to school district discretion, 20 states provided that seniority could be considered among other factors, and 10 states provided that seniority was the sole factor, or one that had to be considered.\n\nLIFO has a more severe impact in poor or high minority schools, since those schools tend to have newer and less experienced teachers. In schools where 34% or less of the students receive Free and Reduced meals, more than 82% of teachers have 4 or more years of experience. However, in schools where more than 75% of the student body receives Free and Reduced meals, only 77% of the teachers have more than 4 years of experience. Moreover, in California, it was seen that in schools in the lowest quartile of minority students, only 8 of every 100 teachers had two or less years of teaching whereas in schools with the highest quartile of minority students, 13 of every 100 teachers had two or less years of teaching, meaning that under LIFO-based layoffs, schools with larger minority populations would lose 60% more teachers. Finally, teachers in high need areas, such as secondary math and special education, are often less experienced due to the difficulty of recruiting these positions, and districts who adhere strictly to seniority based systems for layoffs face the added burden of recruiting teachers in these areas. In Los Angeles, it was noted that of the hundreds of promising new teachers cut in from the district in 2010 due to LIFO, 190 were in the top fifth overall of teachers in raising math and reading scores.\n\nResearch indicates that the effectiveness of teachers does not change after the first few years in the classroom. As a result, the implications of using LIFO rules for layoffs instead of basing layoffs on classroom effectiveness appear huge. With LIFO, more teachers must be dismissed to meet budgetary targets than with effectiveness-based layoffs because the youngest teachers are the least paid, but the teachers dismissed under the LIFO policy are only slightly below average in effectiveness. An effectiveness-based policy on the other hand leads to dramatic improvements in average teacher quality, and these improvements have lasting effects on students throughout their lives.\n\nIn many states, tenure is given to teachers after 3 years, without much indication of job performance. A value added model (VAM) could be used in tenure decisions for teachers in order to estimate teacher quality. A VAM would predict how well a teacher would do based on his or her previous experience teaching. Data shows that the VAM based on standardized test scores, is a better indicator of teacher performance than any observable attributes. \n\nSince less experienced teachers typically have lower salaries, it is estimated that if districts in the United States cut 5% of their budget through seniority based layoffs, approximately 79,000 more teachers would lose their jobs versus seniority neutral layoffs.\n\nIn a survey of New York State parents regarding teacher quality versus seniority, voters said they did not care how long a teacher had taught so long as the teacher was effective and produced good results.\n\nStarting with Arizona in 2009, certain states and districts have been passing laws which prohibit seniority from being the deciding factor in layoff decisions. Maine, Louisiana, and District of Columbia use multiple criteria in determining layoffs, and numerous other states are trending towards performance based over seniority based layoffs.\n\nMichelle Rhee, the former Chancellor of Washington, D.C. public schools, opposes the Last in First Out policy, instead suggesting performance based evaluation to determine layoffs. As Chancellor, she introduced the IMPACT evaluation for teachers, which measured teacher performance and was the primary factor for layoffs. She is the CEO of Students First, a grassroots movement \"designed to mobilize parents, teacher, students, and administrators, and citizens\" to demand a better American education system. Since its founding in 2010, Studentsfirst has been behind legislation across the country which promotes alternative teacher quality assessment methods through its \"Save Great Teachers\" Campaign. Victories from this campaign have been seen in Florida, Utah, Michigan, Nevada and Tennessee.\n\nThe 2014 court case of \"Vergara v. California\" struck down California's LIFO layoff rules as having a disproportionately negative impact on poor and minority public school students, thus violating the California Constitution. The \"Vergara\" trial judge noted that teacher layoffs prioritized solely by seniority prevented senior and ineffective teachers from being laid off before junior but effective teachers. In this situation, \"[n]o matter how gifted the junior teacher, and no matter how grossly ineffective the senior teacher, the junior gifted one . . . is separated from [the students] and a senior grossly ineffective one . . . is left in place.\" The judge concluded that \"[t]he logic of [this scheme] is unfathomable and therefore constitutionally unsupportable.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "44827879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44827879", "title": "Learning alliance", "text": "Learning alliance\n\nA learning alliance is a diverse network of individuals committed to improving knowledge on a specific research topic. Learning alliances are often made up of small networks of public, private and/or civil society actors seeking to further social or political change.\n\nLearning alliances consist of a series of facilitated meetings or informal exchanges between stakeholders with a common advocacy interest. Individual actors or groups share knowledge on a topic in order to improve the validity, accuracy and dissemination of their analysis.\n\nLearning Alliances in the humanitarian sector often place importance on improving the capacity of disadvantaged social groups to solve problems on their own behalf. The learning alliance concept has ties to the field of Participatory Action Research, or PAR, an approach to social research that emphasizes participation and action by community members.\n\nIn humanitarian, development and social research fields, the term Learning Alliance has been used by international aid groups to describe cross-boundary stakeholder networks focused on improving local civil society capacity.\n\nThe Learning Alliance approach was first discussed in literature in 1994 investigating what Michael Gibbons called mode two knowledge production. Mode two knowledge production involves multidisciplinary teams that work together on specific problems in the real world, in contrast to mode one knowledge production, “which is motivated by scientific knowledge alone... and which is not bothered by the applicability of its findings”. Gibbons noted that this type of research “promotes the interaction of multiple actors with multi-layered sources of knowledge to cope with the complexity of fostering continuous technological, social and institutional innovations to respond to rapidly changing contexts and demands”.\n\nIn 2012 the United Nations Barrier Monitoring Unit (BMU) launched a formal Learning Alliance called the Academic Cooperation Palestine Project (ACPP) to enhance the educational and technical capacity of Palestinian researchers. ACPP hosted local and international research partnerships around sensitive issues related to the Israeli Separation Wall, including land degradation, water rights and land title controls. ACPP is now called the WALL Learning Alliance.\n\nIn the United States, the Digital Learning Alliance group formed to “improve economic growth in underserved areas of the U.S. by advocating for personalized education through the use of digital learning technologies”.\n\nThe Learning Alliance, started in 2009 in the United States, was organized to further literacy among school children. In Indian River County, Florida, the Alliance worked with parents, community leaders, educators, and concerned citizens to achieve 90 percent literacy by third grade by 2018. In 2017, through professional development opportunities, book drives, and after school and summer programs, literacy had increased to 56 percent. Following a learning alliance structure, the group meets monthly.\n"}
{"id": "28486111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28486111", "title": "Learning analytics", "text": "Learning analytics\n\nLearning analytics is the measurement, collection, analysis and reporting of data about learners and their contexts, for purposes of understanding and optimizing learning and the environments in which it occurs. A related field is educational data mining.\n\nThe definition and aims of learning analytics are contested. One earlier definition discussed by the community suggested that\n\"Learning analytics is the use of intelligent data, learner-produced data, and analysis models to discover information and social connections for predicting and advising people's learning.\" But this definition has been criticised by George Siemens and Mike Sharkey.\n\nA more holistic view than a mere definition is provided by the framework of learning analytics by Greller and Drachsler (2012). It uses a general morphological analysis (GMA) to divide the domain into six \"critical dimensions\".\n\nA systematic overview on learning analytics and its key concepts is provided by Chatti et al. (2012) and Chatti et al. (2014) through a reference model for learning analytics based on four dimensions, namely data, environments, context (what?), stakeholders (who?), objectives (why?), and methods (how?).\n\nIt has been pointed out that there is a broad awareness of analytics across educational institutions for various stakeholders, but that the way learning analytics is defined and implemented may vary, including:\nIn that briefing paper, Powell and MacNeill go on to point out that some motivations and implementations of analytics may come into conflict with others, for example highlighting potential conflict between analytics for individual learners and organisational stakeholders.\n\nGašević, Dawson, and Siemens argue that computational aspects of learning analytics need to be linked with the existing educational research if the field of learning analytics is to deliver to its promise to understand and optimize learning.\n\nDifferentiating the fields of educational data mining (EDM) and learning analytics (LA) has been a concern of several researchers. George Siemens takes the position that educational data mining encompasses both learning analytics and academic analytics, the former of which is aimed at governments, funding agencies, and administrators instead of learners and faculty. Baepler and Murdoch define academic analytics as an area that \"...combines select institutional data, statistical analysis, and predictive modeling to create intelligence upon which learners, instructors, or administrators can change academic behavior\". They go on to attempt to disambiguate educational data mining from academic analytics based on whether the process is hypothesis driven or not, though Brooks questions whether this distinction exists in the literature. Brooks instead proposes that a better distinction between the EDM and LA communities is in the roots of where each community originated, with authorship at the EDM community being dominated by researchers coming from intelligent tutoring paradigms, and learning anaytics researchers being more focused on enterprise learning systems (e.g. learning content management systems).\n\nRegardless of the differences between the LA and EDM communities, the two areas have significant overlap both in the objectives of investigators as well as in the methods and techniques that are used in the investigation. In the MS program offering in learning analytics at Teachers College, Columbia University, students are taught both EDM and LA methods.\n\nIn \"The State of Learning Analytics in 2012: A Review and Future Challenges\" Rebecca Ferguson tracks the progress of analytics for learning as a development through:\n\nIn a discussion of the history of analytics, Cooper highlights a number of communities from which learning analytics draws techniques, including:\n\nThe first graduate program focused specifically on learning analytics was created by Ryan S. Baker and launched in the Fall 2015 semester at Teachers College, Columbia University. The program description states that\nMethods for learning analytics include:\n\nAnalytics have been used for:\n\nMuch of the software that is currently used for learning analytics duplicates functionality of web analytics software, but applies it to learner interactions with content. Social network analysis tools are commonly used to map social connections and discussions. Some examples of learning analytics software tools include:\n\nThe ethics of data collection, analytics, reporting and accountability has been raised as a potential concern for learning analytics, with concerns raised regarding:\n\nAs Kay, Kom and Oppenheim point out, the range of data is wide, potentially derived from:\n\nThus the legal and ethical situation is challenging and different from country to country, raising implications for:\n\nIn some prominent cases like the inBloom disaster, even full functional systems have been shut down due to lack of trust in the data collection by governments, stakeholders and civil rights groups. Since then, the learning analytics community has extensively studied legal conditions in a series of experts workshops on \"Ethics & Privacy 4 Learning Analytics\" that constitute the use of trusted learning analytics. Drachsler & Greller released a 8-point checklist named DELICATE that is based on the intensive studies in this area to demystify the ethics and privacy discussions around learning analytics.\n\nIt shows ways to design and provide privacy conform learning analytics that can benefit all stakeholders. The full DELICATE checklist is publicly available.\n\nChatti, Muslim and Schroeder note that the aim of open learning analytics (OLA) is to improve learning effectiveness in lifelong learning environments. The authors refer to OLA as an ongoing analytics process that encompasses diversity at all four dimensions of the learning analytics reference model.\n\n\nFor general audience introductions, see:\n\n"}
{"id": "1745942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1745942", "title": "Learning by teaching", "text": "Learning by teaching\n\nIn the field of pedagogy, learning by teaching (German: \"Lernen durch Lehren\", short LdL) is a method of teaching in which students are made to learn material and prepare lessons to teach it to the other students. There is a strong emphasis on acquisition of life skills along with the subject matter. This method was originally defined by Jean-Pol Martin in the 1980s.\n\nThe method of having students teach other students has been present since antiquity. Most often this was due to lack of resources. For example, the Monitorial System was an education method that became popular on a global scale during the early 19th century. It was developed in parallel by Scotsman Andrew Bell who had worked in Madras and Joseph Lancaster who worked in London; each attempted to educate masses of poor children with scant resources by having older children teach younger children what they had already learned.\n\nSystematic research into intentionally improving education, by having students learn by teaching began in the middle of the 20th century.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Jean-Pol Martin systematically developed the concept of having students teach other in the context of learning French as a foreign language, and he gave it a theoretical background in numerous publications. The method was originally resisted, as the German educational system generally emphasized discipline and rote learning. However the method became widely used in Germany in secondary education, and in the 1990s it was further formalized and began to be used in universities as well. By 2008 Martin had retired, and although he remained active Joachim Grzega took the lead in developing and promulgating LdL.\n\nAfter preparation by the teacher, students become responsible for their own learning and teaching. The new material is divided into small units and student groups of not more than three people are formed.\n\nStudents are then encouraged to experiment to find ways to teach the material to the others. Along with ensuring that students learn the material, another goal of the method, is to teach students life skills like respect for other people, planning, problem solving, taking chances in public, and communication skills. The teacher remains actively involved, stepping in to further explain or provide support if the teaching-students falter or the learning-students do not seem to understand the material.\n\nThe method is distinct from tutoring in that LdL is done in class, supported by the teacher, and distinct from student teaching, which is a part of teacher education.\n\nOne way of learning by teaching, is the plastic platypus learning or platypus learning technique. This technique is based on evidence that show that teaching an inanimate object improves understanding and knowledge retention of a subject. \n\nThe advantage of this technique is that that the learner does not need the presence of another person in order to teach the subject.\n\nThe name 'plastic platypus learning' is a paraphrase on the known software engineering technique rubber duck debugging, in which a programmer can find bugs in their code without the help of others, simply by explaining what the code does, line by line, to an inanimate object - namely, a rubber duck.\nTo increase the effectiveness of plastic platypus learning, learners are advised to do the following:\n\n1. Prepare notes while learning the subject.\n\n2. Prepare the lesson on the subject (as opposed to just teaching it unprepared; this section demands the most time and energy, and may be omitted in some situations).\n\n3. Teach the subject without using the notes at all (the student knows this beforehand).\nObviously, this technique may work with any inanimate object, and not just plastic platypuses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47522503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47522503", "title": "List of online high schools in Florida", "text": "List of online high schools in Florida\n\nFlorida offers resident students the opportunity to take online high school courses.\n\nThe list of private and public online schools in Florida include the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "13462045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13462045", "title": "Man: A Course of Study", "text": "Man: A Course of Study\n\nMan: A Course of Study, usually known by the acronym MACOS or M.A.C.O.S., was an American humanities teaching program, popular in America and Britain in the 1970s. It was based on the theories of Jerome Bruner, particularly his concept of the \"spiral curriculum\". This suggested that a concept might be taught repeatedly within a curriculum, but at a number of levels, each level being more complex than the first. The process of repetition would thus enable the child to absorb more complex ideas easily.\n\nIn MACOS, the concept was \"the chain of life\" or a \"lifeline\": the entire history of a living thing. The course started with a simple lifespan in the form of the Pacific Coast salmon. It then moved on to the more complex life form of the herring gull, introducing concepts such as nurturing. The lifespan of the baboon was next examined, particularly within the societal context afforded by the baboon troop. The differences between innate behaviour and learned behaviour were introduced. Finally, the study opened up into a study of a man's lifespan with a case study of Netsilik Inuit. This also included the interaction between the Netsilik and other life forms, such as reindeer and seals.\n\nThe course comprised a self-contained kit of course materials, film cassettes, visual aids, and games. Some of the activities were very imaginative; a game based upon reindeer migration had a loaded die to introduce discussion about instincts, and a paper seal would be cut up and shared among class members representing various people in the Netsilik community, according to a ritual governing who was entitled to which part of the animal.\n\nThe emphasis of the course was upon learning particular skills within the teaching process, not upon the significance of the content. This included the necessity to ask questions, discuss, and reach conclusions based on evidence and argument.\n\nThe course was much criticized in the United States because of its emphasis upon questioning aspects of life, including belief and morality. It was particularly targeted by fundamentalist groups, evidenced by quotations included in the course booklet. In 2004, the National Film Board of Canada produced \"Through These Eyes\", a documentary about the controversy surrounding MACOS, and more generally about the interplay between politics and education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "227112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227112", "title": "Mentorship", "text": "Mentorship\n\nMentorship is a relationship in which a more experienced or more knowledgeable person helps to guide a less experienced or less knowledgeable person. The mentor may be older or younger than the person being mentored, but he or she must have a certain area of expertise. It is a learning and development partnership between someone with vast experience and someone who wants to learn. Mentorship experience and relationship structure affect the \"amount of psychosocial support, career guidance, role modeling, and communication that occurs in the mentoring relationships in which the protégés and mentors engaged.\"\n\nThe person in receipt of mentorship may be referred to as a protégé (male), a protégée (female), an apprentice or, in the 2000s, a mentee. The mentor may be referred to as a godfather or godmother or a rabbi.\n\n\"Mentoring\" is a process that always involves communication and is relationship-based, but its precise definition is elusive, with more than 50 definitions currently in use. One definition of the many that have been proposed, is \n\nMentoring in Europe has existed since at least Ancient Greek times. Since the 1970s it has spread in the United States mainly in training contexts, with important historical links to the movement advancing workplace equity for women and minorities, and it has been described as \"an innovation in American management\".\n\nThe roots of the practice are lost in antiquity. The word itself was inspired by the character of Mentor in Homer's \"Odyssey\". Though the actual Mentor in the story is a somewhat ineffective old man, the goddess Athena takes on his appearance in order to guide young Telemachus in his time of difficulty.\n\nHistorically significant systems of mentorship include the guru–disciple tradition practiced in Hinduism and Buddhism, Elders, the discipleship system practiced by Rabbinical Judaism and the Christian church, and apprenticing under the medieval guild system.\n\nIn the United States, advocates for workplace equity in the second half of the twentieth century popularized the term \"mentor\" and concept of career mentorship as part of a larger social capital lexicon which also includes terms such as glass ceiling, bamboo ceiling, networking, role model, and gatekeeper—serving to identify and address the problems barring non-dominant groups from professional success. Mainstream business literature subsequently adopted the terms and concepts, promoting them as pathways to success for all career climbers. In 1970, these terms were not in the general American vocabulary; by the mid-1990s they had become part of everyday speech.\n\nThe European Mentoring and Coaching Council, also called the EMCC, is the leading global body in terms of creating and maintaining a range of industry standard frameworks, rules and processes across the mentoring and related supervision and coaching fields e.g. a code of practice for those practising mentoring.\n\nThe focus of mentoring is to develop the whole person and so the techniques are broad and require wisdom in order to be used appropriately.\nA 1995 study of mentoring techniques most commonly used in business found that the five most commonly used techniques among mentors were:\n\n\nDifferent techniques may be used by mentors according to the situation and the mindset of the mentee, and the techniques used in modern organizations can be found in ancient education systems, from the Socratic technique of harvesting to the accompaniment method of learning used in the apprenticeship of itinerant cathedral builders during the Middle Ages. Leadership authors Jim Kouzes and Barry Z. Posner advise mentors to look for \"teachable moments\" in order to \"expand or realize the potentialities of the people in the organizations they lead\" and underline that personal credibility is as essential to quality mentoring as skill.\n\nMultiple mentors: A new and upcoming trend is having multiple mentors. This can be helpful because we can all learn from each other. Having more than one mentor will widen the knowledge of the person being mentored. There are different mentors who may have different strengths.\n\nProfession or trade mentor: This is someone who is currently in the trade/profession you are entering. They know the trends, important changes and new practices that you should know to stay at the top of your career. A mentor like this would be someone you can discuss ideas regarding the field, and also be introduced to key and important people that you should know.\n\nIndustry mentor: This is someone who doesn't just focus on the profession. This mentor will be able to give insight on the industry as a whole. Whether it be research, development or key changes in the industry, you need to know.\n\nOrganization mentor: Politics in the organizations are constantly changing. It is important to be knowledgeable about the values, strategies and products that are within your company, but also when these things are changing. An organization mentor can clarify missions and strategies, and give clarity when needed.\n\nWork process mentor: This mentor can speed quickly over the bumps, and cut through the unnecessary work. This mentor can explain the 'ins and outs' of projects, day to day tasks, and eliminate unnecessary things that may be currently going on in your work day. This mentor can help to get things done quickly and efficiently.\n\nTechnology mentor: This is an up-and-coming, incredibly important position. Technology has been rapidly improving, and becoming more a part of day to day transactions within companies. In order to perform your best, you must know how to get things done on the newest technology. A technology mentor will help with technical breakdowns, advise on systems that may work better than what you're currently using, and coach you through new technology and how to best use it and implement it into your daily life.\n\nThese mentors are only examples. There can be many more different types of mentors. Look around your workplace, your life, and see who is an expert that you can learn something from.\n\nThere are two broad types of mentoring relationships: formal and informal. Formal mentoring relationships are set up by an administrative unit or office in a company or organization, which solicits and recruits qualified individuals who are willing to mentor, provides training to the mentors, and then helps to match the mentors up with a person in need of mentoring. While formal mentoring systems contain numerous structural and guidance elements, they still typically allow the mentor and mentee to have an active role in choosing who they want to work with. Formal mentoring programs which simply assign mentors to mentees without giving these individuals a say have not performed well. Even though a mentor and a mentee may seem perfectly matched \"on paper\", in practice, they may have different working or learning styles. As such, giving the mentor and the mentee the opportunity to help select who they want to work with is a widely used approach. Informal mentoring occurs without the use of structured recruitment, mentor training and matching services. Informal mentoring arrangements can develop naturally from business networking situations in which a more experienced individual meets a new employee, and the two strike up a rapport.\n\nIn addition to these broad types, there are also peer, situational and supervisory mentoring relationships. These tend to fall under the categories of formal and informal mentoring relationships. Informal relationships develop on their own between partners. Formal mentoring, on the other hand, refers to a structured process supported by the organization and addressed to target populations. Youth mentoring programs assist at-risk children or youth who lack role models and sponsors. In business, formal mentoring is part of talent management strategies which are used to groom key employees, newly hired graduates, high potential-employees and future leaders. The matching of mentor and mentee is often done by a mentoring coordinator, often with the help of a computerized database registry. The use of the database helps to match up mentees with mentors who have the type of experience and qualifications they are seeking.\n\nThere are formal mentoring programs that are values-oriented, while social mentoring and other types focus specifically on career development. Some mentorship programs provide both social and vocational support. In well-designed formal mentoring programs, there are program goals, schedules, training (for both mentors and protégés), and evaluation. In 2004 Metizo created the first mentoring certification for companies and business schools in order to guarantee the integrity and effectiveness of formal mentoring. Certification is attributed jointly by the organization and an external expert.\n\nThere are many kinds of mentoring relationships from school or community-based relationships to e-mentoring relationships. These mentoring relationships vary and can be influenced by the type of mentoring relationship that is in effect. That is whether it has come about as a formal or informal relationship. Also there are several models have been used to describe and examine the sub-relationships that can emerge. For example, Buell describes how mentoring relationships can develop under a cloning model, nurturing model, friendship model and apprenticeship model. The cloning model is about the mentor trying to \"produce a duplicate copy of him or her self.\" The nurturing model takes more of a \"parent figure, creating a safe, open environment in which mentee can both learn and try things for him-or herself.\" The friendship model are more peers \"rather than being involved in a hierarchical relationship.\" Lastly, the apprenticeship is about less \"personal or social aspects... and the professional relationship is the sole focus\".\n\nIn the sub-groups of formal and informal mentoring relationships: peer mentoring relationships are relationships where individuals are at the same skill training, similar positions and stages of career. However, one person may be more knowledgeable in a certain aspect or another, but they can help each other to progress in their work. A lot of time, peer relationships provide a lot of support, empathy and advice because the situations are quite similar.\n\nSituational mentoring: Short-term relationships in which a person mentors for a specific purpose. This could be a company bringing an expert in regarding social media, or internet safety. This expert can mentor employees to make them more knowledgeable about a specific topic or skill.\n\nSupervisory mentoring: This kind of mentoring has'go to' people who are supervisors. These are people who have answers to many questions, and can advise to take the best plan of action. This can be a conflict of interest relationship because many supervisors do not feel comfortable also being a mentor.\n\nMentoring circles: Participants from all levels of the organization propose and own a topic. They then meet in groups to discuss the topic, which motivates them to grow and become more knowledgeable. Flash mentoring is ideal for job shadowing, reverse mentoring, and more.\n\nFlash mentoring: Creates a low-pressure environment for mentoring that focuses on single meetings rather than a traditional, long-term mentoring relationship.\n\nMeta-analysis of 112 individual research studies found mentoring has significant behavioral, attitudinal, health-related, relational, motivational, and career benefits.\nThese benefits for a mentee depend on which of the different (not mutually exclusive) functions is performed by the mentor. Originally, the concept of mentoring functions was developed based on qualitative research in a organizational context with functions being subsumed under two major factors: psychosocial support (e.g. role modeling, friendship, emotional support, encouragement) and career-related support (e.g. providing advice, discussing goals). An early quantitative approach found role modeling to be a distinct third factor. In mentoring for college success, a fourth function concerning knowledge transfer was additionally identified. Later research also found this function in the context of mentoring creativity.\n\nEspecially in the workplace, there are also many benefits for an employer in developing a mentorship program for new and current employees.\n\nCareer development: Setting up a career development mentoring program for employees enables an organization to help junior employees to learn the skills and behaviours from senior employees that the junior employees need to advance to higher-responsibility positions. This type of mentoring program can help to align organizational goals with employees' personal career goals (of progressing within the organization). It gives employees the ability to advance professionally and learn more about their work. This collaboration also gives employees a feeling of engagement with the organization, which can lead to better retention rates and increased employee satisfaction.\n\nHigh potential mentoring: The most talented employees in organizations tend to be difficult to retain, as they are usually seeking greater challenges and responsibilities, and they are likely to leave for a different organization if they do not feel that they are being given the opportunity to develop. Top talent, whether in an innovation or management role, have incredible potential to make great things happen for an organization. Creating a mentoring program for high-potential employees that gives them one-on-one guidance from senior leaders can help to build the engagement of these talented employees, give them the opportunity to develop, and increase their retention in the organization.\n\nDiversity mentoring: One of the top ways to innovate is by bringing in new ideas from senior employees and leaders from underrepresented groups (e.g., women, ethnic minorities, etc.). Who is an underrepresented group depends on the industry sector and country. In many Western countries, women and ethnic minorities are significantly underrepresented in executive positions and boards of directors. In some traditionally gender segregated occupations, such as education and nursing, however, women may be the dominant gender in the workforce. Mentors from underrepresented groups can empower employees from underrepresented groups to increase their confidence to take on higher-responsibility tasks and prepare for leadership roles. By developing employees from diverse groups, this can give the organization access to new ideas, new ways of looking at problems, and new perspectives. This also brings cultural awareness and intercultural dialogue into the workplace.\n\nReverse mentoring: While mentoring typically involves a more experienced, typically older employee or leader providing guidance to a younger employee, the opposite approach can also be used. In the 2000s, with the rise of digital innovations, Internet applications and social media, in some cases, new, young employees are more familiar with these technologies than senior employees in the organizations. The younger generations can help the older generations to expand and grow towards current trends. Everyone has something to bring to the table, this creates a \"two way street\" within companies where younger employees can see the larger picture, and senior employees can learn from young employees.\n\nKnowledge transfer mentoring: Employees must have a certain set of skills in order to accomplish the tasks at hand. Mentoring is a great approach to help employees get organized, and give them access to an expert that can give feedback, and help answer questions that they may not know where to find answers to.\n\nMentorship provides critical benefits to individuals as well as organizations. Although mentorship can be important for an individual's career advancement, in the United States it historically has been most apparent in relation to the advancement of women and minorities in the workplace. Until recent decades, American men in dominant ethnic groups gained most of the benefits of mentorship without consciously identifying it as an advancement strategy. American women and minorities, in contrast, more pointedly identified and pursued mentorship in the second half of the twentieth century as they sought to achieve the professional success they had long been denied.\n\nIn a 1958 study, Margaret Cussler showed that, for each female executive she interviewed who did not own her own company, \"something—or someone—gave her a push up the ladder while others halted on a lower rung.\" Cussler concluded that the relationship between the \"sponsor and protégé\" (the vocabulary of \"mentorship\" was not yet in common use) was the \"magic formula\" for success. By the late 1970s, numerous publications had established the centrality of mentorship to business success for everyone and particularly for women trying to break into the male-dominated business world. These publications noted the many specific benefits provided by mentorship, which included insider information, education, guidance, moral support, inspiration, sponsorship, an example to follow, protection, promotion, the ability to \"bypass the hierarchy,\" the projection of the superior's \"reflected power,\" access to otherwise invisible opportunities, and tutelage in corporate politics.\n\nThis literature also showed the value of these benefits. A \"Harvard Business Review\" survey of 1,250 top executives published in 1979, for example, showed that most had been mentored or sponsored and that those who received such assistance reported higher income, a better education, a quicker path to achievement, and more job satisfaction than those who did not. The literature particularly emphasized the necessity of mentoring for businesswomen's success. For example, although women made up less than one percent of the executives in the \"Harvard Business Review\" survey, all of these women reported being mentored. In subsequent decades, as mentoring became a widely valued phenomenon in the United States, women and minorities in particular continued to develop mentoring relationships consciously as they sought professional advancement.\n\nResearch in the 1970s, partly in response to a study by Daniel Levinson, led some women and African Americans to question whether the classic \"white male\" model was available or customary for people who are newcomers in traditionally white male organizations. In 1978 Edgar Schein described multiple roles for successful mentors. He identified seven types of mentoring roles in his book entitled, \"Career Dynamics: Matching individual and organizational needs\" (1978). He said that some of these roles require the teacher to be in a position of power such as \"opener of doors, protector, sponsor and leader.\"\n\nCapability frameworks encourage managers to mentor staff. A manager can mentor their own staff, but more likely will mentor staff in other parts of their organisation, staff in special programs (such as graduate and leadership programs), staff in other organisations or members of professional associations.\n\nMentoring covers a range of roles. Articulating these roles is useful not only for understanding what role you play, but also for writing job applications. Demonstrating how you go about mentoring needs a language of behaviours.\n\nTwo of Schein's students, Davis and Garrison, undertook to study successful leaders of both genders and at least two races. Their research presented evidence for the roles of: cheerleader, coach, confidant, counsellor, developer of talent, \"griot\" (oral historian for the organization or profession), guardian, guru, inspiration, master, \"opener of doors\", patron, role model, pioneer, \"seminal source\", \"successful leader\", and teacher. They described multiple mentoring practices which have since been given the name of \"mosaic mentoring\" to distinguish this kind of mentoring from the single mentor approach.\n\nMosaic mentoring is based on the concept that almost everyone can perform one or another function well for someone else — and also can learn along one of these lines from someone else. The model is seen as useful for people who are \"non-traditional\" in a traditional setting, such as people of color and women in a traditionally white male organization. The idea has been well received in medical education literature. There are also mosaic mentoring programs in various faith-based organizations.\n\nCorporate mentoring programs are used by mid-size to large organizations to further the development and retention of employees. Mentoring programs may be formal or informal and serve a variety of specific objectives including acclimation of new employees, skills development, employee retention and diversity enhancement.\n\nFormal mentoring programs offer employees the opportunity to participate in an organized mentoring program. Participants join as a mentor, protégé or both by completing a mentoring profile. Mentoring profiles are completed as written forms on paper or computer or filled out via an online form as part of an online mentoring system. Protégés are matched with a mentor by a program administrator or a mentoring committee, or may self-select a mentor depending on the program format.\n\nInformal mentoring takes places in organizations that develop a culture of mentoring but do not have formal mentoring in place. These companies may provide some tools and resources and encourage managers to accept mentoring requests from more junior members of the organization.\n\nA study of 1,162 employees found that \"satisfaction with a mentoring relationship had a stronger impact on attitudes than the presence of a mentor, whether the relationship was formal or informal, or the design of a formal mentoring program.\" So even when a mentoring relationship is established, the actual relationship is more important than the presence of a relationship.\n\nFortune 500 companies are also implementing formal mentoring programs on a global scale. Cardinal Health has had an enterprise-wide formal mentoring initiative in place since 2011. The initiative encompasses nine formal mentoring programs, some enterprise-wide and some limited to specific business segments and functions. Goals vary by program, with some focused on employees facing specific challenges or career milestones and others enabling more open-ended learning and development.\n\nNew-hire mentoring programs are set up to help new employees acclimate more quickly into the organization. In new-hire mentoring programs, newcomers to the organization (protégés) are paired with more experienced people (mentors) in order to obtain information, good examples, and advice as they advance. It has been claimed that new employees who are paired with a mentor are twice as likely to remain in their job than those who do not receive mentorship.\n\nThese mentoring relationships provide substance for career growth and benefit both the mentor and the protégé. For example, the mentor gets to show leadership by giving back and perhaps being refreshed about their own work. The organization receives an employee that is being gradually introduced and shaped by the organization's culture and operation because they have been under the mentorship of an experienced member. The person being mentored networks, becomes integrated easier in an organization, gets experience and advice along the way. It has been said that \"joining a mentor's network and developing one's own is central to advancement\" and this is possibly why those mentored tend to do well in their organizations.\n\nIn the organizational setting, mentoring usually \"requires unequal knowledge\", but the process of mentorship can differ. Bullis describes the mentoring process in the forms of phase models. Initially, the \"mentee proves himself or herself worthy of the mentor's time and energy\". Then cultivation occurs which includes the actual \"coaching...a strong interpersonal bond between mentor and mentee develops\". Next, under the phase of separation, \"the mentee experiences more autonomy\". Ultimately, there is more of equality in the relationship, termed by Bullis as Redefinition.\n\nHigh-potential mentoring programs are used to groom up-and-coming employees deemed to have the potential to move up into leadership or executive roles. Here the employee (protégé) is paired with a senior-level leader (or leaders) for a series of career-coaching interactions. These programs tend to be smaller than more general mentoring programs and mentees must be selected based on a list of eligibility criteria to participate. Another method of high-potential mentoring is to place the employee in a series of jobs in disparate areas of an organization (e.g., human resources, sales, operations management, etc.) all for short periods of time, so they can learn in a \"hands-on\", practical fashion, about the organization's structure, culture, and methods.\n\nMentees are matched with mentors by a designated mentoring committee or mentoring administrator usually consisting of senior members of the training, learning and development group and/or the human resources departments. The matching committee reviews the mentors' profiles and the coaching goals sought out by the mentees and makes matches based on areas for development, mentor strengths, overall experience, skill set, location and objectives.\n\nMentoring technology, typically based on computer software, can be used to facilitate matches allowing mentees to search and select a mentor based on their own development and coaching needs and interests. This mentee-driven methodology increases the speed in which matches are created and reduces the amount of administrative time required to manage the program. The quality of matches increases as well with self-match programs because the greater the involvement of the mentee in the selection of their mentor, the better the outcome of the mentorship. There are a variety of online mentoring technology programs available that can be utilized to facilitate this mentee-driven matching process.\n\nSpeed mentoring follows some of the procedures of speed dating. Mentors and mentees are introduced to each other in short sessions, allowing each person to meet multiple potential matches in a very short timeframe. Speed mentoring occur as a one-time event in order for people \"to meet potential mentors to see if there is a fit for a longer term engagement.\"\n\nIn many secondary and post-secondary schools, mentorship programs are offered to support students in program completion, confidence building and transitioning to further education or the workforce. There are also peer mentoring programs designed specifically to bring under-represented populations into science and engineering.\nThe Internet has brought university alumni closer to graduating students. Graduate university alumni are engaging with current students in career mentorship through interview questions and answers. The students with the best answers receive professional recommendations from industry experts build a more credible CV.\n\nInstructional coaches are former teachers or principals that have shown effectiveness in their work of teaching or leading and go through additional training to learn more about the technical skills needed to be an effective coach. In her book \"The Art of Coaching\", Elena Aguilar recommends that a coach \"must have been an effective teacher for at least five years.\" Though skills that were effective in the classroom are a must, the coach must also be confident in working with adults, bringing strong listening, communication, and data analysis skills to the coaching position. Ultimately, an instructional coach is a former teacher who was successful in the classroom and is respected in the field, with the respect carrying over into this new position.\n\nCoaches seek to work one-on-one with teachers or in a small group setting with teachers to build student achievement in the classroom based on data collected and discussed by both teacher or coach. According to Melinda Mangin and KaiLonnie Dunsmore, instructional coaching models may include: \"cognitive coaching, clinical supervision, peer coaching and mentoring, formal literacy coaching, informal coaching, or a mixed model. Other researchers have described categories of coaching such as data-oriented, student-oriented, managerial, and coaches who work with individual teachers or with groups of teachers\". Ultimately, coaching roles are designed to increase teacher capacity and push teacher improvement through learning opportunities. The practice of instructional coaching is embedded within the work of a teacher, not in isolation of their everyday teaching. In other words, the coach works with the teacher throughout the school year and meets during the school day with the teacher regarding current lessons, planning, and the observations/data collected. The discussions between the instructional coach and teacher are built upon mutual respect and a trusting relationship through confidentiality. Overall, instructional coaching is meant to serve as professional development for the teacher(s).\n\nA coach's main responsibility in this way is to change practice and build knowledge on \"new instructional materials, programs, and initiatives\" with the teacher. This professional development can come through discussion, but also can come in other forms. Instructional coaches can model lessons and instructional strategies in the teachers' classroom to show examples and have teachers feel more confident in using these strategies. Teacher observations is one of the most powerful ways that coaches can put data for change in front of teachers. Coaches doing observations and collecting data to debrief with teachers helps paint a picture for teacher improvement.\n\nAccording to a three-year research study done by the Pennsylvania Institute for Instructional Coaching, there was an increase in student success when instructional coaching was used in the classroom. This, however, could not be viewed as solely \"instructional coaching\" in isolation of other factors. The coaching \"model emphasizes the simultaneous use of four strategies: one-on-one teacher engagement; evidence-based literacy practices applied across the curriculum; data analytics; and reflection on practice.\" Yet, teachers have shared that:\n\n\nIn addition to this, \"the most effective professional development model is thought to involve follow-up activities, usually in the form of long-term support, coaching in teachers' classrooms, or ongoing interaction with colleagues.\" In most cases, instructional coaching can provide this support and meet this definition of effective professional development.\n\nThere should also be support from administration around the instructional coaching to align the work of the coach and teacher with the school's mission or vision. Knight focuses on the partnership with the principal being at the core of successful coaching. Knight explains that the principal and the instructional coach need to be aligned in their goals for the coaching occurring. If they have differing desired outcomes for teaching, then the teacher will be receiving mixed messages and caught between improvement and a standstill. Aguilar suggests that coaches continually ask about the school's goals as well as action steps to meet these and bring into daily coaching.\n\nIn conjunction with this partnership and observations, Knight's belief of data usage is critical for teacher improvement during coaching sessions. Knight shares how giving opinions and telling a teacher how to improve stops the learning for the teacher and instead creates a barrier between the coach and teacher and makes the teacher expect hand-holding. Instead, the data needs to tell a story for the teacher to determine moves to try to improve. This allows ownership for the teacher as well as understanding of their work in conjunction with the work.\n\nThe relationship and trust between the coach and coachee are a critical component of coaching. A coach having specific content knowledge and respect in a teacher's field of teaching would help build trust. Another way to build this trust is through confidentiality. By keeping all conversations confidential and sticking to that, the coachee knows that your word is good. In addition to relationship building, it is important to let the coachee feel comfortable talking to you about anything—there may need to be the time when a crisis they are facing trumps conversation about the lesson. Starting a coaching conversation about how life is going for a coachee is also important to relationship building.\n\nAccording to Nelson and Sassi, \"knowledge of pedagogical process and content knowledge must be fused\" in both understanding teaching and observing teaching. For example, an instructional coach that is working with a math teacher should know \"current mathematics education reform efforts are built on the notion that the ideas in a subject, and the ways in which students and teachers work with the ideas, matter.\" It seems clear that a deep pedagogical knowledge as well as deep content specific knowledge are required for the teacher to have confidence in the coach and for the coach to be able to step in and assume the role of the teacher.\n\nKnowledge that coaches need to be effective span just content and pedagogical knowledge. Aguilar uses the ladder of inference to allow coaches to evaluate their own thoughts, and ultimately use this ladder to help principals and teachers evaluate their own beliefs before jumping to assumptions. Aguilar states that her \"list of beliefs has changed over the years. You can change yours, too. The point is to be mindful of the beliefs from which we're working and to notice the effect of working from those beliefs.\" Beliefs can change about approaches to teaching, classroom management, or even content knowledge.\n\nBlended mentoring is an implementation of information technology (IT) into the traditional mentoring program, intended to give to career counseling and development services the opportunity to adopt mentoring in their ordinary practice.\n\nIn the reverse mentoring situation, the mentee has less overall experience (typically as a result of age) than the mentor (who is typically older), but the mentee has more knowledge in a particular area, and as such, reverses the typical constellation. Examples are when young internet or mobile savvy millennial generation teens train executives in using their high end smartphones. They in turn sometimes offer insight in business processes.\n\nThe concept of mentoring has entered the business domain as well. This is different from being an apprentice; a business mentor provides guidance to a business owner or an entrepreneur on the entrepreneur's business. An apprentice learns a trade by working on the job with the \"employer\".\n\nA 2012 literature review by EPS-PEAKS investigated the practice of business mentoring, with a focus on the Middle-East and North Africa region. The review found strong evidence to suggest that business mentoring can have real benefits for entrepreneurs, but highlights some key factors that need to be taken into account when designing mentoring programmes for this to be the case, such as the need to balance a formal and informal approach and to appropriately match mentors and mentees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5151803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5151803", "title": "Microlearning", "text": "Microlearning\n\nMicrolearning deals with relatively small learning units and short-term learning activities. The term is used in e-learning and related fields in the sense of learning processes in mediated environments. Microlearning is a holistic approach for skill based learning and education which deals with relatively small learning units. It involves short-term-focused strategies especially designed for skill based understanding/learning/education. Microlearning refers to micro-perspectives of learning, education, training and skill development. The approaches followed for assessment of microlearning are multidimensional & holistic in nature and need based in particular cases [Patil U.K., 1999] [Patil U.K., 2000]. An ideal instructional approach for many situations especially in higher education for skill development, trainability and employability of learners/students [Patil U.K., 2002]. The technique is capable enough to address challenges associated with slow learners [Patil U.K., 2005]. This learning technique is versatile not only for skill based education but also for sustainable socioeconomic development. Without taking care of micro-perspectives in the context of learning, education, training and skill development, a skill based education cannot be imparted effectively [Patil U.K., 2009].\n\nIn a wide sense, microlearning can be understood as a metaphor which refers to micro aspects of a variety of learning models, concepts and processes.\n\nDepending on frames and domains of reference, micro, meso and macro aspects vary. They are relational concepts. For example, in the context of language learning, one might think of micro aspects in terms of vocabularies, phrases, sentences, and distinguish them from situations and episodes (meso aspects) and socio-cultural specifics or complex semantics (macro aspects). In a more general discourse on learning, one might differentiate between the learning of individuals, group learning or learning of organizations and the learning of generations or societies.\n\nFurthermore, microlearning marks a transition from common models of learning towards micro perspectives on and the significance of micro dimensions in the process of learning. The microlearning approach is an emergent paradigm, so there are no hard definitions or coherent uses of the term yet. However, the growing focus on microlearning activities can be seen by web users' activities on the subject, who tag their corresponding weblog postings and social bookmarks with the term \"microlearning\".\n\nAs an instructional technology, microlearning focuses on the design of microlearning activities through micro steps in digital media environments, which already is a daily reality for today's knowledge workers. These activities can be incorporated into learner's daily routines and tasks. Unlike \"traditional\" e-learning approaches, microlearning often tends towards push technology through push media, which reduces the cognitive load on the learners. Therefore, the selection of micro learning objects and also pace and timing of microlearning activities are of importance for didactical designs.\n\nMicrolearning, in a nutshell, is a digital learning experience designed to be effective, engaging and enjoyable. Microlearning provides bite-sized learning content in stark contrast to the traditional model of learning and thus engagement follows.\n\nMicrolearning can be characterized as follows:\n\nThe following dimensions can be used to describe or design microlearning activities:\n(Hug 2005, used with permission)\n\n\"Subscription learning, as its name implies, provides an intermittent stream of learning-related interactions to those who are subscribed. These learning-related interactions—called \"nuggets\"—can involve a great variety of learning-related events, including content presentation, diagnostics, scenario-based questions, job aids, reflection questions, assignments, discussions, etc. Nuggets are short, usually presented in less than five to ten minutes. Nuggets are intentionally scheduled over time to support learning, often utilizing research-based findings related to the spacing effect. Learners subscribe (or are subscribed) to one or more series of learning nuggets, called \"threads\". Learning threads can be predesigned, selecting nuggets based on anticipated learner needs or they can be dynamically created based on learner performance.\" (Thalheimer, 2013).\n\nSubscription learning characteristics:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47392247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47392247", "title": "Non-Verbal Reasoning", "text": "Non-Verbal Reasoning\n\nIn non-verbal reasoning (NVR) diagrams are used for expressing the ideas instead of using numbers and words. Non-verbal reasoning shows a series of figures arranged in a sequence or pattern and then the missing figure is required to identified or the next in the sequence. Because the non-verbal reasoning questions are believed to be the best indicator of general intelligence and don't rely on a knowledge of either English or maths.\n\nNon-verbal reasoning includes\n\nIt involves identifying relationship, similarities and differences between shapes and patterns, recognizing visual sequences and relationship between objects and remembering this. It enables the ability to analyze and solve complex problems without relying upon or being limited by language skills As these tests don't require reading they can give insight into the abilities of those who have problems with reading and thinking verbally.\n\n"}
{"id": "40836603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40836603", "title": "North East National Board of School Education", "text": "North East National Board of School Education\n\nThe North East National Board of School Education (NENBSE), is the Board of Education for private education, under the Government of ASSAM. It was established by the S.R. Acts XXI of 1860 of the Government of India in 2007 to provide education inexpensively to remote areas. The NENBSE is a national board that administers examinations for Secondary and Senior Secondary examinations of schools.\n\nIt had an enrollment of about thousands students from 2008–2012 at Secondary and Senior Secondary levels and enrolls about thousand students annually which makes it the largest private schooling system in the India.\n\nThe North East National Board of School Education have all over India regional information centre or study centres.\n\nNorth East National Board of School Education offer the following courses:\n\n\nThe public examinations are held once a year in the months of March–April on dates fixed by the North East National Board of School Education.\n\n"}
{"id": "47578191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47578191", "title": "Online high schools in California", "text": "Online high schools in California\n\nThe state of California offers online learning for grades 9-12. Over 56,000 of students are taking one or more online classes in California, according to the reports California Department of Education. There are two types of online high school available in California.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31040137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31040137", "title": "Oswego Movement", "text": "Oswego Movement\n\nThe Oswego Movement (or Oswego Plan as it is sometimes called) was a movement in American education during the late 19th Century. It was based on the methods of Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi and introduced by Edward Austin Sheldon at Oswego Primary Teachers' Training School (now State University of New York at Oswego). The movement introduced the use of \"objects\", such as models and blocks, into elementary education under the name \"object teaching\". Sheldon and his colleagues helped spread object teaching across America by utilizing in-service and pre-service teacher education, a practice school, and education of teacher educators, at a time when most of these things were new. This enlightenment in education shifted the instructional focus to the child, stressing activity and concrete experiences, rather than rote memorization.\n\n"}
{"id": "35672752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35672752", "title": "Parentocracy", "text": "Parentocracy\n\nA parentocracy is a system in which a child's education must conform to the wealth and wishes of parents rather than the abilities and efforts of the pupil, in contrast to a meritocracy, which distributes educational and financial rewards according to abilities and efforts. Parentocracy is a sociological concept that reflects political ideology, and has influenced the organization of schools since the 1988 Education Reform act. Fundamentally, the parents have dominating rights and choice in education regardless of means.\n\nSince the 1988 Education Reform Act, social policy has created a relationship between parents and schools in the UK, which is characterised by the principles of marketization. It is argued that parents are now primarily seen as educational consumers, whose choices determine the type of education their child receives. For example, a parent's choice to live in the catchment area for a particular school potentially determines that child’s educational success. This ideathat parents are consumers through marketizationis countered by obligations and restrictions. The capacity to exercise choice is limited by social class, both on economic grounds and cultural capital, e.g., the actual cost of moving into an catchment area with a desirable school.\n\nSociologists Fulcher and Scott say that in a parentocracy, Resources + Preferences = Choice. As Ball, et al. says, not everyone has the same resources to make the same decisions. For example, middle class parents are more likely to pay for tutoring for their child to pass exams, while working class may have the same intention but cannot. Ball also discusses how marketization only ‘appeared’ to create a parentocracy, by providing equal right to education and letting parents choose which they want their child to attend.\n\nSharon Gerwitz explored this, writing that middle class parents have more economic and cultural capital than working class parents, and this lets them take advantage of the choices available. They can send their children to schools they desire by having the ability to afford travel expenses, and that they can move into a catchment area easier than that of a working-class family. She also noted how middle class parents socialised their children into attending church just to get their children into schools considered reputable. This shows how, as Ball, et al. says, wealth largely determines the extent of choice.\n\nDespite the argued inequality and lack of choice, many factors counter-act this. For instance labour policies included things such as education action zones to improve choices. Education action zones supposedly identify areas considered deprived so that they could be improved through additional resources. A recently approved proposal raises the school leaving age to 18. This increases parentocracy as it helps student of all backgrounds receive a higher education, as opposed to the previous age, 16, which restricted many students and families.\n\nAnother policy, EMA, also encourages more choice, as it enables students from a low income family ( e.g., working class) to have education equal to those from any class or ethnicity by providing an educational maintenance allowance that helps students stay in school past 16. Witty does think that the EMA policy helps keep working class students continue past 16, but he thinks that higher education fees stops them going further.\n\nAs witty shows, fees are important in education, especially considering types of schools such as private schools, which require fees for admission, and even explored fees in higher education, such as universities. Educationalists believed that a meritocracy would foster 'equality of opportunity' in education, breaking down some of the social class barriers that restrict people with fees.\n\nBrown, however, suggests that we are now entering a 'third wave' in the history of schooling, moving away from the 'ideology of meritocracy' to a new \"ideology of parentocracy\". This is driven by a belief in parental rights, and strongly favours the philosophy of market principles in education.\n\nChoice breeds competition—but if schools must compete for reputation, choices may actually become limited as popular schools cannot expand, so they become increasingly selective. The big school lottery programme explores this, providing statistical evidence that out of 830 appeals of parents who didn't get their choice for their child’s education, only 28 were successful and 95 per cent were dismissed all together. Judd agrees with the views expressed by the programme, saying that between 25-50% of parents do not get their children into their choice of school. This is similar to the fact that schools can opt out of government control. This elaborates how those who can afford it can choose a school with high admissions cost ( such as a private school), while those who cannot are restricted to limited to free or less expensive choices. Even expensive schools, however, can fail.\n\nAdditionally, By 2008, nearly 90% of secondary schools in England became specialist schools, providing a range of specialist options from business, engineering, or maths—to humanities, music, and art.\n\nRaey says that marketization created growing inequalities in education among parents especially in relation to class, gender, and ethnicity. With the introduction of \"parent contracts\", home and school contracts made parents responsible for students truancy, and put them at risk of fine, prosecution, or even prison.\n\nBrown, P. (1990) The 'third wave':education and the ideology of parentocracy. British Journal of Sociology 11:1.\nIs Britain a parentocracy? Exploration of whether we really have a choice in our childs schooling.://bloggerbinding.hubpages.com/hub/parentocracy\n"}
{"id": "161761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161761", "title": "Rosetta Project", "text": "Rosetta Project\n\nThe Rosetta Project is a global collaboration of language specialists and native speakers working to develop a contemporary version of the historic Rosetta Stone to last from 2000 to 12,000 AD; it is run by the Long Now Foundation. Its goal is a meaningful survey and near permanent archive of 1,500 languages. Some of these languages have fewer than one thousand speakers left. Others are considered to be dying out because government centralization and globalization are increasing the prevalence of English and other major languages. The intention is to create a unique platform for comparative linguistic research and education, as well as a functional linguistic tool that might help in the recovery or revitalisation of lost languages in the future.\n\nThe project is creating this broad language archive through an open contribution, open review process similar to the strategy that created the original \"Oxford English Dictionary\". The resulting archive will be publicly available in three different media: a HD-Rosetta micro-etched nickel alloy disc three inches (7.62 cm) across with a 2,000 year life expectancy; a single volume monumental reference book; and a growing online archive. \n\nFifty to ninety percent of the world's languages are predicted to disappear in the next century, many with little or no significant documentation. Much linguistic description, especially the description of languages with few speakers, remains hidden in personal research files or poorly preserved in under-funded archives.\n\nAs part of the effort to secure this critical legacy of linguistic diversity, the Long Now Foundation plans a broad online survey and near-permanent physical archive of 1,500 of the approximately 7,000 human languages.\n\nThe project has three overlapping goals:\n\n\nThe 1,500-language corpus expands on the parallel-text structure of the original Rosetta Stone through archiving ten descriptive components for each of the 1,500 selected languages.\n\nThe goal is an open source \"Linux of Linguistics\"—an effort of collaborative online scholarship drawing on the expertise and contributions of thousands of academic specialists and native speakers around the world. The project is also organising formal archive research groups at Stanford, Yale, Berkeley, the American Library of Congress, and the American Summer Institute of Linguistics (and its offices in Dallas).\n\nThe resulting Rosetta archives are publicly available in three different media:\n\n\nA \"Version 1.0\" of the HD-Rosetta disc was completed on November 3, 2008. The disc contains over 13,000 pages of information using over 1,500 languages, which can be read after magnifying by 650 times with a microscope.\n\nIn early 2017, the Rosetta Wearable Disk was released. It was developed using a similar manufacturing process as the first edition of the Rosetta Disk, the main difference being that the final archive is about 2 cm in diameter, thus enabling wearing as an ornament on the human body. One side has instructions in eight different languages and scripts (Bahasa Indonesia, English, Hindi, Mandarin, Modern Standard Arabic, Spanish, Swahili, and Russian), and the other an archive of over 1000 human languages assembled in 2016. By November 2017, the initial run of 100 disks had all been sold, but new releases are planned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9920258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9920258", "title": "Russian School Defense Staff", "text": "Russian School Defense Staff\n\nRussian School Defense Staff or Headquarters for the Protection of Russian Schools (; ) — movement in Latvia for protection of public secondary education in Russian. Leaders: Vladimir Buzayev, Gennady Kotov, Yury Petropavlovsky, Miroslav Mitrofanov, Mihail Tyasin, Viktor Dergunov, Vladislav Rafalsky, for some time also Alexander Kazakov (deported out of Latvia in 2004), one of the most prominent spokesmen — Yakov Pliner.\n\nCancelling the Education law provisions, which originally ordered the language of instruction in public secondary schools (Forms 10-12) to be only Latvian (later - at least 60% Latvian) since 2004. It also supports providing effective learning of Latvian language in the Latvian language and literature lessons and specific preparation of teachers for Russian schools.\n\nThe Staff was founded in April 2003 as a coalition of various organizations, most prominent being ForHRUL, and later expanded, involving nonpartisan people. In 2003–2004, the Staff has organized political demonstrations (according to the Freedom House and political scientist T. Boguševiča, the biggest ones in Latvia since the beginning of the 1990s) to protest to expanding use of Latvian language in Russian schools.\n\nAs a result, the Education law was amended in February 2004, allowing to teach up to 40% in the forms 10-12 in minority languages. The proportion of teaching 60% of subjects in Latvian and 40% in Russian, according to BISS research, was supported by 20% of the teachers, 15% of pupils and 13% of parents in minority schools and most stated that they would rather support bilingual instruction in all subjects; only 15% of teachers thought that no reform was needed, while this opinion was expressed by 36% of parents and 44% of pupils. The parliamentary opposition started two cases before the Constitutional Court of Latvia (abjudicated in May and September, 2005) with most of its demands being refused.\n\n"}
{"id": "3122399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3122399", "title": "SWCHA", "text": "SWCHA\n\nSWCHA is a homeschool sports organization in Southeast Wisconsin; hence the name: Southeast Wisconsin Christian Homeschool Athletics.\n\n"}
{"id": "1209581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1209581", "title": "Sail training", "text": "Sail training\n\nFrom its modern interpretations to its antecedents when maritime nations would send young naval officer candidates to sea (e.g., see Outward Bound), sail training provides an unconventional and effective way of building many useful skills on and off the water. \n\nBy 1900 most commercial sailing vessels were struggling to turn a profit in the face of competition from more modern steam ships which had become efficient enough to steam shorter great circle routes between ports instead of the longer trade wind routes used by sailing ships.\n\nShips were built larger to carry bulk cargoes more efficiently, their rigs were simplified to reduce manning costs and speed was no longer a premium. Owners shipped cargoes that were non-perishable so that their date of arrival (which steam ships had started to guarantee) were of less importance. Finally as the Panama Canal was opened, sailing ships were used in parts of the world where steam ships still found it hard to operate: principally on \nBoth Chile and Australian ports were difficult to supply with coal for steamships to refuel. Also, both routes to Europe went round Cape Horn.\n\nThe end of the First World War saw a brief return to profitability as all ship types were in scarce supply due to wartime losses but that boom became bust as many new steam ships were built to replace the sailing ships that were lost.\n\nWhile many countries of the world operated sailing ships as training vessels for officers in their Merchant Marine in the 1920s and 30s, several sailing ship owners such as Carl Laeisz and Gustaf Erikson determined that there was still a profit to be made from the last of the sailing ships. \n\nErikson purchased existing ships that required the minimum of capital investment and repaired them with parts cannibalised from other ships. Identifying the bulk cargo routes that would still offer paying freights, he manned the ships with a smattering of paid experienced officers. \n\nSome of the deckhands were apprentices from steamship lines and other adventurous youth who had paid a premium to sail while being trained, some recruited for very modest salaries. The apprentices were considered trainees and were the first formalization of sail trainers with crew drawn from members of the public who just went for the adventure, as opposed to a career. \n\nWith manning costs netted out on Erikson's balance sheet, the ships continued to return a paper profit. However Erikson was under no illusions as to the long term profitability of his venture, which depended on ignoring the depreciation on his ships and a shrinking supply of sound hulls and rigs. The company would use their profits to diversify into steam after World War II. While the shipping companies of Erickson and F. Laeisz gradually turned to steam, the next generation of captains were climbing up the hawsehole and taking command of their own vessels, redefining sail training as a purely educational endeavour with trainees as the cargo.\n\nFrom 1932 through 1958, Irving Johnson and his wife Electa \"Exy\" Johnson circumnavigated the world 7 times with amateur youth crews on board their vessels named \"Yankee\". Over the years, their voyages were featured in books they authored, and in National Geographic magazines and TV specials like \"Irving Johnson, High Seas Adventurer\". Their archives are at Mystic Seaport, Connecticut. \n\nAustralian Alan Villiers purchased the old school ship \"George Stage\" from Denmark in 1934. Renaming her the \"Joseph Conrad\", he sailed her round the world with no paying cargo and a crew of youth who had paid to be there. He also took as many non-paying youth as he could afford to fit in the budget, those he considered at risk on the streets of their inner cities and in need of what was then called \"character building\". These trips were the genesis of current modern sail training, using manually operated ships and the harsh discipline imposed by the sea to further personal development and taking those disadvantaged by circumstance to benefit from the experience.\n\nBy the end of World War II, the numbers of traditionally rigged sailing ships left were dwindling and public interest waned. After the German school ship Niobe had sunk in 1932, killing 69, the loss of the \"Pamir\" in 1957 and the \"Albatross\" in 1961 drew further ill will and seemed to signal the end of an era.\n\nIn what was conceived to be last great gathering of square-riggers under sail, Bernard Morgan and Greville Howard persuaded a number of ship owners to join together in a sort of farewell salute in 1956, organizing a race from Torbay on the South Coast of England to race informally across the Bay of Biscay to Lisbon in Portugal. Five square rigged school ships entered the race, Denmark's \"Danmark\", Norway's \"Christian Radich\" and \"Sorlandet\", Belgium's \"Mercator\" and Portugal's first \"Sagres\". The vessels would meet again the following year and every year since in an annual series that would astonish its original organizers today. Old vessels were saved or repaired and new purpose built sail training vessels were commissioned. With renewed interest in the age of sail, national sail training associations affiliated to Sail Training International (STI) (formerly \"Sail Training Association\") were organized and large summer events find upwards of 100 ships racing across the oceans.\n\nCrew exchanges allow young people from one country to sail with those from another. Long before the end of the Cold War, ships from Russia and Poland (which in some cases had been built in Germany) joined the International Fleet in 1974. A limited exchange between the East and West was initiated. One of the largest of the affiliate organizations of the STI is the American Sail Training Association (ASTA). Founded in 1973 with a handful of vessels, it has since grown to encompass an international organization with more than 250 tall ships representing 25 different countries. The UK National Member of STI is the Association of Sail Training Organisations (ASTO) Founded in 1972, http://www.asto.org.uk\n\nSquare rigged seamanship was in danger of becoming a lost art. As the 1997 restoration of the USS \"Constitution\" neared completion, the United States Navy called on the crew of HMS \"Bounty\" to train her sailors to sail the vessel as originally intended.\n\nMany boats are historical vessels and replicas which require coordinated manual labor to sail, operating in the original tradition proposed by Alan Villiers and Irving Johnson such as the \"Picton Castle\" while others are purpose built educational platforms carrying out scientific research under sail such as the \"Robert C. Seamans\" and the \"Corwith Cramer\" of the Sea Education Association. Another new direction is the development of floating maritime heritage centres, connected to a sail training organisation, and often in co-ordination with land based maritime museums. Tall Ship Atyla is one such example of this, with visitors to the Bilbao Maritime Museum enjoying free entry to the ship during the winter months when she is moored nearby. As the crew of the \"Irving Johnson\" and the award winning program at the Los Angeles Maritime Institute like to say \"We do not train youth for a life at sea ... we use the sea to educate youth for life\".\n\nTall ships have been found to be effective platforms for sail training as they combine many elements fundamental to sail training.\nA \"Tall ship\" is not a strictly defined type of vessel. \"Tall ship\" is commonly used today to define a large, traditionally rigged vessel, whether or not is it technically a ship. For example, the USCGC \"Eagle\" is technically a barque and not a full rigged ship. A tall ship is usually defined by the topmast and topsails she carries as opposed to the modern high aspect ratio rigs and marconi mains carried by the sloops and yawls seen in every harbor today.\n\nFor the purpose of classification and race rating, the STI divides Tall ships into the following classes :\n\nThe United States Coast Guard classifies vessels based on their intended use and structure, prescribing requirements for captain and crew manning, waters the vessel may operate in, number of passengers allowed and minimum safety equipment required.\n\nWith the exception of uninspected vessels, all such vessels are inspected annually and issued a Certificate of Inspection (COI) which must be displayed on the vessel and spells out the requirements that vessel must maintain. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31139738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31139738", "title": "School Lands", "text": "School Lands\n\nSchool Lands are land grants established in support of education. Support for public education in the United States predates the constitution; two years before the adoption of the United States Constitution of 1787, the Congress of the Confederation provided support for public schooling by establishing the land grants in the Land Ordinance of May 20, 1785 which granted Section 16 (one square mile) of every township to be used for public education: \"There shall be reserved the Lot No. 16, of every township, for the maintenance of public schools within said township.\"\n\nIn the land ordinance, the \"township\" is not a civil township but a surveying unit: a six mile by six mile square, divided into 36 one square mile sections. The one square mile \"Section 16\" is located near the center of the township. (For states surveyed under the federal rectangular system, survey townships and civil townships usually have the same boundaries, but there are many exceptions.)\n\nThe School Lands are part of the Ohio Lands, comprising land grants in Ohio from the United States federal government for public schools. According to the \"Official Ohio Lands Book\", \"by 1920, 73,155,075 acres of public land had been given by the federal government to the public land states in support of public schooling.\"\n\nIn the Land Ordinance of 1785 provision was also made by land grant for higher education (the College Lands).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21065094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21065094", "title": "Secret Teaching Organization", "text": "Secret Teaching Organization\n\nSecret Teaching Organization (, \"TON\" also translated as the \"Secret Teaching Society\" or \"Clandestine Teaching Organization\") was an underground Polish educational organization created in 1939 after the German invasion of Poland to provide underground education in occupied Poland.\n\nThe Organization was created towards the end of October 1939 in Warsaw response to German closure of most Polish educational institutions and repressions against teachers. To forestall the rise of a new generation of educated Poles, German officials decreed that Polish children's schooling should end after a few years of elementary education. Heinrich Himmler wrote in a May 1940 memorandum, \"The sole purpose of this schooling is to teach them simple arithmetic, nothing above the number 500; writing one's name; and the doctrine that it is divine law to obey the Germans... I do not think that a knowledge of reading is desirable.\" Most schools were closed, some teachers were arrested and even executed during the purges of Polish intelligentsia, in the remaining schools, curriculum was heavily censored, textbooks were confiscated, libraries closed.\n\nThe Organization concentrated on the primary education. Over time, it expanded into secondary education. It provided assistance to teachers in need, for example to the ones deported from the Polish territories annexed by Nazi Germany, or to the ones in hiding with arrest warrants. It provided assistance to the families of teachers who had been imprisoned or killed, or who were in hiding. It was also involved in the underground printing and distribution of textbooks.\n\nNorman Davies notes that the Organization undertook the education of a million children. By 1942, about 1,500,000 students took part in the Organization underground primary education; in 1944, its secondary school system covered 100,000 people and the university level courses, about 10,000.\n\nThe Organization cooperated closely with the Polish government in exile (by which it was subsidized) and the Polish Underground State. Its network covered the whole of Poland, roughly corresponding to the pre-war educational structure of the Second Polish Republic, and was most organized in the General Government. Thousands of its members were arrested and killed by the Germans. It is estimated that about 15% of Polish teachers or 8,000 died during the occupation period.\n\nFounders and main activists of the Organization, many of whom were connected to the pre-war Association of Polish Teachers (\"Związek Nauczycielstwa Polskiego\"), included: Zygmunt Nowicki, Kazimierz Maj, Wacław Tułodziecki, Teofil Wojeński and Czesław Wycech.\n\nIn 1945 the Organization became the basis of the reestablished Association of Polish Teachers; however, it also became controlled by the communist government.\n\n"}
{"id": "48728816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48728816", "title": "Stan Salett", "text": "Stan Salett\n\nStan Salett (born April 6, 1936) is a civil rights organizer, national education policy advisor and creator of the Upward Bound Program and helped to initiate Head Start. In the early 1960s Salett was an organizer for the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) and helped organize the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. He was the first director of education of the Office of Economic Opportunity, where the Head Start program was created. He co-founded the National Committee for Citizens in Education, dedicated to promoting parent and citizen involvement in schools. During President Lyndon Johnson administration he initiated the National Upward Bound program. While working in Washington, D.C. he served on the staff of all three Kennedy brothers: President Kennedy's Committee on Youth Employment, Attorney General Robert Kennedy's President's Committee on Juvenile Delinquency and Senator Edward Kennedy's Presidential campaign in 1980. He was an active school board member in Maryland in the 80s. During President Bill Clinton's transition he vetted candidates for Attorney General and Secretary of the Interior.\n\nIn 2011 he published his memoir, \"The Edge of Politics: Stories from the Civil Rights Movement, the War on Poverty & the Challenges of School Reform.\" He received the New England Education Opportunity Association's Claiborne Pell Award in 2013. Presently he is President of the Foundation for the Future of Youth, a division of the Eigen Arnett Educational and Cultural Foundation. He has developed special search engines to meet a variety of human needs such as the elimination of human trafficking, the improvement of school performance and the scarcity of the global water supply. In 2016 Salett has been involved in The Independent Media Institute study which evaluated the movement to privatize public education. It was revealed that, \"… in the past two decades, a small group of billionaires – including News Corporation's Rupert Murdoch, who once called public schools an \"untapped 500-billion-dollar sector\" – have worked to assert private control over public education ...\" Salett was presented with the 2017 Distinguished Graduate Award from Boston Latin School for his career to public service and public policy work. The Award is given each year to alumni exemplifying the Boston Latin School motto, \"sumus primi\".\n\nAs of 2016, he resides in Washington, DC, and Chestertown, MD with his wife Elizabeth. He has 2 sons, singer-songwriters Peter Salett and Steve Salett, owner of Saltlands Studio in Brooklyn, NY and Reservoir in Manhattan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2732718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2732718", "title": "Technology integration", "text": "Technology integration\n\nTechnology integration is the use of technology tools in general content areas in education in order to allow students to apply computer and technology skills to learning and problem-solving. Generally speaking, the curriculum drives the use of technology and not vice versa. Technology integration is defined as the use of technology to enhance and support the educational environment. Technology integration in the classroom can also support classroom instruction by creating opportunities for students to complete assignments on the computer rather than with normal pencil and paper.\n\"Curriculum integration with the use of technology involves the infusion of technology as a tool to enhance the learning in a content area or multidisciplinary setting... Effective integration of technology is achieved when students are able to select technology tools to help them obtain information in a timely manner, analyze and synthesize the information, and present it professionally to an authentic audience. The technology should become an integral part of how the classroom functions—as accessible as all other classroom tools. The focus in each lesson or unit is the curriculum outcome, not the technology.\"\n\nIntegrating technology with standard curriculum can not only give students a sense of power, but also allows for more advanced learning among broad topics. However, these technologies require infrastructure, continual maintenance and repair – one determining element, among many, in how these technologies can be used for curricula purposes and whether or not they will be successful. Examples of the infrastructure required to operate and support technology integration in schools include at the basic level electricity, Internet service providers, routers, modems, and personnel to maintain the network, beyond the initial cost of the hardware and software.\n\nStandard education curriculum with an integration of technology can provide tools for advanced learning among a broad range of topics. Integration of information and communication technology is often closely monitored and evaluated due to the current climate of accountability, outcome based education, and standardization in assessment.\n\nTechnology integration can in some instances be problematic. A high ratio of students to technological device has been shown to impede or slow learning and task completion. In some, instances dyadic peer interaction centered on integrated technology has proven to develop a more cooperative sense of social relations. Success or failure of technology integration is largely dependent on factors beyond the technology. The availability of appropriate software for the technology being integrated is also problematic in terms of software accessibility to students and educators. Another issue identified with technology integration is the lack of long-range planning for these tools within the educative districts they are being used.\n\nTechnology contributes to global development and diversity in classrooms while helping to develop upon the fundamental building blocks needed for students to achieve more complex ideas. In order for technology to make an impact within the educational system, teachers and students must access to technology in a contextual matter that is culturally relevant, responsive and meaningful to their educational practice and that promotes quality teaching and active student learning.\n\nThe term 'educational technology' was used during the post World War II era in the United States for the integration of implements such as film strips, slide projectors, language laboratories, audio tapes, and television. Presently, the computers, tablets, and mobile devices integrated into classroom settings for educational purposes are most often referred to as 'current' educational technologies. It is important to note that educational technologies continually change, and once referred to slate chalkboards used by students in early schoolhouses in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The phrase 'educational technology', a composite meaning of technology + education, is used to refer to the most advanced technologies that are available for both teaching and learning in a particular era.\n\nIn 1994 federal legislation for both the Educate America Act and the Improving America's School's Act (IASA) authorized funds for state and federal educational technology planning. One of the principal goals listed in the Educate America Act is to promote the research, consensus building, and systemic changes needed to ensure equitable educational opportunities and high levels of educational achievement for all students (Public Law 103-227). In 1996 the Telecommunications Act provided a systematic change necessary to ensure equitable educational opportunities of bringing new technology into the education sector. The Telecomm Act requires affordable access and service to advanced telecom services for public schools and libraries. Many of the computers, tablets, and mobile devices currently used in classrooms operate through Internet connectivity; particularly those that are application based such as tablets. Schools in high-cost areas and disadvantaged schools were to receive higher discounts in telecom services such as Internet, cable, satellite television, and the management component.\n\nA chart of \"Technology Penetration in U.S. Public Schools\" report states 98% percent of schools reported having computers in the 1995–1996 school year, with 64% Internet access, and 38% working via networked systems. The ratio of students to computers in the United States in 1984 stood at 15 students per 1 computer, it now stands at an average all-time low of 10 students to computer. From the 1980s on into the 2000s, the most substantial issue to examine in educational technology was school access to technologies according to the 1997 Policy Information Report for Computers and Classrooms: The Status of Technology in U.S. Schools. These technologies included computers, multimedia computers, the Internet, networks, cable TV, and satellite technology amongst other technology-based resources.\n\nMore recently ubiquitous computing devices, such as computers and tablets, are being used as networked collaborative technologies in the classroom. Computers, tablets and mobile devices may be used in educational settings within groups, between people and for collaborative tasks. These devices provide teachers and students access to the World Wide Web in addition to a variety of software applications.\n\nNational Educational Technology Standards (NETS) served as a roadmap since 1998 for improved teaching and learning by educators. As stated above, these standards are used by teachers, students, and administrators to measure competency and set higher goals to be skillful.\n\nThe Partnership for 21st Century Skills is a national organization that advocates for 21st century readiness for every student. Their most recent Technology Plan was released in 2010, \"Transforming American Education: Learning Powered by Technology\". This plan outlines a vision \"to leverage the learning sciences and modern technology to create engaging, relevant, and personalized learning experiences for all learners that mirror students' daily lives and the reality of their futures. In contrast to traditional classroom instruction, this requires that students be put at the center and encouraged to take control of their own learning by providing flexibility on several dimensions.\"\nAlthough tools have changed dramatically since the beginnings of educational technology, this vision of using technology for empowered, self-directed learning has remained consistent.\n\nThe integration of electronic devices into classrooms has been cited as a possible solution to bridge access for students, to close achievement gaps, that are subject to the digital divide, based on social class, economic inequality, or gender where and a potential user does not have enough cultural capital required to have access to information and communication technologies. Several motivations or arguments have been cited for integrating high-tech hardware and software into school, such as (1) making schools more efficient and productive than they currently are, (2) if this goal is achieved, teaching and learning will be transformed into an engaging and active process connected to real life, and (3) is to prepare the current generation of young people for the future workplace. The computer has access to graphics and other functions students can use to express their creativity. Technology integration does not always have to do with the computer. It can be the use of the overhead projector, student response clickers, etc. Enhancing how the student learns is very important in technology integration. Technology will always help students to learn and explore more.\n\nMost research in technology integration has been criticized for being atheoretical and ad hoc driven more by the affordances of the technology rather than the demands of pedagogy and subject matter. Armstrong (2012) argued that multimedia transmission turns to limit the learning into simple content, because it is difficult to deliver complicated content through multimedia.\n\nOne approach that attempts to address this concern is a framework aimed at describing the nature of teacher knowledge for successful technology integration. The technological pedagogical content knowledge or TPACK framework has recently received some positive attention.\n\nAnother model that has been used to analyze tech integration is the SAMR framework, developed by Ruben Puentedura. This model attempts to measure the level of tech integration with 4 the levels that go from Enhancement to Transformation: Substitution, Augmentation, Modification, Redefinition.\n\nConstructivism is a crucial component of technology integration. It is a learning theory that describes the process of students constructing their own knowledge through collaboration and inquiry-based learning. According to this theory, students learn more deeply and retain information longer when they have a say in what and how they will learn. Inquiry-based learning, thus, is researching a question that is personally relevant and purposeful because of its direct correlation to the one investigating the knowledge.\nAs stated by Jean Piaget, constructivist learning is based on four stages of cognitive development. In these stages, children must take an active role in their own learning and produce meaningful works in order to develop a clear understanding. These works are a reflection of the knowledge that has been achieved through active self-guided learning. Students are active leaders in their learning and the learning is student-led rather than teacher–directed.\n\nMany teachers use a constructivist approach in their classrooms assuming one or more of the following roles: facilitator, collaborator, curriculum developer, team member, community builder, educational leader, or information producer.\n\nIs technology in the classroom needed, or does it hinder students' social development? We've all seen a table of teenagers on their phones, all texting, not really socializing or talking to each other. How do they develop social and communication skills? Neil Postman (1993) concludes: The role of the school is to help students learn how to ignore and discard information so that they can achieve a sense of coherence in their lives; to help students cultivate a sense of social responsibility; to help students think critically, historically, and humanely; to help students understand the ways in which technology shapes their consciousness; to help students learn that their own needs sometimes are subordinate to the needs of the group. I could go on for another three pages in this vein without any reference to how machinery can give students access to information. Instead, let me summarize in two ways what I mean. First, I'll cite a remark made repeatedly by my friend Alan Kay, who is sometimes called \"the father of the personal computer.\" Alan likes to remind us that any problems the schools cannot solve without machines, they cannot solve with them. Second, and with this I shall come to a close: If a nuclear holocaust should occur some place in the world, it will not happen because of insufficient information; if children are starving in Somalia, it's not because of insufficient information; if crime terrorizes our cities, marriages are breaking up, mental disorders are increasing, and children are being abused, none of this happens because of a lack of information. These things happen because we lack something else. It is the \"something else\" that is now the business of schools.\n\nInteractive whiteboards are used in many schools as replacements for standard whiteboards and provide a way to allow students to interact with material on the computer. In addition, some interactive whiteboards software allow teachers to record their instruction.\n\nInteractive Whiteboards are another way that technology is expanding in schools. By assisting the teacher to helping students more kinestically as well as finding different ways to process there information throughout the entire classroom.\n\nStudent response systems consist of handheld remote control units, or response pads, which are operated by individual students. An infrared or radio frequency receiver attached to the teacher's computer collects the data submitted by students. The CPS (Classroom Performance System), once set, allows the teacher to pose a question to students in several formats. Students then use the response pad to send their answer to the infrared sensor. Data collected from these systems is available to the teacher in real time and can be presented to the students in a graph form on an LCD projector. The teacher can also access a variety of reports to collect and analyze student data. These systems have been used in higher education science courses since the 1970s and have become popular in K-12 classrooms beginning in the early 21st century.\n\nAudience response systems (ARS) can help teachers analyze, and act upon student feedback more efficiently. For example, with polleverywhere.com, students text in answers via mobile devices to warm-up or quiz questions. The class can quickly view collective responses to the multiple-choice questions electronically, allowing the teacher to differentiate instruction and learn where students need help most.\n\nCombining ARS with peer learning via collaborative discussions has also been proven to be particularly effective. When students answer an in-class conceptual question individually, then discuss it with their neighbors, and then vote again on the same or a conceptually similar question, the percentage of correct student responses usually increases, even in groups where no student had given the correct answer previously.\n\nAmong other tools that have been noted as being effective as a way of technology integration are podcasts, digital cameras, smart phones, tablets, digital media, and blogs.\n\nMobile learning is defined as \"learning across multiple contexts, through social and content interactions, using personal electronic devices\". A mobile device is essentially any device that is portable and has internet access and includes tablets, smart phones, cell phones, e-book readers, and MP3 players. As mobile devices become increasingly common personal devices of K-12 students, some educators seek to utilize downloadable applications and interactive games to help facilitate learning. This practice can be controversial because many parents and educators are concerned that students would be off-task because teachers cannot monitor their activity. This is currently being troubleshooted by forms of mobile learning that require a log-in, acting as a way to track engagement of students.\n\nAccording to findings from four meta analyses, blending technology with face-to-face teacher time generally produces better outcomes than face-to-face or online learning alone. Research is currently limited on the specific features of technology integration that improve learning. Meanwhile, the marketplace of learning technologies continues to grow and vary widely in content, quality, implementation, and context of use.\n\nResearch shows that adding technology to K-12 environments, alone, does not necessarily improve learning. What matters most to implementing mobile learning is how students and teachers use technology to develop knowledge and skills and that requires training. Successful technology integration for learning goes hand in hand with changes in teacher training, curricula, and assessment practices.\n\nAn example of teacher professional development is profiled in Edutopia's Schools That Work series on eMints, a program that offers teachers 200 hours of coaching and training in technology integration over a two-year span. In these workshops teachers are trained in practices such as using interactive whiteboards and the latest web tools to facilitate active learning. In a 2010 publication of Learning Point Associates, statistics showed that students of teachers who had participated in eMints had significantly higher standardized test scores than those attained by their peers.\n\nIt can keep students focused for longer periods of time. The use of computers to look up information/ data is a tremendous time saver, especially when used to access a comprehensive resource like the Internet to conduct research. This time-saving aspect can keep students focused on a project much longer than they would with books and paper resources, and it helps them develop better learning through exploration and research.\n\nDefinition: Project Based Learning is a teaching method in which students gain knowledge and skills by working for an extended period of time to investigate and respond to an authentic, engaging and complex question, problem, or challenge.\n\nProject Based Activities is a method of teaching where the students gain knowledge and skills by involving themselves for the more period of time to research and respond to the engaging and complex questions, problems, or challenges. the students will work in groups to solve the problems which are challenging.The students will work in groups to solve the problems which are challenging, real, curriculum based and frequently relating to more than one branch of knowledge. Therefore, a well designed project based learning activity is one which addresses different student learning styles and which does not assume that all students can demonstrate their knowledge in a single standard way.\n\nThe project based learning activities involves four basic elements.\n\nThe term \"hunt\" refers to finding or searching for something. \"CyberHunt\" means an online activity which learners use the internet as tool to find answers to the question's based upon the topics which are assigned by someone else. Hence learners also can design the CyberHunt on some specific topics. a CyberHunt, or internet scavenger hunt, is a project-based activity which helps students gain experience in exploring and browsing the internet. A CyberHunt may ask students to interact with the site (e.g.: play a game or watch a video), record short answers to teacher questions, as well as read and write about a topic in depth. There are basically two types of CyberHunt: \n\nIt is an inquiry oriented activity in which most or all of the information used by the learners which are drawn out by the internet/web. It is designed to use learner 'time well', to focus on using information rather than on looking for it and to support the learners to think at the level of analysis, synthesis, and evaluation. It is the wonderful way of capturing student's imagination and allowing them to explore in a guided, meaningful manner. It allow the students to explore issues and find their own answers.\n\nThere are six building blocks of webQuests:\nWebQuests are student-centered, web-based curricular units that are interactive and use Internet resources. The purpose of a webQuest is to use information on the web to support the instruction taught in the classroom. A webQuest consists of an introduction, a task (or final project that students complete at the end of the webQuest), processes (or instructional activities), web-based resources, evaluation of learning, reflection about learning, and a conclusion.\n\nThe Web-based Inquiry Science Environment (WISE) provides a platform for creating inquiry science projects for middle school and high school students using evidence and resources from the Web. Funded by the U.S. National Science Foundation, WISE has been developed at the University of California, Berkeley from 1996 until the present. WISE inquiry projects include diverse elements such as online discussions, data collection, drawing, argument creation, resource sharing, concept mapping and other built-in tools, as well as links to relevant web resources.It is the research-focused, open-source inquiry-based learning management system that includes the student- learning environment project authoring environment, grading tool, and tool and user/ course/ content management tools.\n\nA virtual field trip is a website that allows the students to experience places, ideas, or objects beyond the constraints of the classroom.\nA virtual field trip is a great way to allow the students to explore and experience new information. This format is especially helpful and beneficial in allowing schools to keep the cost down. Virtual field trips may also be more practical for children in the younger grades, due to the fact that there is not a demand for chaperones and supervision. Although, a virtual field trip does not allow the children to have the hands on experiences and the social interactions that can and do take place on an actual field trip. An educator should incorporate the use of hands on material to further their understanding of the material that is presented and experienced in a virtual field trip.It is a guided exploration through the www that organizes a collection of pre- screened, its thematically based web pages into a structure online learning experience\n\nAn ePortfolio is a collection of student work that exhibits the student's achievements in one or more areas over time. Components in a typical student ePortfolio might contain creative writings, paintings, photography, math explorations, music, and videos. And it is a collection of work developed across varied contexts over time. The portfolio can advance learning by providing students and/or faculty with a way to organize, archive and display pieces of work.\n"}
{"id": "4238041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4238041", "title": "The Nova Project", "text": "The Nova Project\n\nThe Nova Project, also known as Nova, is a small public alternative high school in Seattle, Washington, operated by the Seattle Public School District. Its goal is to be a \"democratically governed learning community of broadly educated, creative, and independent thinkers who work collaboratively and demonstrate a high degree of individual responsibility.\"\n\nNova was founded by a group of students, parents and teachers in 1970. The curriculum is multidisciplinary and project-oriented, with an emphasis on individualized learning contracts, internships and community service..\n\nNova functions through student-run, teacher-supported \"committees\" that decide school budgeting, the hiring and review process of staff, orientation of new students, and cultural affairs. \n\nThe grading system is competency-based and is credit/no credit with 80% mastery required for credit. Each student works with a coordinator to design a personal learning plan to graduate. Nova students have the option of creating \"independent contracts\" with their teachers to earn credit for extracurricular goals and activities they commit to. It is common for Nova students to co-teach classes with their teachers, generating curriculum and building facilitation skills in line with Nova's student-led philosophy. Like other Seattle Public Schools students, Nova students may participate in the Running Start program and take classes at a local community college. \n\nIn early summer of 2009, Nova was relocated from the Mann Building to the Meany Middle School site, where it was co-housed with the World School. Nova returned to the newly remodeled Mann Building in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43909070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43909070", "title": "Three-part lesson", "text": "Three-part lesson\n\nA three-part lesson is an inquiry-based learning method used to teach mathematics in K–12 schools.\n\nThe three-part lesson has been attributed to John A. Van de Walle, a mathematician at Virginia Commonwealth University.\n\nThe purpose is to cognitively prepare students for the math lesson by having them think about a procedure, strategy or concept used in a prior lesson. Teachers determine what specific previous learning they wish students to recall, based on outcomes desired for that particular lesson. The role of the teacher is to \"get students mentally prepared to work on the problem\".\n\nMarian Small, a proponent of a constructivist approach to mathematical instruction, provides an example of an inquiry-based question from which a three-part lesson could be created: \"one bus has 47 students in it; another has 38. How many students are on both buses?\"\n\nStudents engage in solving math problems individually, in pairs, or in small groups, and \"record the mathematical thinking they used to develop solutions\". Students then plan the strategies, methods, and concrete materials they will use to solve the problem. The teacher will circulate and make observations about the ways students are interacting, and will note the mathematical language they are using as well as the mathematical models they are employing to solve the problem. If a student is having difficulty, \"the teacher might pose questions to provoke further thinking or have other students explain their plan for solving the problem\". Teachers are advised to be active listeners in this phase, and to take notes. This is also a phase in which teachers can assess students. \n\nIn this final phase, the teacher oversees the sharing of solutions by students, and may employ other teaching techniques such as \"math congress\", \"gallery walk\", or \"bansho\". If new methods and strategies were discovered by students during the work phase, the teacher will post these on the class's \"strategy wall\", or use them to develop an \"anchor chart\". Teachers are not to evaluate students in this phase, but should be actively listening \"to both good and not so good ideas\". \n\nAdvocates of the three-part lesson state that students develop \"independence and confidence by choosing the methods, strategies and concrete materials they will use, as well as ways to record their solutions\". They claim students learn to discern similarities and differences in the mathematics, and also that \"through such rich mathematics classroom discourse, students develop and consolidate their understanding of the learning goal of the lesson in terms of making connections to prior knowledge and experiences and making generalizations\". Advocates also claim \"students are more enthusiastic about the subject\" when inquiry-based math instruction is used.\n\nOpponents of inquiry-based methods such as the three-part lesson state that students are not learning the basics such as multiplication tables. In Ontario, Canada, where the Ministry of Education has promoted the three-part lesson, the curriculum was changed in the late 1990s in favour of \"problem solving based on open-ended investigations rather than memorization\". In that province, test scores in grades three and grade six math declined between 2009 and 2013, and \"some contend that the math curriculum rather than teacher education is to blame for the lower scores because it places more emphasis on real-world concepts and applications than on rote learning\".\n\n"}
{"id": "299965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299965", "title": "Tutor", "text": "Tutor\n\nA tutor is a person who provides assistance or tutelage to one or more people on certain subject areas or skills. The tutor spends a few hours on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis to transfer their expertise on the topic or skill to the student. Tutoring can take place in different settings, such as a classroom, a formal tutoring center, or the home of the tutor/learner. As a teaching-learning method, tutoring is characterized by how it differs from formal teaching methods on the basis of the (in)formality of the setting as well as the flexibility in pedagogical methods in terms of duration, pace of teaching, evaluation and tutor-tutee rapport.\n\nTutoring began as an informal and unstructured method of educational assistance, dating back to periods in Ancient Greece. Tutors operated on an ad-hoc or impromptu basis in varied and unfixed settings wherein the main goal of the tutor was to impart knowledge to the learner in order to help the latter gain proficiency in the subject area. Methods of tutoring only began to become more structured after the 20th century through focus and specialisation in the training of tutors, application of tutoring, and evaluation of tutors. From the 20th century onwards, with the rapid spread of mainstream education, the demand for tutoring has also increased as a way to supplement formal education.\n\nIn British and Irish secondary schools, \"form tutors\" are given the responsibilities of a form or class of students in a particular year group (up to 30 students). They usually work in year teams headed by a year leader, year head, or guidance teacher.\n\nForm tutors will provide parents with most of the information about their child's progress and any problems they might be experiencing. Ordinarily, the form tutor is the person who contacts a parent if there is a problem at school; however, the year leader or guidance teacher may contact the parents, since the form tutor has full-time responsibility as a specialist subject teacher.\n\nA 2012 study by the Asian Development Bank and the Comparative Education Research Centre at the University of Hong Kong pointed out that private tutoring can dominate the lives of young people and their families, maintain and exacerbate social inequalities, divert needed household income into an unregulated industry, and create inefficiencies in education systems. It can also undermine official statements about fee-free education and create threats to social cohesion.\n\nIn South Korea, nearly 90% of elementary students receive some sort of shadow education. In Hong Kong, about 85% of senior secondary students do so. 60% of primary students in West Bengal, India, and 60% of secondary students in Kazakhstan receive private tutoring.\n\nDemand for tutoring in Asia is exploding; by comparison globally, shadow education is most extensive in Asia. This is partly due to the stratification of education systems, cultural factors, perceptions of shortcomings in regular school systems, and the combination of growing wealth and smaller family sizes. Therefore, the education sector has become a profitable industry which businesses have created different kinds of products and advertisement such us \"the king/queen of tutorial\", a usual advertisement tactic of Hong Kong tutorial centers that has spread to South Korea, Thailand, Sri Lanka and India where tutors achieve \"celebrity-like status\". In some cases, successful Southeast Asian tutors will even embrace the title of \"tutor\". Online private tutor matching platform and online learning platform offering online learning materials are other creations.\n\nIn Cambodia, most tutoring is provided by teachers, whereas in Hong Kong, it is provided by individuals, small companies or large companies. In Mongolia, most tutoring is labor-intensive, while entrepreneurs in South Korea make use of computers and other forms of technology.\n\nA 2012 study by the Asian Development Bank and the Comparative Education Research Centre at the University of Hong Kong recommended policymakers across the region take a closer look at how ‘shadow education’ affects family budgets, children's time, and national education systems. It suggested that in order to reduce the need for private lessons, improvements in mainstream schools should be made. Regulations are also needed to protect consumers.\n\nSome studies have estimated costs associated with \"shadow education\". In Pakistan, expenditures on tutoring per child averaged $3.40 a month in 2011. In India, average spending was lower, but still equated to about $2 per month.\n\nIn Georgia, household expenditures for private tutoring at the secondary school level was $48 million in 2011. In Hong Kong, the business of providing private tutoring to secondary schools reached $255 million in 2011.\n\nIn India, a 2008 survey estimated the size of the private tutoring sector to be $6.4 billion. In Japan, families spent $12 billion in 2010 on private tutoring.\n\nIn the Republic of Korea, where the government has attempted to cool down the private tutoring market, shadow education costs have continually grown, reaching a staggering $17.3 billion in 2010. Household expenditures on private tutoring are equivalent to about 80% of government expenditures on public education for primary and secondary students.\n\nIn the United States, the tutoring market is fragmented. Some online tutoring marketplaces, however, have managed to aggregate a large number of private tutors on their platform and also tutoring data. For example, one such site has over 34,000 registered tutors in California and made public their tutoring hourly rate data.\n\nIn many countries, individuals can become tutors without training. In some countries, including Cambodia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Lao PDR, and Tajikistan, the pattern of classroom teachers supplementing their incomes by tutoring students after school hours is more a necessity than a choice, as many teachers’ salaries hover close to the poverty line.\n\nIn the Republic of Korea, the number of private tutors expanded roughly 7.1% annually on average from 2001 to 2006, and by 2009 the sector was the largest employer of graduates from the humanities and social sciences.\n\nPrivate tutoring is not always effective in raising academic achievement; and in some schools students commonly skip classes or sleep through lessons because they are tired after excessive external study. This means that the shadow system can make regular schooling less efficient.\n\nTeachers who spend more time focusing on private lessons than regular classes can cause greater inefficiencies in the mainstream school system. Situations in which teachers provide extra private lessons for pupils for whom they are already responsible in the public system can lead to corruption, particularly when teachers deliberately teach less in their regular classes in order to promote the market for private lessons.\n\nWhen private tutoring is provided by well trained tutor however the effects can be dramatic, with pupils improving performance by two standard deviations. See also Bloom's 2 Sigma Problem.\n\nThere can be an existing overlap between different types of tutoring with respect to the setting or location of tutoring, the size of tutor-learner pairings/groups, and the method of tutoring provided, for example, one-on-one peer tutoring can take place through online tutoring. Tutoring is typically private since it is exists independent of the system of public and private education, that is, one can be enrolled in public/private schooling and attend private tutoring services.\n\nAcademic coaching is a type of mentoring applied to academics. Coaching involves a collaborative approach. Coaches try to help students learn how they best learn and how to operate in an academic environment. Tutors help students learn the material in individual courses while coaches help students learn how to be successful in school. In college, that includes such topics as: study skills, time management, stress management, effective reading, note-taking, test-taking, and understanding how to use a syllabus. Academic coaches meet with the student regularly throughout the semester. Coaches work with students in all kinds of situations, not just those who are struggling academically. Academic coaching is also serves to help students prepare for entrance exams to gain entry to schools or universities, and it is a particularly popular in Asia. For example, in India, a majority of students, be it of any class or stream, visit a coaching center or a \"study circle.\"\n\nIn-home tutoring is a form of tutoring that occurs in the home. Most often the tutoring relates to an academic subject or test preparation. This is in contrast to tutoring centers or tutoring provided through after-school programs. The service most often involves one-on-one attention provided to the pupil. Due to the informal and private nature of in-home tutoring, there is limited substantial or conclusive information on in-home tutoring.\n\nOnline tutoring is another way for a student to receive academic help, either scheduled or on-demand. Sessions are done through an application where a student and tutor can communicate. Common tools include chat, whiteboard, web conferencing, teleconferencing, online videos and other specialized applets which make it easier to convey information back and forth. Online tutoring has relatively recently emerged as a mechanism to provide tutoring services in contrast to more traditional in-person teaching. One of the potential drawbacks of online tutoring stems from the influx or sensory overload of information from different materials. \"For example, mate- rial presented in multiple modalities run the risk of interrupting the learner from a coherent learn- ing experience, of imposing a “split attention” effect (the mind cannot concentrate on two things simultaneously), or of overloading the learner's limited supply of cognitive resources.\"\n\nPeer tutoring refers to the method of tutoring that involves members of the same peer group teaching or tutoring one another. The characteristics of a peer tutoring group/pairing vary across age, socioeconomic class, gender, ethnicity. It has been defined as \"a class of practices and strategies that employs peers as one-on-one teachers to provide individualized instruction, practice, repetition, and clarification of concepts\"\n\nStudies have found that peer tutoring provides academic benefits for learners across the subject areas of \"reading, mathematics, science, and social studies\" Peer tutoring has also been found to be an effective teaching method in enhancing the reading comprehension skills of students, especially that of students with a low academic performance at the secondary level in schools. Additionally, peer tutoring has been proven especially useful for those with learning disabilities at the elementary level, while there is mixed evidence showing the effectiveness of peer tutoring for those at the secondary level.\n\nAlthough certain types of tutoring arrangements can require a salary for the tutor, typically tutoring is free of cost and thus financially affordable for learners. The cost-effectiveness of tutoring can prove to be especially beneficial for learners from low-income backgrounds or resource-strapped regions. In contrast, paid tutoring arrangements can create or further highlight socioeconomic disparities between low-income, middle-income and high-income populations. A study found that access to private tutoring was less financially affordable for low-income families, who thus benefited less from private tutoring as compared to high-income populations, who had the resources to profit from private tutoring.\n\nTutoring has also emerged as a supplement to public and private schooling in many countries. The supplementary nature of tutoring is a feature in the domain of what some scholars have termed \"shadow education\". Shadow education has been defined as \"a set of educational activities that occur out side formal schooling and are designed to enhance the student's formal school career.\" The term \"shadow\" has four components to it: firstly, the existence of and need for tutoring is produced by the existence of the formal education system; secondly, the formal education system is the mainstream system and thus tutoring is its shadow; thirdly, the focus remains on mainstream education in schools; fourthly, tutoring is largely informal and unstructured as compared to formal or mainstream education. As a consequence of the popularity of shadow education, private tutoring can sometimes overshadow mainstream education with more priority given to enrolling in private tutoring centers. Mark Bray claims that \"Especially near the time of major external examinations, schools in some countries may be perceived by pupils to be less able to cater for their specific needs.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "15855800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15855800", "title": "Volvo effect", "text": "Volvo effect\n\nThe Volvo effect is a term used in critiquing standardized testing that was created by Peter Sacks in his 2001 book \"Standardized Minds\". The term has been picked up by other sociologists, and counting Volvos has even been facetiously proposed as an alternative method to the spending millions of dollars on standardized testing.\n\nThe original text in which the Volvo effect was advanced:\n\n"}
{"id": "23364375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23364375", "title": "World Oral Literature Project", "text": "World Oral Literature Project\n\nThe World Oral Literature Project was \"an urgent global initiative to document and disseminate endangered oral literatures before they disappear without record\". Directed by Dr Mark Turin and co-located at the Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, at the University of Cambridge and Yale University, the project was established in January 2009.\n\nFrom March 2013 the organization ceased funding projects, whilst maintaining online resources.\n\nThe World Oral Literature Project provided small grants to fund the collecting of oral literature, with a particular focus on the peoples of Asia and the Pacific, and on areas of cultural disturbance. In addition, the Project hosted training workshops for grant recipients and other engaged scholars. The World Oral Literature Project also publishes oral texts and occasional papers, and makes collections of oral traditions accessible through online media platforms such as Cambridge Streaming Media Service and DSpace.\n\nFourteen funded oral literature fieldwork and documentation projects were completed between 2009-2013.\n\nThe World Oral Literature Project collected data gathered by grantees and anthropology fieldworkers as well as historic collections. This data is primarily audio and visual files that are either born digital or are digitised by the Project. This material is archived using DSpace and, where culturally appropriate, disseminated to the public through the World Oral Literature Project websites and streaming media services.\n\nPapers published by the World Oral Literature Project and Open Book Publishers:\n\nResearchers at the World Oral Literature Project have compiled a database of language endangerment levels, including references to collections and recordings of oral literature that exist in archives around the world. Data on language endangerment are drawn from the \"online Ethnologue\", the \"UNESCO Atlas of the World’s Languages in Danger\", and from a 'red list' compiled by Professor William Sutherland in the Department of Zoology at the University of Cambridge.\n\nHowever the project states \"The World Oral Literature Project does not take responsibility for the accuracy of the materials that our researchers have compiled from these three sources, and the Project does not have the staffing capacity to keep these resources up to date.\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12295181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12295181", "title": "Worldware", "text": "Worldware\n\nWorldware is a term coined by Steve Ehrmann to denote materials that are a) created and marketed mainly for purposes other than (just) teaching and learning, but which are also b) used for teaching and learning. Examples of \"worldware\" include personal computers, most word processing software, and software used mainly for professional research.\n\nEhrmann coined the term while leading the Valuable Viable Software (VVS) project of the Educom Software Initiative. Educom is now Educause, and the Educom Software Initiative was a volunteer initiative created in the late 1980s by Steven W. Gilbert, then Educom's Vice President for Education. The goal of the VVS project was to find examples of software that had gotten into widespread, influential use in post-secondary teaching and learning. In the early decades of computer use, many educators and observers assumed that the best way to use computing to support learning was to create special purpose hardware and software for that purpose, e.g., tutorial software, even educational word processors (complete with instructional materials and feedback) and even computers created specifically for educational use.\n\nThe VVS project team studied more than two dozen software packages, looking for examples that had been both valuable (evaluations and experience indicated that the software-in-use could be of great educational value) and viable (i.e., the software had been in use by enough people and for enough years to influence educational practice). Most examples of valuable viable software that they found were either \"worldware\" or \"student editions of \"worldware\".\" Minitab, one of the software packages studied by the VVS Project, was an example of a student edition of worldware. It was designed to be very much like professional software, but easier to use and cheaper to purchase than its professional counterpart. The VVS Project also found that student editions of \"worldware\" often evolved into \"worldware\"; the easy-to-use, inexpensive software was used for professional purposes, too, especially by people who had learned using the original software.\n\nThe finding was a startling one: in the early 1990s, most people still assumed that the most important way to use computing to support learning was by designing elegant, powerful software to support learning (e.g., intelligent tutors, simulations, branching pathways of instructional information). But such software rarely seemed to last long enough to attain widespread use. Typically, the VVS Project found, such software would become obsolete without ever achieving wide enough use to justify further foundation or publisher funding. The obsolescence occurred for many reasons, the most fast-acting of which was usually technical — changes in operating hardware and software often required an investment as large, or larger, than the original expenditure in order for the software to survive in the new environment. This led to the observation that, \"the bigger the grant funding the development of software, the smaller the chance for the software to thrive.\"\n\nAnother pitfall for such software lay in the publisher practice of making a gift of such software to faculty who adopted their textbooks. Because no income stream was directly associated with the instructional software, the publisher usually had little motivation to upgrade the software.\n\nWorldware (and student editions) had a number of advantages that rendered them more viable than typical instructional software:\n\n\n"}
