{"id": "5795655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5795655", "title": "Academic study of new religious movements", "text": "Academic study of new religious movements\n\nThe academic study of new religious movements is known as new religions studies' (NRS).\nThe study draws from the disciplines of anthropology, psychiatry, history, psychology, sociology, religious studies, and theology. Eileen Barker noted that there five sources of information on new religious movements (NRMs): the information provided by such groups themselves, that provided by ex-members as well as the friends and relatives of members, organisations that collect information on NRMs, the mainstream media, and academics studying such phenomena.\n\nThe study of new religions is unified by its topic of interest, rather than by its methodology, and is therefore interdisciplinary in nature. A sizeable body of scholarly literature on new religions has been published, most of it produced by social scientists. Among the disciplines that NRS uses are anthropology, history, psychology, religious studies, and sociology. Of these approaches, sociology played a particularly prominent role in the development of the field, resulting in it being initially confined largely to a narrow array of sociological questions. This came to change in later scholarship, which began to apply theories and methods initially developed for examining more mainstream religions to the study of new ones.\n\nThe majority of research has been directed toward those new religions which have attracted a greater deal of public controversy; less controversial NRMs have tended to be the subject of less scholarly research. It has also been noted that scholars of new religions have often avoided researching certain movements which tend instead to be studied by scholars from other backgrounds; the feminist spirituality movement is usually examined by scholars of women's studies, African-American new religions by scholars of Africana studies, and Native American new religions by scholars of Native American studies.\n\nIn Japan, the academic study of new religions appeared in the years following the Second World War. In the 1960s American sociologist John Lofland lived with Unification Church missionary Young Oon Kim and a small group of American church members in California and studied their activities in trying to promote their beliefs and win new members. Lofland noted that most of their efforts were ineffective and that most of the people who joined did so because of personal relationships with other members, often family relationships. Lofland published his findings in 1964 as a doctoral thesis entitled: 'The World Savers: A Field Study of Cult Processes', and in 1966 in book form by Prentice-Hall as \"\". It is considered to be one of the most important and widely cited studies of the process of religious conversion, as well as one of the first sociological studies of a new religious movement.\n\nIn Western nations the study of new religions became a distinct field in the 1970s; prior to this, new religions had been examined from varying perspectives, with Pentecostalism for instance being studied by church historians and cargo cults by anthropologists. This Western academic study of new religions emerged in response to growing public concerns regarding the emergence of various NRMs during the 1970s. By the latter part of that decade, increasing numbers of papers on new religions were being presented at the annual conferences of the American Academy of Religion, Society for the Scientific Study of Religion, and the Association for the Sociology of Religion. The manner in which the scholarly study of new religions rose to prominence due to the public perception that these movements were social threats bore similarities with the manner in which Islamic studies grew in Western nations following the September 11 attacks in 2001. The study of new religions would only be fully embraced by the Western religious studies establishment in the 1990s.\n\nIn 1988, the charity INFORM (Information Network Focus on Religious Movements) was established by Barker, who was then a professor of sociology at the London School of Economics. The organisation was supported by the UK Home Office and the British established churches and was designed to conduct research and disseminate accurate information about new religions.\nBarker established INFORM due to her \"conviction that a great deal of unnecessary suffering has resulted from ignorance of the nature and characteristics of the current wave of [NRMs] in the West.\"\nAlso in 1988, the Italian scholar Massimo Introvigne established CESNUR (Centre for Studies on New Religions) in Turin; it brought together academics studying NRMs in both Europe and North America. In the United States, CESNUR gained representation through the Institute for the Study of American Religion in Santa Barbara, California, which was directed by J. Gordon Melton.\n\nScholars of new religion often operate in a politicised environment given that their research can be cited in legal briefs and judicial decisions regarding NRMs. In Barker's view, academic research into NRMs had practical applications in dealing with the problems that people experience with regard to NRMs. It can, for example, provide accurate information about a particular religious movement that can help guide an individual's reactions to the group; \"an awareness of the complexity of a situation might help people to avoid precipitous actions that would later have been regretted.\" However, given that scholars of new religions often reject the stereotypes about \"cults\" promoted by the anti-cultist movements, they have often been criticised by proponents of the latter. Anti-cult groups have sometimes criticised scholarly groups such as these, claiming that they uncritically believe what NRMs tell them, that they are pro-NRM, or that they ignore the issues raised by ex-members. They sometimes have accused academic researchers of being \"cult apologists\".\n\nInclusion in this list assumes having both the requisite training as well as actually conducting at least one research study on cults and/or new religious movements (using accepted methodological standards common in the research community), published in a peer-reviewed journal or academic book.\n"}
{"id": "39709452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39709452", "title": "Acceptance of evolution by religious groups", "text": "Acceptance of evolution by religious groups\n\nAlthough biological evolution has been vocally opposed by some religious groups, many other groups accept the scientific position, sometimes with additions to allow for theological considerations. The positions of such groups are described by terms including \"theistic evolution\", \"theistic evolutionism\" or \"evolutionary creation\". Theistic evolutionists believe that there is a God, that God is the creator of the material universe and (by consequence) all life within, and that biological evolution is a natural process within that creation. Evolution, according to this view, is simply a tool that God employed to develop human life. According to the American Scientific Affiliation, a Christian organization of scientists:\n\nAccording to Eugenie Scott, Director of the US National Center for Science Education, \"In one form or another, Theistic Evolutionism is the view of creation taught at the majority of mainline Protestant seminaries, and it is the official position of the Catholic church\".\n\nTheistic evolution is not a scientific theory, but a particular view about how the science of evolution relates to religious belief and interpretation. Theistic evolution supporters can be seen as one of the groups who reject the conflict thesis regarding the relationship between religion and sciencethat is, they hold that religious teachings about creation and scientific theories of evolution need not contradict. Proponents of this view are sometimes described as Christian Darwinists.\n\nThis view is generally accepted by major Christian churches, including the Catholic Church, Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, Episcopal Church USA, and some other mainline Protestant denominations; virtually all Jewish denominations; and other religious groups that lack a literalist stance concerning some holy scriptures. Various biblical literalists have accepted or noted openness to this stance, including theologian B.B. Warfield and evangelist Billy Graham. A 2007 poll showed that acceptance among American Buddhists, Hindus and Jews was higher than among any Christian groups (graph below). One recent survey, conducted by physicist Max Tegmark, on \"of how different US faith communities view origins science, particularly evolution and Big Bang cosmology.\" Although \"Gallup reports that 46% of Americans believe that God created humans in their present form less than 10,000 years ago\", it found \"only 11% belong to religions openly rejecting evolution.\"\n\nWith this approach toward evolution, scriptural creation stories are typically interpreted as being allegorical in nature.\nBoth Jews and Christians have considered the idea of the creation history as an allegory (instead of a historical description) long before the development of Darwin's theory. An example in Christianity would be the earlier writings by St. Augustine (4th century), though he later rejected allegory in favor of literal interpretation. By this Augustine meant that in Genesis 1 the terms \"light\", \"day\", and \"morning\" hold a spiritual, rather than physical, meaning, and that this spiritual morning is just as literal as physical morning. Augustine recognizes that the creation of a spiritual morning is as much a historical event as the creation of physical light. [In later work, Augustine said that \"there are some who think that only the world was made by God and that everything else is made by the world according to his ordination and command, but that God Himself makes nothing\".] Three noted Jewish examples are that of the writings of Philo of Alexandria (1st century), Maimonides (12th century) and Gersonides (13th century).\n\nTheistic evolutionists argue that it is inappropriate to use Genesis as a scientific text, since it was written in a pre-scientific age and originally intended for religious instruction; as such, seemingly chronological aspects of the creation accounts should be thought of in terms of a literary framework. Theistic evolutionists may believe that creation is not literally a week-long process but a process beginning in the time of Genesis and continuing through all of time, including today. This view affirms that God created the world and was the primary causation of our being, while scientific changes such as evolution are part of \"creatio continua\" or continuing creation which is still occurring in the never ending process of creation. This is one possible way of interpreting biblical scriptures, such as Genesis, that seem otherwise to be in opposition to scientific theories, such as evolution.\n\nMany religious organizations accept evolutionary theory, though their related theological interpretations vary. Additionally, individuals or movements within such organizations may not accept evolution, and stances on evolution may have adapted (or evolved) throughout history. There is considerable variance in overall acceptance of evolution between different countries, with studies showing that acceptance of evolution is lower in the United States than in Europe or Japan (only Turkey had a lower rate in the 34 countries sampled), and attitudes within religious groups may differ somewhat between counties.\n\nIn the Bahá'í Faith, `Abdul-Bahá, the son of the founder of the religion, wrote about the origin of life. A fundamental part of `Abdul-Bahá's teachings on evolution is the belief that all life came from the same origin: \"the origin of all material life is one...\" He states that from this sole origin, the complete diversity of life was generated: \"Consider the world of created beings, how varied and diverse they are in species, yet with one sole origin\" He explains that a slow, gradual process led to the development of complex entities:\n\nEvolution contradicts a literalistic interpretation of Genesis; however, according to Catholicism and most contemporary Protestant denominations, biblical literalism in the creation account is not mandatory. Christians have considered allegorical interpretations of Genesis since long before the development of Darwin's theory of evolution, or Hutton's principle of uniformitarianism. A notable example is St. Augustine (4th century), who, on theological grounds, argued that everything in the universe was created by God in the same instant, and not in six days as a plain reading of Genesis would require. Modern theologians such as Meredith G. Kline and Henri Blocher have advocated what has become known as the literary framework interpretation of the days of Genesis.\n\nAll of the traditional mainline Protestant denominations support or accept theistic evolution. For example, on 12 February 2006, the 197th anniversary of Charles Darwin's birth was commemorated by \"Evolution Sunday\" where the message that followers of Christ do not have to choose between biblical stories of creation and evolution was taught in classes and sermons at many Methodist, Lutheran, Episcopalian, Presbyterian, Unitarian, Congregationalist, United Church of Christ, Baptist and community churches.\n\nAdditionally, the National Council of Churches United States has issued a teaching resource to \"assist people of faith who experience no conflict between science and their faith and who embrace science as one way of appreciating the beauty and complexity of\nGod's creation.\" This resource cites the Episcopal Church, according to whom the stories of creation in Genesis \"should not be understood as historical and scientific accounts of origins but as proclamations of basic theological truths about creation.\"\n\nThe positions of particular denominations are discussed below.\n\nAnglicans (including the Episcopal Church in the United States of America, the Church of England and others) believe that the Bible \"contains all things necessary to salvation,\" while believing that \"science and Christian theology can complement one another in the quest for truth and understanding.\" Specifically on the subject of creation/evolution, some Anglicans view \"Big Bang cosmology\" as being \"in tune with both the concepts of creation out of nothing and continuous creation.\" Their position is clearly set out in the \"Catechism of Creation Part II: Creation and Science\". In an interview, the Archbishop of Canterbury Dr Rowan Williams expressed his thought that \"creationism is, in a sense, a kind of category mistake, as if the Bible were a theory like other theories. Whatever the biblical account of creation is, it's not a theory alongside theories... My worry is creationism can end up reducing the doctrine of creation rather than enhancing it.\" His view is that creationism should not be taught in schools.\n\nThe United Methodist Church affirms a Creator God and supports the scientific study of evolution.\n\n\"We recognize science as a legitimate interpretation of God's natural world. We affirm the validity of the claims of science in describing the natural world and in determining what is scientific. We preclude science from making authoritative claims about theological issues and theology from making authoritative claims about scientific issues. We find that science's descriptions of cosmological, geological, and biological evolution are not in conflict with theology.\" \n\nThe Church of the Nazarene, an evangelical Christian denomination, sees \"knowledge acquired by science and human inquiry equal to that acquired by divine revelation,\" and, while the church \"'believes in the Biblical account of creation' and holds that God is the sole creator, it allows latitude 'regarding the \"how\" of creation.'\"\n\nWhile Richard G. Colling, author of \"Random Designer\" and professor at Olivet Nazarene University, received criticism from elements within the denomination in 2007 for his book (published in 2004), Darrel R. Falk of Point Loma Nazarene published a similar book in 2004, and Karl Giberson of Eastern Nazarene, the first Nazarene scholar to publish with Oxford University Press, has published four books since 1993 on the tensions between science and religion, including his most recently published \"Saving Darwin\".\n\nTheologians of note in the denomination whose work on science and religion shows the promise of cooperation include Thomas Jay Oord (\"Science of Love\", \"The Altruism Reader\", \"Defining Love\"), Michael Lodahl (\"God of Nature and of Grace\"), and Samuel M. Powell (\"Participating in God\"). These theologians see no major problem reconciling theology with the general theory of evolution.\n\nThe Nazarene \"Manual\", a document crafted to provide Biblical guidance and denominational expression for Church members, states: \"The Church of the Nazarene believes in the biblical account of creation (\"In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth . . .\"—Genesis 1:1). We oppose any godless interpretation of the origin of the universe and of humankind. However, the church accepts as valid all scientifically verifiable discoveries in geology and other natural phenomena, for we firmly believe that God is the Creator. (Articles I.1., V. 5.1, VII.) (2005)\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church is divided in two large categories, which might be labeled as compatibilism and dualism.\n\nOn the one hand, compatibilists hold that evolutionary science and theology are compatible and view them as complementary revelations of God. As God is the source of both his specific revelation of himself in the Christian faith and the source of the general revelation of himself in nature, the findings of science and theology cannot really contradict; the contradictions must be merely apparent and a resolution possible which is faithful to the truth of God's revelation.\nNicozisin (Father George) is a compatibilist.\n\nOn the other hand, dualists hold that evolution can be incompatible with faith. They usually argue either that evolutionary science is philosophically based on a kind of naturalism or that God's specific revelation is infallible and therefore trumps the findings of human reason in the case of any conflict between them. This is often based on a suspicion of human reason to arrive at reliable conclusions in the first place. Their stance is somewhat similar to Averroism, in that there is one truth, but it can be arrived at through (at least) two different paths, namely Philosophy and Religion.\nBufeev, S. V, is a dualist, preferring to see the spiritual level above the mechanical, physico-chemical, or biological levels; he attributes discrepancies between spiritual matters and scientific matters to be because of the purely naturalistic views of evolutionists.\n\nThe position of the Roman Catholic Church on the theory of evolution has changed over the last two centuries from a large period of no official mention, to a statement of neutrality in the early-1950s, to limited guarded acceptance in recent years, rejecting the materialistic and reductionist philosophies behind it, and insisting that the human soul was immediately infused by God, and the reality of a single human ancestor (commonly called monogenism) for all of mankind. The Church does not argue with scientists on matters such as the age of the earth and the authenticity of the fossil record, seeing such matters as outside its area of expertise. Papal pronouncements, along with commentaries by cardinals, indicate that the Church is aware of the general findings of scientists on the gradual appearance of life. Indeed, Belgian priest Georges Lemaître, astronomer and physics professor at the Catholic University of Louvain, was the first to propose the theory of expansion of the universe, often incorrectly credited to Edwin Hubble. In the 1950 encyclical \"Humani generis\", Pope Pius XII confirmed that there is no intrinsic conflict between Christianity and the theory of evolution, provided that Christians believe that the individual soul is a direct creation by God and not the product of purely material forces. , many members of the Church supports theistic evolution(ism), also known as \"evolutionary creation\", Under Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, the International Theological Commission published a paper accepting the big bang of 15 billion years ago and the evolution of all life including humans from the microorganisms that formed approximately 4 billion years ago. The Vatican has no official teaching on this matter except for the special creation of the human soul. The Pontifical Biblical Commission issued a decree ratified by Pope Pius X on June 30, 1909, stating that special creation applies to humans and not other species.\n\nDeism is belief in a God or first cause based on reason, rather than on faith or revelation. Most deists believe that God does not interfere with the world or create miracles. Some deists believe that a Divine Creator initiated a universe in which evolution occurred, by designing the system and the natural laws, although many deists believe that God also created life itself, before allowing it to be subject to evolution. They find it to be undignified and unwieldy for a deity to make constant adjustments rather than letting evolution elegantly adapt organisms to changing environments.\n\nOne recent convert to deism was philosopher and professor Antony Flew, who became a deist in December 2004. Professor Flew, a former atheist, later argued that recent research into the origins of life supports the theory that some form of intelligence was involved. Whilst accepting subsequent Darwinian evolution, Flew argued that this cannot explain the complexities of the origins of life. He also stated that the investigation of DNA \"has shown, by the almost unbelievable complexity of the arrangements which are needed to produce [life], that intelligence must have been involved.\" He subsequently clarified this statement in an interview with Joan Bakewell for BBC Radio 4 in March 2005: \"What I was converted to was the existence of an Aristotelian God, and Aristotle's God had no interest in human affairs at all.\"\n\nHindu views on evolution include a range of viewpoints with regard to evolution, creationism, and the origin of life within the traditions of Hinduism. The accounts of the emergence of life within the universe vary, but classically tell of the deity called Brahma, from a Trimurti of three deities also including Vishnu and Shiva, performing the act of \"creation\", or more specifically of \"propagating life within the universe\". with the other two deities responsible for \"preservation\" and \"destruction\" (of the universe) respectively. Some Hindu schools do not treat the scriptural creation myth literally and often the creation stories themselves do not go into specific detail, thus leaving open the possibility of incorporating at least some theories in support of evolution. Some Hindus find support for, or foreshadowing of evolutionary ideas in scriptures, namely the Vedas.\n\nScience writers Carl Sagan and Fritjof Capra have pointed out similarities between the latest scientific understanding of the age of the universe, and the Hindu concept of a \"day and night of Brahma\", which is much closer to the current known age of the universe than other creation myths. The days and nights of Brahma posit a view of the universe that is divinely created, and is not strictly evolutionary, but an ongoing cycle of birth, death, and rebirth of the universe. According to Sagan:\nCapra, in his popular book \"The Tao of Physics\", wrote that:\nThe British geneticist and evolutionary biologist J B S Haldane observed that the Dasavataras (ten principal avatars of Lord Vishnu) provide a true sequential depiction of the great unfolding of evolution. The avatars of Vishnu show an uncanny similarity to the biological theory of evolution of life on earth.\n\nLord Rama, Lord Krishna and Lord Buddha were the seventh, eighth and ninth other avatars of Lord Vishnu. It indicates the physical and mental changes and evolution in the man from its time of appearance.\n\nSome literalist Muslims reject origin of species from a common ancestor by evolution as incompatible with the Qur'an. However, even amongst Muslims who accept evolution, many believe that humanity was a special creation by God. For example, Shaikh Nuh Ha Mim Keller, an American Muslim and specialist in Islamic law has argued in \"Islam and Evolution\" that a belief in macroevolution is not incompatible with Islam, as long as it is accepted that \"Allah is the Creator of everything\" (Qur'an 13:16) and that Allah specifically created humanity (in the person of Adam; Qur'an 38:71-76). Shaikh Keller states in his conclusion however:\n\n\"As for claim that man has evolved from a non-human species, this is unbelief (kufr) no matter if we ascribe the process to Allah or to \"nature,\" because it negates the truth of Adam's special creation that Allah has revealed in the Qur'an. Man is of special origin, attested to not only by revelation, but also by the divine secret within him, the capacity for ma'rifa or knowledge of the Divine that he alone of all things possesses. By his God-given nature, man stands before a door opening onto infinitude that no other creature in the universe can aspire to. Man is something else.\"\n\nThe Ahmadiyya movement also universally accepts the principle of the process of evolution with divine guidance.\n\nIn general, three of the four major denominations of American Judaism (Reconstructionist, Reform, and Conservative) accept theistic evolution. Within Orthodoxy, there is much debate about the issue. Most Modern Orthodox groups accept theistic evolution and most Ultra-Orthodox groups do not. This disagreement was most vociferous in the Natan Slifkin controversy which arose when a number of prominent Ultra-Orthodox Rabbis banned books written by Rabbi Natan Slifkin which explored the idea of theistic evolution within Jewish tradition. These Rabbis forming part of Jewish opposition to evolution considered that his books were heresy as they indicated that the Talmud is not necessarily correct about scientific matters such as the age of the Earth.\n\nAdvocates of theistic evolution within Judaism follow two general approaches. Either the creation account in the Torah is not to be taken as a literal text, but rather as a symbolic work, or, alternatively, that the 'days' do not refer to 24-hour periods. The latter view, called day-age creationism, is justified by how the first day in the biblical account actually precedes the creation of the sun and earth by which 24 hour days are reckoned and by how the seventh day of rest has no evening and morning. In the day-age view, Jewish scholars point out how the order of creation in Genesis corresponds to the scientific description of the development of life on Earth—the sun, then earth, then oceans, then oceanic plant life, fish preceding land-based life, with mammals and finally humans last—and in no way specifies the method of creation in a manner prohibitive of evolution.\n\nKaraite Judaism is a Jewish a movement which is distinct in that they do not accept the Talmud (a series of Rabbinic commentaries) as law and follow the Hebrew scriptures as they are written. Karaites are currently divided on the question of evolution with many or most Karaite Jews leaning in favor of Theistic Evolution.\n\nThe Samaritans, a divergent branch of the Israelites (the other being the Jews), generally accept Theistic Evolution. Samaritans do not consider themselves to be Jewish, but hold similar beliefs. The Jews, however, hold the Tanakh (consisting of the Torah or Pentateuch, plus Nevi'im, and Ketuvim) as canonical scripture in conjunction with the Oral Law as compiled in the Talmud, while the Samaritan's canonical scriptures consists only of the Torah (a slightly differing Pentateuch, i.e. the Five Books of Moses), but exclude both Nevi'im and Ketuvim, as well as excluding the Talmud.\n\nPantheists (for instance in Naturalistic Pantheism) may view natural processes, including evolution, as work or emanations from the impersonal, non-anthropomorphic deity.\n\nAlthough evolutionary biologists have often been agnostics (most notably Thomas Huxley and Charles Darwin) or atheists (most notably Richard Dawkins), from the outset many have had a belief in some form of theism. These have included Alfred Russel Wallace (1823–1913), who in a joint paper with Charles Darwin in 1858, proposed the theory of evolution by natural selection. Wallace, in his later years, was effectively a deist who believed that \"the unseen universe of Spirit\" had interceded to create life as well as consciousness in animals and (separately) in humans. Darwin had a longstanding close friendship with the American botanist Asa Gray who was a leading supporter of Darwin's theory, and a devout Presbyterian. Gray wrote a series of essays on the relationship of natural selection to religious belief and natural theology, and supported the views of theologians who said that design through evolution was inherent in all forms of life. Darwin had Gray and Charles Kingsley in mind when he wrote that \"It seems to me absurd to doubt that a man may be an ardent theist & an evolutionist\".\n\nAn early example of this kind of approach came from computing pioneer Charles Babbage who published his unofficial \"Ninth Bridgewater Treatise\" in 1837, putting forward the thesis that God had the omnipotence and foresight to create as a divine legislator, making laws (or programs) which then produced species at the appropriate times, rather than continually interfering with \"ad hoc\" miracles each time a new species was required.\n\nPierre Teilhard de Chardin (1881–1955) was a noted geologist and paleontologist as well as a Jesuit Priest who wrote extensively on the subject of incorporating evolution into a new understanding of Christianity. Initially suppressed by the Roman Catholic Church, his theological work has had considerable influence and is widely taught in Catholic and most mainline Protestant seminaries.\n\nBoth Ronald Fisher (1890–1962) and Theodosius Dobzhansky (1900–1975), were Christians and architects of the modern evolutionary synthesis. Dobzhansky, a Russian Orthodox, wrote a famous 1973 essay entitled \"Nothing in Biology Makes Sense Except in the Light of Evolution\" espousing evolutionary creationism:\n\nIn the realm of biology and theology, the saying coined by Thomas Jay Oord is perhaps appropriate: \"The Bible tells us how to find abundant life, not the details of how life became abundant.\"\n\nContemporary biologists and geologists who are Christians and theistic evolutionists include:\n\nPhilosophers, theologians, and physical scientists who have supported the evolutionary creationist model include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9196090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9196090", "title": "Aclla", "text": "Aclla\n\nAclla (Quechua: aklla or aqlla, pl. aqllakuna), also called Chosen Women, Virgins of the Sun, and Wives of the Inca, were sequestered women in the Inca Empire. They were virgins, chosen at about age 10. They performed several services. They were given in marriage to men who had distinguished themselves in service to the empire; they produced luxury items, weaving fine cloth, preparing ritual food, and brewing the chicha (beer) drunk at religious festivals; and some, the most \"perfect\", were selected as human sacrifices for religious rites. Others lived out their lives in a monastic environment.\n\nThe Inca Empire (1438-1533) created, or adopted from earlier cultures, several institutions to manage the labor of the people in the territory it ruled. Among the institutions were the mit'a, the yanakuna, and the aclla.\n\nEach year the Inca government sent out representatives, called apupanaca, to collect girls eight to ten years old from the provinces as tribute for the state. The girls selected were mostly from the higher social classes, frequently coming from the families of non-Inca provincial leaders. The girls were sent for training in provincial centers to live together in complexes of buildings called acllawasi (house of the chosen women) which might have up to 200 women in residence.\n\nThe girls were trained for about 4 years in religion, spinning and weaving, preparation of food, and brewing chicha. They then became mamakuna (priestesses) and were married to prominent men or assigned to religious duties. The most skilled and physically perfect were sent to Cuzco, the capital of the empire, and might become secondary wives or concubines of the Inca emperor and other noblemen. A few were destined to be sacrificed in a religious ceremony called capacocha. Recently discovered archaeological evidence contained the remains of a male \"aclla\".\n\nThe use of \"acllas\" was tied to kinship and the maintenance of hegemony within the empire. The family of a chosen \"aclla\" would be raised in social status. The \"acllas\" themselves would honour the main Inca gods and be honoured in return. Those not sacrificed at Cuzco might be returned to their own communities and be sacrificed there. This would create a ritual bond between Cuzco and the local region; Cuzco had taken a member of the local community and made them a representative of the central state. The \"aclla\" had been blessed by the Emperor and became the guardian of the local huacas. This signaled the entrance of the empire into local tradition and religion. This tying of the centre to the periphery was one of the most important aspects of the sacrifice of \"acllas\". The story of Tanta Carhua is one such account of the process of binding the centre and the periphery together.\n\nColonial documents contain record of Tanta Carhua, who was sacrificed as a \"capacocha\" in her home ayllu of Urcon. After visiting Cuzco and being honoured by the emperor, Tanta Carhua was credited with saying “You can finish with me now because I could not be more honoured than by the feasts which they celebrated for me in Cuzco.\" Upon her return home, Tanta’s father became the curaca of his ayllu. Tanta was deified and her “sacrifice... ritually asserted her father’s, and father’s descendants’, new role as a nexus between Urcon and Cuzco while dramatizing the community’s subordination to Cuzco.”\n"}
{"id": "1271408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1271408", "title": "Alpha and Omega", "text": "Alpha and Omega\n\nAlpha (Α or α) and omega (Ω or ω) are the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet, and a title of Christ and God in the Book of Revelation. This pair of letters are used as Christian symbols, and are often combined with the Cross, Chi-rho, or other Christian symbols.\n\nThe term \"Alpha and Omega\" comes from the phrase \"I am Alpha and Omega\" (Koiné Greek: \"ἐγὼ τὸ Α καὶ τὸ Ω\"), an appellation of Jesus in the Book of Revelation (verses 1:8, 21:6, and 22:13). The first part of this phrase (\"I am the Alpha and Omega\") is first found in Chapter 1 verse 8 (\"1v8\"), and is found in every manuscript of Revelation that has 1v8. Several later manuscripts repeat \"I am the Alpha and Omega\" in 1v11 too, but do not receive support here from most of the oldest manuscripts, including the Alexandrine, Sinaitic, and Codex Ephraemi Rescriptus. It is, therefore, omitted in some modern translations. Scholar Robert Young stated, with regard to \"I am the Alpha and Omega\" in 1v11, the \"oldest [manuscripts] omit\" it.\n\nAlpha (Α) and omega (Ω) are the first and last letters, respectively, of the classical (Ionic) Greek alphabet. Thus, twice when the phrase \"I am the alpha and the omega\" appears it is further clarified with the additional phrase, \"the beginning and the end\" (Revelation 21:6, 22:13). The first and last letters of the Greek alphabet were used because the book of Revelation is in the New Testament, which was originally written in Greek.\n\nThis phrase is interpreted by many Christians to mean that Jesus has existed for all eternity or that God is eternal. Though many commentators and dictionaries ascribe the title \"the alpha and the omega\" to both God and to Christ, some secular sources argue otherwise. \"Barnes' Notes on the New Testament\" (1974) claims: \"It cannot be absolutely certain that the writer meant to refer to the Lord Jesus specifically here ... There is no real incongruity in supposing, also, that the writer here meant to refer to God as such.\" Most Christian denominations also teach that the title applies to both Jesus and his Father.\n\nThe letters Alpha and Omega in juxtaposition are often used as a Christian visual symbol (see examples). The symbols were used in early Christianity and appear in the Roman catacombs. The letters were shown hanging from the arms of the cross in Early Christian art, and some crux gemmata, jeweled crosses in precious metal, have formed letters hanging in this way, called pendilia; for example, in the , which is based upon the Asturian Victory Cross. In fact, despite always being in Greek, the letters became more common in Western than Eastern Orthodox Christian art. They are often shown to the left and right of Christ's head, sometimes within his halo, where they take the place of the Christogram used in Orthodox art.\n\nIn Rabbinic literature, the word \"emet\" (אמת meaning \"truth\"), one of the names of God in Judaism, has been interpreted as consisting of the first, middle, and final letters of the Hebrew alphabet.\n\nThe Qur'an gives \"al'Awwal\" (الأول), meaning \"The First\" and \"al'Akhir\" (الآخر), meaning \"The Last\" as two of the names of God: .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2660572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2660572", "title": "Aniconism", "text": "Aniconism\n\nAniconism is the absence of material representations of the natural and supernatural world in various cultures, particularly in the monotheistic Abrahamic religions. This ban may extend from only God and deities to saint characters, all living beings, and everything that exists. The phenomenon is generally codified by the religious traditions and as such becomes a taboo. When enforced by the physical destruction of images, aniconism becomes iconoclasm. The word itself derives from Greek εικων 'image' with the negative prefix \"an-\" (Greek privative alpha) and the suffix \"-ism\" (Greek -ισμος).\n\nMonotheist religions – Aniconism was shaped in monotheist religions by theological considerations and historical contexts. It emerged as a corollary of seeing God's position as the ultimate power holder, and the need to defend this unique status against competing external and internal forces, such as pagan idols and critical humans. Idolatry was seen as a threat to uniqueness, and one way that prophets and missionaries chose to fight it was through the prohibition of physical representations. The same solution worked against the pretension of humans to have the same power of creation as God (hence their banishment from the Heavens, the destruction of Babel, and the Second Commandment in the biblical texts).\n\nAniconism as a construction – Some modern scholars, working on various cultures, have gathered material showing that the idea of aniconism is in many cases an intellectual construction, suiting specific intents and historical contexts, rather than a fact of the tangible reality (Huntington for Buddhism, Clément for Islam and Bland for Judaism – see below in notes and references).\n\nBuddhist art used to be aniconic: the Buddha was represented only through his symbols (an empty throne, the Bodhi tree, the Buddha's footprints, the prayer wheel). This reluctance toward anthropomorphic representations of the Buddha, and the sophisticated development of aniconic symbols to avoid it (even in narrative scenes where other human figures would appear), seem to be connected to one of the Buddha's sayings, reported in the Digha Nikaya, that discouraged representations of himself after the extinction of his body. Although there is still some debate, the first anthropomorphic representations of the Buddha himself are often considered a result of the Greco-Buddhist interaction. \n\nIn the late 20th century, the well-established theory of aniconism in Buddhist art had been criticized by one art historian, and the question has been the subject of continuing debate.\n\nAlthough aniconism is better known in connection to Abrahamic religions, basic patterns are shared between various religious beliefs including Hinduism, which also has aniconistic beliefs. For example, although Hinduism is commonly represented by such anthropomorphic religious murtis, aniconism is equally represented with such abstract symbols of God such as the Shiva linga and the saligrama. Moreover, Hindus have found it easier to focus on anthropomorphic icons, because god Krishna said in the Bhagavad Gita, chapter 12, verse 5, that it is much more difficult to focus on God as the unmanifested than God with form, because human beings have a need to perceive via the senses.\n\nThere were two periods of iconoclasm, or icon-destruction, in the Byzantine Empire, in the mid eighth and early ninth centuries. The political aspects of the conflicts are complex, dealing with the relationship between the Byzantine Emperors, the Catholic Church and Orthodox Church councils, and the Pope. Theologically, the debate, as with most in Orthodox theology at the time, revolved around the two natures of Jesus. Iconoclasts believed that icons could not represent both the divine and the human natures of the Messiah at the same time, but separately. Because an icon which depicted Jesus as purely physical would be Nestorianism, and one which showed Him as both human and divine would not be able to do so without confusing the two natures into one mixed nature, which was Monophysitism, all icons were thus heretical. Reference was also made to the prohibitions on the worship of graven images in the Mosaic Law.\n\nAniconism was also prevalent during the Protestant Reformation, when some Protestants began to preach rejection of what they perceived as idolatrous Catholic practices which filled its churches with pictures, statues, or relics of saints. The Reformed (Calvinist) churches and certain sects (most notably the Puritans and some of the Baptist churches) began to prohibit the display of religious images. A famous example of this comes from Oliver Cromwell, who expelled King Charles I, and who once destroyed a golden relic placed in his church.\n\nIn the Church of the East, also known as the Nestorian church, opposition to religious images eventually became the norm due to the rise of Islam in the region, where it forbade any type of depictions of Saints and biblical prophets. As such, the Church was forced to get rid of their icons. This tradition is still in practice today, with many Assyrian churches lacking artistic depictions of biblical figures, including those of Jesus and Mary.\n\nThe Amish continue to avoid photographs or any depictions of people; their children's dolls usually have blank faces.\n\nAmong Jehovah's Witnesses, followers are prohibited from wearing religious themed jewelry displaying icons such as the cross, as idol worship is prohibited. Having images or sculptures of Jesus, Jehovah (God), and angels are also considered a taboo according to their interpretation of Exodus 20:4,5 and 1 Corinthians 10:14. Followers are also admonished to avoid any objects portraying depictions of the supernatural. \n\nThe Qur'an, the Islamic holy book, does not explicitly prohibit the depiction of human figures; it merely condemns idolatry (ex.: , ). Interdictions of figurative representation are present in the Hadith, among a dozen of the hadith recorded during the latter part of the period when they were being written down. Because these hadith are tied to particular events in the life of the Prophet Muhammad, they need to be interpreted in order to be applied in any general manner. Sunni exegetes, from the 9th century onward, increasingly saw in them categorical prohibitions against producing and using any representation of living beings. There are variations between religious schools and marked differences between different branches of Islam. Aniconism is common among fundamentalist Sunni sects such as Salafis and Wahhabis (which are also often iconoclastic), and less prevalent among liberal movements in Islam. Shi'a and mystical orders also have less stringent views on aniconism. On the individual level, whether or not specific Muslims believe in aniconism may depend on how much credence is given to hadith (e.g. Submitters do not believe in any hadith), and how liberal or strict they are in personal practice.\n\nAniconism in Islam not only deals with the material image, but touches upon mental representations as well. It is a thorny question, discussed by early theologians, as to how to describe God, Muhammad and other prophets, and, indeed, if it is permissible at all to do so. God is usually represented by immaterial attributes, such as \"holy\" or \"merciful\", commonly known from His \"Ninety-nine beautiful names\". Muhammad's physical appearance, however, is amply described, particularly in the traditions on his life and deeds \"Sira al-Nabi\". Of no less interest is the validity of sightings of holy personages made during dreams.\n\nReligious core – In practice, the core of normative religion in Islam is consistently aniconic. Its embodiment are spaces such as the mosque and objects like the Qur'an or the white dress of pilgrims entering Mecca, deprived of figurative images. Other spheres of religion – schisms, mysticism, popular piety, private level – exhibit in this regard significant variability. Profane aniconism is even more fluctuating. Generally speaking aniconsim in Islamic societies is restricted in modern times to specific religious contexts, while its prevalence in the past wasn't enforced in numerous areas and during extended periods.\n\nPresent – Depending on which segment of Islamic societies are referred to, the application of aniconism is characterized with noteworthy differences. Factors are the epoch considered, the country, the religious orientation, the political intent, the popular beliefs, the private benefit or the dichotomy between reality and discourse. Today, the concept of an aniconic Islam coexists with a daily life for Muslims awash with images. TV stations and newspapers (which do present still and moving representations of living beings) have an exceptional impact on public opinion, sometimes, as in the case of Al-Jazira, with a global reach, beyond the Arabic speaking and Muslim audience. Portraits of secular and religious leaders are omnipresent on banknotes and coins, in streets and offices (e.g.: presidents like Nasser and Mubarak, Arafat, Al-Asad or Hezbollah's Nasrallah and ayatollah Khomeini). Anthropomorphic statues in public places are to be found in most Muslim countries (Saddam Hussain's are infamous ), as well as Arts schools training sculptors and painters. In the Egyptian countryside, it is fashionable to celebrate and advertise the returning of pilgrims from Mekka on the walls of their houses. Sometimes those who profess aniconism will practice figurative representation (cf. portraits of Talibans from the Kandahar photographic studios during their imposed ban on photography). For Shi'a communities, portraits of the major figures of Shi'ite history are important elements of religious devotion. Portraits of 'Ali – with veiled and unveiled face alike – can be bought in Iran around shrines and in the streets, to be hung in homes or carried with oneself, while in Pakistan, India and Bangladesh they notoriously ornate trucks, buses and rickshas. Contrary to the Sunni tradition, a photographic picture of the deceased can be placed on the Shi'ite tombs. A curiosity in Iran is a Orientalist photography supposed to represent Prophet Muhammad as a young boy. The Grand Ayatollah Sistani of Najaf in Iraq has given a fatwa declaring the depiction of Muhammad, the Prophets and other holy characters, permissible if it is made with the utmost respect.\n\nPast – Neither is the representation of living beings in Islamic countries a modern phenomenon or due to current technology, westernization or the cult of the personality. Statues of humans and animals adorned palaces of the Ummayad era, while frescoes were common under the Ummayads, and later in many countries of Dar al-Islam, notably under the Safavids and various Central Asian dynasties. Figurative miniatures from Medieval Arabic countries, India, Persia and Turkey are one of the fleuron of Islamic Arts and a good deal of its attraction power for non-Muslim societies. Potent rulers like Shah Tahmasp in Persia and Akbar in India, patrons of some of the most beautiful figurative miniatures in arts from Islamic countries, migrated during their life between an extravagant 'figurative' and an extremist 'aniconic' period. During the 15th and 17th century representations of Muhammad (veiled, unveiled) and other prophets or Biblical characters, like Adam, Abraham or Jesus; and Solomon and Alexander the Great, became common in painted manuscripts from Persia, India and Turkey. Extreme rarities are an illustrated Qur'an depicting Muhammad and, in a Spanish-Muslim manuscript datable from the 16th century, five Ummayad and Abbasid caliphs. Iblis too is present in various illustrated manuscripts. There aren't, however, known figurative depictions of God.\n\nCircumvention methods – Medieval Muslim artists found various ways not to infringe any prohibition of the image, while still representing living beings. It can be argued that since God is absolute, the act of depiction is his own and not that of a human; and miniatures are obviously very crude representations of the reality, so the two can't be mistaken. At the material level, prophets in manuscripts can have their face covered by a veil or all humans have a stroke drawn over their neck, a symbolical cut defending them to be alive. Calligraphy, the most Islamic of arts in the Muslim world, has also its figurative side due to anthropo- and zoomorphic calligrams.\n\nA number of verses in the Hebrew Bible (Tanakh) refer to prohibitions against the creation of various forms of images, invariably linked directly with idolatry. The strongest over-all source is based on what Judaism counts as the second of the Ten Commandments:\n\nThis prohibition is widespread. For instance, Leviticus 26:1 reads:\n\nSimilar injunctions appear in Numbers 33:52, Deuteronomy 4:16, and 27:15; in all cases, the creation of the image is associated with idolatry, and indeed, the words commonly translated as \"image\" or some variant thereof (פסל \"pesel\", שקוץ \"shikuts\") are generally used interchangeably with words typically translated as \"idol\" (e.g., אליל \"elil\"). (An important exception is צלם \"tselem\", used in such verses as Genesis 1:26: \"let us make man in our image\". This word was not associated with idols.)\n\nBased on these prohibitions, the Hebrew prophets, such as Isaiah, Jeremiah, Amos and others, preached very strongly against idolatry. In many of their sermons, as recorded in the biblical books bearing their names, the prophets regarded the use of religious images as a negative sign of assimilation into the surrounding pagan cultures of the time.\n\nDespite the semantic association with idols, Halakha (\"Jewish law\") as taught by the Shulkhan Arukh (\"Code of Jewish Law\") and still practiced and applied by Orthodox Judaism today, interprets the verses as prohibiting the creation of certain types of graven images of people, angels, or astronomical bodies, whether or not they are actually used as idols. The Shulkhan Arukh states: \"It is forbidden to make complete solid or raised images of people or angels, or any images of heavenly bodies except for purposes of study\". (\"Heavenly bodies\" are included here because the stars and planets were worshipped by some religions in human forms. Astronomical models for scientific purposes are permitted under the category of \"study.\") \nAlthough the prohibition applies mainly to sculpture, there are some authorities who prohibit two-dimensional full-face depictions. Some base this upon their understanding of the Talmud, and others based it upon Kabbalah. Of note is the portrait of Rabbi Tzvi Ashkenazi (known as \"the Hakham Tzvi\"), which is housed in the Jewish Museum in London. Based on his interpretation of this prohibition, the Hakham Tzvi refused to sit for his portrait. However, the London Jewish Community wanted a portrait, so they commissioned the portrait to be done without the Hakham Tzvi's knowledge. The Hakham Tzvi's son, Rabbi Jacob Emden, says it was a perfect likeness.\n\nAdditionally, there is one type of representation, namely, bas-relief or raised representation on a flat surface, that is particularly problematic. Rabbi Jacob Emden discusses a medal struck in honor of Rabbi Eliezer Horowitz that features Horowitz's portrait. Emden ruled this violated the injunction against depictions. Furthermore, many hold that such representations in the synagogue either violate this injunction or are not permitted, as they give the appearance of violating this injunction. Most notably, Rabbi David ibn Zimra and Rabbi Joseph Karo hold that carvings of lions (e.g., representing the Lion of Judah) are inappropriate in synagogues.\nOn the other hand, some authorities hold that Judaism has no objection to photography or other forms of two-dimensional art, and depictions of humans can be seen in religious books such as the Passover Haggadah, as well as children's books about biblical and historical personages. Although most Hasidic Jews object to having televisions in their homes, this is not related to prohibitions against idolatry, but, rather, to the content of network and cable programming. Hasidim of all groups regularly display portraits of their Rebbes, and, in some communities, the children trade \"rabbi cards\" that are similar to baseball cards. In both Hasidic and Orthodox Judaism, taking photographs or filming are forbidden on the Sabbath and Jewish holy days, but this prohibition has nothing to do with idolatry. Rather, it is related to the prohibition against working or creating on these days.\n\nAlthough, in biblical times, Jews were actively iconoclasts, physically tearing down and destroying idols of other religions located within their political jurisdiction, today there is more tolerance for other cultures. In the state of Israel, all religious sites, Jewish and non-Jewish alike, are protected by law. Even though Jewish Law teaches that idolatry is forbidden to all of humanity as one of the seven Noahide Laws, Jews today combat it through discussion, debate, and education, rather than the physical destruction of statues and shrines. However, many traditional Jews still follow the prohibitions against entering places of idolatry, and will not attend functions held in buildings where there are religious statues.\n\nIn a refutation of the belief in an aniconic Judaism, and more generally in an underestimation of Jewish visual arts, the historian of ideas Kalman Bland recently proposed that the phenomenon is a modern construction, and that \"Jewish aniconism crystallized simultaneously with the construction of modern Jewish identities\".\n\nFor the followers of the Bahá'í Faith, the photographs and depictions of the Báb and Bahá'u'lláh, who are considered Manifestations of God, are considered very precious. They are viewed and handled with reverence and respect, and their existence itself is not considered offensive. However, Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá'í Faith, stated that believers should only view the images when they can be treated with the utmost respect, and not let them be exposed to the public or displayed in their private homes:\n\nShoghi Effendi has also written in the \"Directives from the Guardian\" regarding the portrait of the Báb:\n\nTwo pictures of Bahá'u'lláh and a portrait of the Báb are on display at the Bahá'í World Centre in the International Archives building, where the Bahá'ís view it as part of an organized pilgrimage.\n\nIn Africa aniconism varies from culture to culture from elaborate masks and statues of humans and animals to their total absence. A common feature, however, across the continent is that the \"High God\" is not given material shape. On the Germanic tribes, the Roman historian Tacitus writes the following: \"They don't consider it mighty enough for the Heavens to depict Gods on walls or to display them in some human shape.\" His observation is not general to all German people as documentary evidence suggests (see Ardre image stones).\n\nIn Australian Aboriginal culture there is a prohibition and tribal lore and custom contravening the depiction of the newly or recently dead, including photographs, because it is believed that depicting them will inhibit their passage to the Great Dreaming of the Ancestors. This has led some Australian newspapers to publish apologies alongside obituaries.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "241787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241787", "title": "Animatism", "text": "Animatism\n\nAnimatism is a term coined by British anthropologist Robert Marett to refer to \"a belief in a generalized, impersonal power over which people have some measure of control\". Marett argues that certain cultures believe \"people, animals, plants, and inanimate objects were endowed with certain powers, which were both impersonal and supernatural.\" \"Mana\", Marett states, is a concentrated form of animatistic force found within any of these objects that confer power, strength, and success.\n\n"}
{"id": "53785213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53785213", "title": "Ataullah Siddiqui", "text": "Ataullah Siddiqui\n\nDr Ataullah Siddiqui is a British academic and Reader in Religious Pluralism and Inter-Faith Relations at the Markfield Institute of Higher Education. Previously, he was the Director of the Institute from 2001 - 2008. He is a Visiting Professor at the University of Gloucestershire, a Visiting Fellow at York St. John’s University, and an Advisory Board member of the HRH Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Centre for the Study of Islam in the Contemporary World at the University of Edinburgh. He was founder President and Vice Chair of the ‘Christian Muslim Forum’, and a founder member of the Leicester Council of Faiths.\n\nDr Siddiqui is the author of the 2007 report, commissioned by the UK government, entitled \"Islam at Universities in England: Meeting the Needs and Investing in the Future\".\n\nIn 2013, he gave one of the Cadbury Lectures at the University of Birmingham.\n\nHis publications include:\n"}
{"id": "19535017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19535017", "title": "Aumism", "text": "Aumism\n\nAumism is a minor religious sect founded in 1969 by Gilbert Bourdin (1924-1998). Centered on the \"holy city\" of Mandarom, near Castellane in the French Alps, it has approximately 400 members, down from 1200 at its peak. It is a synthesis of a number of religions, notably buddhism. Its name derives from the mystical \"aum\" sound used in Hindu meditation.\n\nGilbert Bourdin (1924-1998), also known as Hamsah Manarah self-proclaimed \"Cosmoplanetary Messiah of Synthesis\" founded the movement in 1969 after immersing himself in many oriental religions.\n\nThe holy city of Mandarom Shambhasalem was founded in 1969, about 50 kilometres northwest of Cannes. Bourdin progressively built a number of temples and statues. Amongst these is a 22-metre statue of Buddha Maitreya, constructed in 1981, and a 21-metre statue of \"Cosmic Christ\" wielding a sword and shield, constructed in 1987. In 1990, a 33-metre statue of Bourdin was constructed at Mandarom. The legitimacy of the building permit was later challenged, and eventually, in June 2000, the statue was deemed illegal after a long legal dispute. As a result, it was demolished by the authorities on 6 September 2001. The sect denounced the demolition of Bourdin's statue, saying that it was comparable to the destruction of the Buddhas of Bamyan by the Taliban in Afghanistan earlier in the year.\n\n"}
{"id": "12311883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12311883", "title": "Berkley Center for Religion, Peace, and World Affairs", "text": "Berkley Center for Religion, Peace, and World Affairs\n\nThe Berkley Center for Religion, Peace, and World Affairs is an academic research center at Georgetown University in Washington, DC dedicated to the interdisciplinary study of religion, ethics, and politics. The center was founded in 2006 under a gift from William R. Berkley, a member of Georgetown's Board of Directors. The center's founding director was Thomas Banchoff.\n"}
{"id": "41042751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41042751", "title": "Center for Jewish–Christian Understanding and Cooperation", "text": "Center for Jewish–Christian Understanding and Cooperation\n\nThe Center for Jewish–Christian Understanding and Cooperation or CJCUC is an educational institution at which Christians who tour Israel can study the Hebrew Bible with Orthodox rabbis and learn about the Hebraic roots of Christianity. The center was established in Efrat in 2008 by Rabbi Dr. Shlomo Riskin, who has been described as \"the most prominent rabbinic spokesperson to Christian Zionists\". CJCUC partners with major Christian interfaith organizations such as Christians United for Israel and the International Christian Embassy Jerusalem.\n\nThe ideological groundwork, which led to the eventual establishment of CJCUC in 2008, began to take shape almost 50 years beforehand. In 1964, Rabbi Joseph B. Soloveitchik, the teacher and mentor of CJCUC's Chancellor and Founder, Shlomo Riskin, published an essay entitled \"Confrontation\" in which he expounded his views on interfaith dialogue and carefully drew out guidelines which permitted such a dialogue and, in the view of Riskin, not only permitted it but rendered it necessary.\n\nAt around the same time, fundamental ideological shifts were forming within the ranks of the Catholic Church, and a year after Soloveitchik's essay was published, The Holy See issued \"Nostra aetate\", the Declaration on the Relation of the Church with Non-Christian Religions. \"Nostra aetate\" absolved the Jews from the crucifixion of Jesus, and admitted that religious antisemitism had a significant role in laying the foundation for the atrocities perpetrated against the Jewish people.\n\nRiskin's academic plunge into Jewish–Christian relations began in the early 1960s when he attended seminars, held by Professor David Flusser, about the Christian Gospels at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. As an Orthodox Jew, he could pinpoint the parallels for Jesus' teachings within the Hebrew scripture.\n\nAfter settling in Efrat, Riskin began to engage with the Christian world. Most of the Christian visitors to Efrat, those who came to hear and learn, were Evangelicals. He formed relations with Rev. Robert Stearns of Eagles' Wings and with Pastor John Hagee.\n\nCJCUC hosts Christian groups from all over the world for all-day seminars, which include tours\nof biblical sites such as nearby Jerusalem, the Path of the Patriarchs and the Herodian wells.\nAmong the subjects that the seminar series includes are Jewish–Christian Relations; the Theology\nof Biblical Holidays; Covenant and Mission; The Ten Commandments; Satan, Evil and Free Will;\nJudaism and the Ministry of Jesus; and Human Life Created in the Image of God.\n\nThe center runs educational seminars for students and faculty of Catholic and Protestant seminaries in the United States, Canada, and Europe. It has appointed North American and European directors to coordinate relations with religious leaders on these continents.\n\nCJCUC has established a Theological Think Tank, the Institute for Theological Inquiry (ITI), headed by Rabbi Eugene Korn and Dr. Robert Jenson of the Witherspoon Institute, which consists of international scholars and theologians whose tasks are to clarify areas of Jewish and Christian theological agreement and disagreement, as well as identify areas of fruitful cooperation. The topics focus on past and present Jewish–Christian Relations, Covenant, Salvation, Biblical Hermeneutics, Religion and Violence, Ethical Monotheism, and\nMessianism.\n\nIn May 2011, CJCUC facilitated and sponsored a Yale University student group consisting of Orthodox Jewish and Evangelical Christians to learn the fundamentals of Jewish–Christian relations.\n\nIn March 2012, CJCUC took Latin American priests and rabbis to learn the fundamentals of Jewish-Catholic relations in the backdrop of the Holy Land.\n\nIn June 2012, CJCUC partnered with Christians United for Israel to bring 30 Evangelical pastors from the U.S. to learn the fundamentals of Jewish–Christian relations.\n\nIn February 2013, CJCUC co-sponsored the visit of more than 160 pastors to Israel through the Christians United for Israel organization.\n\nIn January 2015, CJCUC founder, Rabbi Shlomo Riskin along with CJCUC's Executive Director, David Nekrutman, addressed a group of 400 pastors and rabbis at a symposium held in Broward County, Florida.\n\nIn February 2015, on a visit to Oklahoma, Rabbi Riskin unveiled plans for historic high school curricula, being worked on in a joint effort with the government of Israel, detailing advancements in Jewish–Christian relations.\n\nIn July 2016, CJCUC announced that it was moving its center of operations from Efrat to the Bible Lands Museum in Jerusalem.\n\nCJCUC has received funds from Israel's Hertog family, Paul Singer Foundation, Zion's Gate International Foundation, Ministry of Justice, and John Hagee Ministries.\n\nIn October 2014, Riskin became the first Orthodox rabbi to invite Christian visitors to Israel to participate in a \"praise rally\" with Jewish interfaith leaders at the Center's headquarters during the holiday of Sukkot. For Sukkot 2012, he hosted a seminar for Christian visitors.\n\nIn March 2015, he launched the Day to Praise global initiative calling out to Christians worldwide to join him in reciting Hallel (Psalms 113–118) to praise God on Yom Ha'atzmaut (Israel's Independence Day).\n\nLater that year, in 2015, during the festival of Sukkot, CJCUC, together with its founder, Rabbi Shlomo Riskin, the chief rabbi of Efrat, hosted an interfaith event in Efrat in which 200 Christians and Jews came together to sing the praises of God in unity. Riskin said that \"the prayer event will help usher in the Messianic Age.\"\n\nCJCUC created the first food voucher program to help financially disadvantaged Christian Arabs living in the Land.\n\nIn September 2016, CJCUC's Associate Director, Rabbi Pesach Wolicki, launched the \"Blessing Bethlehem\" fundraising initiative at the LifeLight Festival in Sioux Falls, South Dakota in and effort to create a food giveaway program for persecuted Christians in Bethlehem and the surrounding area.\n\nIn October 2013, CJCUC Executive Director, David Nekrutman published a controversial appeal for funds from Jews to support the purchase of a permanent site for the Christian-Arab church of Pastor Steven Khoury.\n\nIn May 2014, CJCUC sponsored an interfaith Latin American clergy mission that visited the Ziv Medical Center in Safed, Israel, donating supplies to wounded Syrian civil war refugees.\n\nIn a September 2015 piece for The Times of Israel, Executive Director, David Nekrutman appealed to the Israeli Ministry of Education in regards to budget cuts and equal funding for Christian Schools in Israel citing these budget cuts as \"collateral damage\" of internal political issues and stating that these issues \"should never oppress minority populations\". Later, together with The Pave the Way Foundation (PTWF) and the Galilee Center for Studies in Jewish-Christian Relations (CSJCR), CJCUC initiated an international campaign urging the Israeli Prime Minister and Education Ministry to Save Christian Education.\n\nCJCUC accomplishments include:\n\n\n\n\nOn 3 December 2015, CJCUC spearheaded a petition of orthodox rabbis from around the world calling for increased partnership between Jews and Christians.\n\nThe unprecedented statement, entitled \"To Do the Will of Our Father in Heaven: Toward a Partnership between Jews and Christians\", was initially signed by over 25 prominent Orthodox rabbis in Israel, United States, and Europe, and now has over 60 signatories.\n\nThe statement cites traditional opinions by past rabbinic authorities to justify partnership with Christians and religious appreciation of Christianity.\n\nIn May 2017, the statement was approbated by Rabbi Abraham Skorka of Argentina and Cardinal Christoph Schönborn Archbishop of Vienna.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4363081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4363081", "title": "Conflict thesis", "text": "Conflict thesis\n\nThe \"conflict thesis\" is a historiographical approach in the history of science which maintains that there is an intrinsic intellectual conflict between religion and science and that the relationship between religion and science inevitably leads to hostility; examples to support this thesis have commonly been drawn from the relations between science and religion in Western Europe. The thesis retains support among some scientists and in the public, while most historians of science reject the thesis, especially in its original strict form.\n\nIn the 1800s the relationship between science and religion became an actual formal topic of discourse, while before this no one had pitted science against religion or vice versa, though occasional interactions were expressed in the past. More specifically, it was around the mid-1800s that discussion of \"science and religion\" first emerged because before this time, \"science\" still included moral and metaphysical dimensions, was not inherently linked to the scientific method, and the term \"scientist\" did not emerge until 1834. The scientist John William Draper and the writer Andrew Dickson White were the most influential exponents of the conflict thesis between religion and science. Draper had been the speaker in the British Association meeting of 1860 which led to the famous confrontation between Bishop Wilberforce and Huxley over Darwinism, and in America \"the religious controversy over biological evolution reached its most critical stages in the late 1870s\". In the early 1870s Draper was invited by American science popularizer Edward Livingston Youmans to write a \"History of the Conflict between Religion and Science\" (1874), a book replying to contemporary issues in Roman Catholicism, such as the doctrine of papal infallibility, and mostly criticizing what he claimed to be anti-intellectualism in the Catholic tradition, but also making criticisms of Islam and of Protestantism. Draper's preface summarises the conflict thesis:\n\nIn 1874 White published his thesis in and in book form as \"The Warfare of Science\":\n\nIn 1896, White published \"A History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom\", the culmination of over thirty years of research and publication on the subject, criticizing what he saw as restrictive, dogmatic forms of Christianity. In the introduction, White emphasized that he arrived at his position after the difficulties of assisting Ezra Cornell in establishing a university without any official religious affiliation.\n\nJames Joseph Walsh, M.D., the historian of medicine, criticized White's perspective as anti-historical in \"The Popes and Science; the History of the Papal Relations to Science During the Middle Ages and Down to Our Own Time\" (1908), a book dedicated to Pope Pius X:\n\nIn \"God and Nature\" (1986), David Lindberg and Ronald Numbers report that \"White's \"Warfare\" apparently did not sell as briskly as Draper's \"Conflict\", but in the end it proved more influential, partly, it seems, because Draper's strident anti-Catholicism soon dated his work and because White's impressive documentation gave the appearance of sound scholarship\". During the 20th century, historians' acceptance of the conflict thesis declined until rejected in the 1970s. David B. Wilson notes:\n\nIn his course on science and religion, historian Lawrence Principe summarizes Draper's and White's works by saying, \"While we can look today with astonishment upon the shoddy character of Draper and White’s writings, their books have had enormous impact, and we can’t deny that. Much of this is due to their great success in their creating a myth for science as a religion. Their myth of science as a religion is replete with battles, and martyrdoms, and saints, and creeds. And as we know, or should know, myths are often much more powerful than historical realities.\"\nIn the coursebook, Principe writes, \"No serious historians of science or of the science-religion issue today maintain the warfare thesis...The origins of the warfare thesis lie in the late 19th century, specifically in the work of two men - John William Draper and Andrew Dickson White. These men had specific political purposes in mind when arguing their case, and the historical foundations of their work are unreliable.\"\n\nRegarding the scholarship of Draper's work, Principe says\nPrincipe's summary comment on Draper's work at the end of his coursebook reads: \"The book that started the conflict myth. Take a sense of humor and/or a stiff drink with this dated bit of melodrama.\"\n\nHistorians of science today have moved away from a conflict model, which is based mainly on two historical episodes (those involving Galileo and Darwin) in favor of a \"complexity\" model, because religious figures took positions on both sides of each dispute and there was no overall aim by any party involved in discrediting religion. Biologist Stephen Jay Gould said: \"White's and Draper's accounts of the actual interaction between science and religion in Western history do not differ greatly. Both tell a tale of bright progress continually sparked by science. And both develop and use the same myths to support their narrative, the flat-earth legend prominently among them\". In a summary of the historiography of the conflict thesis, Colin A. Russell, the former President of Christians in Science, said that \"Draper takes such liberty with history, perpetuating legends as fact that he is rightly avoided today in serious historical study. The same is nearly as true of White, though his prominent apparatus of prolific footnotes may create a misleading impression of meticulous scholarship\".\n\nIn \"Science & Religion\", Gary Ferngren proposes a complex relationship between religion and science:\n\nSome modern historians of science (such as Peter Barker, Bernard R. Goldstein, and Crosbie Smith) propose that scientific discoveries - such as Kepler's laws of planetary motion in the 17th century, and the reformulation of physics in terms of energy, in the 19th century - were driven by religion. Religious organizations and clerics figure prominently in the broad histories of science, until the professionalization of the scientific enterprise, in the 19th century, led to tensions between scholars taking religious and secular approaches to nature. Even the prominent examples of religion's apparent conflict with science, the Galileo affair (1614) and the Scopes trial (1925), were not pure instances of conflict between science and religion, but included personal and political facts in the development of each conflict.\n\nThe Galileo affair is one of the few examples commonly used by advocates of the conflict thesis. Maurice Finocchiaro writes that the Galileo affair epitomizes the common view of \"the conflict between enlightened science and obscurantist religion,\" and that this view promotes \"the myth that alleges the incompatibility between science and religion.\" Finocchiaro writes, \"I believe that such a thesis is erroneous, misleading, and simplistic,\" and refers to John Draper, Andrew White, Voltaire, Einstein, Bertrand Russell, and Karl Popper as writers or icons who have promoted it. Finocchiaro also describes as mythical the notion that Galileo \"saw\" the earth's motion, since this direct observation was only possible in the 21st century, and the idea that Galileo was \"imprisoned,\" since he was \"actually held under house arrest.\" He notes that the situation was complex and objections to the Copernican system included scientific, philosophical, and theological arguments.\n\nThe Galileo affair was a sequence of events, beginning around 1610, culminating with the trial and condemnation of Galileo Galilei by the Roman Catholic Inquisition in 1633 for his support of heliocentrism. In 1610, Galileo published his \"Sidereus Nuncius (Starry Messenger)\", describing the surprising observations that he had made with the new telescope, namely the phases of Venus and the Galilean moons of Jupiter. With these observations he promoted the heliocentric theory of Nicolaus Copernicus (published in \"De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" in 1543). Galileo's initial discoveries were met with opposition within the Catholic Church, and in 1616 the Inquisition declared heliocentrism to be formally heretical. Heliocentric books were banned and Galileo was ordered to refrain from holding, teaching or defending heliocentric ideas.\n\nPope Urban VIII had been an admirer and supporter of Galileo, and there is evidence he did not believe the inquisition's declaration rendered heliocentrism a heresy. Urban may have rather viewed Heliocentrism as a potentially dangerous or rash doctrine that nevertheless had utility in astronomical calculations. In 1632 Galileo, now an old man, published his \"Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems\", which implicitly defended heliocentrism, and was popular. Pope Urban VIII had asked that his own views on the matter be included in Galileo's book, and were voiced by a character named \"Simplicio\" who was a simpleton. This angered the Pope and weakened Galileo's position politically. Responding to mounting controversy over theology, astronomy and philosophy, the Roman Inquisition tried Galileo in 1633 and found him \"vehemently suspect of heresy\", sentencing him to indefinite imprisonment. Galileo's \"Dialogue\" was banned, the publication of his past or future works forbidden, he was ordered to \"abjure, curse and detest\" heliocentric ideas. Galileo was kept under house arrest until his death in 1642.\n\nObservations that favored the Copernican model over the Ptolemaic or other alternative models accumulated over time: the emergence of Newtonian mechanics later in the 17th century, the observation of the stellar aberration of light by James Bradley in the 18th century, the analysis of orbital motions of binary stars by William Herschel in the 19th century, and the accurate measurement of the stellar parallax in 19th century. According to physicist Christopher Graney, Galileo's own observations did not actually support the Copernican view, but were more consistent with Tycho Brahe's hybrid model where the Earth didn't move, and everything else circled around it and the Sun. Copernicus' work \"De revolutionibus\" remained on the Index of banned books until 1758.\n\nThis thesis is still held to be true in whole or in part by some prominent contemporary scientists such as Stephen Hawking who has said \"There is a fundamental difference between religion, which is based on authority, [and] science, which is based on observation and reason. Science will win because it works.\" Others, such as Steven Weinberg, grant that it is possible for science and religion to be compatible since some prominent scientists are also religious, but he sees some significant tensions that potentially weaken religious beliefs overall.\n\nA study done on scientists from 21 American universities showed that most did not perceive conflict between science and religion. In the study, the strength of religiosity in the home in which a scientist was raised, current religious attendance, peers' attitudes toward religion, all had an impact on whether or not scientists saw religion and science as in conflict. Scientists who had grown up with a religion and retained that identity or had identified as spiritual or had religious attendance tended to perceive less or no conflict. However, those not attending religious services were more likely to adopt a conflict paradigm. Additionally, scientists were more likely to reject conflict thesis if their peers held positive views of religion.\n\nScience historian Ronald Numbers suggests the conflict theory lingers in a popular belief, inclusive of scientists and clerics alike, and that while history reflects an intrinsic and inevitable intellectual conflict between (Judeo-Christian) religion and science, it is perpetuated by the polemics surrounding controversies involving creation–evolution, stem cells, and birth control. Many religious groups have made statements regarding the compatibility of religion and science, urging, for example, \"school board members to preserve the integrity of the science curriculum by affirming the teaching of the theory of evolution as a core component of human knowledge. We ask that science remain science and that religion remain religion, two very different, but complementary, forms of truth.\" The Magis Center for Reason and Faith was founded specifically to apply science in support of belief in a deity and the Christian religion. Some scholars such as Brian Stanley and Denis Alexander propose that mass media are partly responsible for popularizing conflict theory, most notably the Flat-earth myth that prior to Columbus people believed the Earth was flat. David C. Lindberg and Numbers point out that \"there was scarcely a Christian scholar of the Middle Ages who did not acknowledge Earth's sphericity and even know its approximate circumference\". Numbers gives the following as mistakes arising from conflict theory that have gained widespread currency: \"the Church prohibited autopsies and dissections during the Middle Ages\", \"the rise of Christianity killed off ancient science\", and \"the medieval Christian church suppressed the growth of the natural sciences\". Some Christian writers, notably Reijer Hooykaas and Stanley Jaki, have argued that Christianity was important, if not essential, for the rise of modern science. Lindberg and Numbers, however, see this apologetical writing as lacking in careful historical study and overstating the case for a connection.\n\nResearch on perceptions of science among the American public concludes that most religious groups see no general epistemological conflict with science, and that they have no differences with nonreligious groups in propensity to seek out scientific knowledge, although there may be epistemic or moral conflicts when scientists make counterclaims to religious tenets. The Pew Center made similar findings and also noted that the majority of Americans (80–90%) strongly support scientific research, agree that science makes society and individual's lives better, and 8 in 10 Americans would be happy if their children were to become scientists. Even strict creationists tend to express very favorable views towards science. A study of US college students concluded that the majority of undergraduates in both the natural and social sciences do not see conflict between science and religion. Another finding in the study was that it is more likely for students to move from a conflict perspective to an independence or collaboration perspective than vice versa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3343419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3343419", "title": "Criticism of the Seventh-day Adventist Church", "text": "Criticism of the Seventh-day Adventist Church\n\nCriticism of the Seventh-day Adventist Church includes observations made about its teachings, structure, and practices or theological disagreements from various individuals and groups. \n\nOne of the most prominent early critics of the church was D. M. Canright, an early leader in the movement in the late 19th century who apostatized and recanted but later left and became a Baptist pastor.\n\nIn the middle of the 20th century, evangelical Walter Martin and the Christian Research Institute concluded that the Seventh-day Adventist church is a legitimate Christian body with some heterodox doctrines and stated, \"They are sound on the great New Testament doctrines including grace and redemption through the vicarious offering of Jesus Christ 'once for all'. However, other scholars such as Calvinist Anthony A. Hoekema, who did not agree with the Adventist views from Arminius's as Adventism holds a Wesleyan/Arminian stream of theology, grouped Seventh-day Adventism with Mormonism, Jehovah's Witnesses and Christian Science in his book \"The Four Major Cults\".\n\nContemporary critics include former Adventist pastor and academy teacher Dale Ratzlaff, who left the church in the 1980s and later founded Life Assurance Ministries.\n\nIn debates regarding the inspiration of Ellen White during the 1970s, Adventists Walter T. Rea and Ronald Numbers wrote material that some felt was critical of Ellen White.\n\nSome Christian critics of Adventism contend that the current Adventist view of the Trinity is not orthodox and/or constitutes Tritheism.\n\nSeveral Seventh-day Adventist scholars have acknowledged that the Adventist view of the Trinity tends to differ in some aspects from the inherited traditional Christian view of the doctrine. According to Dr. Jerry Moon, Ellen White, the co-founder of the church, taught that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are three distinct individuals yet are united as one in the Godhead.\n\nMoon asserts that Ellen White was raised trinitarian but adopted a different view from the traditional one and contends that White's later writings on the Trinity is not the same as the view rejected by the early Adventists.\n\nCritic A. Leroy Moore contends Adventists reject the orthodox view, and contends that the view probably would have been branded as Arian by the orthodox.\n\nIt has been alleged by the Christian Research Institute that Adventism teaches that Christ \"had\" a sinful nature. Adventists hold that Christ came as fully man and yet still fully divine, and covering the nature of Christ state that Jesus Christ inherited Adam's fallen nature that has been passed on to all of humanity but did not sin. Such a belief is based on the following texts:\n\nAdventist doctrine is that God took \"man's nature in its fallen condition,\" but yet \"Christ did not in the least participate in its sin\", which shows Christ with post fall humanity but a sinlessness of Adam before the fall Mainstream Adventists believe that Jesus was beset with all of the moral weaknesses and frailties that ordinary humans experience. However, he did not have the propensity to sin. Christ could be tested by temptation, but like Adam before the fall, did not have the ungodly desires or sinful inclinations of humanity. Ellen White states \"The Lord Jesus came to our world, not to reveal what a God could do, but what a man could do, through faith in God’s power to help in every emergency. Man is, through faith, to be a partaker in the divine nature, and to overcome every temptation wherewith he is beset.\"\n\nDespite this, he managed to resist temptation both from within and without, and lived a perfectly obedient life. Jesus is therefore set forth as the supreme Example in whose footsteps Christians must follow. The fact that he overcame sin completely, despite having no advantage over other human beings, demonstrates that we too can live a life of complete obedience by trusting in him. Ellen White states \"The Lord Jesus came to our world, not to reveal what a God could do, but what a man could do, through faith in God’s power to help in every emergency. Man is, through faith, to be a partaker in the divine nature, and to overcome every temptation wherewith he is beset.\"\n\nAdventists are firm believers that people are saved by faith and not through works, however works are the necessary fruits that are proof of God truly being given a place in our lives.\n\nAnd:\nThe \"Investigative Judgment\" doctrine is defined in the Church's list of fundamental beliefs. In reviewing this uniquely Seventh-day Adventist doctrine, non-Adventist critics contend that it is not Biblical teaching.\n\nAdventists answer that the \"Investigative Judgment\" doctrine is not about celestial geography, that a judgment of works is compatible with the gospel, and that Scriptures like and teach an end-time judgment of the Church. They believe that the \"end time gospel\" of did not sound in the first century but applies to our time. Also, many Adventist scholars interpret the references in Hebrews as to do with inauguration of the heavenly sanctuary, taking as parallel to , a view shared with certain biblical scholars of other faiths, instead of the Day of Atonement event as interpreted by critics.\n\nThe essence of Old Testament sanctuary typology that Adventists rely on for their eschatology may be summarized as follows:\n\nAs to the 1844 date, Walter Martin wrote:\n\nLike the Protestant Reformers, some writings of Ellen White speak against the Catholic Church in preparation for a nefarious eschatological role as the antagonist against God's remnant church (the Seventh-day Adventist Church) and that the papacy is the beast that emerges from the sea (Ap 13). Many Protestant reformers such as Martin Luther, John Knox, William Tyndale and others held similar beliefs about the Catholic Church and the papacy when they broke away from the Catholic Church during the reformation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49985602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49985602", "title": "Definition of religion", "text": "Definition of religion\n\nThe definition of religion is a controversial subject in religious studies with scholars failing to agree on any one definition. Oxford Dictionary defines religion as the belief in and worship of a superhuman controlling power, especially a personal God or gods. Others such as Wilfred Cantwell Smith, have tried to correct a perceived Judeo-Christian and Western bias in the definition and study of religion. Thinkers such as Daniel Dubuisson have doubted that the term religion has any meaning outside of western cultures, while others, such as Ernst Feil even doubt that it has any specific, universal meaning even there.\n\nScholars have failed to agree on a definition of religion. There are however two general definition systems: the sociological/functional and the phenomenological/philosophical.\n\n\nSome jurisdictions refuse to classify specific religions as religions, arguing that they are instead heresies, even if they are widely viewed as a religion in the academic world.\n\nReligion is a modern Western concept. Parallel concepts are not found in many current and past cultures; there is no equivalent term for religion in many languages. Scholars have found it difficult to develop a consistent definition, with some giving up on the possibility of a definition. Others argue that regardless of its definition, it is not appropriate to apply it to non-Western cultures.\n\nAn increasing number of scholars have expressed reservations about ever defining the essence of religion. They observe that the way we use the concept today is a particularly modern construct that would not have been understood through much of history and in many cultures outside the West (or even in the West until after the Peace of Westphalia). The MacMillan Encyclopedia of Religions states:\nThe anthropologist Clifford Geertz defined religion as a\nAlluding perhaps to Tylor's \"deeper motive\", Geertz remarked that\nThe theologian Antoine Vergote took the term supernatural simply to mean whatever transcends the powers of nature or human agency. He also emphasized the cultural reality of religion, which he defined as\nPeter Mandaville and Paul James intended to get away from the modernist dualisms or dichotomous understandings of immanence/transcendence, spirituality/materialism, and sacredness/secularity. They define religion as\nAccording to the MacMillan Encyclopedia of Religions, there is an experiential aspect to religion which can be found in almost every culture:\n\nFriedrich Schleiermacher in the late 18th century defined religion as \"das schlechthinnige Abhängigkeitsgefühl\", commonly translated as \"the feeling of absolute dependence\".\n\nHis contemporary Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel disagreed thoroughly, defining religion as \"the Divine Spirit becoming conscious of Himself through the finite spirit.\"\n\nEdward Burnett Tylor defined religion in 1871 as \"the belief in spiritual beings\". He argued that narrowing the definition to mean the belief in a supreme deity or judgment after death or idolatry and so on, would exclude many peoples from the category of religious, and thus \"has the fault of identifying religion rather with particular developments than with the deeper motive which underlies them\". He also argued that the belief in spiritual beings exists in all known societies.\n\nIn his book \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\", the psychologist William James defined religion as \"the feelings, acts, and experiences of individual men in their solitude, so far as they apprehend themselves to stand in relation to whatever they may consider the divine\". By the term divine James meant \"any object that is god\"like\", whether it be a concrete deity or not\" to which the individual feels impelled to respond with solemnity and gravity.\n\nThe sociologist Émile Durkheim, in his seminal book \"The Elementary Forms of the Religious Life\", defined religion as a \"unified system of beliefs and practices relative to sacred things\". By sacred things he meant things \"set apart and forbidden—beliefs and practices which unite into one single moral community called a Church, all those who adhere to them\". Sacred things are not, however, limited to gods or spirits. On the contrary, a sacred thing can be \"a rock, a tree, a spring, a pebble, a piece of wood, a house, in a word, anything can be sacred\". Religious beliefs, myths, dogmas and legends are the representations that express the nature of these sacred things, and the virtues and powers which are attributed to them.\n\nEchoes of James' and Durkheim's definitions are to be found in the writings of, for example, Frederick Ferré who defined religion as \"one's way of valuing most comprehensively and intensively\". Similarly, for the theologian Paul Tillich, faith is \"the state of being ultimately concerned\", which \"is itself religion. Religion is the substance, the ground, and the depth of man's spiritual life.\"\n\nWhen religion is seen in terms of sacred, divine, intensive valuing, or ultimate concern, then it is possible to understand why scientific findings and philosophical criticisms (e.g., those made by Richard Dawkins) do not necessarily disturb its adherents.\nA number of scholars have pointed out that the terminology used in the study of religion in the west derives from Judeo-Christian tradition, and that the basic assumptions of religion as an analytical category are all Western in origin. This idea was first raised by Wilfred Cantwell Smith in his 1962 book, \"The Meaning and End of Religion\". Among the main proponents of this theory of religion are Daniel Dubuisson, Timothy Fitzgerald, Talal Asad, and Jason Ānanda Josephson. These social constructionists argue that religion is a modern concept that developed from Christianity and was then applied inappropriately to non-Western cultures.\n\nWhile few would dispute that the concept of religion does have a historical genealogy, there is some disagreement about what the Western origin of the term has meant historically. Some such as Tomoko Masuzawa have felt that the equation of religion with Christianity had the effect of diminishing other traditions, especially in the study of comparative religions as it developed during the high point of Western imperialism. Others have felt that this sort of criticism overestimates the influence that Western academic thought had on the rest of the world.\n\nDaniel Dubuisson, a French anthropologist, argues that the idea of religion has changed a lot over time and that one cannot fully understand its development by relying on consistent use of the term, which \"tends to minimize or cancel out the role of history\". \"What the West and the history of religions in its wake have objectified under the name 'religion' is ... something quite unique, which could be appropriate only to itself and its own history.\" He notes that St. Augustine's definition of \"religio\" differed from the way we used the modern word religion.\n\nDubuisson prefers the term \"cosmographic formation\" to religion. Dubuisson says that, with the emergence of religion as a category separate from culture and society, there arose religious studies. The initial purpose of religious studies was to demonstrate the superiority of the living or universal European world view to the dead or ethnic religions scattered throughout the rest of the world, expanding the teleological project of Schleiermacher and Tiele to a worldwide ideal religiousness. Due to shifting theological currents, this was eventually supplanted by a liberal-ecumenical interest in searching for Western-style universal truths in every cultural tradition.\n\nAccording to Fitzgerald, religion is not a universal feature of all cultures, but rather a particular idea that first developed in Europe under the influence of Christianity. Fitzgerald argues that from about the 4th century CE Western Europe and the rest of the world diverged. As Christianity became commonplace, the charismatic authority identified by Augustine, a quality we might today call religiousness, exerted a commanding influence at the local level. As the Catholic Church lost its dominance during the Protestant Reformation and Christianity became closely tied to political structures, religion was recast as the basis of national sovereignty, and religious identity gradually became a less universal sense of spirituality and more divisive, locally defined, and tied to nationality. It was at this point that religion was dissociated from universal beliefs and moved closer to dogma in both meaning and practice. However, there was not yet the idea of dogma as a personal choice, only of established churches. With the Enlightenment religion lost its attachment to nationality, says Fitzgerald, but rather than becoming a universal social attitude, it now became a personal feeling or emotion.\n\nTalal Asad later refined this notion by showing that many assumptions about religion derive specifically from post-Enlightenment Christianity.\nAsad argues that before the word religion came into common usage, Christianity was a \"disciplina\", a rule just like that of the Roman Empire. This idea can be found in the writings of St. Augustine (354–430). Christianity was then a power structure opposing and superseding human institutions, a literal Kingdom of Heaven. It was the discipline taught by one's family, school, church, and city authorities, rather than something calling one to self-discipline through symbols.\n\nThese ideas are developed by S. N. Balagangadhara. In the Age of Enlightenment, Balagangadhara argues that the idea of Christianity as the purest expression of spirituality was supplanted by the concept of religion as a worldwide practice. This caused such ideas as religious freedom, a reexamination of classical philosophy as an alternative to Christian thought, and more radically Deism among intellectuals such as Voltaire. Much like Christianity, the idea of religious freedom was exported around the world as a civilizing technique, even to regions such as India that had never treated spirituality as a matter of political identity.\n\nMore recently, in \"The Invention of Religion in Japan\", Josephson has argued that while the concept of religion was Christian in its early formulation, non-Europeans (such as the Japanese) did not just acquiesce and passively accept the term's meaning. Instead they worked to interpret religion (and its boundaries) strategically to meet their own agendas and staged these new meanings for a global audience. In nineteenth century Japan, Buddhism was radically transformed from a pre-modern philosophy of natural law into a religion, as Japanese leaders worked to address domestic and international political concerns. In summary, Josephson argues that the European encounter with other cultures has led to a partial de-Christianization of the category religion. Hence religion has come to refer to a confused collection of traditions with no possible coherent definition.\n\nGeorge Lindbeck, a Lutheran and a postliberal theologian (but not a social constructionist), says that religion does not refer to belief in God or a transcendent Absolute, but rather to \"a kind of cultural and/or linguistic framework or medium that shapes the entirety of life and thought ... it is similar to an idiom that makes possible the description of realities, the formulation of beliefs, and the experiencing of inner attitudes, feelings, and sentiments.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13568947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13568947", "title": "Dualistic cosmology", "text": "Dualistic cosmology\n\nDualism in cosmology is the moral or spiritual belief that two fundamental concepts exist, which often oppose each other. It is an umbrella term that covers a diversity of views from various religions, including both traditional religions and scriptural religions.\n\nMoral dualism is the belief of the great complement of, or conflict between, the benevolent and the malevolent. It simply implies that there are two moral opposites at work, independent of any interpretation of what might be \"moral\" and independent of how these may be represented. Moral opposites might, for example, exist in a worldview which has one god, more than one god, or none. By contrast, duotheism, bitheism or ditheism implies (at least) two gods. While bitheism implies harmony, ditheism implies rivalry and opposition, such as between good and evil, or light and dark, or summer and winter. For example, a ditheistic system could be one in which one god is a creator, and the other a destroyer. In theology, dualism can also refer to the relationship between God and creation or God and the universe (see theistic dualism). This form of dualism is a belief shared in certain traditions of Christianity and Hinduism. Alternatively, in ontological dualism, the world is divided into two overarching categories. The opposition and combination of the universe's two basic principles of yin and yang is a large part of Chinese philosophy, and is an important feature of Taoism. It is also discussed in Confucianism.\n\nMany myths and creation motifs with dualistic cosmologies have been described in ethnographic and anthropological literature. These motifs conceive the world as being created, organized, or influenced by two demiurges, culture heroes, or other mythological beings, who either compete with each other or have a complementary function in creating, arranging or influencing the world. There is a huge diversity of such cosmologies. In some cases, such as among the Chukchi, the beings collaborate rather than competing, and contribute to the creation in a coequal way. In many other instances the two beings are not of the same importance or power (sometimes, one of them is even characterized as gullible). Sometimes they can be contrasted as good versus evil. They may be often believed to be twins or at least brothers. Dualistic motifs in mythologies can be observed in all inhabited continents. Zolotaryov concludes that they cannot be explained by diffusion or borrowing, but are rather of convergent origin: they are related to a dualistic organization of society (moieties); in some cultures, this social organization may have ceased to exist, but mythology preserves the memory in more and more disguised ways.\n\nMoral dualism is the belief of the great complement or conflict between the benevolent and the malevolent. Like ditheism/bitheism (see below), moral dualism does not imply the absence of monist or monotheistic principles. Moral dualism simply implies that there are two moral opposites at work, independent of any interpretation of what might be \"moral\" and—unlike ditheism/bitheism—independent of how these may be represented.\n\nFor example, Mazdaism (Mazdean Zoroastrianism) is both dualistic and monotheistic (but not monist by definition) since in that philosophy God—the Creator—is purely good, and the antithesis—which is also uncreated–is an absolute one. Zurvanism (Zurvanite Zoroastrianism), Manichaeism, and Mandaeism are representative of dualistic \"and\" monist philosophies since each has a supreme and transcendental First Principle from which the two equal-but-opposite entities then emanate. This is also true for the lesser-known Christian gnostic religions, such as Bogomils, Catharism, and so on. More complex forms of monist dualism also exist, for instance in Hermeticism, where \"Nous\" \"thought\"—that is described to have created man—brings forth both good and evil, dependent on interpretation, whether it receives prompting from the God or from the Demon. Duality with pluralism is considered a logical fallacy.\n\nMoral dualism began as a theological belief. Dualism was first seen implicitly in Egyptian religious beliefs by the contrast of the gods Set (disorder, death) and Osiris (order, life). The first explicit conception of dualism came from the Ancient Persian religion of Zoroastrianism around the mid-fifth century BC. Zoroastrianism is a monotheistic religion that believes that Ahura Mazda is the eternal creator of all good things. Any violations of Ahura Mazda's order arise from \"druj\", which is everything uncreated. From this comes a significant choice for humans to make. Either they fully participate in human life for Ahura Mazda or they do not and give \"druj\" power. Personal dualism is even more distinct in the beliefs of later religions.\n\nThe religious dualism of Christianity between good and evil is not a perfect dualism as God (good) will inevitably destroy Satan (evil). Early Christian dualism is largely based on Platonic Dualism (See: Neoplatonism and Christianity). There is also a personal dualism in Christianity with a soul-body distinction based on the idea of an immaterial Christian soul.\n\nWhen used with regards to multiple gods, \"dualism\" may refer to duotheism, bitheism, or ditheism. Although ditheism/bitheism imply moral dualism, they are not equivalent: ditheism/bitheism implies (at least) two gods, while moral dualism does not necessarily imply \"theism\" (theos = god) at all.\n\nBoth bitheism and ditheism imply a belief in two equally powerful gods with complementary or antonymous properties; however, while bitheism implies harmony, ditheism implies rivalry and opposition, such as between good and evil, bright and dark, or summer and winter. For example, a ditheistic system would be one in which one god is creative, the other is destructive (cf. theodicy). In the original conception of Zoroastrianism, for example, Ahura Mazda was the spirit of ultimate good, while Ahriman (Angra Mainyu) was the spirit of ultimate evil.\n\nIn a bitheistic system, by contrast, where the two deities are not in conflict or opposition, one could be male and the other female (cf. duotheism). One well-known example of a bitheistic or duotheistic theology based on gender polarity is found in the neopagan religion of Wicca. In Wicca, dualism is represented in the belief of a god and a goddess as a dual partnership in ruling the universe. This is centered on the worship of a divine couple, the Moon Goddess and the Horned God, who are regarded as lovers. However, there is also a ditheistic theme within traditional Wicca, as the Horned God has dual aspects of bright and dark - relating to day/night, summer/winter - expressed as the Oak King and the Holly King, who in Wiccan myth and ritual are said to engage in battle twice a year for the hand of the Goddess, resulting in the changing seasons. (Within Wicca, bright and dark do not correspond to notions of \"good\" and \"evil\" but are aspects of the natural world, much like yin and yang in Taoism.)\n\n\nHowever, bitheistic and ditheistic principles are not always so easily contrastable, for instance in a system where one god is the representative of summer and drought and the other of winter and rain/fertility (cf. the mythology of Persephone). Marcionism, an early Christian sect, held that the Old and New Testaments were the work of two opposing gods: both were First Principles, but of different religions.\n\nIn theology, dualism can refer to the relationship between God and creation or God and the universe. This form of dualism is a belief shared in certain traditions of Christianity and Hinduism.\n\nThe dualism between God and Creation has existed as a central belief in multiple historical sects and traditions of Christianity, including Marcionism, Catharism, Paulicianism, and Gnostic Christianity. Christian dualism refers to the belief that God and creation are distinct, but interrelated through an indivisible bond. In sects like the Cathars and the Paulicians, this is a dualism between the material world, created by an evil god, and a moral god. Historians divide Christian dualism into absolute dualism, which held that the good and evil gods were equally powerful, and mitigated dualism, which held that material evil was subordinate to the spiritual good. The belief, by Christian theologians who adhere to a libertarian or compatibilist view of free will, that free will separates humankind from God has also been characterized as a form of dualism. The theologian Leroy Stephens Rouner compares the dualism of Christianity with the dualism that exists in Zoroastrianism and the Samkhya tradition of Hinduism. The theological use of the word dualism dates back to 1700, in a book that describes the dualism between good and evil.\n\nThe tolerance of dualism ranges widely among the different Christian traditions. As a monotheistic religion, the conflict between dualism and monism has existed in Christianity since its inception. The 1912 \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" describes that, in the Catholic Church, \"the dualistic hypothesis of an eternal world existing side by side with God was of course rejected\" by the thirteenth century, but mind–body dualism was not. The problem of evil is difficult to reconcile with absolute monism, and has prompted some Christian sects to veer towards dualism. Gnostic forms of Christianity were more dualistic, and some Gnostic traditions posited that the Devil was separate from God as an independent deity. The Christian dualists of the Byzantine Empire, the Paulicians, were seen as Manichean heretics by Byzantine theologians. This tradition of Christian dualism, founded by Constantine-Silvanus, argued that the universe was created through evil and separate from a moral God.\n\nThe Cathars, a Christian sect in southern France, believed that there was a dualism between two gods, one representing good and the other representing evil. The Roman Catholic Church denounced the Cathars as heretics, and sought to crush the movement in the 13th century. The Albigensian Crusade was initiated by Pope Innocent III in 1208 to remove the Cathars from Languedoc in France, where they were known as Albigesians. The Inquisition, which began in 1233 under Pope Gregory IX, also targeted the Cathars.\n\nGnosticism is a diverse, syncretistic religious movement consisting of various belief systems generally united in the teaching that humans are divine souls trapped in a material world created by an imperfect god, the demiurge, who is frequently identified with the Abrahamic God. The demiurge may be depicted as an embodiment of evil, or in other instances as merely imperfect and as benevolent as its inadequacy permits. This demiurge exists alongside another remote and unknowable supreme being that embodies good.\n\nBogomils, Paulicans and Cathars are typically seen as being imitative of Gnosticism. Whether or not the Cathari possessed direct historical influence from ancient Gnosticism is a matter of dispute. The basic conceptions of Gnostic cosmology are, however, to be found in Cathar beliefs (most distinctly in their notion of a lesser creator god). Unlike the second century Gnostics, they did not apparently place any special relevance upon knowledge (\"gnosis\") as an effective salvific force.\n\nThe Dvaita Vedanta school of Indian philosophy espouses a dualism between God and the universe by theorizing the existence of two separate realities. The first and the more important reality is that of Shiva or Shakti or Vishnu or Brahman. Shiva or Shakti or Vishnu is the supreme Self, God, the absolute truth of the universe, the independent reality. The second reality is that of dependent but equally real universe that exists with its own separate essence. Everything that is composed of the second reality, such as individual soul (Jiva), matter, etc. exist with their own separate reality. The distinguishing factor of this philosophy as opposed to Advaita Vedanta (monistic conclusion of Vedas) is that God takes on a personal role and is seen as a real eternal entity that governs and controls the universe. Because the existence of individuals is grounded in the divine, they are depicted as reflections, images or even shadows of the divine, but never in any way identical with the divine. Salvation therefore is described as the realization that all finite reality is essentially dependent on the Supreme.\n\nAlternatively, \"dualism\" can mean the tendency of humans to perceive and understand the world as being divided into two overarching categories. In this sense, it is dualistic when one perceives a tree as a thing separate from everything surrounding it. This form of ontological dualism exists in Taoism and Confucianism, beliefs that divide the universe into the complementary oppositions of yin and yang. In traditions such as classical Hinduism, Zen Buddhism or Islamic Sufism, a key to enlightenment is \"transcending\" this sort of dualistic thinking, without merely substituting dualism with monism or pluralism.\n\nThe opposition and combination of the universe's two basic principles of yin and yang is a large part of Chinese philosophy, and is an important feature of Taoism, both as a philosophy and as a religion, although the concept developed much earlier. Some argue that yin and yang were originally an earth and sky god, respectively. As one of the oldest principles in Chinese philosophy, yin and yang are also discussed in Confucianism, but to a lesser extent.\n\nSome of the common associations with yang and yin, respectively, are: male and female, light and dark, active and passive, motion and stillness. Some scholars believe that the two ideas may have originally referred to two opposite sides of a mountain, facing towards and away from the sun. The yin and yang symbol in actuality has very little to do with Western dualism; instead it represents the philosophy of balance, where two opposites co-exist in harmony and are able to transmute into each other. In the yin-yang symbol there is a dot of yin in yang and a dot of yang in yin. In Taoism, this symbolizes the inter-connectedness of the opposite forces as different aspects of Tao, the First Principle. Contrast is needed to create a distinguishable reality, without which we would experience nothingness. Therefore, the independent principles of yin and yang are actually dependent on one another for each other's distinguishable existence.\n\nThe complementary dualistic concept seen in yin and yang represent the reciprocal interaction throughout nature, related to a feedback loop, where opposing forces do not exchange in opposition but instead exchange reciprocally to promote stabilization similar to homeostasis. An underlying principle in Taoism states that within every independent entity lies a part of its opposite. Within sickness lies health and vice versa. This is because all opposites are manifestations of the single Tao, and are therefore not independent from one another, but rather a variation of the same unifying force throughout all of nature.\n\nIn a Nenets myth, Num and Nga collaborate and compete with each other, creating land, there are also other myths about competing-collaborating demiurges.\n\nAmong others, also dualistic myths were investigated in researches which tried to compare the mythologies of Siberian peoples and settle the problem of their origins. Vyacheslav Ivanov and Vladimir Toporov compared the mythology of Ket people with those of Uralic peoples, assuming in the studies, that there are modelling semiotic systems in the compared mythologies; and they have also made typological comparisons. Among others, from possibly Uralic mythological analogies, those of Ob-Ugric peoples and Samoyedic peoples are mentioned. Some other discussed analogies (similar folklore motifs, and purely typological considerations, certain binary pairs in symbolics) may be related to dualistic organization of society—some of such dualistic features can be found at these compared peoples. It must be admitted that, for Kets, neither dualistic organization of society nor cosmological dualism has been researched thoroughly: if such features existed at all, they have either weakened or remained largely undiscovered; although there are some reports on division into two exogamous patrilinear moieties, folklore on conflicts of mythological figures, and also on cooperation of two beings in creating the land: the diving of the water fowl. If we include dualistic cosmologies meant in broad sense, not restricted to certain concrete motifs, then we find that they are much more widespread, they exist not only among some Uralic peoples, but there are examples in each inhabited continent.\n\nA Chukchi myth and its variations report the creation of the world; in some variations, it is achieved by the collaboration of several beings (birds, collaborating in a coequal way; or the creator and the raven, collaborating in a coequal way; or the creator alone, using the birds only as assistants).\n\nAll three Fuegian tribes had dualistic myths about culture heros. The Yámana have dualistic myths about the two brothers. They act as culture heroes, and sometimes stand in an antagonistic relation with each other, introducing opposite laws. Their figures can be compared to the Kwanyip-brothers of the Selk'nam. In general, the presence of dualistic myths in two compared cultures does not imply relatedness or diffusion necessarily.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5139911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5139911", "title": "Entering Heaven alive", "text": "Entering Heaven alive\n\nEntering Heaven alive (called by various religions \"ascension\", \"assumption\", or \"translation\") is a belief held in various religions. Since death is the normal end to an individual's life on Earth and the beginning of afterlife, entering Heaven without dying first is considered exceptional and usually a sign of a deity's special recognition of the individual's piety.\n\nUnlike the other entries in this article, this paragraph does not, in the view of most Christians, relate to \"entering Heaven alive\". Jesus is considered by the vast majority of Christians to have died before being resurrected and ascending to heaven. In regard to his mother Mary, Eastern Orthodoxy considers her to have died prior to being assumed (translated) into heaven. In like manner, Roman Catholicism affirms that Mary, the mother of Jesus, suffered death prior to her assumption which has been \"expressly affirmed in the Liturgy of the Church\" and is expressly seen in paragraph 20 of the proclamation of this teaching. \nProtestantism generally believes that Mary died a natural death like any other human being and was not subsequently assumed into heaven, although the Anglo-Catholic tradition of Anglicanism often affirms the assumption.\n\nMost Christians believe Jesus did initially die, but was then resurrected from the dead by God, before being raised bodily to heaven to sit at the Right Hand of God with a promise to someday return to earth. The minority views that Jesus didn't die are known as the Swoon hypothesis and Docetism. \n\nSince the adoption of the Nicene Creed in 325, the Ascension of Jesus into heaven, as related in the New Testament, has been officially taught by all orthodox Christian churches and is celebrated on Ascension Thursday. In the Roman Catholic Church, the Ascension of the Lord is a Holy Day of Obligation. In the Eastern Orthodox Church the Ascension is one of twelve Great Feasts.\n\nIn the Reformed churches' tradition of Calvinism, belief in the ascension of Christ is included in the Westminster Confession of Faith, the Heidelberg Catechism and the Second Helvetic Confession.\"\n\nThe \"Rapture\" is a reference to \"being caught up\" as found in 1 Thessalonians 4:17, when the \"dead in Christ\" and \"we who are alive and remain\" will be caught up in the clouds to meet the Lord.\n\nAnother kind of entering Heaven alive is mentioned in the Old Testament: the prophet Elijah and the patriarch Enoch, son of Jared and ancestor of Noah.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church distinguishes between \"The Ascension\", in which Christ rose to heaven by his own power, and \"The Assumption\" in which Mary, mother of Jesus, was raised to heaven by God's power. (Enoch and Elijah are said in scripture to have been \"assumed\" [experienced assumption] into heaven.)\n\nOn November 1, 1950, Pope Pius XII, acting \"ex cathedra\", issued \"Munificentissimus Deus\", an authoritative statement of official doctrine of Roman Catholicism. In Section 44 the pope stated:\n\nThe doctrine is based on Sacred Tradition that Mary, mother of Jesus, was bodily assumed into heaven. For centuries before that, the assumption was celebrated in art. The proclamation states that Mary suffered bodily death before being assumed into Heaven. Some theologians have argued that Mary didn't die, but this is contrary to the text of the dogma's proclamation.\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church teaches that three other persons were taken bodily into heaven: Enoch, Elijah (Elias) and the Theotokos (Virgin Mary). Similar to the Western \"Assumption\" of Mary, the Orthodox celebrate the Dormition of the Theotokos on August 15. Unlike Western uncertainty about Mary's physical death, the Orthodox teach that Mary died a natural death like any other human being, that she was buried by the Apostles (except for Thomas, who was late), and three days later (after Thomas had arrived) was found to be missing from her tomb. The church teaches that the Apostles received a revelation during which the Theotokos appeared to them and told them she had been resurrected by Jesus and taken body and soul into heaven. The Orthodox teach that Mary already enjoys the fullness of heavenly bliss that the other saints will experience only after the Last Judgment.\n\nThere is a teaching among the Orthodox that the \"Two Witnesses\" referred to in the Book of Revelation are Enoch and Elijah, who will be sent back to earth to preach the Gospel in the time of apostasy, and will be the last Christian martyrs before the Second Coming. According to Revelation, they will be resurrected and ascend again to heaven.\n\n\nYudhishthira of the Mahabharata is believed to be the only human able to cross the plane between mortals and heaven, while still in his mortal body.\nBut before him, his brother Arjuna had been to heaven and lived there for 5 years in his human body.\nHis grand-uncle Bhishma had lived and studied in heaven. \nHis ancestor, King Puru had been to heaven. Indeed, many kings, including Nahusha were admitted to heaven in their human body. \nSant Tukaram was taken to Vaikunta on Garuda Vahan which was witnessed by all the village people.\n\nChaitanya Mahaprabhu disappeared after entering the temple deity room of Lord Jagannath.\n\nRamalinga Swamigal (Swami Ramalinga), a great Sage revered by his teaching. Ramalinga supposedly attained the Supreme Body of the Godhead when Divinity itself merged with him. He was reported to have disappeared after deciding to de-materialize his immortal body by his own free will, his body was never found.\n\nThe Mother (Mirra Alafassa), the foremost disciple of the Hindu philosopher and guru Sri Aurobindo, attempted the physical transformation of her body in order to become what she felt was the first of a new type of human individual by opening to the Supramental Truth Consciousness, a new power of spirit that Sri Aurobindo had allegedly discovered. She believed that she could create for herself a new kind of “light body”. However, she died and was cremated.\n\nIslamic teaching states that Muhammad ascended into heaven alive at the site of the Dome of the Rock. However, this ascent was temporary and he came back to Earth. It is ascribed to the exact descriptions presented in both the Quran and the Hadith.\n\nIslamic texts deny the idea of crucifixion or death attributed to Jesus by the New Testament. The Quran states that people (i.e., the Jews and Romans) sought to kill Jesus, but they could not crucify or kill him, although \"this was made to appear to them\". Muslims believe that Jesus was not crucified but instead he was raised by God unto the heavens. This \"raising\" is often understood to mean through bodily ascension.\n\nSome Islamic scholars have identified the prophet Idris to be the same person as Enoch from the Bible. This is because the Qu'ran states that God \"raised him to a lofty station\", and that has been taken to be a term for ascending, upon which it is concluded that \"Idris\" was \"Enoch\".\n\nIn the Hebrew bible the word for \"heavens\" is \"shamayim\". This is plural - it means \"heavens\", not \"heaven\" - but seems nevertheless to have a singular meaning: i.e., the older parts of the bible speak of \"heavens\" in the plural but evidence for a belief in more than one heaven from the bible is lacking. Shamayim also meant \"sky\", the atmosphere, as it does in modern English. The blue dome of the sky was called the \"raqia\", and was believed to be a solid shield between the atmosphere and the true heaven where God lived. Heaven was the realm of God, earth of mankind, and the underworld was for the dead, and travel between them was generally impossible, although God and his messengers frequently appear on earth and the dead can be summoned up from the underworld as the Witch of Endor summons the shade of Samuel.\n\nThere are two possible exceptions to this general rule that humans could not go to heaven, Enoch and Elijah, but neither is clear. The Book of Genesis mentions Enoch as one who \"was no more\" because \"God took him\", but it does not explicitly say whether he was alive or dead, and it does not say where God took him. The Books of Kings describes the prophet Elijah being taken towards \"shamayim\" in a whirlwind, but the word can mean both heaven as the abode of God, or the sky (as the word \"heavens\" does in modern English), and so again the text is ambiguous.\n\nAccording to the post-biblical Jewish Midrash, eight people went to heaven (also referred to as the Garden of Eden and Paradise) alive: \n\nIt is believed in Zoroastrianism that the Peshotanu was taken up into Heaven alive and will someday return as the Zoroastrian messiah.\n\nMembers of various Ascended Master Teachings, a group of New Age religions based on Theosophy, believe that Francis Bacon underwent a physical Ascension without experiencing death (he then became the deity St. Germain). They also believe numerous others have undergone Ascension; they are called the Ascended Masters and are worshipped in this group of religions. The leaders of these religions claim to be able to receive channeled messages from the Ascended Masters, which they then relay to their followers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1555284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1555284", "title": "Ethiopian Zion Coptic Church", "text": "Ethiopian Zion Coptic Church\n\nThe Ethiopian Zion Coptic Church is an offshoot of the Rastafari movement that flourished in the 1970s in Jamaica and was incorporated in Florida in 1975. Members of the movement say it is based on the teachings of Marcus Garvey and that they use cannabis as the Rastafari sacrament.\n\nIn 1979 the group was accused, tried, and convicted of smuggling massive amounts of potent cannabis from Jamaica to Miami in actions that kept the Jamaican economy afloat that decade. The then-Jamaican Prime Minister Edward Seaga told a U.S. interview \"It's just a little \"sinsemilla\" that it keep the country going right now\". The Coptics published a free newspaper promoting Garveyism and the decriminalization of marijuana. They were also featured on a sensational episode of \"60 Minutes\" on October 28, 1979. The group's leader was Thomas Reilly, also known as Brother Louv. During the same year, The Supreme Court of Florida found: \"(1) the Ethiopian Zion Coptic Church represents a religion within the first amendment to the Constitution of the United States, and (2) the “use of cannabis is an essential portion of the religious practice.\" \"Further, the Ethiopian Zion Coptic Church is not a new church or religion but the record reflects it is centuries old and has regularly used cannabis as its sacrament”.\n\nIn 1986 the organization participated in the Drug Enforcement Administration's hearings on cannabis rescheduling in the United States.\n\nOn August 8, 1994 Jim Tranmer, a former member of the group, wrote a letter to Carl Olsen while meditating on his 35-year prison sentence and his departure from the EZCC's \"malicious hierarchy\". Olsen ran for governor in Iowa, as a Libertarian, in 1994 and for the U.S. House of Representatives, again as a Libertarian, in 1996. He is currently a priest in the Ethiopian Zion Coptic Church, and resides in Iowa.\n\nThe EZCC is not associated with the Coptic Orthodox Church or the Coptic Catholic Church, both based in Egypt. The Coptic Orthodox Church has an Ethiopian sister church, which is also unrelated.\n\nThe Zion Coptic Church was featured in the 2011 Billy Corben documentary \"\", whose first section concerns the group and features interviews with former members.\n\nHistory of the Ethiopian Zion Coptic Church, by Walter Wells.\n\nhttps://m.imdb.com/title/tt2945588/ I (Almost) got away with it; Tony Darwin\n"}
{"id": "344406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=344406", "title": "Ethnic religion", "text": "Ethnic religion\n\nIn religious studies, an ethnic religion (or indigenous religion) is a religion associated with a particular ethnic group. Ethnic religions are often distinguished from universal religions which claim to not be limited in ethnic or national scope, such as Christianity or Islam or Buddhism or Jainism. Ethnic religions are not only independent religions. Some localised denominations of global religions are practised solely by certain ethnic groups. For example, the Assyrians have a unique denominational structure of Christianity known as the Assyrian Church of the East.\n\nA number of alternative terms have been used instead of \"ethnic\" or \"indigenous\" religions.\n\nThe term \"primal religion\" was coined by Andrew Walls in the University of Aberdeen in the 1970s to provide a focus on non-Western forms of religion as found in Africa, Asia, and Oceania. Terms such as \"primal religion,\" \"primitive religion,\" and \"tribal religion\" have been contested by Walls' student, Jim Cox, who argues that such terms suggest an undeveloped religion which can be seen as a preparation for conversion to Christianity. Cox prefers to use the term \"indigenous religion.\"\n\nAnother term that is often used is \"folk religion.\" While \"ethnic religion\" and \"folk religion\" have overlapping uses, the latter term implies \"the appropriation of religious beliefs and practices at a popular level.\" The term \"folk religion\" can therefore be used to speak of Chinese and African indigenous religions, but can also refer to popular expressions of more multi-national and institutionalized religions such as Folk Christianity or Folk Islam.\n\nEthnic religions are distinctive in their relationship with a particular ethnic group and often in the shaping of one's solidarity with an ethnic identity. Some ethnic religions include Hinduism of the Indians, Judaism of the Jews, Chinese folk religion of the Han Chinese, Shinto of the Japanese, and A ƭat Roog of the Serer of Senegal, The Gambia, and Mauritania. Diasporic groups often maintain ethnic religions as a means of maintaining a distinct ethnic identity, such as Hinduism among diasporic Indians in the Caribbean, the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, United Kingdom, France, Netherlands, southern and eastern Africa, Mauritius, Fiji, and the Malay Peninsula, or the role of African traditional religion and Afro-American religions among the African diaspora in the Americas.\n\nSome ancient ethnic religions, such as those historically found in pre-modern Europe, have found new vitality in neopaganism. Moreover, non-ethnic religions such as Christianity have been known to assume ethnic traits to an extent that they serve a role as an important ethnic identity marker, a notable example of this is the Serbian \"Saint-Savianism\" of the Serbian Orthodox Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "22352080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22352080", "title": "Gnostic saints (Christian)", "text": "Gnostic saints (Christian)\n\nGnostic saints are a series of historical figures revered in Gnostic Christianity as celebrated in several Gnostic Christian churches. One such list of saints appears in the Collect of the Day of All Gnostic Saints of Ecclesia Gnostica, which reads as follows:\n\"Praise be to Thee, O Father of all Fatherhood, Thou, the unknown God, who was before the fall of the sparks into the darkness of this aeon, for the glorious messengers of the light of Thy everlasting and redeeming Gnosis. Especially do we praise and thank Thee today for the following holy and enlightened teachers and knowers of truth: Valentinus of Rome; Basilides of Antioch; Carpocrates of Alexandria; Bardesanes of Syria; Mani of Babylonia, Martyr; Priscillian of Avila, Bishop and Martyr; Paul of Samosata, Bishop; Peter of Bruys, Martyr; Amalric of Bena; David of Dinan and William of Paris; Bogomil of Dragowitza, Bishop; Peter Waldo of Lyons; Joachim of Flora; Esclaremonde de Foix and the Cathar martyrs; and all the holy souls and wise sages who have in any way or form, under whatsoever guise and appearance attained to and taught the true and ancient Gnosis of God. Grant, O Boundless One, that inspired by and following their most noble example we also may see the light of Thy Gnosis and assist in liberating Thy sparks of light from the chains of darkness, ignorance and malice which afflict them in this aeon. \nAmen.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7099224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7099224", "title": "Institute on Religion in an Age of Science", "text": "Institute on Religion in an Age of Science\n\nThe Institute on Religion in an Age of Science (IRAS) is a non-denominational society that promotes and facilitates the ongoing dialectic between religion and science. The Institute has held annual week-long conferences at Star Island in New Hampshire since 1954. The conference attracts about 250 members and non-members each year.\n\nIn its Constitution, the IRAS purpose is stated as follows: \"The Institute on Religion in an Age of Science is established\n\nThe IRAS Council adopted the following statement in 2003:\n“We at IRAS take the natural world seriously as a primary source of meaning. Our quest is informed and guided by the deepening and evolving understandings fostered by scientific inquiry.\n\n“From here, our quests for meaning take us in divergent directions. For some, the natural world and its emergent manifestations in human experience and creativity are the focus of exploration. Some go on to encounter and celebrate the sacred in such explorations. For some, understandings of the natural world are interwoven with understandings inherent in various religious traditions, generating additional paths of exploration and encounter. As a result, we articulate our emerging orientations with many voices that are harmonious in that we share a common sense of place and gratitude.\n\n“We acknowledge as well a shared set of values and concerns pertaining to peace, justice, dignity, cultural and ecological diversity and planetary sustainability. Although we may differ and hence debate as to how these concerns are here addressed, we are committed to participating in their resolution.”\n\nIRAS evolved from the ideas of two pioneer groups. The first was a group of scientists from the Committee on Science and Values of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. The second group was an interfaith, religious coalition which hoped to revitalize religion for today's needs. Members of both groups saw what some perceived as a battlefield of conflicting ideologies to be a place of opportunity for a constructive relationship to emerge.\n\nIn 1954 the scientists accepted an invitation to present their views to the religious group at a seven-day conference on Religion in an Age of Science on Star Island. On November 9, 1954, members of the two groups established the Institute on Religion in an Age of Science to work toward these goals.\n\nPresidents of the Institute have included Harlow Shapley, Philip Hefner, Ursula Goodenough, and Varadaraja V. Raman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "144128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144128", "title": "Jerusalem syndrome", "text": "Jerusalem syndrome\n\nJerusalem syndrome is a group of mental phenomena involving the presence of either religiously-themed obsessive ideas, delusions or other psychosis-like experiences that are triggered by a visit to the city of Jerusalem. It is not endemic to one single religion or denomination but has affected Jews, Christians, and Muslims of many different backgrounds. It is not listed as a recognised condition in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\".\n\nThe best known, although not the most prevalent, manifestation of Jerusalem syndrome is the phenomenon whereby a person who seems previously balanced and devoid of any signs of psychopathology becomes psychotic after arriving in Jerusalem. The psychosis is characterised by an intense religious theme and typically resolves to full recovery after a few weeks or after being removed from the area. The religious focus of Jerusalem syndrome distinguishes it from other phenomena, such as Stendhal syndrome in Florence or Paris syndrome for Japanese tourists.\n\nIn a 2000 article in the \"British Journal of Psychiatry\", Bar-El et al. claim to have identified and described a specific syndrome which emerges in tourists with no previous psychiatric history. However, this claim has been disputed by M. Kalian and E. Witztum. Kalian and Witztum stressed that nearly all of the tourists who demonstrated the described behaviours were mentally ill prior to their arrival in Jerusalem. They further noted that, of the small proportion of tourists alleged to have exhibited spontaneous psychosis after arrival in Jerusalem, Bar-El et al. had presented no evidence that the tourists had been well prior to their arrival in the city. Jerusalem syndrome is not listed or mentioned in the DSM nor in the ICD.\n\nJerusalem syndrome has previously been regarded as a form of hysteria, referred to as \"Jerusalem squabble poison\", or \"fièvre Jérusalemienne\". It was first clinically described in the 1930s by Jerusalem psychiatrist Heinz Herman, one of the founders of modern psychiatric research in Israel. Whether or not these behaviors specifically arise from visiting Jerusalem is debated, as similar behaviors have been noted at other places of religious and historical importance such as Mecca and Rome (see Stendhal syndrome). It is known that cases of the syndrome had already been observed during the Middle Ages, since it was described in the itinerary of Felix Fabri and the biography of Margery Kempe. Other cases were described in the vast literature of visitors to Jerusalem during the 19th century.\n\nBar-El et al. suggested that at the approach of the year 2000, large numbers of otherwise normal visitors might be affected by a combination of their presence in Jerusalem and the religious significance of the millennium, causing a massive increase in the numbers of Jerusalem syndrome admissions to hospital. Despite a slight increase in tourist hospitalisations with the rise in total tourism to Jerusalem during the year 2000, the feared epidemic of Jerusalem syndrome never materialised .\n\nThe classic Jerusalem syndrome, where a visit to Jerusalem seems to trigger an intense religious psychosis that resolves quickly after or on departure, has been a subject of debate in the medical literature. Most of the discussion has centered on whether this definition of the Jerusalem syndrome is a distinct form of psychosis, or simply a re-expression of a previously existing psychotic illness that was not picked up by the medical authorities in Israel.\n\nIn response to this, Bar-El et al. classified the syndrome into three major types to reflect the different types of interactions between a visit to Jerusalem and unusual or psychosis-related thought processes. However Kalian and Witztum have objected, saying that Bar-El et al. presented no evidence to justify the detailed typology and prognosis presented and that the types in fact seem to be unrelated rather than different aspects of a syndrome.\n\n\"Jerusalem syndrome imposed on a previous psychotic illness.\" This refers to individuals already diagnosed as having a psychotic illness before their visit to Jerusalem. They have typically gone to the city because of the influence of religious ideas, often with a goal or mission in mind that they believe needs to be completed on arrival or during their stay. For example, an affected person may believe himself to be an important historical religious figure or may be influenced by important religious ideas or concepts (such as causing the coming of the Messiah or the second coming of Christ).\n\n\"Jerusalem syndrome superimposed on and complicated by idiosyncratic ideas.\" This does not necessarily take the form of mental illness and may simply be a culturally anomalous obsession with the significance of Jerusalem, either as an individual, or as part of a small religious group with idiosyncratic spiritual beliefs.\n\n\"Jerusalem syndrome as a discrete form, uncompounded by previous mental illness.\" This describes the best-known type, whereby a previously mentally balanced person becomes psychotic after arriving in Jerusalem. The psychosis is characterised by an intense religious character and typically resolves to full recovery after a few weeks or after being removed from the locality. It shares some features with the diagnostic category of a \"brief psychotic episode\", although a distinct pattern of behaviors has been noted:\n\n\nBar-El et al. reported 42 such cases over a period of 13 years, but in no case were they able to actually confirm that the condition was temporary.\n\nDuring a period of 13 years (1980–1993) for which admissions to the Kfar Shaul Mental Health Centre in Jerusalem were analysed, it was reported that 1,200 tourists with severe, Jerusalem-themed mental problems were referred to this clinic. Of these, 470 were admitted to hospital. On average, 100 such tourists have been seen annually, 40 of them requiring admission to hospital. About three and a half million tourists visit Jerusalem each year. Kalian and Witztum note that as a proportion of the total numbers of tourists visiting the city, this is not significantly different from any other city.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1538472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1538472", "title": "John Courtney Murray", "text": "John Courtney Murray\n\nJohn Courtney Murray, SJ, (September 12, 1904 – August 16, 1967), was an American Jesuit priest and theologian, who was especially known for his efforts to reconcile Catholicism and religious pluralism, particularly focusing on the relationship between religious freedom and the institutions of a democratically structured modern state.\n\nDuring the Second Vatican Council, he played a key role in persuading the assembly of the Catholic bishops to adopt the Council's ground-breaking Declaration on Religious Liberty, \"Dignitatis humanae\".\n\nJohn Courtney Murray was born in New York City on September 12, 1904. In 1920 he entered the New York province of the Society of Jesus. He studied Classics and Philosophy at Boston College, receiving bachelor's and master's degrees in 1926 and 1927 respectively. Following his graduation, he travelled to the Philippines, where he taught Latin and English literature at the Ateneo de Manila.\n\nIn 1930, Murray returned to the United States. He was ordained a Roman Catholic priest in 1933. \nHe pursued further studies at the Gregorian University in Rome and in 1937, he completed a doctorate in sacred theology.\n\nAfter his return from Rome to the United States, just before the beginning of World War II, he joined the Jesuit theologate in Woodstock, Maryland and taught Catholic trinitarian theology. In 1940, Murray still fully supported the Catholic doctrine that there was no salvation outside the Church.\n\nIn 1941, he was named editor of the Jesuit journal \"Theological Studies\". He held both positions until his death.\n\nAs representative of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops and consultant to the religious affairs section of the Allied High Commission, he helped draft and promote the 1943 \"Declaration on World Peace\", an interfaith statement of principles for postwar reconstruction, and successfully promoted a close constitutional arrangement between the restored German state and the Church, which included sharing of tax revenue with the churches.\n\nBy 1944, Murray's endorsement of full co-operation with other theists led many Catholics to complain that he endangered American Catholic faith, who at the time, recommended minimal cooperation with non-Catholics for fear that lay Catholic faith would be weakened.\n\nSimilarly, Murray advocated religious freedom as defined and protected by the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution which contradicted Catholic doctrines of church/state relations before Vatican II.\n\nWhile his background and training suggest a heavily theoretical bent, Murray became a leading public figure, and his work dealt primarily with the tensions between religion and public life. His best-known book, \"We Hold These Truths: Catholic Reflections on the American Proposition\" (1960), collects a number of his essays on such topics\n\nIn 1951 to 1952, following a lectureship at Yale University, he collaborated on a project with Robert Morrison MacIver of Columbia University to assess academic freedom and religious education in American public universities. Ultimately, the proposal argued for tax aid to private schools and for sympathetic exposure of religious faiths in public schools. The project was both nationally influential and personally formative, as it deepened Murray's understanding of and esteem for American constitutional law.\n\nIn his increasingly public role, several American bishops consulted Murray on legal issues such as censorship and birth control. He argued against what he saw as the reactionary and coercive practices of some Catholic bishops and instead advocated participation in substantive public debate, which he suggested offered a better appeal to public virtue. Instead of civic coercion, he argued, presenting moral opinions in the context of public discourse enabled Americans to both deepen their moral commitments and safeguard the 'genius' of American freedoms.\n\nFrom 1958 to 1962, he served at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, applying just war criteria to Soviet-American relations.\n\nBy the late 1940s, Murray argued, that Catholic teaching on church/state relations was inadequate to the \"moral functioning\" of contemporary peoples. The Anglo-American West, he claimed, had developed a fuller truth about human dignity, which was the responsibility of all citizens to assume \"moral control\" over their own religious beliefs and to wrest control from paternalistic states. That truth was an \"intention of nature\" or a new dictate of natural law philosophy.\n\nMurray’s claim that a \"new moral truth\" had emerged outside the church led to conflict with Cardinal Alfredo Ottaviani, Pro-Secretary of the Vatican Holy Office. In 1954, the Vatican demanded for Murray to end both writing on religious freedom and publishing his two latest articles on the issue.\n\nIn spite of his silencing, Murray continued to write privately on religious liberties and submitted his works to Rome, all of which were rejected.\n\nIn 1963, he was invited to the second (but not the first) session of the Second Vatican Council in which he drafted the third and fourth versions\n\nIn 1965, it eventually became the council's endorsement of religious freedom \"Dignitatis humanae personae\". After the council, he continued writing on the issue by claiming that the arguments offered by the final decree were inadequate even if the affirmation of religious freedom was unequivocal.\n\nIn 1966, prompted by the Vietnam War, he was appointed to serve on Lyndon Johnson's presidential commission, which reviewed Selective Service classifications. He supported the allowance of a classification for those opposed on moral grounds to some (though not all) wars, but the recommendation was not accepted by the Selective Service Administration.\n\nMurray then turned to questions of how the Church might arrive at new theological doctrines. He argued that Catholics who arrived at new truths about God would have to do so in conversation \"on a footing of equality\" with non-Catholics and atheists. He suggested greater reforms, including a restructuring of the Church, which he saw as having overdeveloped its notion of authority and hierarchy at the expense of the bonds of love that had, from the start, defined the authentically Christian life.\n\nIn August 1967, Murray died of a heart attack in Queens, New York, one month before his 63rd birthday.\n\n"}
{"id": "11668427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11668427", "title": "Karakia", "text": "Karakia\n\nKarakia are Māori incantations and prayers, used to invoke spiritual guidance and protection.\n\n\"Karakia\" are generally used to increase the spiritual goodwill of a gathering, so as to increase the likelihood of a favourable outcome. They are also considered a formal greeting when beginning a ceremony. According to legend, there was a curse on the Waiapu River which was lifted when George Gage (Hori Keeti) performed \"karakia\". In the Māori religion, \"karakia\" are used to ritually cleanse the homes of the deceased after a burial. \n\nThe missionary Richard Taylor gives a 19th-century view of the traditional role and scope of \"karakia\":\nThe word \"karakia\", which we use for prayer, formerly meant a spell, charm, or incantation [...] [Maori] have spells suited for all circumstances - to conquer enemies, catch fish, trap rats, and snare birds, to make their kumara grow, and even to bind the obstinate will of woman; to find anything lost; to discover a stray dog; a concealed enemy; in fact, for all their wants. These karakias are extremely numerous [...]\nWith the nineteenth-century introduction of Christianity to New Zealand, Māori adopted (or wrote new) karakia to acknowledge the new faith. Modern karakia tend to contain a blend of Christian and traditional influence, and their poetic language may make literal translations into English not always possible.\n\nIn modern Māori society, performances of \"karakia\" frequently open important meetings and ceremonies, both within a Māori context (such as tribal hui, tangi, or the inauguration of new marae), and in a wider New Zealand setting in which both Māori and Pākehā participate (such as the beginning of public meetings or at the departure of official delegations for overseas).\n\n"}
{"id": "16853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16853", "title": "Kitáb-i-Aqdas", "text": "Kitáb-i-Aqdas\n\nThe Kitáb-i-Aqdas or Aqdas is the central book of the Bahá'í Faith written by Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the religion, in 1873. The work was written in Arabic under the Arabic title ( / \"al-Kitāb al-ʾaqdās\"), but it is commonly referred to by its Persian title, \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\" ( / \"Ketâb Âqdas\"), which was given to the work by Bahá'u'lláh himself. It is sometimes also referred to as \"the Most Holy Book\", \"the Book of Laws\" or the Book of Aqdas. The word Aqdas has a significance in many languages as the superlative form of a word with its primary letters Q-D-Š.\n\nBahá'u'lláh had manuscript copies sent to Bahá'ís in Iran some years after the revelation of the \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\" in 1873, and in 1890–91 (1308 AH, 47 BE) he arranged for the publication of the original Arabic text of the book in Bombay, India.\n\nThe \"Aqdas\" is referred to as \"the Mother-Book\" of the Bahá'í teachings, and the \"Charter of the future world civilization\". It is not, however, only a 'book of laws': much of the content deals with other matters, notably ethical exhortations and addresses to various individuals, groups, and places. The \"Aqdas\" also discusses the establishment of Bahá'í administrative institutions, Bahá'í religious practices, mysticism, laws of personal status, criminal law, spiritual and ethical exhortations, social principles, miscellaneous laws and abrogations, and prophecies.\n\nBahá'u'lláh stated that the observance of the laws that he prescribed should be subject to \"tact and wisdom\", and that they do not cause \"disturbance and dissension.\" Bahá'u'lláh thus provided for the progressive application of his laws; for example certain Bahá'í laws are only applicable to Middle Eastern Bahá'ís such as the limit to the period of engagement, while any Bahá'í may practice the laws if they so decide. Shoghi Effendi also stated that certain other laws, such as criminal laws, that are dependent upon the existence of a predominantly Bahá'í society would only be applicable in a possible future Bahá'í society. He also stated that if the laws were in conflict with the civil law of the country where a Bahá'í lives the laws could not be practiced. Furthermore, some laws and teachings are, according to Bahá'í teaching, not meant to be applied at the present time and their application depends on decisions by the Universal House of Justice. Baha'is believe the Aqdas supersedes and succeeds previous revelations such as the Quran and the Bible.\n\nThe text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas consists of several hundred verses, which have been grouped in 189 numbered paragraphs in the English translation most of which are just a few sentences. The style combines elements of both poetry (\"shi'r\") and rhymed prose (\"saj\") and the text contains instances of literary devices like alliteration, assonance, repetition, onomatopoeia, juxtaposition and antithesis, metaphors, alternation of person and personification.\n\nRules and principles are interspersed and guide interpretation, and authority and limits for authorized interpretation are also specified. It defines a Bahá'í Administration as part of the Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh, and also speaks to the individual reader, as there are no clergy in the religion to rely on for guidance. The text also moves between statements said to be plain and statements suggesting the key to understanding the book is to look at the text for clues to itself. Some statements reflect on the teachings in the religion on various themes and underscore a relationship of the Aqdas as a 'motherhood' in relation to all the other scriptural works and they to it. It also relates to scriptures of other religions by abrogation, explanation, affirmation or reformation — an example of progressive revelation as a principle of the religion. While it is the core text on laws of the religion, it is not the exclusive source of laws in the religion, nor of Bahá'u'lláh's own writings, and complementarily the reader is told explicitly to not view the text as a \"mere code of laws\".\n\nThe Kitáb-i-Aqdas was completed by Bahá'u'lláh in 1873. It was published in the Arabic for circulation among Bahá'ís speaking the language circa 1890. A Russian translation was undertaken by Alexander Tumansky in 1899 and was his most important contribution to Bahá'í studies. Around 1900 an informal English translation was made by Bahá'í Anton Haddad, which circulated among the early American Bahá'í community in a typewritten form. In 1961, an English scholar of Arabic, Dr. Earl E. Elder, and William McElwee Miller, who (according to Laurence Elwell-Sutton) is an openly hostile Christian minister, published an English translation, \"Al-Kitab Al-Aqdas\", through the Royal Asiatic Society, however its translation of the notes section was problematic and overall lacked \"poetic sensibility, and skill in Arabic translation\". Indeed, Miller only ever used it to further his polemical agenda. In 1973 a \"Synopsis and Codification\" of the book was published in English by the Universal House of Justice, with 21 passages of the Aqdas that had already been translated into English by Shoghi Effendi with additional terse lists of laws and ordinances contained in the book outside of any contextual prose. Finally, in 1992, a full and authorized Bahá'í translation in English was published. This version is used as the basis of translation into many other languages highlighting the practice of an indirect translation and how the purpose of the translation affects the act of translation. The Bahá'í Library Online provides a side-by-side comparison of the authorized translation with earlier translations of Anton Haddad and Earl Elder.\n\nThe \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\" is supplemented by the \n\nThe book was divided into six main themes in the \"Synopsis and Codification\" by Shoghi Effendi:\n\nFurther, the laws were divided into four categories:\n\nScholarly review finds the Aqdas has themes of laws of worship, societal relations and administrative organization, or governance, of the religion. Through the authority vested in 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the Aqdas there is an expanse of internationalism related to the law in works like \"The Secret of Divine Civilization\" and through his extended authority to Shoghi Effendi works like his \"World Order of Bahá'u'lláh\" further elaborates on the internationalism theme. This stands in some distinction from other scriptures by not using triumphal tones as the voice of God is given to be viewed but rather one of progressive development, social context, and outright delay in application until another day. Indeed, it insists that divine law is applicable only in situations with requisite conditions, where it is likely to have certain social effects. The goal of application of the law and its methods are not to cause disturbance and dissension and requires an appreciation for context and intention. Additionally one is to eschew emphasis in the development of textualist and intentionalist arguments about the law though some of this is visible in scholarship on the Aqdas. Such methods of application of law in a religious context are, in the opinion of Roshan Danish, common in Islam and Judaism.\n\nThe Aqdas is understood by Bahá'ís to be a factor in the process of ongoing developments in world order. This can be seen comparing the Bahá'í approach to history and the future to that of the theory of The Clash of Civilizations on the one hand and the development of a posthegemony system on the other (compared with work of Robert Cox, for example, in \"Approaches to World Order\", (Robert Cox & Timonthy Sinclair eds, Cambridge University Press, 1996).)\n\nCertain possible sources of law are specifically abrogated: laws of the Bábí religion, notably in the \"Persian Bayán\", oral traditions (linked with pilgrim notes, and natural law, (that is to say God's sovereign will through revelation is the independent authority.) Divine revelation's law-making is both unconditioned in terms of the divine right to choose, and conditioned in the sense of the progress of history from one revelation to the next.\n\nBaha'u'llah's statements about marriage in the \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\" are brief. Marriage is highly recommended but is stated to not be obligatory. Bahá'u'lláh states that the maximum number of wives is two, but also states that having only one wife would add more tranquility to both partners. These statements were later interpreted by 'Abdu'l-Bahá that having a second wife is conditional upon treating both wives with justice and equality and was not possible in practice, thus establishing monogamy.\n\nThat Bahá'u'lláh had three wives, while his religion teaches monogamy, which has been the subject of criticism. The writing of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and Bahá'í teachings on gender equality and monogamy post-date Bahá'u'lláh's marriages and are understood to be evolutionary in nature, slowly leading Bahá'ís away from what had been a deeply rooted cultural practice.\n\nThe institutional status of the authority of 'Abdu'l-Bahá and a House of Justice are specifically delineated. On the basis of the authority granted 'Abdu'l-Bahá he extended forms of the authority vested in him to the Guardianship, whose sole member was Shoghi Effendi, and the Universal, or International, House of Justice through his Will and Testament. This was confirmed and amplified in other texts, notably the Kitáb-i-'Ahd. The Universal House of Justice is specifically empowered to write and rescind any laws it is felt necessary aside from those of the text of scripture and actual application of the laws of the Aqdas among Bahá'ís are dependent on the choice of the Universal House of Justice.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33795885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33795885", "title": "List of eschatological topics", "text": "List of eschatological topics\n\nThe following topics pertain to eschatology, a part of theology, physics, philosophy and futurology concerned with what are believed to be the final events of history, the ultimate destiny of humanity — commonly referred to as the \"end of the world\" or \"end time\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28413544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28413544", "title": "Magis Institute", "text": "Magis Institute\n\nMagis Institute is a non-profit educational organization founded by Jesuit priest and former Gonzaga University president Robert J. Spitzer, SJ. The institute's primary outreaches are the Magis Center of Reason and Faith and the Magis Center for Catholic Spirituality.\n\nRobert J. Spitzer S.J. (b. May 16, 1952) is a Jesuit priest, philosopher, educator, author, speaker, and retired President of Gonzaga University in Spokane, Washington. Father Spitzer is founder and currently active as President of Magis Institute, a non-profit organization dedicated to public education concerning the complementary relationship among the varied disciplines of physics, philosophy, reason, and faith. He is also the Chief Education Officer of the Ethics and Performance Institute which delivers web-based ethics education to corporations and individuals. He is also President of the Spitzer Center of Ethical Leadership, which delivers similar curricula to non-profit organizations.\n\nMagis Institute originally was created to be only a center for Catholic spirituality. In 2008, Father Spitzer and his associates at Magis considered how they might offer a reasoned, scientific alternative viewpoint to those publicly expressed by \"new atheism\" writers such as Christopher Hitchins and Richard Dawkins. As a result of these conversations, Father Spitzer began the Magis Center for Reason and Faith to provide a framework for the creation and distribution of materials expressing this alternative viewpoint.\n\nOn 3 September 2010, the Catholic News Agency featured Magis founder Father Spitzer in their response to the announcement of Stephen Hawking's new book touching on the subject of the origins of the universe. Online magazine \"The Blaze\" also featured a response to Hawking from Father Spitzer: \"There are already numerous video responses to Hawking popping up on YouTube. Let’s pick one. Here is former Gonzaga University President Father Robert Spitzer who now heads the Magis Center of Reason and Faith\"\n\nOn 10 September 2010, the institute was prominently mentioned on the CNN program \"Larry King Live\". Father Spitzer appeared as a panelist on the program which featured Dr. Stephen Hawking, Hawking's literary collaborator, Leonard Mlodinow, and author Deepak Chopra in a one-hour prime-time discussion on the need for a transcendent creator of the universe.\n\nThe institute, through Magis Center for Reason and Faith, is using five methods to leverage media to publicize their view of the compatibility of faith and reason:\n\nFather Spitzer has published \"New Proofs for the Existence of God\" The books authored by members of the institute will be \"affordable (under $30.00 US for the most part) and tailored for the average reader within the planned demographic. The institute also helps to promote the books of other writers who share a similar viewpoint, e.g. William Lane Craig, working with a physicist named Simpson, published the \"Blackwell Commentary on Natural Theology\".\n\nThe institute hired Martha Cotton, former producer of NBC News and the \"Today Show\", who has written a script that made these complex issues more intelligible, with the goal of bringing the discussion to the level of a high school student. Planned for a 2011 release, the first documentary features Nobel Laureate Arno Penzias, who discovered background radiation from the Big Bang. A Templeton Prize winner, John Polkinghorne, who is also an Anglican priest, is featured as well. The feature is completed and distribution is being negotiated (as of March 2011).\n\nThe institute is reaching out via the World Wide Web, and to the blogosphere; it has a popular Facebook page, and also releases frequent videos via YouTube. The institute provides information concerning the long history of scientific research done by members of the clergy over the centuries with a special focus on those who are currently active in their respective fields both on Facebook and its website.\n\nThe institute has planned the release in September 2011 of a curriculum aimed at the high school student, and designed for use in parochial schools and church youth groups..\n\nCatalogued for the Fall (September) of 2011, there is a college course in conjunction with Benedictine College in Atchison, Kansas numbered GS298 and titled \"Physics and Metaphysics in Dialogue\". The course will carry 3 semester credits and will be transferable as elective credit to any regionally accredited institution of higher education.\n\nAdult Curricula for group settings or individual study, with less scope and depth than the college course, are also to be released in September 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "766488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=766488", "title": "Marketplace of ideas", "text": "Marketplace of ideas\n\nThe marketplace of ideas is a rationale for freedom of expression based on an analogy to the economic concept of a free market. The marketplace of ideas holds that the truth will emerge from the competition of ideas in free, transparent public discourse, and concludes that ideas and ideologies will be culled according to their superiority or inferiority and widespread acceptance among the population. The concept is often applied to discussions of patent law as well as freedom of the press and the responsibilities of the media in a liberal democracy.\n\nThe marketplace of ideas metaphor is founded in the philosophy of John Milton in his work \"Areopagitica\" in 1644 and also John Stuart Mill in his book, \"On Liberty\" in 1859. It was later used in opinions by the Supreme Court of the United States. The first reference to the \"free trade in ideas\" within \"the competition of the market\" appears in Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.'s dissent in \"Abrams v. United States\". The phrase \"marketplace of ideas\" first appears in a concurring opinion by Justice William O. Douglas in the Supreme Court decision \"United States v. Rumely\" in 1953: \"Like the publishers of newspapers, magazines, or books, this publisher bids for the minds of men in the market place of ideas.\" The Court's 1969 decision in \"Brandenburg v. Ohio\" enshrined the marketplace of ideas as the dominant public policy in American free speech law (that is, against which narrow exceptions to freedom of speech must be justified by specific countervailing public policies). While the previous cases dealt with natural persons, the 1976 decision \"Virginia State Pharmacy Board v. Virginia Citizens Consumer Council\" expanded it to corporations by creating a curtailed corporate commercial speech right, striking down a government regulation of advertising in the process. It has not been seriously questioned since in United States jurisprudence, but the legacy of those decisions have lead to subsequent decisions like \"Citizens United v. FEC\" that curtailed the government's ability to regulate corporate speech and much more expansive advertising campaigns, commercial and political, than Americans had experienced previously.\n\nThe general idea that free speech should be tolerated because it will lead toward the truth has a long history. The English poet John Milton suggested that restricting speech was not necessary because \"in a free and open encounter\", truth would prevail. U.S. President Thomas Jefferson argued that it is safe to tolerate \"error of opinion ... where reason is left free to combat it\". Fredrick Siebert echoed the idea that free expression is self-correcting in \"Four Theories of the Press\": \"Let all with something to say be free to express themselves. The true and sound will survive. The false and unsound will be vanquished. Government should keep out of the battle and not weigh the odds in favor of one side or the other.\" These writers did not rely on the economic analogy to a market.\n\nIf beliefs such as religions are considered as ideas, the marketplace of ideas concept favors a marketplace of religions rather than forcing a state religion or forbidding incompatible beliefs. In this sense, it provides a rationale for freedom of religion.\n\nIn recent years questions have arisen regarding the existence of markets in ideas. Several scholars have noted differences between the way ideas are produced and consumed and the way more traditional goods are produced and consumed. It has also been argued that the idea of the marketplace of ideas as applied to religion \"incorrectly assumes a level playing field\" among religions. In addition, the idea of a marketplace of ideas has been applied to the study of scientific research as a social institution.\n\n"}
{"id": "1775318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1775318", "title": "Meekness", "text": "Meekness\n\nMeekness is an attribute of human nature and behavior. It has been defined several ways: righteous, humble, teachable, and patient under suffering, long suffering willing to follow gospel teachings; an attribute of a true disciple.\n\nMeekness has been contrasted with humility as referring to behavior towards others, whereas humility refers to an attitude towards oneself – meekness meaning restraining one's own power, so as to allow room for others.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3650673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3650673", "title": "Mirari vos", "text": "Mirari vos\n\nMirari vos - Latin: I was surprised - (On Liberalism and Religious Indifferentism), sometimes referred to as Mirari vos arbitramur, is the first encyclical of Pope Gregory XVI and was issued in August 1832. Addressed \"To All Patriarchs, Primates, Archbishops, and Bishops of the Catholic World\", it is general in scope.\n\nFelicité Robert de Lamennais, Charles Forbes René de Montalembert and Jean-Baptiste Henri Lacordaire started a newspaper, \"L'Avenir\" (\"The Future\"). While the paper was a strong proponent of Ultramontanism, supporting the authority of the papacy in opposition to nationalist and secularist ideas, it also advocated an enlarged suffrage, separation of church and state, and universal freedom of conscience, instruction, assembly, and the press. They saw no conflict between Catholicism and liberal reform. The conservative French hierarchy regarded such views as dangerous nonsense. In November 1831, Lammennais and Montalembert traveled to Rome, seeking confirmation from Pope Gregory that views expressed in their newspaper were orthodox.\n\nAlthough pressured by the French government and the French hierarchy, Pope Gregory XVI would have preferred not to make an official issue of the matter. After much opposition, they gained an audience on March 15, 1832, only on condition that their political views should not be mentioned. The meeting was apparently cordial and uneventful. Klemens von Metternich, whose Austrian troops ensured the stability of the Papal States, pressed for a condemnation.\n\nThe Pope's advisors were convinced that if he said nothing, it would viewed that he did not disapprove of Lamennais's opinions. \"Mirari vos\" was issued the following August, criticizing Lamennais's views without mentioning him by name.\n\nHe voiced support for Christian freedom, upheld the ecclesiastical supremacy of the papacy and raised concerns over alliances that were too close between the clergy and government. It denounced those who advocated a married clergy: \"We ask that you strive with all your might to justify and to defend the law of clerical celibacy as prescribed by the sacred canons, against which the arrows of the lascivious are directed from every side.\" He also denounced those who advocated divorce and secret societies that sought overturn the legitimate governments of the Italian states.\n\nHe attacked religious indifferentism, which was defined as the opinion that one religion is as good as another, which he saw as the basis for the argument for liberty of conscience. He saw it as the state's duty to restrain the promotion of false truth, which leads to immorality and so denounced freedom to publish or distribute any writings indiscriminately. Owen Chadwick explains Gregory's perspective: \"To provide legally that writers or speakers shall be free to promote what is not true or to utter words that declare that racial prejudice, or paederasty, or pornography, or adultery, or murder not to be sins, cannot be what God demands of any State.\n\nHe stated, \"Some are so carried away that they contentiously assert that the flock of errors arising from them is sufficiently compensated by the publication of some book which defends religion and truth. Every law condemns deliberately doing evil simply because there is some hope that good may result. Is there any sane man who would say poison ought to be distributed, sold publicly, stored, and even drunk because some antidote is available and those who use it may be snatched from death again and again?\n\nThe encyclical satisfied neither Lamennais's supporters nor his detractors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6168896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6168896", "title": "Multifaith", "text": "Multifaith\n\nTo be multifaith is to feel an affinity with aspects of more than one religion, philosophy or world-view, and perhaps to believe that no one is superior to the others. This term should not be confused with interfaith, which concerns the communication between different religions.\n\nThis is inherent to Relativism but exists among followers of other religions such as Confucianism and the Bahá'í Faith, as well as followers of the more liberal currents within Christianity, Islam and Judaism.\n\nRelativism centers on the belief that the best way to honour a divine creator is through the accomplishment of good actions, defined as those motivated by respect and empathy, and that no bad actions can ever be justified in the name of religion. Other religions are considered equally capable of providing a motivation to do good for those who understand them, or to do evil while claiming to do good for those who misinterpret them. \n\nThe term \"Relativism\" in a religious sense derives from the belief that each individual brings their own wisdom, personality, cultural background and experience to bear on their interpretation of a religion. \n\nRelativism is open to criticism by the more orthodox followers of other religions. In April 2005, in his homily during Mass prior to the conclave which would elect him as Pope, the then Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger talked about the world \"moving towards a dictatorship of Relativism\".\n\n"}
{"id": "52707728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52707728", "title": "Noro (priestess)", "text": "Noro (priestess)\n\nAccording to \"Chūzan Seikan\" and \"Chūzan Seifu\", the first priestesses were the daughters of Tentei-shi, who was a descendant of the creation goddess, Amamikyu. The first daughter became the first royal priestess, kikoe-ōgimi (), and the second daughter became the first village priestess, noro. The god of fire gave a piece of fire from Ryūgū-jō to each noro to create a village hearth, from which each family in the village would take fire to maintain their own family hearths. The kikoe-ōgimi maintained the royal hearth. The noro were charged with conducting official rituals and ceremonies for their respective village. The kikoe-ōgimi was charged with conducting rituals and ceremonies on behalf of the entire kingdom, and traveled with the king to Sefa-utaki to worship Amamikyu.\n\nUpon taking the throne in 1469, King Shō En made his sister the Chief Noro of his home of Izena, and his daughter kikoe-ōgimi. During the reign of Shō Shin (r. 1477–1526), the priestess system was centralized under the kikoe-ōgimi's authority and a noro was assigned to every village in the kingdom. The kikoe-ōgimi also had a new residence built near Shuri Castle so she could maintain Sonohyan-utaki.\n\nAfter the 1609 invasion by Satsuma, Confucian thought entered the Ryukyuan government and began eroding the authority of the priestesses. Satsuma placed a demand on the Ryukyuan government that women were forbidden to own land, however the government ignored this demand in respect to the noro. Shō Shōken, acting as Prime Minister of Ryukyu, convinced the king to stop or scale down a number of religious rituals and ceremonies in the name of saving money and minimizing aspects of Ryukyuan culture that might seem \"backwards\" to Satsuma, such as the king and kikoe-ōgimi's pilgrimage to Sefa-utaki. However, local village priestesses still retained influence and power until the end of the 19th century.\n\nAfter Japan annexed the Ryukyu Kingdom in 1879, the Meiji government began attempts at absorbing the Ryukyuan religion into State Shinto. The priestesses and their shrines were co-opted by the government and registered. The noro were prohibited from being recognized as part of the Shinto priesthood and, unlike their Shinto counterparts, were not guaranteed protection by the state. Furthermore, the government abolished their salaries. While the government was unable to confiscate noro land, in 1910 their land were commuted to monetary stipends which were then limited in use to exclude personal expense, leaving the noro with no government income. Then-Governor of Okinawa Prefecture Hibi Shigeaki stated that this limitation on the use of noro land stipends was \"for the maintenance of noro lands... for their eventual reclassification into [Shinto] shrines.\" As the influence of noro declined, the popularity of yuta increased.\n\nThe chaos of the Battle of Okinawa severely reduced and scattered Okinawa's population, which further minimized the function of the noro. Noro today only exist in rural villages and at utaki sites.\n\nThe kikoe-ōgimi served as the priestess for the Ryukyu Kingdom and the royal family. She conducted national ceremonies, oversaw all other noro priestesses, and maintained the royal hearth and the most sacred utaki. The inauguration ceremony, \"uarauri\" (), of a new kikoe-ōgimi was held at Seifa-utaki. The ceremony represented the holy marriage between Amamikyu and Shinerikyu. Religiously, the holy marriage gave the kikoe-ōgimi spiritual power supported by \"kimitezuri\" (). After she was inaugurated, she stayed in the position until her death. The position was abolished along with the kingdom in 1879, however the last kikoe-ōgimi continued her role until her death in 1944.\n\nAs mentioned above, noro were responsible for maintaining the village hearth and helping to establish new households. They primarily conducted rituals and ceremonies for their respective village at a local utaki. Girls from each family in a village are assigned to be the noro's assistant, although men can also be assistants for public ceremonies. Noro also communicate with and channel ancestors and deities.\n\nNoro are most recognizable by their white robes and headdress, which symbolize spiritual purity. They also wear or carry beads and a magatama stone. The noro's hearth includes three stones teepee-ed together; the stones always come from the shore.\n"}
{"id": "708715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708715", "title": "Novitiate", "text": "Novitiate\n\nThe novitiate, also called the noviciate, is the period of training and preparation that a Christian \"novice\" (or \"prospective\") monastic, apostolic, or member of a religious order undergoes prior to taking vows in order to discern whether he or she is called to vowed religious life. It often includes times of intense study, prayer, living in community, studying the vowed life, deepening one's relationship with God, and deepening one's self-awareness. It is a time of creating a new way of being in the world. The novitiate stage in most communities is a two-year period of formation. These years are \"Sabbath time\" to deepen one's relationship with God, to intensify the living out of the community's mission and charism, and to foster human growth. The novitiate experience for many communities includes a concentrated program of prayer, study, reflection and limited ministerial engagement.\n\nNovices are not admitted to vows until they have successfully completed the prescribed period of training and proving, called the novitiate. In the Middle Ages novices typically would have dormitories in separate areas within a monastery; an early Cistercian monastery, Royal Monastery of Our Lady of the Wheel, founded in 1202, has this chamber clearly visible today.\n\nEarlier, different orders followed their own rules governing the length and conditions of the novitiate. At the time of the Reformation, the Council of Trent legislated the length and conditions by which anyone aspiring to become a monk is obliged to be a novice; the usual period is at least one year, depending on the aptitude of the candidate.\n\nThe novitiate, through which life in an institute is begun, is arranged so that the novices better understand their divine vocation, and indeed one which is proper to the institute, experience the manner of living of the institute, and form their mind and heart in its spirit, and so that their intention and suitability are tested.\n\nConscious of their own responsibility, the Novices are to collaborate actively with their Director in such a way that they faithfully respond to the grace of a divine vocation.\n\nMembers of the institute are to take care that they cooperate for their part in the work of formation of the Novices through example of life and prayer\n\nNovices are to be led to cultivate human and Christian virtues; through prayer and self denial they are to be introduced to a fuller way of perfection; they are to be taught to contemplate the mystery of salvation and to read and meditate on the sacred scriptures; they are to be prepared to cultivate the worship of God in the sacred liturgy; they are to learn a manner of leading a life consecrated to God and humanity in Christ through the evangelical counsels; they are to be instructed regarding the character and spirit, the purpose and discipline, the history and life of the institute; and they are to be imbued with love for the Church.\n\nA novice is free to quit the novitiate at any time, and the Novice Director, Formation Director, or Superior is free to dismiss him or her with or without cause in most communities.\n\nOften, in novicating, the vows are continuous through training.\n\nIn some novitiate communities, mostly monastic, the novice often wears clothing that is distinct from secular dress but is not the full habit worn by professed members of the community. The novice's day normally encompasses participation in the full canonical hours, manual labor, and classes designed to instruct novices in the religious life he is preparing to embrace. Spiritual exercises and tests of humility are common features of a novitiate. Some Roman Catholic communities encourage frequent confession and reception of Holy Communion by their novices.\n\nA Superior will often appoint an experienced member of the community to oversee the training of novices. This may be a Finally Professed Member, novice master or mistress who is responsible for the training of all novices.\n\nDifferent religious communities will have varying requirements for the duration of the novitiate. Often one must complete a postulancy before officially entering the novitiate. In many apostolic religious communities in the United States, postulancy or candidacy is one to three years. In the Eastern Orthodox Church, the novitiate is officially set at three years before one may be tonsured a monk or nun, though this requirement may be waived.\n\nThe term \"novitiate\" also refers to the building, house, or complex within a monastery or convent that is devoted exclusively to the needs of novices (sleeping, training, etc.).\n\n"}
{"id": "31584958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31584958", "title": "Orebites", "text": "Orebites\n\nThe Orebites () were followers of the Hussites in Eastern Bohemia. The founders took part in the procession on Mount Oreb near Třebechovice pod Orebem. Later most of the noble supporters belonged to the East Bohemian church known as the \"Bohemian Brethren\". The ideological founder of the Orebites was a priest named Ambrož Hradecký. Leaders included Hynek Krušina of Lichtenburg and Diviš Bořek of Miletínek, captain of the Hussites in Eastern and Central Bohemia. The Orebites were instrumental in the burning of the Benedictine monastery in Mnichovo Hradiště in the early summer of 1420, and in the autumn of that year they supported the rest of the Hussites at the Battle of Vyšehrad. In 1423 they merged with the \"Sirotci\" of Jan Žižka.\n"}
{"id": "80648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80648", "title": "Prorrhesis", "text": "Prorrhesis\n\nA part of the Eleusinian Mysteries, prorrhesis was the official announcement of the start of the rites. This announcement occurred on the 15th day of Boedromion (September), and was given by the hierophantes.\n"}
{"id": "35432202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35432202", "title": "Purépecha religion", "text": "Purépecha religion\n\nThe Purépecha religion is the religion of the Purépecha people.\n\n"}
{"id": "21284420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21284420", "title": "Rangfrah", "text": "Rangfrah\n\nRangfarah is the name chosen for a revivalist movement of Tangsa traditional spirituality. The intention is \"to give an alternative form of religious belief to those who were neither following the Christian beliefs nor the traditional ways\". \"Rangfrah\" meaning \"God\" in the Longchang dialect was given a form very similar to that of the \"Shiva\" of the Hindu religion and a worshiping house called \"Rangshom Him\" was built to place the Rangfrah idol and make arrangement for the followers to gather and offer their prayers.\n\nIn the dialects of other Tangsa communities, the term for \"God\" takes variants such as Rangwa, Rangkhothak, etc. Traditionally, the Tangsas rarely practiced any kind of religious rituals dedicated to the God. However, they generally used various ways to invoke spirits to either receive their benevolent influences or to protect themselves from their malevolent activities. The rituals were mostly invocations, which predominantly involved offerings of animals, rice, rice-beer, eggs, etc. wrapped in leaves of a particular plant and then placing them at a sacred location specific to that particular ritual.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8917125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8917125", "title": "Religion and divorce", "text": "Religion and divorce\n\nThe relationship between religion and divorce is complicated and varied. This article attempts to summarize the dominant views in a number of major world faiths.\n\nThe great majority of Christian denominations affirm that marriage is intended as a lifelong covenant, but vary in their response to its dissolubility through divorce. The Roman Catholic Church treats all consummated sacramental marriages as permanent during the life of the spouses, and therefore does not allow remarriage after a divorce if the other spouse still lives and the marriage has not been annulled. However, divorced Catholics are still welcome to participate fully in the life of the church so long as they have not remarried against church law, and the Catholic Church generally requires civil divorce or annulment procedures to have been completed before it will consider annulment cases. Annulment is not the same as divorce - it is a declaration that the marriage was never valid to begin with. Other Christian denominations, including the Eastern Orthodox Church and many Protestant churches, will allow both divorce and remarriage even with a surviving former spouse, at least under certain conditions. For example, the Allegheny Wesleyan Methodist Connection, in its 2014 Discipline, teaches:\n\nIn societies that practised Puritanism, divorce was allowed if one partner in the marriage was not completely satisfied with the other, and remarriage was also allowed. The Church of England also took an indissolublist line until 2002, when it agreed to allow a divorced person to remarry in church under exceptional circumstances.\n\nBible commentary on divorce comes primarily from the gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and the epistles of Paul. Jesus taught on the subject of divorce in three of the Gospels, and Paul gives a rather extensive treatment of the subject in his First Epistle to the Corinthians chapter 7: \"Let not the wife depart from her husband...let not the husband put away his wife\" (1 Corinthians 7:10-11), but he also includes the Pauline privilege. He again alludes to his position on divorce in his Epistle to the Romans, albeit an allegory, when he states \"For the woman which hath an husband is bound by the law to her husband so long as he liveth. . . . So then if, while her husband liveth, she be married to another man, she shall be called an adulteress\" (Romans 7:2-3).\n\nIn , and , Jesus came into conflict with the Pharisees over divorce concerning their well-known controversy between Hillel and Shammai about —as evidenced in Nashim Gittin 9:10 of the Mishnah. Do Jesus’ answers to the Pharisees also pertain to Christians? Are Christians who adopt these teachings Judaizers? The differences in opinions about these questions usually arise over whether Jesus opposed the Law of Moses or just some of the viewpoints of the Pharisees, and whether Jesus just addressed a Jewish audience or expanded his audience to include Christians, for example \"all nations\" as in the Great Commission. \nSince Deuteronomy 24:1-4 did not give Jewish women the right to directly initiate a divorce (See \"Agunah\"), did Jesus' answers \"in the house\" to his disciples expand the rights of women or did they merely acknowledge that some Jewish women, such as Herodias who divorced Herod Boethus, were wrongfully taking rights because Jewish women were being assimilated by other cultures? (See , .) In other words, did Jesus confine his remarks to the Pharisaical questions, and did he appeal to his own authority by refuting the oral authority of the Pharisees with the formula \"You have heard...But I say to you\" in ? Expressions used by Jesus such as \"you have heard\", \"it hath been said\", \"it is written\", \"have you never read\", \"keep the commandments\", \"why do you break the commandments with your traditions?\" and \"what did Moses Command you?\" seem to indicate that Jesus generally respected the Hebrew Bible and sometimes opposed Pharisaical Opinions. He was critical of the Pharisees.\n\nBuddhism has no religious concept of marriage (see Buddhist view of marriage). In Buddhism, marriage is a secular affair, subject to local customs.\n\nAccording to the Quran, marriage is intended to be unbounded in time, but when marital harmony cannot be attained, the Quran allows the spouses to bring the marriage to an end (2:231). Divorce in Islam can take a variety of forms, some initiated by the husband and some initiated by the wife. The main traditional legal categories are \"talaq\" (repudiation), \"khulʿ\" (mutual divorce), judicial divorce and oaths. The theory and practice of divorce in the Islamic world have varied according to time and place. Historically, the rules of divorce were governed by sharia, as interpreted by traditional Islamic jurisprudence, and they differed depending on the legal school. Historical practice sometimes diverged from legal theory. In modern times, as personal status (family) laws were codified, they generally remained \"within the orbit of Islamic law\", but control over the norms of divorce shifted from traditional jurists to the state.\n\nJudaism has always accepted divorce as a fact of life, though an unfortunate one: e.g., see Deuteronomy chapters 22 and 24. Judaism generally maintains that it is better for a couple to divorce than to remain together in a state of bitterness and strife. It is said that \"shalom bayit\" (domestic harmony) is a desirable state.\n\nIn general, it is accepted that for a Jewish divorce to be effective the husband must hand to the wife, and not vice versa, a bill of divorcement, called a get, which also acts as proof of the divorce. From ancient times, the get was considered to be very important to show all those who needed to have proof that the woman was in fact free from the previous marriage and free to remarry. In Jewish law, besides other things, the consequences of a woman remarrying and having a child while still legally married to another is profound: the child would be a mamzer, to be avoided at any cost. Also, the woman would be committing adultery should she remarry while still legally married to another. An enactment called Herem de-Rabbenu Gershom (literally, the proscription of Rabbenu Gershom)--accepted universally throughout European Jewish communities—prohibited a husband from divorcing his wife against her will.\n\nIn Jewish law divorce is an act of the parties to the marriage, which is different from the approach adopted by many other legal systems. That is, a Jewish divorce does not require a decree from a court. The function of the court, in the absence of agreement between the parties, is to decide whether the husband should be compelled to give the \"get\" or for the wife to accept the \"get\". But, notwithstanding any such ruling, the parties remain married until such time as the husband actually delivers the \"get\".\n\nJewish law, in effect, does not require proof or even an allegation of moral or other fault by either party. In the first place, as noted above, if both parties agree to a divorce and follow the prescribed procedure, then the court would not need to establish responsibility for the marriage break-down. In the second place, if either party does not wish to continue co-habiting with the other is sufficient grounds for divorce. (Anything else, it is said, would amount to rape of the woman.) In this sense it is a \"no-fault\" approach to divorce. This approach has been accepted for thousands of years . It was the approach advocated by followers of Hillel, a very influential school of thought in ancient Judea, which predated the current era. This is the approach which is now generally accepted in most, if not all, Jewish communities around the world.\n\nOn the other hand, the refusal of a husband to give his wife a get (the document) can be for purely vindictive or even extortion motives. This situation has resulted in numerous social problems in modern times. For example, where pre-nuptial agreements are enforceable in civil courts, appropriate provisions may be made to compel the giving of the get by the husband in the event of a civil divorce being obtained. A woman who has been refused a get is typically referred to as an \"agunah\".\n\nA wife can initiate a divorce process on several grounds (including lack of satisfaction in her sexual life). However, this right extends only so far as petitioning a court to force her husband to divorce her. Also see \"Jewish Attitude Toward Divorce\".\nand Get in the Conflict of Laws.\n\nFurthermore, from the philosophical and mystical point of view, divorce is a unique procedure of tremendous importance and complexity, because it nullifies the holiest of connections that can exist in the Universe (similar to a connection between a person and God). Because of the danger of the birth of illegitimate children (mamzerim) if the process is not performed properly, and because divorce law is extraordinarily complex, the process is generally supervised by experts.\n\nIn some Jewish mythologies, Adam had a wife before Eve named Lilith who left him. The earliest historically documentation of this legend appears in the 8th-10th centuries \"Alphabet of Ben Sira\". Whether this particular tradition is older is not known.\n\nAfter finding he intended to marry Glauce; for what Jason said was political ties; Medea murdered Glauce and her father with a burning dress; than proceeded to kill her own children Tisander and Alcimenes fearing they would be imprisoned. Afterwords she left to Athens on a chariot of dragons given to her by her grandfather Helios.\n\nThe Wiccan equivalent of a divorce is described as a \"handparting\". Wiccans traditionally see either a high priest or high priestess to discuss things out before a divorce. However a handfasting (marriage) that falls apart peacefully does not necessarily need a handparting.\n\nIn Unitarian Universalism, divorce is allowed and should be a decision by the individual person and is seen as ending a rite of passage. Such divorces have sometimes taken the form of divorce rituals as far back as the 1960s. Divorces are largely seen as a life choice.\n\nhttp://www.bibleissues.org, https://web.archive.org/web/20091027092358/http://geocities.com/dcheddie/divorce1.html, http://students.eng.fiu.edu/~denver/divorce1.html \n"}
{"id": "2550591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2550591", "title": "Religion and drugs", "text": "Religion and drugs\n\nMany religions have expressed positions on what is acceptable to consume as a means of intoxication for spiritual, pleasure, or medicinal purposes. Psychoactive substances may also play a significant part in the development of religion and religious views as well as in rituals.\n\nIn the book \"Inside the Neolithic Mind\", the authors, archaeologists David Lewis-Williams and David Pearce argue that hallucinogenic drugs formed the basis of neolithic religion and rock art. Similar practices and images are found in some contemporary \"stone-age\" Indigenous peoples in South America using yaje.\n\nSome scholars have suggested that Ancient Greek mystery religions employed entheogen, such as the Kykeon central to the Eleusinian Mysteries, to induce a trance or dream state. Research conducted by John R. Hale, Jelle Zeilinga de Boer, Jeffrey P. Chanton and Henry A. Spiller suggests that the prophecies of the Delphic Oracle were uttered by Priestesses under the influence of gaseous vapors exuded from the ground. Their findings are published in \"Questioning the Delphic Oracle: Overview / An Intoxicating Tale\".\n\nIn Buddhism the Right View (' / ') can also be translated as \"right perspective\", \"right outlook\" or \"right understanding\", is the right way of looking at life, nature, and the world as they really are for us. It is to understand how our reality works. It acts as the reasoning with which someone starts practicing the path. It explains the reasons for our human existence, suffering, sickness, aging, death, the existence of greed, hatred, and delusion. Right view gives direction and efficacy to the other seven path factors. It begins with concepts and propositional knowledge, but through the practice of right concentration, it gradually becomes transmuted into wisdom, which can eradicate the fetters of the mind. An understanding of right view will inspire the person to lead a virtuous life in line with right view. In the Pāli and Chinese canons, it is explained thus:\n\nRight livelihood (\"samyag-ājīva\" / \"sammā-ājīva\"). This means that practitioners ought not to engage in trades or occupations which, either directly or indirectly, result in harm for other living beings. In the Chinese and Pali Canon, it is explained thus:\n\nMore concretely today interpretations include \"work and career need to be integrated into life as a Buddhist,\" it is also an ethical livelihood, \"wealth obtained through rightful means\" (Bhikku Basnagoda Rahula) – that means being honest and ethical in business dealings, not to cheat, lie or steal. As people are spending most of their time at work, it’s important to assess how our work affects our mind and heart. So important questions include \"How can work become meaningful? How can it be a support, not a hindrance, to spiritual practice — a place to deepen our awareness and kindness?\"\n\nThe five types of businesses that should not be undertaken:\n\n\nAccording to the fifth precept of the Pancasila, Buddhists are meant to refrain from any quantity of \"fermented or distilled beverages\" which would prevent mindfulness or cause heedlessness. In the Pali Tipitaka the precept is explicitly concerned with alcoholic beverages:\n\"I undertake the training rule to abstain from fermented drink that causes heedlessness.\"\n\n\"Surāmerayamajjapamādaṭṭhānā veramaṇī sikkhāpadaṃ samādiyāmi.\"\nHowever, caffeine and tea are permitted, even encouraged for monks of most traditions, as it is believed to promote wakefulness.\n\nGenerally speaking, the vast majority of Buddhists and Buddhist sects denounce and have historically frowned upon the use of any intoxicants by an individual who has taken the five precepts. Most Buddhists view the use and abuse of intoxicants to be a hindrance in the development of an enlightened mind. However, there are a few historical and doctrinal exceptions.\n\nMany modern Buddhist schools have strongly discouraged the use of psychoactive drugs of any kind; however, they may not be prohibited in all circumstances in all traditions. Some denominations of tantric or esoteric Buddhism especially exemplify the latter, often with the principle skillful means:\n\nFor example, as part of the ganachakra \"tsok\" ritual (as well as Homa, abhisheka and sometimes drubchen) some Tibetan Buddhists and Bönpos have been known to ingest small amounts of grain alcohol (called \"amrit\" or \"amrita\") as an offering. If a member is an alcoholic, or for some other reason does not wish to partake in the drinking of the alcoholic offering, then he or she may dip a finger in the alcohol and then flick it three times as part of the ceremony.\n\nAmrita is also possibly the same as, or at least in some sense a conceptual derivative of the ancient Hindu \"soma\". (The latter which historians often equate with \"Amanita muscaria\" or other \"Amanita\" psychoactive fungi.) Crowley (1996) states:\n\"Undoubtedly, the striking parallels between \"The legend about Chakdor\" and the Hindu legend of the origin of soma show that the Buddhist amrita and the Hindu soma were at one time understood to be identical. Moreover, the principal property of amrita is, to this day, perceived by Buddhists as being a species of inebriation, however symbolically this inebriation may be interpreted. Why else would beer (Tibetan \"chhang\", \"barley beer\") be used by yogins as a symbolic substitute for amrita [Ardussi]? Conversely, why else would the term bDud.rTsi be used as a poetic synonym for beer?\nConversely, in Tibetan and Sherpa lore there is a story about a monk who came across a woman who told him that he must either:\n\nThe monk thought to himself, \"well, surely if I kill the goat then I will be causing great suffering since a living being will die. If I sleep with the woman then I will have broken another great vow of a monk and will surely be lost to the ways of the world. Lastly, if I drink the beer then perhaps no great harm will come and I will only be intoxicated for a while, and most importantly I will only be hurting myself.\" (In the context of the story this instance is of particular importance to him because monks in the Mahayana and Vajrayana try to bring all sentient beings to enlightenment as part of their goal.)\n\nSo the monk drank the mug of beer and then he became very drunk. In his drunkenness he proceeded to kill the woman and sleep with the goat, breaking all three vows and, at least in his eyes, doing much harm in the world. The lesson of this story is meant to be that, at least according to the cultures from which it delineates, alcohol causes one to break all of one's vows, in a sense that one could say it is the cause of all other harmful deeds.\n\nThe Vajrayana teacher Drupon Thinley Ningpo Rinpoche has said that as part of the five precepts which a layperson takes upon taking refuge, that although they must refrain from taking intoxicants, they may drink enough so as they do not become drunk. Bhikkus and Bhikkunis (monks and nuns, respectively), on the other hand, who have taken the ten vows as part of taking refuge and becoming ordained, cannot imbibe any amount of alcohol or other drugs, other than pharmaceuticals taken as medicine.\n\nTenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama of Tibet, is known as teetotaler and non-smoker.\n\nThere is some evidence regarding the use of deliriant \"Datura\" seeds (known as \"candabija\") in Dharmic rituals associated with many tantras – namely the \"Vajramahabhairava\", \"Samputa\", \"Mahakala\", \"Guhyasamaja\", \"Tara\" and \"Krsnayamari\" tantras – as well as cannabis and other entheogens in minority Vajrayana sanghas. Ronald M Davidson says that in Indian Vajrayana, Datura was:\n\n“employed as a narcotic paste or as wood in a fire ceremony and could be easily absorbed through the skin or the lungs. The seeds of this powerful narcotic, termed \"passion seeds\" (candabija), are the strongest elements and contain the alkaloids hyoscine, hyoscyamine, and atropine in forms that survive burning or boiling. In even moderate doses, datura can render a person virtually immobile with severe belladonna-like hallucinations.”\n\nIn the \"Profound Summarizing Notes on the Path Presented as the Three Continua\" a Sakya Lamdre text, by Jamyang Khyentse Wangchuk (1524-1568), the use of Datura in combination with other substances, is prescribed as part of a meditation practice meant to establish that \"All the phenomena included in apparent existence, samsara and nirvana, are not established outside of one's mind.\"\n\nIan Baker writes that Tibetan terma literature such as the Vima Nyingtik describes \"various concoctions of mind altering substances, including datura and oleander, which can be formed into pills or placed directly in the eyes to induce visions and illuminate hidden contents of the psyche.\"\n\nA book titled \"Zig Zag Zen: Buddhism and Psychedelics\" (2002), details the history of Buddhism and the use of psychedelic drugs, and includes essays by modern Buddhist teachers on the topic.\n\nZen Buddhism is known for stressing the precepts. In Japan, however, where Zen flourished historically, there are a number of examples of misconduct on the part of monks and laypeople alike. This often involved the use of alcohol, as sake drinking has and continues to be a well known aspect of Japanese culture.\n\nThe Japanese Zen monk and abbot, shakuhachi player and poet Ikkyu was known for his unconventional take on Zen Buddhism: His style of expressing dharma is sometimes deemed \"Red Thread Zen\" or \"Crazy Cloud Zen\" for its unorthodox characteristics. Ikkyu is considered both a heretic and saint in the Rinzai Zen tradition, and was known for his derogatory poetry, open alcoholism and for frequenting the services of prostitutes in brothels. He personally found no conflict between his lifestyle and Buddhism.\n\nThere are several koans (Zen riddles) referencing the drinking of sake (rice wine); for instance Mumonkan's tenth koan titled \"Seizei Is Utterly Destitute\":\n'Seizei said to Sozan, \"Seizei is utterly destitute. Will you give him support?\" Sozan called out: \"Seizei!\" Seizei responded, \"Yes sir?!\" Sozan said, \"You have finished three cups of the finest wine in China, and still you say you have not yet moistened your lips!\"'\nAnother monk, Gudo, is mentioned in a koan called \"Finding a Diamond on a Muddy Road\" buying a gallon of sake.\n\nJudaism maintains that people do not own their bodies – they belong to God. As a result, Jews are not permitted to harm, mutilate, destroy or take risks with their bodies, life or health with activities such as taking life-threatening drugs. However, there is no general prohibition against drugs in Judaism, as long as they don't interfere with one's ritual duties and don't cause definite harm, though most Rabbis generally prohibit drugs, in order to avoid social, legal and medical problems in their community.\n\nSpiritual use of various alcoholic beverages, sometimes in very large quantities, is common and well known. In some Jewish communities there is a tradition to get drunk on Purim until they forget the difference between the Hebrew phrases \"Cursed is Haman\" and \"Blessed is Mordechai\", which signified reaching the spiritual world Atzilut where all opposites unite. In many Jewish communities it is customary to drink on Simchat Torah as well. Drinking in small quantities as a mind-altering practice is commonly used during the Farbrengens of the Chabad Hasidim. A large body of Chabad literature refers to the spiritual dangers of drinking, but a few anecdotal references refer to the spirutal power of alcohol, when used for the sake of connecting to God and achieving brotherly love among fellows Jews. The Lubavitcher Rebbe forbade his Chassidim under the age of 40 to consume more than 4 small shots of hard liqueurs. Wine plays a prominent role in many Jewish rituals, most notably the kiddush.\nHasidic Jews often engage in a free ceremony called \"Tisch\" in which drinks such as Vodka are drunk in a group. Drinking is accompanied by singing and the study of the Torah.\n\nSome Hasidic Rabbis, e.g. the Ribnitzer Rebbe used to drink large amounts of Vodka on some special occasions, apparently as a powerful mind-altering method. The Ribnitzer Rebbe also practiced severe sleep deprivation, extremely long meditative prayers and a number of ascetic purification rituals. During his life in the USSR he used to immerse himself every day in ice water.\n\nThe spiritual use of caffeine and nicotine as stimulants is well known in the Hasidic communities. Many stories are told about miracles and spiritual journeys performed by the Baal Shem Tov and other famous Tzaddikim with the help of their smoking pipe. Some people suggest that, judging by the nature of these stories, the tobacco was sometimes mixed with strong mind-altering drugs.\n\nA popular Hasidic saying relates coffee to the Psalmic verse \"Hope in God\". The Hebrew word for \"hope\" (\"Kave\") sounds identical to the Yiddish word for coffee. Coffee is believed to have power to awaken the soul to the worship of God.\n\nSome Kabbalists, including Isaac of Acco and Abraham Abulafia, mention a method of \"philosophical meditation\", which involves drinking a cup of \"strong wine of Avicenna\", which would induce a trance and would help the adept to ponder over difficult philosophical questions. The exact recipe of this wine remains unknown; Avicenna refers in his works to the effects of opium and datura extracts.\n\nRabbi Aryeh Kaplan, a prominent researcher of Jewish meditations, suggested that some medieval Kabbalists may have used some psychedelic drugs Indeed, one can find in Kabbalistic medical manuals cryptic references to the hidden powers of mandrake, harmal and other psychoactive plants, though the exact usage of these powers is hard to decipher.\n\nAccording to Aryeh Kaplan, cannabis was an ingredient in the Holy anointing oil mentioned in various sacred Hebrew texts. The herb of interest is most commonly known as \"kaneh-bosem\" (קְנֵה-בֹשֶׂם) which is mentioned several times in the Old Testament as a bartering material, incense, and an ingredient in Holy anointing oil used by the high priest of the temple. Many Rastafarians, who use cannabis as a sacrament, identify as Jewish.\n\nAccording to Josephus, the head-dress of the Jewish High Priests' was modeled upon the capsule of the Hyoscyamus flower, which he calls \"Saccharus\". This Greek word for sugar stems from the Hebrew root that means \"intoxicating\".\n\nBenny Shanon, a psychology professor at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, proposed that Moses may have been high on hallucinogenic mushrooms at the time he received the Ten Commandments.\n\nMany Christian denominations disapprove of the use of most illicit drugs. Many denominations permit the moderate use of socially and legally acceptable drugs like alcohol, caffeine and tobacco. Some Christian denominations permit smoking tobacco, while others disapprove of it. Many denominations do not have any official stance on drug use, some more-recent Christian denominations (e.g. Mormons, Seventh-day Adventists and Jehovah’s Witnesses) discourage or prohibit the use of any of these substances.\n\nBecause Jesus and many Biblical figures drank wine, most Christian denominations do not require teetotalism. In the Eucharist, wine represents (or among Christians who believe in some form of Real Presence, like the Catholic, Lutheran and Orthodox churches, actually \"is\") the blood of Christ. Lutherans believe in the real presence of the body and blood of Christ in the Eucharist, that the body and blood of Christ are \"truly and substantially present in, with and under the forms.\" of the consecrated bread and wine (the elements), so that communicants orally eat and drink the holy body and blood of Christ Himself as well as the bread and wine (cf. Augsburg Confession, Article 10) in this Sacrament. The Lutheran doctrine of the Real Presence is more accurately and formally known as \"the Sacramental Union.\" It has been inaccurately called \"consubstantiation\", a term which is specifically rejected by most Lutheran churches and theologians.\n\nOn the other hand, some Protestant Christian denominations, such as Baptists and Methodists associated with the temperance movement, encourage or require teetotalism. In some Protestant denomination, grape juice or non-alcoholic wine is used in place of wine to represent the blood of Christ.\nThe best known Western prohibition against alcohol happened in the United States in the 1920s, where concerned prohibitionists were worried about its dangerous side effects. However, the demand for alcohol remained and criminals stepped in and created the supply. The consequences of organized crime and the popular demand for alcohol, led to alcohol being legalized again.\n\nIslam prohibits all drugs that are not medically prescribed. Islam's prohibition of drugs stems from two concerns:\n\nThere are numerous verses in the Qur'an and hadith that ban \"khamr\" (intoxicants, including alcohol). Muhammad said:\nEvery intoxicant is like alcohol, and every (type of) alcohol is prohibited. (Muslim)\n\nThe second reason for banning drugs is that they are believed to have a harmful effect on the body. The Qur'an says,\n\n\"And make not your own hands contribute to your destruction.\" Surah, Al-Baqara, 2: 195\n\nThe Muslim nations of Turkey and Egypt were instrumental in banning opium, cocaine, and cannabis when the League of Nations committed to the 1925 International Convention relating to opium and other drugs (later the 1934 Dangerous Drugs Act). The primary goal was to ban opium and cocaine, but cannabis was added to the list, and it remained there largely unnoticed due to the much more heated debate over opium and coca. The 1925 Act has been the foundation upon which every subsequent policy in the United Nations has been founded. Cannabis use and abuse as an intoxicant was largely unknown in the West at that point, but Islamic leaders have been critical of it since the 13th century.\n\nO You who believe! Intoxicants and gambling, (dedication of) stones and (divination by) arrows are an abomination of Satan’s handiwork. Avoid (such abominations) that you may prosper. (5:90)\n\nSatan’s plan is to sow hatred and enmity amongst you with intoxicants and gambling, and to hamper you from the remembrance of Allah and from prayer. Will you not give up? (5:91)\n\nThere are no prohibitions in Islam on alcohol for scientific, industrial or automotive use.\n\nIn spite of these restrictions on substance use, tobacco and caffeine are still widely used throughout many Muslim nations.\n\nBahá'ís are forbidden to drink alcohol or to take drugs, unless prescribed by doctors. Accordingly, the sale and trafficking of such substances is also forbidden. Smoking is discouraged but not prohibited.\n\nMany Rastafari believe cannabis, which they call \"ganja,\" \"the herb,\" or \"Kaya,\" is a sacred gift of Jah. It may be used for spiritual purposes to commune with God, but should not be used profanely. The use of other drugs, however, including alcohol, is frowned upon. Many believe that the wine Jesus/Iyesus drank was not an alcoholic beverage, but simply the juice of grapes or other fruits.\n\nWhile some Rastafari suggest that the Bible may refer to marijuana, it is generally held by academics specializing in the archaeology and paleobotany of Ancient Israel, and those specializing in the lexicography of the Hebrew Bible, that cannabis is not documented or mentioned in early Judaism. Against this some popular writers have argued that there is evidence for religious use of cannabis in the Hebrew Bible, although this hypothesis and some of the specific case studies (e.g., John Allegro in relation to Qumran, 1970) have been \"widely dismissed as erroneous\" (Merlin, 2003). The primary advocate of a religious use of cannabis plant in early Judaism was Sula Benet (1967), who claimed that the plant \"kaneh bosm קְנֵה-בֹשֶׂם\" mentioned five times in the Hebrew Bible, and used in the holy anointing oil of the Book of Exodus, was in fact cannabis, although lexicons of Hebrew and dictionaries of plants of the Bible such as by Michael Zohary (1985), Hans Arne Jensen (2004) and James A. Duke (2010) and others identify the plant in question as either \"Acorus calamus\" or \"Cymbopogon citratus\".\n\nA \"reasoning\" is a simple event where the Rastas gather, smoke cannabis (\"ganja\"), and discuss. The person honored by being allowed to light the herb says a short sentence beforehand. The ganja is passed in a clockwise fashion (passing 'pon the lef' han' side) except in times of war, when it is passed counterclockwise. It is used to reason with Jah.\n\nA \"groundation\" (also spelled \"grounation\") or \"binghi\" is a holy day; the name \"binghi\" is derived from \"Nyabinghi\" (literally \"Nya\" meaning \"black\" and \"Binghi\" meaning \"victory\"). Binghis are marked by much dancing, singing, feasting, and the smoking of \"ganja\", and can last for several days.\n\n...thou shalt eat the herb of the field.\n\nGenesis 3.18\n\n...eat every herb of the land.\n\nExodus 10:12\n\nBetter is a dinner of herb where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.\n\nProverbs 15:17\n\nAccording to many Rastas, the illegality of cannabis in many nations is evidence of persecution of Rastafari. They are not surprised that it is illegal, viewing Cannabis as a powerful substance that opens people's minds to the truth – something the Babylon system, they reason, clearly does not want. Cannabis use is contrasted with the use of alcohol and other drugs, which they feel destroy the mind.\n\nAlcoholic drinks are commonly used during Asatru blots but non-alcoholic drinks can be substituted.\n\n"}
{"id": "3473742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3473742", "title": "Religion in Korea", "text": "Religion in Korea\n\nReligion in Korea refers the various religious traditions practiced on the Korean peninsula. The oldest indigenous religion of Korea is Korean shamanism, which has been passed down from prehistory to the present. Buddhism was introduced to Korea from China during the Three Kingdoms era in the 4th century, and the religion flourished until the Joseon Dynasty, when Korean Confucianism became the state religion. During the Late Joseon Dynasty, in the 19th century, Christianity began to gain a foothold in Korea. While both Christianity and Buddhism would play important roles in the resistance to the Japanese occupation of Korea in the first half of the 20th century, only about 4% of Koreans were members of a religious organization in 1940.\n\nSince the division of Korea into two sovereign states in 1945—North Korea and South Korea—religious life in the two countries has diverged, shaped by different political structures. Religion in South Korea has been characterized by a rise of Christianity and a revival of Buddhism, though the majority of South Koreans have no religious affiliation. Religion in North Korea is characterized by state atheism in which freedom of religion is nonexistent. \"Juche\" ideology, which promotes the North Korean cult of personality, is regarded by experts as the national religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1253138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1253138", "title": "Religion in the Inca Empire", "text": "Religion in the Inca Empire\n\nIn the heterogeneous Inca Empire, polytheistic religions were practiced. Some deities, such as Pachamama and Viracocha, were known throughout the empire, while others were localised.\n\nInca deities occupied the three realms:\n\n\nIn addition to the communally worshiped deities, Incan families sometimes worshiped household gods via their representation as miniature figurines most commonly referred to as \"chancas\" or \"conopas\". Conopa were often natural or carved stone objects that resembled crops or livestock, such as \"zarap conopa\" for maize, \"papap conopa\" for potatoes and caullama for llamas.\n\nMany ancient Andean peoples traced their origins to ancestral deities. Multiple clans could share similar ancestral origins. The Inca claimed descent from the Sun and the Moon, their Father and Mother. Many clans claimed descent from early proto-humans that emerged from local sites in nature called pacarinas.\n\nThe earliest ancestors of the Inca were known as Ayar, the first of which was Manco Capac or Ayar Manco. Inca mythology tells of his travels, in which he and the Ayar shaped and marked the land and introduced the cultivation of maize.\n\nReligious traditions in the Andes tended to vary among different ayllus. While the Inca generally allowed or even incorporated local deities and heroes of the ayllus they conquered, they did bring their gods to those peoples by incorporating them in law such as required sacrifice. The Inca attempted to combine their deities with conquered ones in ways that raised the status of their own. One example of this is Pachamama, the goddess of Earth, who was worshiped long before the rise of the Inca. In the Inca mythology Pachamama having been integrated was placed below the Moon who the Inca believed ruled over all female gods.\n\nA theme in Inca mythology is the duality of the Cosmos. The realms were separated into the upper and lower realms, the \"hanan pacha\" and the \"ukhu pacha\" and \"urin pacha\". \"Hanan pacha\", the upper world, consisted of the deities of the sun, moon, stars, rainbow, and lightning while \"ukhu pacha\" and \"urin pacha\" were the realms of Pachamama, the earth mother, and the ancestors and heroes of the Inca or other ayllus. \"Kay pacha\", the realm of the outer earth, where humans resided was viewed as an intermediary realm between \"hanan pacha\" and \"ukhu pacha\". The realms were represented by the condor (upper world), puma (outer earth) and snake (inner earth).\n\nSacred sites or things named \"wak'a\" were spread around the Inca Empire. In Andean mythology a \"wak'a\" was a deific entity which resided in natural objects such as mountains, boulders, streams, battle fields, other meeting places, and any type of place that was connected with past Incan rulers. A \"wak'a\" could also be an inanimate object such as pottery which was believed to be a deity-carrying vessel. Spiritual leaders in a community would use prayer and offerings to communicate with a \"wak'a\" for advice or assistance. Human sacrifice was part of Incan rituals in which they usually sacrificed a child (\"qhapaq hucha\") or a slave. The Incan people thought it was an honor to die as an offering.\n\nArchaeological remains confirm such human sacrificial practices, according to Reinhard and Ceruti: \"Archaeological evidence found on distant mountain summits has established that the burial of offerings was a common practice among the Incas and that human sacrifice took place at several of the sites. The excellent preservation of the bodies and other material in the cold and dry environment of the high Andes provides revealing details about the rituals that were performed at these ceremonial complexes.\"\n\nThe Incas also used divination. Divination was used to inform people in the city of social events, predict battle outcomes, and ask for metaphysical intervention.\n\nDivination was essential before taking any action. Nearly every religious rite was accompanied by sacrifices. These were usually maize beer, food or llamas, but were occasionally of virgins or children. \n\nDivination was an important part of Inca religion, as reflected in the following quote:\nThe rulers of the Inca empire, such as the last united Inca ruler Huayna Capac, were often mummified upon the time of their death, allowing for their bodies to be worshipped within the palaces.These worshipping events were intercepted by the Spaniards under Juan Polo de Ondegardo y Zárate, who was newly appointed as the Chief Magistrate of Cuzco in 1559, when it was under Spanish control. Ondegardo conducted a massive effort to prevent the Inca from committing their “idolatrous sins”, mainly by locating the mummified bodies of late Inca kings and sending them to the viceroy in Lima. They remained in a hospital for around 80 years before their whereabouts became unknown.The Inca used to mummify their kings and several times a year they would be aligned in accordance to when they chronologically ruled in Cuzco’s plaza for the public to pay their respects. In the other parts of the year, the mummies were returned to the Cuzco palaces and were worshipped privately by groups of visitors. Francisco Pizarro stated that “It was customary for the dead to visit one another, and they held great dances and debaucheries, and sometimes the dead went to the house of the living, and sometimes the living came to the house of the dead”. The kings were thought to have been able to speak back to the worshippers through the use of oracles, and even gave advice to the protection and ruling of the land. The ruling Inca was expected to seek advice from the mummies of his ancestors for important issues. Not all Inca mummies were glorified, however, as in one case Topa Inca Yupanqui’s mummified body was torched and his bloodline all killed as they sided with Huascar in the civil war.\n\nUpon the arrival of the Spanish, the Inca started to hide the bodies of the kings and become more secretive with their worship, as stated by Juan de Betanzos. After being appointed, Polo do Ondegardo and his men found most of the mummified kings and took their bodies along with other ritualistic items such as their huaques, or their statues. A popular thought is that Ondegardo had the bodies buried in or around Cuzco in secret so that they would not be uncovered and worshipped again. Garcilaso de la Vega visited Ondegardo’s house and was shown an assembly of embalmed kings and attested to the degree of their preservation: “The bodies were perfectly preserved without the loss of hair of the head or brow or an eyelash. They were dressed as if they had been in life, with Ilautus (royal headbands) on their heads… their hands were crossed across their breast.”. The mummies were afterwards sent to the viceroy for him to see them and then afterwards they were brought back to Cuzco and thought to be secretly buried.The viceroy stored the mummies in the Hospital of San Andres in Lima because he was “a major benefactor of it”. Since the hospital was solely for the Spanish residents, they were likely on display for the citizens to view, away from the natives.\n\nThe Inca calendar had 12 months of 30 days, with each month having its own festival, and a five-day feast at the end, before the new year began. The Incan year started in December, and began with Qhapaq Raymi, the magnificent festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44746378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44746378", "title": "Religion on the Line", "text": "Religion on the Line\n\nReligion on the Line is the name of a number of local talk radio programs, where a variety of clergy members discuss religious and other topics. On WABC in New York, it is hosted by Rabbi Joseph Potasnik and Deacon Kevin McCormack. On KCMO in Kansas City, it is hosted by Reverend Robert Lee Hill, Chancellor George M. Noonan, and Rabbi Emeritus Michael Zedek. On KABC in Los Angeles, it was hosted by Dennis Prager.\n"}
{"id": "420034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420034", "title": "Religiosity", "text": "Religiosity\n\nReligiosity is difficult to define, but different scholars have seen this concept as broadly about religious orientations and involvement. It includes experiential, ritualistic, ideological, intellectual, consequential, creedal, communal, doctrinal, moral, and cultural dimensions. Sociologists of religion have observed that the people's beliefs, sense of belonging, and behavior often are not congruent with an individual's actual religious beliefs since there is much diversity in how one can be religious or not. Multiple problems exist in measuring religiosity. For instance, variables such as church attendance produce different results when different methods are used such as traditional surveys vs time use surveys. \n\nDecades of anthropological, sociological, and psychological research have established that \"religious congruence\" (the assumption that religious beliefs and values are tightly integrated in an individual's mind or that religious practices and behaviors follow directly from religious beliefs or that religious beliefs are chronologically linear and stable across different contexts) is actually rare. People’s religious ideas are fragmented, loosely connected, and context-dependent; like in all other domains of culture and in life. The beliefs, affiliations, and behaviors of any individual are complex activities that have many sources including culture. As examples of religious incongruence he notes, \"Observant Jews may not believe what they say in their Sabbath prayers. Christian ministers may not believe in God. And people who regularly dance for rain don’t do it in the dry season.\"\n\nDemographic studies often show wide diversity of religious beliefs, belonging, and practices in both religious and non-religious populations. For instance, out of Americans who are not religious and not seeking religion: 68% believe in God, 12% are atheists, 17% are agnostics; also, in terms of self-identification of religiosity 18% consider themselves religious, 37% consider themselves as spiritual but not religious, and 42% considers themselves as neither spiritual nor religious; and 21% pray every day and 24% pray once a month. Global studies on religion also show diversity.\n\nNumerous studies have explored the different components of human religiosity (Brink, 1993; Hill & Hood 1999). What most have found is that there are multiple dimensions (they often employ factor analysis). For instance, Cornwall, Albrecht, Cunningham and Pitcher (1986) identify six dimensions of religiosity based on the understanding that there are at least three components to religious behavior: knowing (cognition in the mind), feeling (effect to the spirit), and doing (behavior of the body). For each of these components of religiosity, there were two cross classifications resulting in the six dimensions:\n\nOther researchers have found different dimensions, ranging generally from four to twelve components. What most measures of religiosity find is that there is at least some distinction between religious doctrine, religious practice, and spirituality.\n\nFor example, one can accept the truthfulness of the Bible (belief dimension), but never attend a church or even belong to an organized religion (practice dimension). Another example is an individual who does not hold orthodox Christian doctrines (belief dimension), but does attend a charismatic worship service (practice dimension) in order to develop his/her sense of oneness with the divine (spirituality dimension).\n\nAn individual could disavow all doctrines associated with organized religions (belief dimension), not affiliate with an organized religion or attend religious services (practice dimension), and at the same time be strongly committed to a higher power and feel that the connection with that higher power is ultimately relevant (spirituality dimension). These are explanatory examples of the broadest dimensions of religiosity and may not be reflected in specific religiosity measures.\n\nMost dimensions of religiosity are correlated, meaning people who often attend church services (practice dimension) are also likely to score highly on the belief and spirituality dimensions. But individuals do not have to score high on all dimensions or low on all dimensions; their scores can vary by dimension.\n\nSociologists have differed over the exact number of components of religiosity. Charles Glock's five-dimensional approach (Glock, 1972: 39) was among the first of its kind in the field of sociology of religion. Other sociologists adapted Glock's list to include additional components (see for example, a six component measure by Mervin F. Verbit).\n\nThe contributions of genes and environment to religiosity have been quantified in studies of twins (Bouchard \"et al.\", 1999; Kirk \"et al.\", 1999) and sociological studies of welfare, availability, and legal regulations (state religions, etc.).\n\nKoenig \"et al.\" (2005) report that the contribution of genes to variation in religiosity (called heritability) increases from 12% to 44% and the contribution of shared (family) effects decreases from 56% to 18% between adolescence and adulthood.\n\nA market-based theory of religious choice and governmental regulation of religion have been the dominant theories used to explain variations of religiosity between societies. However, Gill and Lundsgaarde (2004) documented a much stronger correlation between welfare state spending and religiosity. See \"Welfare spending vs Church attendance\" diagram on the right.\n\nStudies have found belief in a just world to be correlated with aspects of religiousness.\n\nSeveral studies have discovered a positive correlation between the degree of religiousness and Risk aversion\n\n\nDemographics:\n\n"}
{"id": "6330872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6330872", "title": "Religious satire", "text": "Religious satire\n\nReligious satire is a form of satire targeted at religious beliefs. From the earliest times, at least since the plays of Aristophanes, religion has been one of the three primary topics of literary satire, along with politics and sex. Satire which targets the clergy is a type of political satire, while religious satire is that which targets religious beliefs.\n\nReligious satire is also sometimes called philosophical satire. Religious satire can be the result of agnosticism or atheism. Religious satire surfaced during the Renaissance, with works by Chaucer, Erasmus and Durer.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nReligious satire has been criticised by those who feel that sincerely held religious views should not \nbe subject to ridicule. In some cases religious satire has been censored - for example, Molière's play \"Tartuffe\" was banned in 1664.\n\nThe film \"Life of Brian\" was initially banned in Ireland, Norway, some states of the US, and some towns and councils of the United Kingdom. In an interesting case of life mirroring art, activist groups who protested the film during its release bore striking similarities to some bands of religious zealots within the film itself. Like much religious satire, the intent of the film has been misinterpreted and distorted by protesters. According to the Pythons, \"Life of Brian\" is not a critique of religion so much as an indictment of the hysteria and bureaucratic excess that often surrounds it.\n\nThe issue of freedom of speech was hotly debated by the UK Parliament during the passing of the Religious Hatred Bill in January 2006. Critics of the original version of the Bill (such as comedian Rowan Atkinson) feared that satirists could be prosecuted, but an amendment by the House of Lords making it clear that this was not the case was passed - by just one vote.\n\nIn 2006, Rachel Bevilacqua, a member of the Church of the SubGenius, known as Rev. Magdalen in the SubGenius hierarchy, lost custody and contact with her son after a district court judge took offense at her participation in the Church's X-Day festival.\n\nRichard Dawkins frequently points out that there is no reason to exclude religion from objective studying like any other social phenomena.\n\n"}
{"id": "2335285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2335285", "title": "Sacralism", "text": "Sacralism\n\nSacralism is the confluence of church and state wherein one is called upon to change the other.\n\nChristian sacralism is, according to Verduin, the hybrid product that resulted from the colossal change known as the Constantinian shift that began early in the fourth century AD, when Christianity was granted official tolerance in the Roman Empire by the Emperor Constantine, and was completed by the Emperor Theodosius's declaration in 392 outlawing paganism and making Christianity the official religion of the Empire.\n\nA Latin saying that has often been used to describe the principle of sacralism is cuius regio, eius religio, or \"who has region, decides religion.\" The idea was that the ruler of each individual area would decide the religion of those under his control based upon his own faith.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "62062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62062", "title": "Sacred prostitution", "text": "Sacred prostitution\n\nSacred prostitution, temple prostitution, cult prostitution, and religious prostitution are general terms for a sexual rite consisting of sexual intercourse or other sexual activity performed in the context of religious worship, perhaps as a form of fertility rite or divine marriage (\"hieros gamos\"). Some scholars prefer the terms \"sacred sex\" or \"sacred sexual rites\" to \"sacred prostitution\" in cases where payment for services was not involved. \n\nAncient Near Eastern societies along the Tigris and Euphrates rivers featured many shrines and temples or \"houses of heaven\" dedicated to various deities. The 5th-century BC historian Herodotus's account and some other testimony from the Hellenistic Period and Late Antiquity suggest that ancient societies encouraged the practice of sacred sexual rites not only in Babylonia and Cyprus, but throughout the Near East.\n\nAccording to Herodotus, the rites performed at these temples included sexual intercourse, or what scholars later called sacred sexual rites:\n\nThe foulest Babylonian custom is that which compels every woman of the land to sit in the temple of Aphrodite and have intercourse with some stranger at least once in her life. Many women who are rich and proud and disdain to mingle with the rest, drive to the temple in covered carriages drawn by teams, and stand there with a great retinue of attendants. But most sit down in the sacred plot of Aphrodite, with crowns of cord on their heads; there is a great multitude of women coming and going; passages marked by line run every way through the crowd, by which the men pass and make their choice. Once a woman has taken her place there, she does not go away to her home before some stranger has cast money into her lap, and had intercourse with her outside the temple; but while he casts the money, he must say, \"I invite you in the name of Mylitta\". It does not matter what sum the money is; the woman will never refuse, for that would be a sin, the money being by this act made sacred. So she follows the first man who casts it and rejects no one. After their intercourse, having discharged her sacred duty to the goddess, she goes away to her home; and thereafter there is no bribe however great that will get her. So then the women that are fair and tall are soon free to depart, but the uncomely have long to wait because they cannot fulfil the law; for some of them remain for three years, or four. There is a custom like this in some parts of Cyprus.\n\nThe British anthropologist James Frazer accumulated citations to prove this in a chapter of his magnum opus \"The Golden Bough\" (1890–1915), and this has served as a starting point for several generations of scholars. Frazer and Henriques distinguished two major forms of sacred sexual rites: temporary rite of unwed girls (with variants such as dowry-sexual rite, or as public defloration of a bride), and lifelong sexual rite. However, Frazer took his sources mostly from authors of Late Antiquity (i.e. 150–500 AD), not from the Classical or Hellenistic periods. This raises questions as to whether the phenomenon of temple sexual rites can be generalized to the whole of the ancient world, as earlier scholars typically did. \n\nThe research of Daniel Arnaud, Vinciane Pirenne-Delforge, Julia Assante, Stephanie Budin and others has cast the whole tradition of scholarship that defined the concept of sacred prostitution into doubt. Budin regards the concept of sacred prostitution as a myth—arguing that the practices described in the sources simply never existed. A more nuanced view, espoused by Pirenne-Delforge, suggests that ritual sex did exist in the Near East, but not in the Greek or Roman worlds in classical or Hellenistic times.\n\nThe practice of sacred prostitution has not been substantiated in any Ancient Near Eastern cultures, despite many popular descriptions of the habit. Through the twentieth century, scholars generally believed that a form of \"sacred marriage\" rite or \"hieros gamos\" was staged between the king of a Sumerian city-state and the High Priestess of Inanna, the Sumerian goddess of sexual love, fertility, and warfare, but no certain evidence has survived to prove that sexual intercourse was included. Along the Tigris and Euphrates rivers there was a temple of Eanna, meaning \"house of heaven\" dedicated to Inanna in the Eanna District of Uruk.\n\nWhile there may well have been some religious prostitution in the temples of Inanna/Ishtar, Assante suggests the concept of the 'sacred marriage' (\"hieros gamos\") has been misunderstood. It was previously believed to have been a custom whereby the king coupled with the high priestess to represent the union of Dumuzid with Inanna (later called Ishtar). It is much more likely that these unions never occurred but were embellishments to the image of the king; hymns which praise Middle Eastern kings for coupling with the goddess Ishtar often speak of him as running 320 kilometres, offering sacrifices, feasting with the sun-god Utu, and receiving a royal crown from An, all in a single day. One scholar comments: \"No one, to the best of my knowledge, has been so wooden-minded to propose that human actors played the role of Utu and An at the banquet.\" Not all authors are convinced, however.\n\nOther modern historians argue that the temple did house priestesses of the goddess, but there is no evidence that they performed any kind of sexual services in any cult.\n\nIn Hammurabi's code of laws, the rights and good name of female sacred sexual priestesses were protected. The same legislation that protected married women from slander applied to them and their children. They could inherit property from their fathers, collect income from land worked by their brothers, and dispose of property. These rights have been described as extraordinary, taking into account the role of women at the time.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible uses two different words for prostitute, \"zonah\" (זונה)‎ and \"kedeshah\" (or \"qedesha\") (קדשה)‎. The word \"zonah\" simply meant an ordinary prostitute or \"loose woman\". But the word \"kedeshah\" literally means \"consecrated\" (feminine form), from the Semitic root \"q-d-sh\" (קדש)‎ meaning \"holy\" or \"set apart\". In spite of the cultic significance of a \"kedeshah\" to a follower of the Canaanite religion, two verses makes it clear that cultic prostitution had no place within Yahweh's worship. :\n\nStephen O. Murray writes that biblical passages ban \"qdeshim\" and link them with gods and \"forms of worship detested by orthodox followers of Yahweh\". Celia Brewer Sinclair has written that \"the ethical demands of the covenant preclude worshiping Yahweh in licentious sexual rites (sacred sexual rites )\". Male priests who engaged in same-sex sacred prostitution were called \"kadesh\" or \"qadesh\" (literally: male \"holy one\"); the word evolved semantically in ancient Hebrew to take on a similar meaning to \"sodomite\". The Hebrew word \"kelev\" (dog) in the next line may also signify a male dancer or prostitute. \n\nSome scholars see the injunctions against foreign worship, including male sacred prostitution, as possibly the original cause of what would later become Judaism's condemnation of sexual contact between men.\n\nThe Law of Moses (Deuteronomy) was not universally observed in Hebrew culture under the rule of King David's dynasty, as recorded in Kings. In fact Judah had lost \"the Book of the Law\". During the reign of King Josiah, The high priest Hilkiah discovers it in \"the House of the Lord\" and realizes that the people have disobeyed, particularly regarding Sacred Prostitution. Examples of male temple prostitution (\"sodomites\" [KJV, GNV]) being banned under King Josiah are recorded to have been commonplace since the reign of King Rehoboam of Judah (King Solomon's son). . Modern bible translations refer to King Josiah's bans on \"male temple prostitutes\" [NRSV] or similarly \"male shrine prostitutes\" [NIV], where as older translations refer to the ban of \"Sodomites\" and \"the Houses of the Sodomites\" [KJV, GNV]. Under the polytheistic religious practices that were commonplace, homosexuality experienced a degree of cultural acceptance along with heterosexuality among the Hebrew tribes, but sacred prostitution was not allowed in conjunction with the worship of Yahweh, where these had been expressly forbidden in Deuteronomy, their sacred Book of Law under King Josiah.\n\nIn the Book of Ezekiel, Oholah and Oholibah appear as the allegorical brides of God who represent Samaria and Jerusalem. They became prostitutes in Egypt, engaging in prostitution from their youth. The prophet Ezekiel condemns both as guilty of religious and political alliance with heathen nations. \n\nSo within Hebrew cultures involving pagan religions, both homosexual and heterosexual pagan temple prostitution experienced periods of acceptance, and periods of banishment, as under King Josiah.\n\nAccording to the noted Assyriologist Samuel Noah Kramer, kings in the ancient Near Eastern region of Sumer established their legitimacy by taking part in a ritual sexual act in the temple of the fertility goddess Ishtar every year on the tenth day of the New Year festival Akitu.\n\nThe Hittites practiced sacred prostitution as part of a cult of deities, including the worship of a mated pair of deities, a bull god and a lion goddess, while in later days it was the mother-goddess who became prominent, representing fertility, and (in Phoenicia) the goddess who presided over human birth.\n\nIn ancient Greece, sacred prostitution was known in the city of Corinth where the Temple of Aphrodite employed a significant number of female servants, \"hetairai\", during classical antiquity.\n\nThe Greek term \"hierodoulos\" or \"hierodule\" has sometimes been taken to mean \"sacred holy woman\", but it is more likely to refer to a former slave freed from slavery in order to be \"dedicated\" to a god.\n\nIn the Greek-influenced and colonized world, \"sacred prostitution\" was known in Cyprus (Greek-settled since 1100 BC), Sicily (Hellenized since 750 BC), in the Kingdom of Pontus (8th century BC) and in Cappadocia (c. 330 BC hellenized).\n\nThe Roman emperor Constantine closed down a number of temples to Venus or similar deities in the 4th century AD, as the Christian church historian Eusebius proudly noted. Eusebius also claimed that the Phoenician cities of Aphaca and Heliopolis (Baalbek) continued to practise temple prostitution until the emperor Constantine put an end to the rite in the 4th century AD.\n\nIn Southern India and the eastern Indian state of Odisha, devadasi is the practice of hierodulic prostitution, with similar customary forms such as basavi, and involves dedicating pre-pubescent and young adolescent girls from villages in a ritual marriage to a deity or a temple, who then work in the temple and function as spiritual guides, dancers, and prostitutes servicing male devotees in the temple. Human Rights Watch reports claim that devadasis are forced into this service and, at least in some cases, to practice prostitution for upper-caste members. The devadasis were originally seen as interluders who allowed upper-caste men to have contact with the gods. Though they did develop sexual relations with other men, they were not looked upon with lust. The system was criticised by British rulers, leading to decline in support for the system and the devadasis were forced into entering prostitution for survival. Many scholars have stated that the Hindu scriptures do not permit or mention the system.\n\nVarious state governments in India enacted laws to ban this practice both prior to India's independence and more recently. They include Bombay Devdasi Act, 1934, Devdasi (Prevention of dedication) Madras Act, 1947, Karnataka Devdasi (Prohibition of dedication) Act, 1982, and Andhra Pradesh Devdasi (Prohibition of dedication) Act, 1988. However, the tradition continues in certain regions of India, particularly the states of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.\n\nSacred prostitution was once practised by the Miko within traditional Shinto in Japan. There were once Shinto beliefs that prostitution was sacred, and there used to be lodgings for the temple prostitutes on the shrine grounds. This traditional practise came to an end during the beginning of the Meiji era, due to the encroachment of Western Christian morality, and the government implementing the \"Shinbutsu bunri\"; which, among other things, drastically decreased the roles of the Miko, and modified Shinto beliefs until it became what is now colloquially referred to as State Shinto.\n\nThe Maya maintained several phallic religious cults, possibly involving homosexual temple prostitution. The Aztec god Xochipili (taken from both Toltec and Maya cultures) was both the patron of homosexuals and homosexual prostitutes. The Inca sometimes dedicated young boys as temple prostitutes. The boys were dressed in girl's clothing, and chiefs and head men would have ritual sexual intercourse with them during religious ceremonies and on holy days.\n\nXochiquetzal was worshiped as goddess of sexual power, patroness of prostitutes and artisans involved in the manufacture of luxury items.\n\nThe conquistadores were horrified by the wide-spread acceptance of homosexuality, ephebophilia, pederasty, and pederosis among Mesoamerican and South American peoples, and used torture, burning at the stake, mass beheadings, and other means to stamp it out both as a religious practice and social custom.\n\nIn the 1970s and early 1980s, some religious cults practiced sacred prostitution as an instrument to recruit new converts. Among them was the alleged cult Children of God, also known as The Family, who called this practice \"Flirty Fishing\". They later abolished the practice due to the growing AIDS epidemic.\n\nIn Ventura County, California, Wilbur and Mary Ellen Tracy established their own temple, the \"Church Of The Most High Goddess\", in the wake of what they described as a divine revelation. Sexual acts played a fundamental role in the church's sacred rites, which were performed by Mary Ellen Tracy herself in her assumed role of High Priestess. Local newspaper articles about the Neopagan church quickly got the attention of local law enforcement officials, and in April 1989, the Tracys' house was searched and the couple arrested on charges of pimping, pandering and prostitution. They were subsequently convicted in a trial in state court and sentenced to jail terms: Wilbur Tracy for 180 days plus a $1,000.00 fine; Mary Ellen Tracy for 90 days plus mandatory screening for STDs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5695920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5695920", "title": "Sekta Niebo", "text": "Sekta Niebo\n\nThe Sekta Niebo (Heaven Sect) (Polish \"Zbór Chrześcijański Leczenia Duchem Bożym\"; \"Christian Church of Healing by Spirit of God\") was a small religious movement founded in 1990 by faith healer Bogdan Kacmajor, who believed he was a prophet chosen by God and a reincarnation of the prophet Elijah.\n\nMembers of the sect believed that by the year 2000 the world would come to an end. Their goal was to establish a commune of chosen people. As a symbol of their new life they took new names and destroyed their identity documents. Total submission to Kacmajor was required. Members married each other, refused to send children to public school (as Kacmajor stated, \"in chemistry class they teach that you can't turn water into wine, in physics class they teach that you can't walk on water\") and refused to take any medical treatment (Kacmajor was convinced that he can heal even AIDS). Niebo gathered approximately 50 members.\n\nBecause of their total social alienation the group soon started to have troubles with the law. Reports of kidnapping and children being kept prisoner started circulating. The Catholic Church and several church-related movements started a campaign against the community which resulted in bad fame and financial problems. As of 2008 the community does not exist and there are several court cases against Kacmajor.\n\n"}
{"id": "14324827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14324827", "title": "Soulcatcher", "text": "Soulcatcher\n\nA Soulcatcher (\"Haboolm Ksinaalgat\", 'keeper of breath') is an amulet \"(Aatxasxw)\" used by the shaman (Halayt) of the Pacific Northwest Coast of British Columbia and Alaska. It is believed that all soulcatchers were constructed by the Tsimshian tribe, and traded to the other tribes.\n\nSoulcatchers were constructed of a tube of bear femur, incised on one or both sides, and often ornamented with abalone shell. Bears had powerful shamanic connotations among the people of the Northwest Coast.\nSoulcatchers were decorated with a sisiutl-like animal: a land-otter or bear head at both ends of the tube, and an anthropomorphic face in the middle. This form may have represented the ability to shift shapes, or the mythological land-otter canoe, implying the ability to travel between the three realms: air/god realm \"(kijek)\", earth/human/animal realm \"(takijek)\", and water/spirit realm \"(tekijek)\". The land-otter was the source of all shamanic power.\n\nA shaman's helper spirit may have resided in the central head.\n\nThe soulcatcher was plugged at both ends with shredded cedar bark, to contain the lost soul, or to hold a malevolent spirit \"sucked out\" of a patient. The amulet was usually worn as a necklace. Soulcatchers ranged in length from 16 cm to 21.6 cm (6\" to 8\"). \n\nThere are a few examples of wood soulcatchers, and a Haida example covered with copper sheeting.\n\nSickness incurable by secular (herbal) means was believed to be caused by \"soul loss\" through:\n\nTo cure the patient, the shaman would wear the soulcatcher as a necklace. He would then travel to the spirit world by calling helper spirits using trance music, employing helper-spirit masks, and magical implements such as staffs. Shaman might also work in groups, constructing a representation of a shaman's Land-Otter canoe and \"dantsikw\" spirit boards (see sisiutl) as a vehicle to travel to the spirit world. Once the errant soul was located, the shaman would \"suck\" the soul into the soulcatcher, and return to the patient. The soul would then be \"blown\" back into the patient. \n\nAnother use of the soulcatcher was to suck malevolent spirits out of a patient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4614819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4614819", "title": "The Strasbourg Conference", "text": "The Strasbourg Conference\n\nThe Strasbourg Conference is a forum on freedom of religion and belief. It is dedicated to studying religion-related cases before international human rights institutions. The forum aims to provide a resource to scholars and decision-makers and promotes continuing dialogue. It is based in Strasbourg, France.\n\nThe forum is sponsored by human rights institutions and universities such as the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights, the Faculty of Law of the University of Bristol, the Department of Ecclesiastical Law at Complutense University, Madrid, the International Institute of Human Rights at Strasbourg, and the International Center for Law and Religion Studies at Brigham Young University in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "32224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32224", "title": "United Religions Initiative", "text": "United Religions Initiative\n\nThe United Religions Initiative (URI) is a global grassroots interfaith network that cultivates peace and justice by engaging people to bridge religious and cultural differences and work together for the good of their communities and the world. The purpose of the United Religions Initiative is to promote enduring, daily interfaith cooperation, to end religiously motivated violence and to create cultures of peace, justice and healing for the Earth and all living beings.\n\nThis mission is carried out through local and global initiatives that build the capacity of more than 800 member groups and organizations, called Cooperation Circles, to engage in community action such as conflict resolution and reconciliation, environmental sustainability, education, women’s and youth programs, and advocacy for human rights.\n\nGuided by the vision of founder William E. Swing, the URI Charter was developed through a series of international conferences and consultation with transformative organizational design practitioners David Cooperrider and Diana Whitney. The URI Charter was signed by more than two-hundred people present, and hundreds more joining over the Internet, at a ceremony in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA on June 26, 2000.\n\nThe URI is composed of 800+ Cooperation Circles (CCs) in 100+ countries worldwide, as of October 2017. CCs are groups of seven or more individuals representing three or more different faiths or spiritual expressions (including atheists and agnostics). CC members are located in one of eight regions; some span across multiple regions:\n\n\nBefore the formal charter signing in 2000, URI supporters around the world participated together in a project called \"72 Hours for Peace\", in which more than 250 local organizations united in projects promoting peace and justice during the turn of the millennium.\n\nExamples of global and member initiatives documented in the public record:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33959", "title": "Witchcraft", "text": "Witchcraft\n\nWitchcraft or witchery broadly means the practice of and belief in magical skills and abilities exercised by solitary practitioners and groups. \"Witchcraft\" is a broad term that varies culturally and societally, and thus can be difficult to define with precision, and cross-cultural assumptions about the meaning or significance of the term should be applied with caution. Witchcraft often occupies a religious divinatory or medicinal role, and is often present within societies and groups whose cultural framework includes a magical world view.\n\nThe concept of witchcraft and the belief in its existence have persisted throughout recorded history. They have been present or central at various times and in many diverse forms among cultures and religions worldwide, including both \"primitive\" and \"highly advanced\" cultures, and continue to have an important role in many cultures today. Scientifically, the existence of magical powers and witchcraft are generally believed to lack credence and to be unsupported by high-quality experimental testing, although individual witchcraft practices and effects may be open to scientific explanation or explained via mentalism and psychology.\n\nHistorically, the predominant concept of witchcraft in the Western world derives from Old Testament laws against witchcraft, and entered the mainstream when belief in witchcraft gained Church approval in the Early Modern Period. It posits a theosophical conflict between good and evil, where witchcraft was generally evil and often associated with the Devil and Devil worship. This culminated in deaths, torture and scapegoating (casting blame for human misfortune), and many years of large scale witch-trials and witch hunts, especially in Protestant Europe, before largely ceasing during the European Age of Enlightenment. Christian views in the modern day are diverse and cover the gamut of views from intense belief and opposition (especially from Christian fundamentalists) to non-belief, and in some churches even approval. From the mid-20th century, witchcraft – sometimes called contemporary witchcraft to clearly distinguish it from older beliefs – became the name of a branch of modern paganism. It is most notably practiced in the Wiccan and modern witchcraft traditions, and no longer practices in secrecy.\n\nThe Western mainstream Christian view is far from the only societal perspective about witchcraft. Many cultures worldwide continue to have widespread practices and cultural beliefs that are loosely translated into English as \"witchcraft\", although the English translation masks a very great diversity in their forms, magical beliefs, practices, and place in their societies. During the Age of Colonialism, many cultures across the globe were exposed to the modern Western world via colonialism, usually accompanied and often preceded by intensive Christian missionary activity \"(see \"Christianization\")\". Beliefs related to witchcraft and magic in these cultures were at times influenced by the prevailing Western concepts. Witch hunts, scapegoating, and killing or shunning of suspected witches still occurs in the modern era, with killings both of victims for their supposedly magical body parts, and of suspected witchcraft practitioners.\n\nSuspicion of modern medicine due to beliefs about illness being due to witchcraft also continues in many countries to this day, with tragic healthcare consequences. HIV/AIDS and Ebola virus disease are two examples of often-lethal infectious disease epidemics whose medical care and containment has been severely hampered by regional beliefs in witchcraft. Other severe medical conditions whose treatment is hampered in this way include tuberculosis, leprosy, epilepsy and the common severe bacterial Buruli ulcer. Public healthcare often requires considerable education work related to epidemology and modern health knowledge in many parts of the world where belief in witchcraft prevails, to encourage effective preventive health measures and treatments, to reduce victim blaming, shunning and stigmatization, and to prevent the killing of people and endangering of animal species for body parts believed to convey magical abilities.\n\nThe word \"witch\" is of uncertain origin. There are numerous etymologies that it could be derived from. One popular belief is that it is \"related to the English words wit, wise, wisdom [Germanic root *weit-, *wait-, *wit-; Indo-European root *weid-, *woid-, *wid-],\" so \"craft of the wise.\" Another is from the Old English wiccecræft, a compound of \"wicce\" (\"witch\") and \"cræft\" (\"craft\").\n\nIn anthropological terminology, witches differ from sorcerers in that they don't use physical tools or actions to curse; their maleficium is perceived as extending from some intangible inner quality, and one may be unaware of being a witch, or may have been convinced of his/her nature by the suggestion of others. This definition was pioneered in a study of central African magical beliefs by E. E. Evans-Pritchard, who cautioned that it might not correspond with normal English usage.\n\nHistorians of European witchcraft have found the anthropological definition difficult to apply to European witchcraft, where witches could equally use (or be accused of using) physical techniques, as well as some who really had attempted to cause harm by thought alone. European witchcraft is seen by historians and anthropologists as an ideology for explaining misfortune; however, this ideology has manifested in diverse ways, as described below.\n\nHistorically the witchcraft label has been applied to practices people believe influence the mind, body, or property of others against their will—or practices that the person doing the labeling believes undermine social or religious order. Some modern commentators believe the malefic nature of witchcraft is a Christian projection. The concept of a magic-worker influencing another person's body or property against their will was clearly present in many cultures, as traditions in both folk magic and religious magic have the purpose of countering malicious magic or identifying malicious magic users. Many examples appear in early texts, such as those from ancient Egypt and Babylonia. Malicious magic users can become a credible cause for disease, sickness in animals, bad luck, sudden death, impotence and other such misfortunes. Witchcraft of a more benign and socially acceptable sort may then be employed to turn the malevolence aside, or identify the supposed evil-doer so that punishment may be carried out. The folk magic used to identify or protect against malicious magic users is often indistinguishable from that used by the witches themselves.\n\nThere has also existed in popular belief the concept of white witches and white witchcraft, which is strictly benevolent. Many neopagan witches strongly identify with this concept, and profess ethical codes that prevent them from performing magic on a person without their request.\n\nWhere belief in malicious magic practices exists, such practitioners are typically forbidden by law as well as hated and feared by the general populace, while beneficial magic is tolerated or even accepted wholesale by the people – even if the orthodox establishment opposes it.\n\nProbably the most widely known characteristic of a witch was the ability to cast a spell, \"spell\" being the word used to signify the means employed to carry out a magical action. A spell could consist of a set of words, a formula or verse, or a ritual action, or any combination of these. Spells traditionally were cast by many methods, such as by the inscription of runes or sigils on an object to give it magical powers; by the immolation or binding of a wax or clay image (poppet) of a person to affect him or her magically; by the recitation of incantations; by the performance of physical rituals; by the employment of magical herbs as amulets or potions; by gazing at mirrors, swords or other specula (scrying) for purposes of divination; and by many other means.\n\nIn Christianity and Islam, sorcery came to be associated with heresy and apostasy and to be viewed as evil. Among the Catholics, Protestants, and secular leadership of the European Late Medieval/Early Modern period, fears about witchcraft rose to fever pitch and sometimes led to large-scale witch-hunts. The key century was the fifteenth, which saw a dramatic rise in awareness and terror of witchcraft, culminating in the publication of the \"Malleus Maleficarum\" but prepared by such fanatical popular preachers as Bernardino of Siena. Throughout this time, it was increasingly believed that Christianity was engaged in an apocalyptic battle against the Devil and his secret army of witches, who had entered into a diabolical pact. In total, tens or hundreds of thousands of people were executed, and others were imprisoned, tortured, banished, and had lands and possessions confiscated. The majority of those accused were women, though in some regions the majority were men. In early modern Scots, the word Warlock came to be used as the male equivalent of witch (which can be male or female, but is used predominantly for females). From this use, the word passed into Romantic literature and ultimately 20th-century popular culture. Accusations of witchcraft were often combined with other charges of heresy against such groups as the Cathars and Waldensians.\n\nThe \"Malleus Maleficarum,\" (Latin for \"Hammer of The Witches\") was a witch-hunting manual written in 1486 by two German monks, Heinrich Kramer and Jacob Sprenger. It was used by both Catholics and Protestants for several hundred years, outlining how to identify a witch, what makes a woman more likely than a man to be a witch, how to put a witch on trial, and how to punish a witch. The book defines a witch as evil and typically female. The book became the handbook for secular courts throughout Renaissance Europe, but was not used by the Inquisition, which even cautioned against relying on the work, and was later officially condemned by the Catholic Church in 1490.\n\nIn the modern Western world, witchcraft accusations have often accompanied the satanic ritual abuse moral panic. Such accusations are a counterpart to blood libel of various kinds, which may be found throughout history across the globe.\n\nThroughout the early modern period, the English term \"witch\" was not exclusively negative in meaning, and could also indicate cunning folk. As Alan McFarlane noted, \"There were a number of interchangeable terms for these practitioners, 'white', 'good', or 'unbinding' witches, blessers, wizards, sorcerers, however 'cunning-man' and 'wise-man' were the most frequent.\" The contemporary Reginald Scot explained, \"At this day it is indifferent to say in the English tongue, 'she is a witch' or 'she is a wise woman'\". Folk magicians throughout Europe were often viewed ambivalently by communities, and were considered as capable of harming as of healing, which could lead to their being accused as \"witches\" in the negative sense. Many English \"witches\" convicted of consorting with demons seem to have been cunning folk whose fairy familiars had been demonised; many French \"devins-guerisseurs\" (\"diviner-healers\") were accused of witchcraft, and over one half the accused witches in Hungary seem to have been healers.\n\nSome of the healers and diviners historically accused of witchcraft have considered themselves mediators between the mundane and spiritual worlds, roughly equivalent to shamans. Such people described their contacts with fairies, spirits often involving out-of-body experiences and travelling through the realms of an \"other-world\".\nBeliefs of this nature are implied in the folklore of much of Europe, and were explicitly described by accused witches in central and southern Europe. Repeated themes include participation in processions of the dead or large feasts, often presided over by a horned male deity or a female divinity who teaches magic and gives prophecies; and participation in battles against evil spirits, \"vampires\", or \"witches\" to win fertility and prosperity for the community.\n\nÉva Pócs states that reasons for accusations of witchcraft fall into four general categories:\n\nShe identifies three varieties of witch in popular belief:\n\"Neighbourhood witches\" are the product of neighbourhood tensions, and are found only in self-sufficient serf village communities where the inhabitants largely rely on each other. Such accusations follow the breaking of some social norm, such as the failure to return a borrowed item, and any person part of the normal social exchange could potentially fall under suspicion. Claims of \"sorcerer\" witches and \"supernatural\" witches could arise out of social tensions, but not exclusively; the supernatural witch in particular often had nothing to do with communal conflict, but expressed tensions between the human and supernatural worlds; and in Eastern and Southeastern Europe such supernatural witches became an ideology explaining calamities that befell entire communities.\n\nBelief in witchcraft continues to be present today in some societies and accusations of witchcraft are the trigger of serious forms of violence, including murder. Such incidents are common in places such as Burkina Faso, Ghana, India, Kenya, Malawi, Nepal and Tanzania. Accusations of witchcraft are sometimes linked to personal disputes, jealousy, and conflicts between neighbors or family over land or inheritance. Witchcraft-related violence is often discussed as a serious issue in the broader context of violence against women.\n\nIn Tanzania, about 500 older women are murdered each year following accusations against them of witchcraft or of being a witch. Apart from extrajudicial violence, there is also state-sanctioned violence in some jurisdictions. For instance, in Saudi Arabia practicing witchcraft and sorcery is a crime punishable by death and the country has executed people for this crime in 2011, 2012 and 2014.\n\nChildren in some regions of the world, such as parts of Africa, are also vulnerable to violence related to witchcraft accusations. Such incidents have also occurred in immigrant communities in the UK, including the much publicized case of the murder of Victoria Climbié.\n\nModern practices identified by their practitioners as \"witchcraft\" have grown dramatically since the early 20th century. Generally portrayed as revivals of pre-Christian European ritual and spirituality, they are understood to involve varying degrees of magic, shamanism, folk medicine, spiritual healing, calling on elementals and spirits, veneration of ancient deities and archetypes, and attunement with the forces of nature.\n\nThe first Neopagan groups to publicly appear, during the 1950s and 60s, were Gerald Gardner's Bricket Wood coven and Roy Bowers' Clan of Tubal Cain. They operated as initiatory secret societies. Other individual practitioners and writers such as Paul Huson also claimed inheritance to surviving traditions of witchcraft.\n\nDuring the 20th century, interest in witchcraft in English-speaking and European countries began to increase, inspired particularly by Margaret Murray's theory of a pan-European witch-cult originally published in 1921, since discredited by further careful historical research. Interest was intensified, however, by Gerald Gardner's claim in 1954 in \"Witchcraft Today\" that a form of witchcraft still existed in England. The truth of Gardner's claim is now disputed too, with different historians offering evidence for or against the religion's existence prior to Gardner.\n\nThe Wicca that Gardner initially taught was a witchcraft religion having a lot in common with Margaret Murray's hypothetically posited cult of the 1920s. Indeed, Murray wrote an introduction to Gardner's \"Witchcraft Today\", in effect putting her stamp of approval on it. Wicca is now practised as a religion of an initiatory secret society nature with positive ethical principles, organised into autonomous covens and led by a High Priesthood. There is also a large \"Eclectic Wiccan\" movement of individuals and groups who share key Wiccan beliefs but have no initiatory connection or affiliation with traditional Wicca. Wiccan writings and ritual show borrowings from a number of sources including 19th and 20th-century ceremonial magic, the medieval grimoire known as the Key of Solomon, Aleister Crowley's Ordo Templi Orientis and pre-Christian religions. Both men and women are equally termed \"witches.\" They practice a form of duotheistic universalism.\n\nSince Gardner's death in 1964, the Wicca that he claimed he was initiated into has attracted many initiates, becoming the largest of the various witchcraft traditions in the Western world, and has influenced other Neopagan and occult movements.\n\nWiccan literature has been described as aiding the empowerment of young women through its lively portrayal of female protagonists. Part of the recent growth in Neo-Pagan religions has been attributed to the strong media presence of fictional works such as the Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Harry Potter series with their depictions of witchcraft. Widespread accessibility to related material through internet media such as chat rooms and forums is also thought to be driving this development. Wiccan beliefs are currently often found to be compatible with liberal ideals such as the Green movement, and particularly with feminism by providing young women with means for empowerment and for control of their own lives. This is the case particularly in North America due to the strong presence of feminist ideals. The 2002 study Enchanted Feminism: The Reclaiming Witches of San Francisco suggests that Wiccan religion represents the second wave of feminism that has also been redefined as a religious movement.\n\nStregheria is an Italian witchcraft religion popularised in the 1980s by Raven Grimassi, who claims that it evolved within the ancient Etruscan religion of Italian peasants who worked under the Catholic upper classes.\n\nModern Stregheria closely resembles Charles Leland's controversial late-19th-century account of a surviving Italian religion of witchcraft, worshipping the Goddess Diana, her brother Dianus/Lucifer, and their daughter Aradia. Leland's witches do not see Lucifer as the evil Satan that Christians see, but a benevolent god of the Sun and Moon).\n\nThe ritual format of contemporary Stregheria is roughly similar to that of other Neopagan witchcraft religions such as Wicca. The pentagram is the most common symbol of religious identity. Most followers celebrate a series of eight festivals equivalent to the Wiccan Wheel of the Year, though others follow the ancient Roman festivals. An emphasis is placed on ancestor worship.\n\nTraditional witchcraft is a term used to refer to a variety of contemporary forms of witchcraft. Pagan studies scholar Ethan Doyle White described it as \"a broad movement of aligned magico-religious groups who reject any relation to Gardnerianism and the wider Wiccan movement, claiming older, more \"traditional\" roots. Although typically united by a shared aesthetic rooted in European folklore, the Traditional Craft contains within its ranks a rich and varied array of occult groups, from those who follow a contemporary Pagan path that is suspiciously similar to Wicca to those who adhere to Luciferianism\". According to British Traditional Witch Michael Howard, the term refers to \"any non-Gardnerian, non-Alexandrian, non-Wiccan or pre-modern form of the Craft, especially if it has been inspired by historical forms of witchcraft and folk magic\". Another definition was offered by Daniel A. Schulke, the current Magister of the Cultus Sabbati, when he proclaimed that \"traditional witchcraft\" \"refers to a coterie of initiatory lineages of ritual magic, spellcraft and devotional mysticism\". Some forms of traditional witchcraft are the Feri Tradition, Cochrane's Craft and the Sabbatic craft.\n\nSatanism is a broad term referring to diverse beliefs that share a symbolic association with, or admiration for, Satan, who is seen as a liberating figure. While it is heir to the same historical period and pre-Enlightenment beliefs that gave rise to modern witchcraft, it is generally seen as completely separate from modern witchcraft and Wicca, and has little or no connection to them.\n\nModern witchcraft considers Satanism to be the \"dark side of Christianity\" rather than a branch of Wicca: – the character of Satan referenced in Satanism exists only in the theology of the three Abrahamic religions, and Satanism arose as, and occupies the role of, a rebellious counterpart to Christianity, in which all is permitted and the self is central. (Christianity can be characterized as having the diametrically opposite views to these.) Such beliefs become more visibly expressed in Europe after the Enlightenment, when works such as Milton's \"Paradise Lost\" were described anew by romantics who suggested that they presented the biblical Satan as an allegory representing crisis of faith, individualism, free will, wisdom and enlightenment; a few works from that time also begin to directly present Satan in a less negative light, such as \"Letters from the Earth\". The two major trends are theistic Satanism and atheistic Satanism; the former venerates Satan as a supernatural patriarchal deity, while the latter views Satan as merely a symbolic embodiment of certain human traits.\n\nOrganized groups began to emerge in the mid 20th century, including the Ophite Cultus Satanas (1948) and The Church of Satan (1966). After seeing Margaret Murray's book \"The God of the Witches\" the leader of Ophite Cultus Satanas, Herbert Arthur Sloane, said he realized that the horned god was Satan (\"Sathanas\"). Sloane also corresponded with his contemporary Gerald Gardner, founder of the Wicca religion, and implied that his views of Satan and the horned god were not necessarily in conflict with Gardner's approach. However, he did believe that, while \"gnosis\" referred to knowledge, and \"Wicca\" referred to wisdom, modern witches had fallen away from the true knowledge, and instead had begun worshipping a fertility god, a reflection of the creator god. He wrote that \"the largest existing body of witches who are true Satanists would be the Yezedees\". Sloane highly recommended the book \"The Gnostic Religion\", and sections of it were sometimes read at ceremonies. It was estimated that there were up to 100,000 Satanists worldwide by 2006, twice the number estimated in 1990. Satanistic beliefs have been largely permitted as a valid expression of religious belief in the West. For example, they were allowed in the British Royal Navy in 2004, and an appeal was considered in 2005 for religious status as a right of prisoners by the Supreme Court of the United States. Contemporary Satanism is mainly an American phenomenon, although it began to reach Eastern Europe in the 1990s around the time of the fall of the Soviet Union.\n\nLuciferianism, on the other hand, is a belief system and does not revere the devil figure or most characteristics typically affixed to Satan. Rather, Lucifer in this context is seen as one of many morning stars, a symbol of enlightenment, independence and human progression. Madeline Montalban was an English witch who adhered to a specific form of luciferianism which revolved around the veneration of Lucifer, or Lumiel, whom she considered to be a benevolent angelic being who had aided humanity's development. Within her Order, she emphasised that her followers discover their own personal relationship with the angelic beings, including Lumiel. Although initially seeming favourable to Gerald Gardner, by the mid-1960s she had become hostile towards him and his Gardnerian tradition, considering him to be \"a 'dirty old man' and sexual pervert.\" She also expressed hostility to another prominent Pagan Witch of the period, Charles Cardell, although in the 1960s became friends with the two Witches at the forefront of the Alexandrian Wiccan tradition, Alex Sanders and his wife, Maxine Sanders, who adopted some of her Luciferian angelic practices. In contemporary times luciferian witches exist within traditional witchcraft.\n\nThe belief in sorcery and its practice seem to have been widespread in the Ancient Near East and Nile Valley. It played a conspicuous role in the cultures of ancient Egypt and in Babylonia. The latter tradition included an Akkadian anti-witchcraft ritual, the Maqlû. A section from the Code of Hammurabi (about 2000 B.C.) prescribes:\n\nAccording to the New Advent Catholic Encyclopedia: \n\nThe King James Version uses the words \"witch\", \"witchcraft\", and \"witchcrafts\" to translate the Masoretic \"kāsháf\" () and (\"qésem\"); these same English terms are used to translate \"pharmakeia\" in the Greek New Testament. Verses such as and (\"Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live\") thus provided scriptural justification for Christian witch hunters in the early modern period (see Christian views on magic).\n\nThe precise meaning of the Hebrew , usually translated as \"witch\" or \"sorceress\", is uncertain. In the Septuagint, it was translated as \"pharmakeía\" or \"pharmakous\". In the 16th century, Reginald Scot, a prominent critic of the witch trials, translated , φαρμακεία, and the Vulgate's Latin equivalent \"veneficos\" as all meaning \"poisoner\", and on this basis, claimed that \"witch\" was an incorrect translation and poisoners were intended. His theory still holds some currency, but is not widely accepted, and in is listed alongside other magic practitioners who could interpret dreams: magicians, astrologers, and Chaldeans. Suggested derivations of include \"mutterer\" (from a single root) or \"herb user\" (as a compound word formed from the roots \"kash\", meaning \"herb\", and \"hapaleh\", meaning \"using\"). The Greek φαρμακεία literally means \"herbalist\" or one who uses or administers drugs, but it was used virtually synonymously with \"mageia\" and \"goeteia\" as a term for a sorcerer.\n\nThe Bible provides some evidence that these commandments against sorcery were enforced under the Hebrew kings:\nNote that the Hebrew word \"ob\", translated as \"familiar spirit\" in the above quotation, has a different meaning than the usual English sense of the phrase; namely, it refers to a spirit that the woman is familiar with, rather than to a spirit that physically manifests itself in the shape of an animal.\n\nThe New Testament condemns the practice as an abomination, just as the Old Testament had (Galatians 5:20, compared with Revelation 21:8; 22:15; and Acts 8:9; 13:6). The word in most New Testament translations is \"sorcerer\"/\"sorcery\" rather than \"witch\"/\"witchcraft\".\n\nJewish law views the practice of witchcraft as being laden with idolatry and/or necromancy; both being serious theological and practical offenses in Judaism. Although Maimonides vigorously denied the efficacy of all methods of witchcraft, and claimed that the Biblical prohibitions regarding it were precisely to wean the Israelites from practices related to idolatry. It is acknowledged that while magic exists, it is forbidden to practice it on the basis that it usually involves the worship of other gods. Rabbis of the Talmud also condemned magic when it produced something other than illusion, giving the example of two men who use magic to pick cucumbers (Sanhedrin 67a). The one who creates the illusion of picking cucumbers should not be condemned, only the one who actually picks the cucumbers through magic.\n\nHowever, some of the rabbis practiced \"magic\" themselves or taught the subject. For instance, Rabbah created a person and sent him to Rav Zeira, and Hanina and Hoshaiah studied every Friday together and created a small calf to eat on Shabbat (Sanhedrin 67b). In these cases, the \"magic\" was seen more as divine miracles (i.e., coming from God rather than \"unclean\" forces) than as witchcraft.\n\nJudaism does make it clear that Jews shall not try to learn about the ways of witches (Book of Deuteronomy 18: 9–10) and that witches are to be put to death (Exodus 22:17).\n\nJudaism's most famous reference to a medium is undoubtedly the Witch of Endor whom Saul consults, as recounted in 1 Samuel 28.\n\nDivination, and magic in Islam, encompass a wide range of practices, including black magic, warding off the evil eye, the production of amulets and other magical equipment, evocation, casting lots, and astrology. Muslims do commonly believe in magic (\"sihr\") and explicitly forbid its practice. \"Sihr\" translates from Arabic as sorcery or black magic. The best known reference to magic in Islam is surah al-Falaq of the Qur'an, which is known as a prayer to God to ward off black magic:\nAlso according to the Qur'an:\nIslam distinguishes between God-given gifts, which can heal sickness, and possession, and sorcery. Good supernatural powers are therefore a \"special gift from God\", whereas sorcery or black magic is achieved through help of jinn and demons. In the Qurʾānic narrative, the Prophet Sulayman had the power to speak with animals and command jinn, and he thanks God for this نعمة (i.e. gift, privilege, favour, bounty), which is only given to him with God’s permission. The Prophet Muhammad was accused of being a magician by his opponents.\n\nIt is a common belief that jinn can possess a human, thus requiring exorcism (\"ruqya\") derived from the Prophet's \"sunnah\" to cast off the jinn or devils from the body of the possessed. The practice of seeking help from the jinn is prohibited and can lead to possession. The \"ruqya\" contains verses of the Qur'an as well as prayers specifically targeted against demons. The knowledge of which verses of the Qur'an to use in what way is what is considered \"magic knowledge.\"\n\nA \"hadith\" recorded in states: \"Seventy thousand people of my followers will enter Paradise without accounts, and they are those who do not practice Ar-Ruqya and do not see an evil omen in things, and put their trust in their Lord.\" Ibn Qayyim al-Jawziyya, a scholar, commented on this \"hadith\", stating: That is because these people will enter Paradise without being called to account because of the perfection of their Tawheed, therefore he described them as people who did not ask others to perform ruqyah for them. Hence he said \"and they put their trust in their Lord.\" Because of their complete trust in their Lord, their contentment with Him, their faith in Him, their being pleased with Him and their seeking their needs from Him, they do not ask people for anything, be it ruqyah or anything else, and they are not influenced by omens and superstitions that could prevent them from doing what they want to do, because superstition detracts from and weakens Tawheed\".\n\nIbn al-Nadim hold, exorcists gain their power by their obedience to God, while sorcerers please the demons by acts of disobedience and sacrifices and they in return do him a favor. Being pious and strictly following the teachings of the Qur'an can increase the probability to perform magic or miracles, that is distinguished from witchcraft, the latter practised in aid with demons.\n\nA \"hadith\" recorded in narrates that one who has eaten seven Ajwa dates in the morning will not be adversely affected by magic in the course of that day.\n\nStudents of the history of religion have linked several magical practises in Islam with pre-Islamic Turkish and East African customs. Most notable of these customs is the Zār.\n\nIn Southern African traditions, there are three classifications of somebody who uses magic. The \"tagati\" is usually improperly translated into English as \"witch\", and is a spiteful person who operates in secret to harm others. The \"sangoma\" is a diviner, somewhere on a par with a fortune teller, and is employed in detecting illness, predicting a person's future (or advising them on which path to take), or identifying the guilty party in a crime. She also practices some degree of medicine. The \"inyanga\" is often translated as \"witch doctor\" (though many Southern Africans resent this implication, as it perpetuates the mistaken belief that a \"witch doctor\" is in some sense a \"practitioner\" of malicious magic). The \"inyanga\"s job is to heal illness and injury and provide customers with magical items for everyday use. Of these three categories the \"tagati\" is almost exclusively female, the \"sangoma\" is usually female, and the \"inyanga\" is almost exclusively male.\n\nMuch of what witchcraft represents in Africa has been susceptible to misunderstandings and confusion, thanks in no small part to a tendency among western scholars since the time of the now largely discredited Margaret Murray to approach the subject through a comparative lens vis-a-vis European witchcraft. Okeja argues that witchcraft in Africa today plays a very different social role than in Europe of the past—or present—and should be understood through an African rather than post-colonial Western lens.\n\nComplimentary remarks about witchcraft by a native Congolese initiate: \"From witchcraft ... may be developed the remedy (\"kimbuki\") that will do most to raise up our country.\" \"Witchcraft ... deserves respect ... it can embellish or redeem (\"ketula evo vuukisa\").\" \"The ancestors were equipped with the protective witchcraft of the clan (\"kindoki kiandundila kanda\"). ... They could also gather the power of animals into their hands ... whenever they needed. ... If we could make use of these kinds of witchcraft, our country would rapidly progress in knowledge of every kind.\" \"You witches (\"zindoki\") too, bring your science into the light to be written down so that ... the benefits in it ... endow our race.\"\n\nIn eastern Cameroon, the term used for witchcraft among the Maka is \"djambe\" and refers to a force inside a person; its powers may make the proprietor more vulnerable. It encompasses the occult, the transformative, killing and healing.\n\nIn some Central African areas, malicious magic users are believed by locals to be the source of terminal illness such as AIDS and cancer. In such cases, various methods are used to rid the person from the bewitching spirit, occasionally physical and psychological abuse. Children may be accused of being witches, for example a young niece may be blamed for the illness of a relative. Most of these cases of abuse go unreported since the members of the society that witness such abuse are too afraid of being accused of being accomplices. It is also believed that witchcraft can be transmitted to children by feeding. Parents discourage their children from interacting with people believed to be witches.\n\nEvery year, hundreds of people in the Central African Republic are convicted of witchcraft.\n\nChristian militias in the Central African Republic have also kidnapped, burnt and buried alive women accused of being 'witches' in public ceremonies.\n\n, between 25,000 and 50,000 children in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo, had been accused of witchcraft and thrown out of their homes. These children have been subjected to often-violent abuse during exorcisms, sometimes supervised by self-styled religious pastors. Other pastors and Christian activists strongly oppose such accusations and try to rescue children from their unscrupulous colleagues. The usual term for these children is \"enfants sorciers\" (child witches) or \"enfants dits sorciers\" (children accused of witchcraft). In 2002, USAID funded the production of two short films on the subject, made in Kinshasa by journalists Angela Nicoara and Mike Ormsby.\n\nIn April 2008, in Kinshasa, the police arrested 14 suspected victims (of penis snatching) and sorcerers accused of using black magic or witchcraft to steal (make disappear) or shrink men's penises to extort cash for cure, amid a wave of panic.\n\nAccording to one study, the belief in magical warfare technologies (such as \"bulletproofing\") in the Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo serves a group-level function, as it increases group efficiency in warfare, even if it is suboptimal at the individual level. The authors of the study argue that this is one reason why the belief in witchcraft persists.\n\nIn Ghana, women are often accused of witchcraft and attacked by neighbours. Because of this, there exist six witch camps in the country where women suspected of being witches can flee for safety. The witch camps, which exist solely in Ghana, are thought to house a total of around 1000 women. Some of the camps are thought to have been set up over 100 years ago. The Ghanaian government has announced that it intends to close the camps.\n\nArrests were made in an effort to avoid bloodshed seen in Ghana a decade ago, when 12 alleged penis snatchers were beaten to death by mobs. While it is easy for modern people to dismiss such reports, Uchenna Okeja argues that a belief system in which such magical practices are deemed possible offer many benefits to Africans who hold them. For example, the belief that a sorcerer has \"stolen\" a man's penis functions as an anxiety-reduction mechanism for men suffering from impotence while simultaneously providing an explanation that is consistent with African cultural beliefs rather than appealing to Western scientific notions that are tainted by the history of colonialism (at least for many Africans).\n\nIt was reported on May 21, 2008 that in Kenya, a mob had burnt to death at least 11 people accused of witchcraft.\n\nIn Malawi it is also common practice to accuse children of witchcraft and many children have been abandoned, abused and even killed as a result. As in other African countries both African traditional healers and their Christian counterparts are trying to make a living out of exorcising children and are actively involved in pointing out children as witches. Various secular and Christian organizations are combining their efforts to address this problem.\n\nAccording to William Kamkwamba, witches and wizards are afraid of money, which they consider a rival evil. Any contact with cash will snap their spell and leave the wizard naked and confused. So placing cash, such as kwacha around a room or bed mat will protect the resident from their malevolent spells.\n\nIn Nigeria, several Pentecostal pastors have mixed their evangelical brand of Christianity with African beliefs in witchcraft to benefit from the lucrative witch finding and exorcism business—which in the past was the exclusive domain of the so-called witch doctor or traditional healers. These pastors have been involved in the torturing and even killing of children accused of witchcraft. Over the past decade, around 15,000 children have been accused, and around 1,000 murdered. Churches are very numerous in Nigeria, and competition for congregations is hard. Some pastors attempt to establish a reputation for spiritual power by \"detecting\" child witches, usually following a death or loss of a job within a family, or an accusation of financial fraud against the pastor. In the course of \"exorcisms\", accused children may be starved, beaten, mutilated, set on fire, forced to consume acid or cement, or buried alive. While some church leaders and Christian activists have spoken out strongly against these abuses, many Nigerian churches are involved in the abuse, although church administrations deny knowledge of it.\n\nAmong the Mende (of Sierra Leone), trial and conviction for witchcraft has a beneficial effect for those convicted. \"The witchfinder had warned the whole village to ensure the relative prosperity of the accused and sentenced ... old people. ... Six months later all of the people ... accused, were secure, well-fed and arguably happier than at any [previous] time; they had hardly to beckon and people would come with food or whatever was needful. ... Instead of such old and widowed people being left helpless or (as in Western society) institutionalized in old people's homes, these were reintegrated into society and left secure in their old age ... . ... Old people are 'suitable' candidates for this kind of accusation in the sense that they are isolated and vulnerable, and they are 'suitable' candidates for 'social security' for precisely the same reasons.\"\n\nIn Kuranko language, the term for witchcraft is \"suwa'ye\" referring to \"extraordinary powers\".\n\nIn Tanzania in 2008, President Kikwete publicly condemned witchdoctors for killing albinos for their body parts, which are thought to bring good luck. 25 albinos have been murdered since March 2007. In Tanzania, albinos are often murdered for their body parts on the advice of witch doctors in order to produce powerful amulets that are believed to protect against witchcraft and make the owner prosper in life.\n\nBrua is an Afro-Caribbean religion and healing tradition that originates in Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao, in the Dutch Caribbean. A healer in this culture is called a \"kurioso\" or \"kuradó\", a man or woman who performs \"trabou chikí\" (little works) and \"trabou grandi\" (large treatments) to promote or restore health, bring fortune or misfortune, deal with unrequited love, and more serious concerns, in which sorcery is involved. Sorcery usually involves reference to the \"almasola\" or \"homber chiki\", a devil-like entity. \"Transcultural Psychiatry\" published a paper called \"Traditional healing practices originating in Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao: A review of the literature on psychiatry and Brua\" by Jan Dirk Blom, Igmar T. Poulina, Trevor L. van Gellecum and Hans W. Hoek of the Parnassia Psychiatric Institute.\n\nIn 1645, Springfield, Massachusetts, experienced America's first accusations of witchcraft when husband and wife Hugh and Mary Parsons accused each other of witchcraft. At America's first witch trial, Hugh was found innocent, while Mary was acquitted of witchcraft but sentenced to be hanged for the death of her child. She died in prison. From 1645–1663, about eighty people throughout England's Massachusetts Bay Colony were accused of practicing witchcraft. Thirteen women and two men were executed in a witch-hunt that lasted throughout New England from 1645–1663.\n\nThe Salem witch trials followed in 1692–93. These witch trials were the most famous in British North America and took place in the coastal settlements near Salem, Massachusetts. Prior to the witch trials, nearly 300 men and women had been suspected of partaking in witchcraft, and 19 of these people were hanged, and one was “pressed to death”. The Salem witch trials were a series of hearings before local magistrates followed by county court trials to prosecute people accused of witchcraft in Essex, Suffolk and Middlesex Counties of colonial Massachusetts, between February 1692 and May 1693. Over 150 people were arrested and imprisoned, with even more accused who were not formally pursued by the authorities. The two courts convicted 29 people of the capital felony of witchcraft. Nineteen of the accused, 14 women and 5 men, were hanged. One man who refused to enter a plea was crushed to death under heavy stones in an attempt to force him to do so. At least five more of the accused died in prison.\n\nDespite being generally known as the \"Salem\" witch trials, the preliminary hearings in 1692 were conducted in a variety of towns across the province: Salem Village (now Danvers), Salem Town, Ipswich, and Andover. The best known trials were conducted by the Court of Oyer and Terminer in 1692 in Salem Town. All 26 who went to trial before this court were convicted. The four sessions of the Superior Court of Judicature in 1693, held in Salem Town, but also in Ipswich, Boston, and Charlestown, produced only 3 convictions in the 31 witchcraft trials it conducted. Likewise, alleged witchcraft was not isolated to New England. In 1706 Grace Sherwood the \"Witch of Pungo\" was imprisoned for the crime in Princess Anne County, Virginia.\n\nIn Maryland, there is a legend of Moll Dyer, who escaped a fire set by fellow colonists only to die of exposure in December 1697. The historical record of Dyer is scant as all official records were burned in a courthouse fire, though the county courthouse has on display the rock where her frozen body was found. A letter from a colonist of the period describes her in most unfavourable terms. A local road is named after Dyer, where her homestead was said to have been. Many local families have their own version of the Moll Dyer affair, and her name is spoken with care in the rural southern counties.\n\nAccusations of witchcraft and wizardry led to the prosecution of a man in Tennessee as recently as 1833. \"The Crucible\" by Arthur Miller is a dramatized and partially fictionalized story of the Salem witch trials that took place in the Massachusetts Bay Colony during 1692–93.\n\nIn Diné culture, witches are seen as the polar opposite of ceremonial people. While spiritual leaders perform \"sings\" for healing, protection and other beneficial purposes, all practices referred to as \"witchcraft\" are intended to hurt and curse. Witches are associated with harm to the community and transgression of societal standards, especially those relating to family and the dead.\n\nThe \"yee naaldlooshii\" is the type of witch known in English as a \"skin-walker\". They are believed to take the forms of animals in order to travel in secret and do harm to the innocent. In the Navajo language, ' translates to \"with it, he goes on all fours\". While perhaps the most common variety seen in horror fiction by non-Navajo people, the ' is one of several varieties of Navajo witch, specifically a type of \"\".\n\nCorpse powder or corpse poison (, literally \"witchery\" or \"harming\") is a substance made from powdered corpses. The powder is used by witches to curse their victims. The effect of the \"\" is a curse and disease, usually indicated by an immediate action to administration of the poison, like fainting, swelling of the tongue, or lockjaw. Sometimes, however, the victims simply wastes away, as from a normal disease.\n\nTraditional Navajos usually hesitate to discuss things like witches and witchcraft with non-Navajos.\n\nWitchcraft was also an important part of the social and cultural history of late-Colonial Mexico, during the Mexican Inquisition. Spanish Inquisitors viewed witchcraft as a problem that could be cured simply through confession. Yet, as anthropologist Ruth Behar writes, witchcraft, not only in Mexico but in Latin America in general, was a \"conjecture of sexuality, witchcraft, and religion, in which Spanish, indigenous, and African cultures converged.\" Furthermore, witchcraft in Mexico generally required an interethnic and interclass network of witches. Yet, according to anthropology professor Laura Lewis, witchcraft in colonial Mexico ultimately represented an \"affirmation of hegemony\" for women, Indians, and especially Indian women over their white male counterparts as a result of the casta system.\n\nIn modern history, notoriety has been awarded to a place called Catemaco, in the state of Veracruz, which has a history of witchcraft, and where the practice of witchcraft by contemporary \"brujos\" and \"brujas\" thrives.\n\nIn Mexico City, people who practice brujería, Santería, voodoo, ocultism and magic may find items, herbs and supplies at the \"mercado de Sonora\".\n\nIn Chile there is a tradition of the Kalku in Mapuche religion; and the Warlocks of Chiloé in the folklore and Chilote mythology.\n\nThe presence of the witch is a constant in the ethnographic history of colonial Brazil, especially during the several denunciations and confessions given to the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith of Bahia (1591–1593), Pernambuco and Paraíba (1593–1595).\n\nBelief in the supernatural is strong in all parts of India, and lynchings for witchcraft are reported in the press from time to time. Around 750 people were killed as witches in Assam and West Bengal between 2003 and 2008. Officials in the state of Chhattisgarh reported in 2008 that at least 100 women are maltreated annually as suspected witches. A local activist stated that only a fraction of cases of abuse are reported. In Indian mythology, a common perception of a witch is a being with her feet pointed backwards.\n\nApart from other types of Violence against women in Nepal, the malpractice of abusing women in the name of witchcraft is also really prominent. According to the statistics in 2013, there was a total of 69 reported cases of abuse to women due to accusation of performing witchcraft. The perpetrators of this malpractice are usually neighbors, so-called witch doctors and family members. The main causes of these malpractices are lack of education, lack of awareness and superstition. According to the statistics by INSEC, the age group of women who fall victims to the witchcraft violence in Nepal is 20–40.\n\nIn Japanese folklore, the most common types of witch can be separated into two categories: those who employ snakes as familiars, and those who employ foxes.\n\nThe fox witch is, by far, the most commonly seen witch figure in Japan. Differing regional beliefs set those who use foxes into two separate types: the \"kitsune-mochi\", and the \"tsukimono-suji\". The first of these, the \"kitsune-mochi\", is a solitary figure who gains his fox familiar by bribing it with its favourite foods. The \"kitsune-mochi\" then strikes up a deal with the fox, typically promising food and daily care in return for the fox's magical services. The fox of Japanese folklore is a powerful trickster in and of itself, imbued with powers of shape changing, possession, and illusion. These creatures can be either nefarious; disguising themselves as women in order to trap men, or they can be benign forces as in the story of \"The Grateful foxes\". However, once a fox enters the employ of a human it almost exclusively becomes a force of evil to be feared. A fox under the employ of a human can provide many services. The fox can turn invisible and find secrets its master desires. It can apply its many powers of illusion to trick and deceive its master's enemies. The most feared power of the \"kitsune-mochi\" is the ability to command his fox to possess other humans. This process of possession is called Kitsunetsuki.\n\nBy far, the most commonly reported cases of fox witchcraft in modern Japan are enacted by \"tsukimono-suji\" families, or \"hereditary witches\". The \"Tsukimono-suji\" is traditionally a family who is reported to have foxes under their employ. These foxes serve the family and are passed down through the generations, typically through the female line. \"Tsukimono-suji\" foxes are able to supply much in the way of the same mystical aid that the foxes under the employ of a \"kitsune-mochi\" can provide its more solitary master with. In addition to these powers, if the foxes are kept happy and well taken care of, they bring great fortune and prosperity to the \"Tsukimono-suji\" house. However, the aid in which these foxes give is often overshadowed by the social and mystical implications of being a member of such a family. In many villages, the status of local families as \"tsukimono-suji\" is often common, everyday knowledge. Such families are respected and feared, but are also openly shunned. Due to its hereditary nature, the status of being \"Tsukimono-suji\" is considered contagious. Because of this, it is often impossible for members of such a family to sell land or other properties, due to fear that the possession of such items will cause foxes to inundate one's own home. In addition to this, because the foxes are believed to be passed down through the female line, it is often nearly impossible for women of such families to find a husband whose family will agree to have him married to a \"tsukimono-suji\" family. In such a union the woman's status as a \"Tsukimono-suji\" would transfer to any man who married her.\n\nWitchcraft in the Philippines is often classified as malevolent, with practitioners of black magic called \"Mangkukulam\" in Tagalog and \"Mambabarang\" in Cebuano; there are also practitioners of benevolent, white magic, in addition to some who practise both. \"Mambabarang\" in particular are noted for their ability to command insects and other invertebrates to accomplish a task, such as delivering a curse to a target.\n\nMagic and witchcraft in the Philippines varies considerably across the different ethnic groups, and is commonly a modern manifestation of pre-Colonial spirituality interwoven with Catholic religious elements such as the invocation of saints and the use of pseudo-Latin prayers (\"oración\") in spells, and \"anting-anting\" (amulets).\n\nPractitioners of traditional herbal-based medicine and divination called \"albularyo\" are not considered witches. They are perceived to be either quack doctors or a quasi-magical option when western medicine fails to identify or cure an ailment that is thus suspected to be of supernatural, often malevolent, origin. Feng shui, an influence of Filipino Chinese culture, is also not classified as witchcraft as it is considered a separate realm of belief altogether.\n\nSaudi Arabia continues to use the death penalty for sorcery and witchcraft. In 2006 Fawza Falih Muhammad Ali was condemned to death for practicing witchcraft. There is no legal definition of sorcery in Saudi, but in 2007 an Egyptian pharmacist working there was accused, convicted, and executed. Saudi authorities also pronounced the death penalty on a Lebanese television presenter, Ali Hussain Sibat, while he was performing the \"hajj\" (Islamic pilgrimage) in the country.\n\nIn 2009 the Saudi authorities set up the Anti-Witchcraft Unit of their Committee for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice police.\n\nIn April 2009, a Saudi woman Amina Bint Abdulhalim Nassar was arrested and later sentenced to death for practicing witchcraft and sorcery. In December 2011, she was beheaded. A Saudi man has been beheaded on charges of sorcery and witchcraft in June 2012. A beheading for sorcery occurred in 2014.\n\nIn June 2015, Yahoo reported: \"The Islamic State group has beheaded two women in Syria on accusations of \"sorcery,\" the first such executions of female civilians in Syria, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Tuesday.\"\nISIS decapitated a man in Iraq over sorcery.\n\nAn expedition sent to what is now the Xinjiang region of western China by the PBS documentary series \"Nova\" found a fully clothed female Tocharian mummy wearing a black conical hat of the type now associated with witches in Europe in the storage area of a small local museum, indicative of an Indo-European priestess.\n\nWitchcraft in Europe between 500–1750 was believed to be a combination of sorcery and heresy. While sorcery attempts to produce negative supernatural effects through formulas and rituals, heresy is the Christian contribution to witchcraft in which an individual makes a pact with the Devil. In addition, heresy denies witches the recognition of important Christian values such as baptism, salvation, Christ and sacraments. The beginning of the witch accusations in Europe took place in the 14th and 15th centuries; however as the social disruptions of the 16th century took place, witchcraft trials intensified. \nIn Early Modern European tradition, witches were stereotypically, though not exclusively, women. European pagan belief in witchcraft was associated with the goddess Diana and dismissed as \"diabolical fantasies\" by medieval Christian authors. Witch-hunts first appeared in large numbers in southern France and Switzerland during the 14th and 15th centuries. The peak years of witch-hunts in southwest Germany were from 1561 to 1670.\n\nIt was commonly believed that individuals with power and prestige were involved in acts of witchcraft and even cannibalism. Because Europe had a lot of power over individuals living in West Africa, Europeans in positions of power were often accused of taking part in these practices. Though it is not likely that these individuals were actually involved in these practices, they were most likely associated due to Europe’s involvement in things like the slave trade, which negatively affected the lives of many individuals in the Atlantic World throughout the fifteenth through seventeenth centuries.\n\nThe familiar witch of folklore and popular superstition is a combination of numerous influences. The characterization of the witch as an evil magic user developed over time.\n\nEarly converts to Christianity looked to Christian clergy to work magic more effectively than the old methods under Roman paganism, and Christianity provided a methodology involving saints and relics, similar to the gods and amulets of the Pagan world. As Christianity became the dominant religion in Europe, its concern with magic lessened.\n\nThe Protestant Christian explanation for witchcraft, such as those typified in the confessions of the Pendle witches, commonly involves a diabolical pact or at least an appeal to the intervention of the spirits of evil. The witches or wizards engaged in such practices were alleged to reject Jesus and the sacraments; observe \"the witches' sabbath\" (performing infernal rites that often parodied the Mass or other sacraments of the Church); pay Divine honour to the Prince of Darkness; and, in return, receive from him preternatural powers. It was a folkloric belief that a Devil's Mark, like the brand on cattle, was placed upon a witch's skin by the devil to signify that this pact had been made. Witches were most often characterized as women. Witches disrupted the societal institutions, and more specifically, marriage. It was believed that a witch often joined a pact with the devil to gain powers to deal with infertility, immense fear for her children's well-being, or revenge against a lover. They were also depicted as lustful and perverted, and it was thought that they copulated with the devil at the Sabbath.\n\nThe Church and European society were not always so zealous in hunting witches or blaming them for misfortunes. Saint Boniface declared in the 8th century that belief in the existence of witches was un-Christian. The emperor Charlemagne decreed that the burning of supposed witches was a pagan custom that would be punished by the death penalty. In 820 the Bishop of Lyon and others repudiated the belief that witches could make bad weather, fly in the night, and change their shape. This denial was accepted into Canon law . Other rulers such as King Coloman of Hungary declared that witch-hunts should cease because witches (more specifically, strigas) do not exist.\n\nThe Church did not invent the idea of witchcraft as a potentially harmful force whose practitioners should be put to death. This idea is commonplace in pre-Christian religions. According to the scholar Max Dashu, the concept of medieval witchcraft contained many of its elements even before the emergence of Christianity. These can be found in Bacchanalias, especially in the time when they were led by priestess Paculla Annia (188BC–186BC).\n\nPowers typically attributed to European witches include turning food poisonous or inedible, flying on broomsticks or pitchforks, casting spells, cursing people, making livestock ill and crops fail, and creating fear and local chaos.\n\nHowever, even at a later date, not all witches were assumed to be harmful practicers of the craft. In England, the provision of this curative magic was the job of a witch doctor, also known as a cunning man, white witch, or wise man. The term \"witch doctor\" was in use in England before it came to be associated with Africa. Toad doctors were also credited with the ability to undo evil witchcraft. (Other folk magicians had their own purviews. Girdle-measurers specialised in diagnosing ailments caused by fairies, while magical cures for more mundane ailments, such as burns or toothache, could be had from charmers.)\n\nHistorians Keith Thomas and his student Alan Macfarlane study witchcraft by combining historical research with concepts drawn from anthropology. They argued that English witchcraft, like African witchcraft, was endemic rather than epidemic. Older women were the favorite targets because they were marginal, dependent members of the community and therefore more likely to arouse feelings of both hostility and guilt, and less likely to have defenders of importance inside the community. Witchcraft accusations were the village's reaction to the breakdown of its internal community, coupled with the emergence of a newer set of values that was generating psychic stress.\nIn Wales, fear of witchcraft mounted around the year 1500. There was a growing alarm of women's magic as a weapon aimed against the state and church. The Church made greater efforts to enforce the canon law of marriage, especially in Wales where tradition allowed a wider range of sexual partnerships. There was a political dimension as well, as accusations of witchcraft were levied against the enemies of Henry VII, who was exerting more and more control over Wales.\n\nThe records of the Courts of Great Sessions for Wales, 1536–1736 show that Welsh custom was more important than English law. Custom provided a framework of responding to witches and witchcraft in such a way that interpersonal and communal harmony was maintained, Showing to regard to the importance of honour, social place and cultural status. Even when found guilty, execution did not occur.\n\nBecoming king in 1603, James I Brought to England and Scotland continental explanations of witchcraft. His goal was to divert suspicion away from male homosociality among the elite, and focus fear on female communities and large gatherings of women. He thought they threatened his political power so he laid the foundation for witchcraft and occultism policies, especially in Scotland. The point was that a widespread belief in the conspiracy of witches and a witches' Sabbath with the devil deprived women of political influence. Occult power was supposedly a womanly trait because women were weaker and more susceptible to the devil.\n\nIn 1944 Helen Duncan was the last person in Britain to be imprisoned for fraudulently claiming to be a witch.\n\nIn the United Kingdom children believed to be witches or seen as possessed by evil spirits can be subject to severe beatings, traumatic exorcism, and/or other abuse. There have even been child murders associated with witchcraft beliefs. The problem is particularly serious among immigrant or former immigrant communities of African origin but other communities, such as those of Asian origin are also involved. Step children and children seen as different for a wide range of reasons are particularly at risk of witchcraft accusations. Children may be beaten or have chilli rubbed into their eyes during exorcisms. This type of abuse is frequently hidden and can include torture. A 2006 recommendation to record abuse cases linked to witchcraft centrally has not yet been implemented. Lack of awareness among social workers, teachers and other professionals dealing with at risk children hinders efforts to combat the problem.\n\nThere is a 'money making scam' involved. Pastors accuse a child of being a witch and later the family pays for exorcism. If a child at school says that his/her pastor called the child a witch that should become a child safeguarding issue.\n\nAs in most European countries, women in Italy were more likely suspected of witchcraft than men. Women were considered dangerous due to their supposed sexual instability, such as when being aroused, and also due to the powers of their menstrual blood.\n\nIn the 16th century, Italy had a high portion of witchcraft trials involving love magic. The country had a large number of unmarried people due to men marrying later in their lives during this time. This left many women on a desperate quest for marriage leaving them vulnerable to the accusation of witchcraft whether they took part in it or not. Trial records from the Inquisition and secular courts discovered a link between prostitutes and supernatural practices. Professional prostitutes were considered experts in love and therefore knew how to make love potions and cast love related spells. Up until 1630, the majority of women accused of witchcraft were prostitutes. A courtesan was questioned about her use of magic due to her relationship with men of power in Italy and her wealth. The majority of women accused were also considered \"outsiders\" because they were poor, had different religious practices, spoke a different language, or simply from a different city/town/region. Cassandra from Ferrara, Italy, was still considered a foreigner because not native to Rome where she was residing. She was also not seen as a model citizen because her husband was in Venice.\n\nFrom the 16th-18th centuries, the Catholic Church enforced moral discipline throughout Italy. With the help of local tribunals, such as in Venice, the two institutions investigated a woman's religious behaviors when she was accused of witchcraft.\n\nFranciscan friars from New Spain introduced Diabolism, belief in the devil, to the indigenous people after their arrival in 1524.\nBartolomé de las Casas believed that human sacrifice was not diabolic, in fact far off from it, and was a natural result of religious expression.\nMexican Indians gladly took in the belief of Diabolism and still managed to keep their belief in creator-destroyer deities.\n\nIn pre-Christian times, witchcraft was a common practice in the Cook Islands. The native name for a sorcerer was \"tangata purepure\" (a man who prays). The prayers offered by the \"ta'unga\" (priests) to the gods worshiped on national or tribal \"marae\" (temples) were termed \"karakia\"; those on minor occasions to the lesser gods were named \"pure\". All these prayers were metrical, and were handed down from generation to generation with the utmost care. There were prayers for every such phase in life; for success in battle; for a change in wind (to overwhelm an adversary at sea, or that an intended voyage be propitious); that his crops may grow; to curse a thief; or wish ill-luck and death to his foes. Few men of middle age were without a number of these prayers or charms. The succession of a sorcerer was from father to son, or from uncle to nephew. So too of sorceresses: it would be from mother to daughter, or from aunt to niece. Sorcerers and sorceresses were often slain by relatives of their supposed victims.\n\nA singular enchantment was employed to kill off a husband of a pretty woman desired by someone else. The expanded flower of a Gardenia was stuck upright—a very difficult performance—in a cup (i.e., half a large coconut shell) of water. A prayer was then offered for the husbands speedy death, the sorcerer earnestly watching the flower. Should it fall the incantation was successful. But if the flower still remained upright, he will live. The sorcerer would in that case try his skill another day, with perhaps better success.\n\nAccording to Beatrice Grimshaw, a journalist who visited the Cook Islands in 1907, the uncrowned Queen Makea was believed to have possessed the mystic power called \"mana\", giving the possessor the power to slay at will. It also included other gifts, such as second sight to a certain extent, the power to bring good or evil luck, and the ability already mentioned to deal death at will.\n\nA local newspaper informed that more than 50 people were killed in two Highlands provinces of Papua New Guinea in 2008 for allegedly practicing witchcraft. An estimated 50–150 alleged witches are killed each year in Papua New Guinea.\n\nAmong the Russian words for \"witch\", ведьма (ved'ma) literally means \"one who knows\", from Old Slavic вѣдъ \"to know\"). Another frequent term is колдунья (koldun'ya), \"sorcerer\" being колдун (koldun).\n\nPagan practices formed a part of Russian and Eastern Slavic culture; the Russian people were deeply superstitious. The witchcraft practiced consisted mostly of earth magic and herbology; it was not so significant which herbs were used in practices, but how these herbs were gathered. Ritual centered on harvest of the crops and the location of the sun was very important. One source, pagan author Judika Illes, tells that herbs picked on Midsummer's Eve were believed to be most powerful, especially if gathered on Bald Mountain near Kiev during the witches' annual revels celebration. Botanicals should be gathered, \"During the seventeenth minute of the fourteenth hour, under a dark moon, in the thirteenth field, wearing a red dress, pick the twelfth flower on the right.\"\n\nSpells also served for midwifery, shape-shifting, keeping lovers faithful, and bridal customs. Spells dealing with midwifery and childbirth focused on the spiritual wellbeing of the baby. Shape-shifting spells involved invocation of the wolf as a spirit animal. To keep men faithful, lovers would cut a ribbon the length of his erect penis and soak it in his seminal emissions after sex while he was sleeping, then tie seven knots in it; keeping this talisman of knot magic ensured loyalty. Part of an ancient pagan marriage tradition involved the bride taking a ritual bath at a bathhouse before the ceremony. Her sweat would be wiped from her body using raw fish, and the fish would be cooked and fed to the groom.\n\nDemonism, or black magic, was not prevalent. Persecution for witchcraft, mostly involved the practice of simple earth magic, founded on herbology, by solitary practitioners with a Christian influence. In one case investigators found a locked box containing something bundled in a kerchief and three paper packets, wrapped and tied, containing crushed grasses. Most rituals of witchcraft were very simple—one spell of divination consists of sitting alone outside meditating, asking the earth to show one's fate.\n\nWhile these customs were unique to Russian culture, they were not exclusive to this region. Russian pagan practices were often akin to paganism in other parts of the world. The Chinese concept of \"chi\", a form of energy that often manipulated in witchcraft, is known as bioplasma in Russian practices. The western concept of an \"evil eye\" or a \"hex\" was translated to Russia as a \"spoiler\". A spoiler was rooted in envy, jealousy and malice. Spoilers could be made by gathering bone from a cemetery, a knot of the target's hair, burned wooden splinters and several herb Paris berries (which are very poisonous). Placing these items in sachet in the victim's pillow completes a spoiler. The Sumerians, Babylonians, Assyrians, and the ancient Egyptians recognized the evil eye from as early as 3,000 BCE; in Russian practices it is seen as a sixteenth-century concept.\n\nThe dominant societal concern those practicing witchcraft was not whether paganism was effective, but whether it could cause harm. Peasants in Russian and Ukrainian societies often shunned witchcraft, unless they needed help against supernatural forces. Impotence, stomach pains, barrenness, hernias, abscesses, epileptic seizures, and convulsions were all attributed to evil (or witchcraft). This is reflected in linguistics; there are numerous words for a variety of practitioners of paganism-based healers. Russian peasants referred to a witch as a \"chernoknizhnik\" (a person who plied his trade with the aid of a black book), \"sheptun\"/\"sheptun'ia\" (a \"whisperer\" male or female), \"lekar\"/\"lekarka\" or \"znakhar\"/\"znakharka\" (a male or female healer), or \"zagovornik\" (an incanter).\n\nIronically enough, there was universal reliance on folk healers – but clients often turned them in if something went wrong. According to Russian historian Valerie A. Kivelson, witchcraft accusations were normally thrown at lower-class peasants, townspeople and Cossacks. People turned to witchcraft as a means to support themselves. The ratio of male to female accusations was 75% to 25%. Males were targeted more, because witchcraft was associated with societal deviation. Because single people with no settled home could not be taxed, males typically had more power than women in their dissent.\n\nThe history of Witchcraft had evolved around society. More of a psychological concept to the creation and usage of Witchcraft can create the assumption as to why women are more likely to follow the practices behind Witchcraft. Identifying with the soul of an individual’s self is often deemed as \"feminine\" in society. There is analyzed social and economic evidence to associate between witchcraft and women.\n\nWitchcraft trials occurred frequently in seventeenth-century Russia, although the \"great witch-hunt\" is believed to be a predominately Western European phenomenon. However, as the witchcraft-trial craze swept across Catholic and Protestant countries during this time, Orthodox Christian Europe indeed partook in this so-called \"witch hysteria.\" This involved the persecution of both males and females who were believed to be practicing paganism, herbology, the black art, or a form of sorcery within and/or outside their community. Very early on witchcraft legally fell under the jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical body, the church, in Kievan Rus' and Muscovite Russia. Sources of ecclesiastical witchcraft jurisdiction date back as early as the second half of the eleventh century, one being Vladimir the Great's first edition of his State Statute or \"Ustav\", another being multiple references in the \"Primary Chronicle\" beginning in 1024.\n\nThe sentence for an individual found guilty of witchcraft or sorcery during this time, and in previous centuries, typically included either burning at the stake or being tested with the \"ordeal of cold water\" or \"judicium aquae frigidae\". The cold-water test was primarily a Western European phenomenon, but was used as a method of truth in Russia prior to, and post, seventeenth-century witchcraft trials in Muscovy. Accused persons who submerged were considered innocent, and ecclesiastical authorities would proclaim them \"brought back,\" but those who floated were considered guilty of practicing witchcraft, and burned at the stake or executed in an unholy fashion. The thirteenth-century bishop of Vladimir, Serapion Vladimirskii, preached sermons throughout the Muscovite countryside, and in one particular sermon revealed that burning was the usual punishment for witchcraft, but more often the cold water test was used as a precursor to execution.\n\nAlthough these two methods of torture were used in the west and the east, Russia implemented a system of fines payable for the crime of witchcraft during the seventeenth century. Thus, even though torture methods in Muscovy were on a similar level of harshness as Western European methods used, a more civil method was present. In the introduction of a collection of trial records pieced together by Russian scholar Nikolai Novombergsk, he argues that Muscovite authorities used the same degree of cruelty and harshness as Western European Catholic and Protestant countries in persecuting witches. By the mid-sixteenth century the manifestations of paganism, including witchcraft, and the black arts—astrology, fortune telling, and divination—became a serious concern to the Muscovite church and state.\n\nTsar Ivan IV (reigned 1547–1584) took this matter to the ecclesiastical court and was immediately advised that individuals practicing these forms of witchcraft should be excommunicated and given the death penalty. Ivan IV, as a true believer in witchcraft, was deeply convinced that sorcery accounted for the death of his wife, Anastasiia in 1560, which completely devastated and depressed him, leaving him heartbroken. Stemming from this belief, Ivan IV became majorly concerned with the threat of witchcraft harming his family, and feared he was in danger. So, during the Oprichnina (1565–1572), Ivan IV succeeded in accusing and charging a good number of boyars with witchcraft whom he did not wish to remain as nobles. Rulers after Ivan IV, specifically during the Time of Troubles (1598–1613), increased the fear of witchcraft among themselves and entire royal families, which then led to further preoccupation with the fear of prominent Muscovite witchcraft circles.\n\nAfter the Time of Troubles, seventeenth-century Muscovite rulers held frequent investigations of witchcraft within their households, laying the ground, along with previous tsarist reforms, for widespread witchcraft trials throughout the Muscovite state. Between 1622 and 1700 ninety-one people were brought to trial in Muscovite courts for witchcraft. Although Russia did partake in the witch craze that swept across Western Europe, the Muscovite state did not persecute nearly as many people for witchcraft, let alone execute a number of individuals anywhere close to the number executed in the west during the witch hysteria.\n\nWitches have a long history of being depicted in art, although most of their earliest artistic depictions seem to originate in Early Modern Europe, particularly the Medieval and Renaissance periods. Many scholars attribute their manifestation in art as inspired by texts such as \"Canon Episcopi\", a demonology-centered work of literature, and \"Malleus Maleficarum\", a \"witch-craze\" manual published in 1487, by Heinrich Kramer and Jacob Sprenger.\n\n\"Canon Episcopi\", a ninth-century text that explored the subject of demonology, initially introduced concepts that would continuously be associated with witches, such as their ability to fly or their believed fornication and sexual relations with the devil. The text refers to two women, Diana the Huntress and Herodias, who both express the duality of female sorcerers. Diana was described as having a heavenly body and as the \"protectress of childbirth and fertility\" while Herodias symbolized \"unbridled sensuality\". They thus represent the mental powers and cunning sexuality that witches used as weapons to trick men into performing sinful acts which would result in their eternal punishment. These characteristics were distinguished as Medusa-like or Lamia-like traits when seen in any artwork (Medusa's mental trickery was associated with Diana the Huntress's psychic powers and Lamia was a rumored female figure in the Medieval ages sometimes used in place of Herodias).\nOne of the first individuals to regularly depict witches after the witch-craze of the medieval period was Albrecht Dürer, a German Renaissance artist. His famous 1497 engraving \"The Four Witches\", portrays four physically attractive and seductive nude witches. Their supernatural identities are emphasized by the skulls and bones lying at their feet as well as the devil discreetly peering at them from their left. The women's sensuous presentation speaks to the overtly sexual nature they were attached to in early modern Europe. Moreover, this attractiveness was perceived as a danger to ordinary men who they could seduce and tempt into their sinful world. Some scholars interpret this piece as utilizing the logic of the \"Canon Episcopi\", in which women used their mental powers and bodily seduction to enslave and lead men onto a path of eternal damnation, differing from the unattractive depiction of witches that would follow in later Renaissance years.\nDürer also employed other ideas from the Middle Ages that were commonly associated with witches. Specifically, his art often referred to former 12th- to 13th-century Medieval iconography addressing the nature of female sorcerers. In the Medieval period, there was a widespread fear of witches, accordingly producing an association of dark, intimidating characteristics with witches, such as cannibalism (witches described as \"[sucking] the blood of newborn infants\") or described as having the ability to fly, usually on the back of black goats. As the Renaissance period began, these concepts of witchcraft were suppressed, leading to a drastic change in the sorceress' appearances, from sexually explicit beings to the 'ordinary' typical housewives of this time period. This depiction, known as the 'Waldensian' witch became a cultural phenomenon of early Renaissance art. The term originates from the 12th-century monk Peter Waldo, who established his own religious sect which explicitly opposed the luxury and commodity-influenced lifestyle of the Christian church clergy, and whose sect was excommunicated before being persecuted as \"practitioners of witchcraft and magic\".\n\nSubsequent artwork exhibiting witches tended to consistently rely on cultural stereotypes about these women. These stereotypes were usually rooted in early Renaissance religious discourse, specifically the Christian belief that an \"earthly alliance\" had taken place between Satan's female minions who \"conspired to destroy Christendom\".\n\nAnother significant artist whose art consistently depicted witches was Dürer's apprentice, Hans Baldung Grien, a 15th-century German artist. His chiaroscuro woodcut, \"Witches\", created in 1510, visually encompassed all the characteristics that were regularly assigned to witches during the Renaissance. Social beliefs labeled witches as supernatural beings capable of doing great harm, possessing the ability to fly, and as cannibalistic. The urn in \"Witches\" seems to contain pieces of the human body, which the witches are seen consuming as a source of energy. Meanwhile, their nudity while feasting is recognized as an allusion to their sexual appetite, and some scholars read the witch riding on the back of a goat-demon as representative of their \"flight-inducing [powers]\". This connection between women's sexual nature and sins was thematic in the pieces of many Renaissance artists, especially Christian artists, due to cultural beliefs which characterized women as overtly sexual beings who were less capable (in comparison to men) of resisting sinful temptation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1242881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1242881", "title": "World religions", "text": "World religions\n\nWorld religions is a category used in the study of religion to demarcate the five—and in some cases six—largest and most internationally widespread religious movements. Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Hinduism, and Buddhism are always included in the list, being known as the \"Big Five\". Some scholars also include another religion, such as Sikhism, Zoroastrianism, or the Bahá'í Faith, in the category. \n\nThe world religions paradigm was developed in the United Kingdom in the 1960s, where it was pioneered by phenomenological scholars like Ninian Smart. It was designed to broaden the study of religion away from its heavy focus on Christianity by taking into account other large religious traditions around the world. \nThe paradigm is often used by lecturers instructing undergraduate students in the study of religion and is also the framework used by school teachers in the UK and other countries. The paradigm's emphasis on viewing these religious movements as distinct and mutually exclusive entities has also had a wider impact on the categorisation of religion—for instance in censuses—in both Western countries and elsewhere.\n\nSince the late twentieth century, the paradigm has faced critique by scholars of religion like Jonathan Z. Smith, some of whom have argued for its abandonment. Critics have argued that the world religions paradigm is inappropriate because it takes the Protestant variant of Christianity as the model for what constitutes religion; that it is tied up with discourses of modernity, including modern power relations; that it encourages an uncritical understanding of religion; and that it makes a value judgement as to what religions should be considered \"major\". Others have argued that it remains useful in the classroom, so long as students are made aware that it is a socially constructed category.\n\nThe scholars of religion Christopher R. Cotter and David G. Robertson described the \"World Religions Paradigm\" as \"a particular way of thinking about religions which organizes them into a set of discrete traditions with a supposedly 'global' import.\" It typically consists of the \"Big Five\" religions: Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Hinduism, and Buddhism. \nAs noted by Cotter and Robertson, the \"Big Five\" religions are often listed in an \"Abrahamocentric order\" which places the largest three Abrahamic religions—Christianity, Judaism, and Islam—before the non-Abrahamic religions Hinduism and Buddhism. The category is sometimes also extended to include other religious groups, namely Sikhism, Zoroastrianism, and the Bahá'í Faith.\n\nThe inclusion of Judaism in the Big Five raises some issues; it is included in the list because of its influence on Christianity and Islam and because of its relevance to traditional Western understandings of Western history. On demographic grounds, it does not fit into the list, for there are far fewer Jews in the world than there are Christians, Muslims, Hindus, and Buddhists. Similarly, it does not fit into the list if the groups are defined by a desire to spread internationally, because Judaism is typically non-proselytizing.\n\nMany scholars have utilised the \"World Religions\" category alongside other \"catch-all\" categories such as \"new religious movements\" and \"indigenous religions\". The scholar Steven J. Sutcliffe compared the relationship between the three categories to the English football league system, with the \"world\" religions forming a Premier League, the \"new\" religions forming a Championship, and \"indigenous\" religions a First Division. That groups that get placed in categories like \"indigenous religions\" get treated less seriously than the \"world religions\" by many scholars was noted by the scholar of religion Graham Harvey, who maintained that \"indigenous religions should receive similarly respectful treatment to that considered appropriate to the larger 'World Religions'.\"\n\nCotter and Robertson noted that the history of the world religions paradigm is \"intimately tied up\" with the history of the study of religion as an academic discipline. It emerged from within the phenomenology of religion approach which placed an emphasis on description rather than critical analysis. \n\nThe paradigm was integrated throughout the education system through work of scholars like Ninian Smart, who formed the Shap Working Party on World Religions in Education in 1969. It was introduced with the intent of moving Western education away from its focus on Christianity. However, it took liberal Western Protestantism as its baseline and interpreted these different religious traditions through the framework of liberal Protestant norms and values. This included an emphasis on theology as being central to a given religion. It also reflects the post-Enlightenment Christian approach of treating different religious groups as distinct, mutually exclusive categories. It thus reflects the socio-political concerns of 1960s Britain, the environment in which it was devised.\n\nThe paradigm has since gone beyond this academic discipline, and \"informs the perception\" of many members of different religious groups. The paradigm for instance frames the teaching about religion in the British education system; at all three Key Stages, British teachers are instructed to teach about Christianity, while by the end of key Stage 3 they are also supposed to teach about the other \"five principal religions\": Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, and Sikhism. Similarly, the censuses of many countries for instance reflect the influence of the world religion paradigm by only permitting respondents to describe themselves as adhering to one particular religious tradition, whereas in reality many individuals identify themselves with various different traditions at the same time. This idea of mutually exclusive religious identities is not only a Western phenomenon, but can also be found in other socio-cultural contexts; Hindu nationalists for instance often endorse the idea that Hinduism and Buddhism are mutually exclusive categories despite the fact that many people in South Asia mix Hindu and Buddhist practices.\nThe scholars of religion Tara Baldrick-Morrone, Michael Graziano, and Brad Stoddard stated that \"the WRP is neither neutral nor natural, but its social authority derives from appearing as both.\"\n\nThe utility of the World Religions Paradigm has experienced a sustained and rigorous critique from many scholars of religion. In 1978, the scholar of religion Jonathan Z. Smith for example called it a \"dubious category\".\n\nOne of the major criticisms of the framework is that it is based on a model of 'religion' that is highly reliant on using the Protestant version of Christianity as its base example. A second criticism is that it is rooted in the discourses of modernity, including the power relations present in modern society. Smith observed that it was constructed by Western scholars from a Western perspective. He noted that the only religions that get included in it are those which have \"achieved sufficient power and numbers to enter our [i.e. Western] history, either to form it, interact with it, or to thwart it\" and represent \"important geo-political entities with which we must deal.\" The framework also includes privileging the literate elites active in particular religious movements by presenting their interpretations of particular traditions as being authoritative, eclipsing alternative interpretations presented by non-literate, marginalised, and localized practitioners. For instance, as noted by the scholar of religion Suzanne Owen, \"Hinduism as a World Religion does not include Hinduism as a village religion\".\n\nA third criticism of the world religions paradigm is that it encourages an uncritical and \"sui generis\" model of 'religion'. It presents each of the 'world religions' in an abstracted and essentialised form, failing to take account of hybridization. For instance, in teaching about Christianity it does not refer to reincarnation, because this is not typically regarded as a Christian doctrine, and yet there are Christians who profess a belief in reincarnation.\nA fourth criticism is that in choosing to focus attention on the \"major\" religions, it makes a value judgement as to what constitutes \"major\" and what does not. \n\nMany scholars of religion have resisted efforts to challenge the paradigm, and as of 2016 was reported as still being widespread in university introductory courses to the study of religion. Many instructors feel that explaining the critique of the world religions paradigm to undergraduate students would be difficult, as the critique would be too complex for many of them to understand. Its continued use has also been defended by the claim that it is what undergraduate students expect and that it mirrors what they will have been taught at school.\n\nSome scholars have argued for the rejection of the world religions paradigm altogether; Cotter and Robertson presented the argument that \"the continued uncritical use of the WRP fosters a breeding ground for relativistic navel-gazing which has no place in the contemporary research university\". Owen was of the view that \"as long as it continues to employ the World Religions paradigm as a default approach (even after deconstructing it), religious studies will fail in its humanistic task\" because it will simply be engaging in \"knowledge transfer\" and not \"critically engaging\" with \"culture and knowledge\". One alternative framework that some scholars use to teach about religion is the \"lived religion\" paradigm, which places emphasis not on distinct religious traditions but on individual experiences and practices. Another alternative is the \"material religion\" framework which focuses on examining religion through material culture and physical objects. Owen noted that, in her experience, many students display an \"initial resistance to alternatives\" as they are expecting the world religions paradigm. She cited the example of her introductory course at Leeds Trinity University College, which was constructed on thematic lines rather than according to the world religions paradigm, and which induced feelings of panic among many undergraduates.\n\nMany scholars who are critical of the world religions paradigm find themselves having to teach it as part of introductory courses for undergraduate students. Some spent much of a course teaching the concept and then several sessions after this deconstructing it. Some scholars have suggested that even when students are taught using the world religions paradigm, it could be a good means of encouraging them to think critically about category formation. The scholar Steven W. Ramey for instance advocated teaching the paradigm in a manner that makes it clear that it is a \"constructed discourse\". Similarly, Baldrick-Morrone, Graziano, and Stoddard suggested that teaching undergraduates about the world religious paradigm helps to explain to students how \"classification is a social act\". They noted that students could leave such a course not only knowing more about the specific religious traditions included in the world religions category, but that they would also leave \"knowing how to better interrogate the world around them\". To avoid promoting the paradigm's portrayal of different religious traditions as rigid, homogenous categories, the scholar Teemu Taira suggested introducing ethnographic case studies into the class to better explain the realities of people's lives and uses of religious traditions.\n\n"}
