{"id": "21538638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21538638", "title": "2012 phenomenon", "text": "2012 phenomenon\n\nVarious astronomical alignments and numerological formulae were proposed as pertaining to this date. A New Age interpretation held that the date marked the start of a period during which Earth and its inhabitants would undergo a positive physical or spiritual transformation, and that 21 December 2012 would mark the beginning of a new era. Others suggested that the date marked the end of the world or a similar catastrophe. Scenarios suggested for the end of the world included the arrival of the next solar maximum, an interaction between Earth and the black hole at the center of the galaxy, or Earth's collision with a mythical planet called Nibiru.\n\nScholars from various disciplines quickly dismissed predictions of concomitant cataclysmic events as they arose. Professional Mayanist scholars stated that no extant classic Maya accounts forecast impending doom, and that the idea that the Long Count calendar ends in 2012 misrepresented Maya history and culture, while astronomers rejected the various proposed doomsday scenarios as pseudoscience, easily refuted by elementary astronomical observations.\n\nDecember 2012 marked the conclusion of a \"b'ak'tun\"—a time period in the Mesoamerican Long Count calendar, used in Central America prior to the arrival of Europeans. Although the Long Count was most likely invented by the Olmec, it has become closely associated with the Maya civilization, whose classic period lasted from 250 to 900 AD. The writing system of the classic Maya has been substantially deciphered, meaning that a corpus of their written and inscribed material has survived from before the European conquest.\n\nUnlike the 260-day \"tzolk'in\" still used today among the Maya, the Long Count was linear rather than cyclical, and kept time roughly in units of 20: 20 days made a \"uinal\", 18 uinals (360 days) made a \"tun\", 20 tuns made a \"k'atun\", and 20 k'atuns (144,000 days or roughly 394 years) made up a \"b'ak'tun\". Thus, the Maya date of 8.3.2.10.15 represents 8 b'ak'tuns, 3 k'atuns, 2 tuns, 10 uinals and 15 days.\n\nThere is a strong tradition of \"world ages\" in Maya literature, but the record has been distorted, leaving several possibilities open to interpretation. According to the \"Popol Vuh\", a compilation of the creation accounts of the K'iche' Maya of the Colonial-era highlands, we are living in the fourth world. The \"Popol Vuh\" describes the gods first creating three failed worlds, followed by a successful fourth world in which humanity was placed. In the Maya Long Count, the previous world ended after 13 b'ak'tuns, or roughly 5,125 years. The Long Count's \"zero date\" was set at a point in the past marking the end of the third world and the beginning of the current one, which corresponds to 11 August 3114 BC in the proleptic Gregorian calendar. This means that the fourth world reached the end of its 13th b'ak'tun, or Maya date 13.0.0.0.0, on 21 December 2012. In 1957, Mayanist and astronomer Maud Worcester Makemson wrote that \"the completion of a Great Period of 13 b'ak'tuns would have been of the utmost significance to the Maya.\" In 1966, Michael D. Coe wrote in \"The Maya\" that \"there is a suggestion ... that Armageddon would overtake the degenerate peoples of the world and all creation on the final day of the 13th [b'ak'tun]. Thus ... our present universe [would] be annihilated ... when the Great Cycle of the Long Count reaches completion.\"\n\nCoe's interpretation was repeated by other scholars through the early 1990s. In contrast, later researchers said that, while the end of the 13th b'ak'tun would perhaps be a cause for celebration, it did not mark the end of the calendar. \"There is nothing in the Maya or Aztec or ancient Mesoamerican prophecy to suggest that they prophesied a sudden or major change of any sort in 2012,\" said Mayanist scholar Mark Van Stone. \"The notion of a 'Great Cycle' coming to an end is completely a modern invention.\" In 1990, Mayanist scholars Linda Schele and David Freidel argued that the Maya \"did not conceive this to be the end of creation, as many have suggested\". Susan Milbrath, curator of Latin American Art and Archaeology at the Florida Museum of Natural History, stated that, \"We have no record or knowledge that [the Maya] would think the world would come to an end\" in 2012. Sandra Noble, executive director of the Foundation for the Advancement of Mesoamerican Studies, said, \"For the ancient Maya, it was a huge celebration to make it to the end of a whole cycle,\" and, \"The 2012 phenomenon is a complete fabrication and a chance for a lot of people to cash in.\" \"There will be another cycle,\" said E. Wyllys Andrews V, director of the Tulane University Middle American Research Institute. \"We know the Maya thought there was one before this, and that implies they were comfortable with the idea of another one after this.\" Commenting on the new calendar found at Xultún, one archaeologist said \"The ancient Maya predicted the world would continue – that 7,000 years from now, things would be exactly like this. We keep looking for endings. The Maya were looking for a guarantee that nothing would change. It's an entirely different mindset.\"\n\nSeveral prominent individuals representing Maya of Guatemala decried the suggestion that the world would end with the 13th b'ak'tun. Ricardo Cajas, president of the \"Colectivo de Organizaciones Indígenas de Guatemala\", said the date did not represent an end of humanity but that the new cycle \"supposes changes in human consciousness\". Martín Sacalxot, of the office of the \"Procurador de los Derechos Humanos\" (Guatemala's Human Rights Ombudsman, PDH), said that the end of the calendar has nothing to do with the end of the world or the year 2012.\n\nThe European association of the Maya with eschatology dates back to the time of Christopher Columbus, who was compiling a work called \"Libro de las profecías\" during the voyage in 1502 when he first heard about the \"Maia\" on Guanaja, an island off the north coast of Honduras. Influenced by the writings of Bishop Pierre d'Ailly, Columbus believed that his discovery of \"most distant\" lands (and, by extension, the Maya themselves) was prophesied and would bring about the Apocalypse. End-times fears were widespread during the early years of the Spanish Conquest as the result of popular astrological predictions in Europe of a second Great Flood for the year 1524.\n\nIn the early 1900s, German scholar Ernst Förstemann interpreted the last page of the Dresden Codex as a representation of the end of the world in a cataclysmic flood. He made reference to the destruction of the world and an apocalypse, though he made no reference to the 13th b'ak'tun or 2012 and it was not clear that he was referring to a future event. His ideas were repeated by archaeologist Sylvanus Morley, who directly paraphrased Förstemann and added his own embellishments, writing, \"Finally, on the last page of the manuscript, is depicted the Destruction of the World ... Here, indeed, is portrayed with a graphic touch the final all-engulfing cataclysm\" in the form of a great flood. These comments were later repeated in Morley's book, \"The Ancient Maya\", the first edition of which was published in 1946.\n\nIt is not certain what significance the classic Maya gave to the 13th b'ak'tun. Most classic Maya inscriptions are strictly historical and do not make any prophetic declarations. Two items in the Maya classical corpus, however, do mention the end of the 13th b'ak'tun: Tortuguero Monument 6 and La Corona Hieroglyphic Stairway 12.\n\nThe Tortuguero site, which lies in southernmost Tabasco, Mexico, dates from the 7th century AD and consists of a series of inscriptions mostly in honor of the contemporary ruler Bahlam Ajaw. One inscription, known as Tortuguero Monument 6, is the only inscription known to refer to b'ak'tun 13 in any detail. It has been partially defaced; Sven Gronemeyer and Barbara MacLeod have given this translation:\n\nVery little is known about the god B'olon Yokte'. According to an article by Mayanists Markus Eberl and Christian Prager in \"British Anthropological Reports\", his name is composed of the elements \"nine\", 'OK-te' (the meaning of which is unknown), and \"god\". Confusion in classical period inscriptions suggests that the name was already ancient and unfamiliar to contemporary scribes. He also appears in inscriptions from Palenque, Usumacinta, and La Mar as a god of war, conflict, and the underworld. In one stele he is portrayed with a rope tied around his neck, and in another with an incense bag, together signifying a sacrifice to end a cycle of years.\n\nBased on observations of modern Maya rituals, Gronemeyer and MacLeod claim that the stela refers to a celebration in which a person portraying Bolon Yokte' K'uh was wrapped in ceremonial garments and paraded around the site. They note that the association of Bolon Yokte' K'uh with b'ak'tun 13 appears to be so important on this inscription that it supersedes more typical celebrations such as \"erection of stelae, scattering of incense\" and so forth. Furthermore, they assert that this event was indeed planned for 2012 and not the 7th century. Mayanist scholar Stephen Houston contests this view by arguing that future dates on Maya inscriptions were simply meant to draw parallels with contemporary events, and that the words on the stela describe a contemporary rather than a future scene.\n\nIn April–May 2012, a team of archaeologists unearthed a previously unknown inscription on a stairway at the La Corona site in Guatemala. The inscription, on what is known as Hieroglyphic Stairway 12, describes the establishment of a royal court in Calakmul in 635 AD, and compares the then-recent completion of 13 k'atuns with the future completion of the 13th b'ak'tun. It contains no speculation or prophecy as to what the scribes believed would happen at that time.\n\nMaya inscriptions occasionally mention predicted future events or commemorations that would occur on dates far beyond the completion of the 13th b'ak'tun. Most of these are in the form of \"distance dates\"; Long Count dates together with an additional number, known as a Distance Number, which when added to them makes a future date. On the west panel at the Temple of Inscriptions in Palenque, a section of text projects forward to the 80th 52-year Calendar Round from the coronation of the ruler K'inich Janaab' Pakal. Pakal's accession occurred on 9.9.2.4.8, equivalent to 27 July 615 AD in the proleptic Gregorian calendar. The inscription begins with Pakal's birthdate of 9.8.9.13.0 (24 March, ) and then adds the Distance Number 10.11.10.5.8 to it, arriving at a date of 21 October 4772 AD, more than 4,000 years after Pakal's time.\n\nAnother example is Stela 1 at Coba which marks the date of creation as , or nineteen units above the b'ak'tun. According to Linda Schele, these 13s represent \"the starting point of a huge odometer of time\", with each acting as a zero and resetting to 1 as the numbers increase. Thus this inscription anticipates the current universe lasting at least 20×13×360 days, or roughly 2.687×10 years; a time span equal to 2 quintillion times the age of the universe as determined by cosmologists. Others have suggested, however, that this date marks creation as having occurred after that time span.\n\nIn 2012, researchers announced the discovery of a series of Maya astronomical tables in Xultún, Guatemala which plot the movements of the Moon and other astronomical bodies over the course of 17 b'ak'tuns.\n\nMany assertions about the year 2012 form part of Mayanism, a non-codified collection of New Age beliefs about ancient Maya wisdom and spirituality. The term is distinct from \"Mayanist,\" used to refer to an academic scholar of the Maya. Archaeoastronomer Anthony Aveni says that while the idea of \"balancing the cosmos\" was prominent in ancient Maya literature, the 2012 phenomenon did not draw from those traditions. Instead, it was bound up with American concepts such as the New Age movement, millenarianism, and the belief in secret knowledge from distant times and places. Themes found in 2012 literature included \"suspicion towards mainstream Western culture\", the idea of spiritual evolution, and the possibility of leading the world into the New Age by individual example or by a group's joined consciousness. The general intent of this literature was not to warn of impending doom but \"to foster counter-cultural sympathies and eventually socio-political and 'spiritual' activism\". Aveni, who has studied New Age and search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI) communities, describes 2012 narratives as the product of a \"disconnected\" society: \"Unable to find spiritual answers to life's big questions within ourselves, we turn outward to imagined entities that lie far off in space or time—entities that just might be in possession of superior knowledge.\"\n\nIn 1975, the ending of b'ak'tun 13 became the subject of speculation by several New Age authors, who asserted it would correspond with a global \"transformation of consciousness\". In \"Mexico Mystique: The Coming Sixth Age of Consciousness\", Frank Waters tied Coe's original date of 24 December 2011 to astrology and the prophecies of the Hopi, while both José Argüelles (in \"The Transformative Vision\") and Terence McKenna (in \"The Invisible Landscape\") discussed the significance of the year 2012 without mentioning a specific day.\n\nIn 1983, with the publication of Robert J. Sharer's revised table of date correlations in the 4th edition of Morley's \"The Ancient Maya,\" each became convinced that 21 December 2012 had significant meaning. By 1987, the year in which he organized the Harmonic Convergence event, Arguelles was using the date 21 December 2012 in \"The Mayan Factor: Path Beyond Technology\". He claimed that on 13 August 3113 BC the Earth began a passage through a \"galactic synchronization beam\" that emanated from the center of our galaxy, that it would pass through this beam during a period of 5200 \"tuns\" (Maya cycles of 360 days each), and that this beam would result in \"total synchronization\" and \"galactic entrainment\" of individuals \"plugged into the Earth's electromagnetic battery\" by 13.0.0.0.0 (21 December 2012). He believed that the Maya aligned their calendar to correspond to this phenomenon. Anthony Aveni has dismissed all of these ideas.\n\nIn 2006, author Daniel Pinchbeck popularized New Age concepts about this date in his book \"2012: The Return of Quetzalcoatl\", linking b'ak'tun 13 to beliefs in crop circles, alien abduction, and personal revelations based on the use of hallucinogenic drugs and mediumship. Pinchbeck claims to discern a \"growing realization that materialism and the rational, empirical worldview that comes with it has reached its expiration date ... [w]e're on the verge of transitioning to a dispensation of consciousness that's more intuitive, mystical and shamanic\".\n\nThere is no significant astronomical event tied to the Long Count's start date. However, its supposed end date was tied to astronomical phenomena by esoteric, fringe, and New Age literature that placed great significance on astrology, especially astrological interpretations associated with the phenomenon of axial precession. Chief among these ideas is the astrological concept of a \"galactic alignment\".\n\nIn the Solar System, the planets and the Sun lie roughly within the same flat plane, known as the plane of the ecliptic. From our perspective on Earth, the ecliptic is the path taken by the Sun across the sky over the course of the year. The twelve constellations that line the ecliptic are known as the zodiacal constellations and, annually, the Sun passes through all of them in turn. Additionally, over time, the Sun's annual cycle appears to recede very slowly backward by one degree every 72 years, or by one constellation approximately every 2,160 years. This backward movement, called \"precession\", is due to a slight wobble in the Earth's axis as it spins, and can be compared to the way a spinning top wobbles as it slows down. Over the course of 25,800 years, a period often called a Great Year, the Sun's path completes a full, 360-degree backward rotation through the zodiac. In Western astrological traditions, precession is measured from the March equinox, one of the two annual points at which the Sun is exactly halfway between its lowest and highest points in the sky. At the end of the 20th century and beginning of the 21st, the Sun's March equinox position was in the constellation Pisces moving back into Aquarius. This signaled the end of one astrological age (the Age of Pisces) and the beginning of another (the Age of Aquarius).\n\nSimilarly, the Sun's December solstice position (in the northern hemisphere, the lowest point on its annual path; in the southern hemisphere, the highest) was in the constellation of Sagittarius, one of two constellations in which the zodiac intersects with the Milky Way. Every year, on the December solstice, the Sun and the Milky Way, appear (from the surface of the Earth) to come into alignment, and every year precession caused a slight shift in the Sun's position in the Milky Way. Given that the Milky Way is between 10° and 20° wide, it takes between 700 and 1,400 years for the Sun's December solstice position to precess through it. In 2012 it was about halfway through the Milky Way, crossing the galactic equator. In 2012, the Sun's December solstice fell on 21 December.\n\nMystical speculations about the precession of the equinoxes and the Sun's proximity to the center of the Milky Way appeared in \"Hamlet's Mill\" (1969) by Giorgio de Santillana and Hertha von Deschend. These were quoted and expanded upon by Terence and Dennis McKenna in \"The Invisible Landscape\" (1975). \n\nAdherents to the idea, following a theory first proposed by Munro Edmonson, alleged that the Maya based their calendar on observations of the Great Rift or Dark Rift, a band of dark dust clouds in the Milky Way, which, according to some scholars, the Maya called the \"Xibalba be\" or \"Black Road\". John Major Jenkins claims that the Maya were aware of where the ecliptic intersected the Black Road and gave this position in the sky a special significance in their cosmology. Jenkins said that precession would align the Sun precisely with the galactic equator at the 2012 winter solstice. Jenkins claimed that the classical Maya anticipated this conjunction and celebrated it as the harbinger of a profound spiritual transition for mankind. New Age proponents of the galactic alignment hypothesis argued that, just as astrology uses the positions of stars and planets to make claims of future events, the Maya plotted their calendars with the objective of preparing for significant world events. Jenkins attributed the insights of ancient Maya shamans about the galactic center to their use of psilocybin mushrooms, psychoactive toads, and other psychedelics. Jenkins also associated the \"Xibalba be\" with a \"world tree\", drawing on studies of contemporary (not ancient) Maya cosmology.\n\nAstronomers such as David Morrison argue that the galactic equator is an entirely arbitrary line and can never be precisely drawn, because it is impossible to determine the Milky Way's exact boundaries, which vary depending on clarity of view. Jenkins claimed he drew his conclusions about the location of the galactic equator from observations taken at above , an altitude that gives a clearer image of the Milky Way than the Maya had access to. Furthermore, since the Sun is half a degree wide, its solstice position takes 36 years to precess its full width. Jenkins himself noted that even given his determined location for the line of the galactic equator, its most precise convergence with the center of the Sun already occurred in 1998, and so asserts that, rather than 2012, the galactic alignment instead focuses on a multi-year period centered in 1998.\n\nThere is no clear evidence that the classic Maya were aware of precession. Some Maya scholars, such as Barbara MacLeod, Michael Grofe, Eva Hunt, Gordon Brotherston, and Anthony Aveni, have suggested that some Mayan holy dates were timed to precessional cycles, but scholarly opinion on the subject remains divided. There is also little evidence, archaeological or historical, that the Maya placed any importance on solstices or equinoxes. It is possible that only the earliest among Mesoamericans observed solstices, but this is also a disputed issue among Mayanists. There is also no evidence that the classic Maya attached any importance to the Milky Way; there is no glyph in their writing system to represent it, and no astronomical or chronological table tied to it.\n\n\"Timewave zero\" is a numerological formula that purports to calculate the ebb and flow of \"novelty\", defined as increase over time in the universe's interconnectedness, or organized complexity. Terence McKenna claimed that the universe has a teleological attractor at the end of time that increases interconnectedness. He believed this which would eventually reach a singularity of infinite complexity in 2012, at which point anything and everything imaginable would occur simultaneously. He conceived this idea over several years in the early to mid-1970s whilst using psilocybin mushrooms and DMT. The scientific community considers novelty theory to be pseudoscience.\n\nMcKenna expressed \"novelty\" in a computer program which produces a waveform known as \"timewave zero\" or the \"timewave\". Based on McKenna's interpretation of the King Wen sequence of the \"I Ching\", an ancient Chinese book on divination, the graph purports to show great periods of novelty corresponding with major shifts in humanity's biological and sociocultural evolution. He believed that the events of any given time are resonantly related to the events of other times, and chose the atomic bombing of Hiroshima as the basis for calculating his end date of November 2012. When he later discovered this date's proximity to the end of the 13th b'ak'tun of the Maya calendar, he revised his hypothesis so that the two dates matched.\n\nThe 1975 first edition of \"The Invisible Landscape\" referred to 2012 (but no specific day during the year) only twice. In the 1993 second edition, McKenna employed Sharer's date of 21 December 2012 throughout.\n\nNovelty theory has been criticized for \"rejecting countless ideas presumed as factual by the scientific community\", depending \"solely on numerous controversial deductions that contradict empirical logic\", and encompassing \"no suitable indication of truth\", with the conclusion that novelty theory is a pseudoscience.\n\nThe idea that the year 2012 presaged a world cataclysm, the end of the world, or the end of human civilization, became a subject of popular media speculation as the date of 21 December 2012 approached. This idea was promulgated by many pages on the Internet, particularly on YouTube. The Discovery Channel was criticized for its \"quasi-documentaries\" about the subject that \"sacrifice[d] accuracy for entertainment\".\n\nSome people interpreted the galactic alignment apocalyptically, claiming that its occurrence would somehow create a combined gravitational effect between the Sun and the supermassive black hole at the center of our galaxy (known as Sagittarius A*), creating havoc on Earth. Apart from the \"galactic alignment\" already having happened in 1998, the Sun's apparent path through the zodiac as seen from Earth did not take it near the true galactic center, but rather several degrees above it. Even were this not the case, Sagittarius A* is 30,000 light years from Earth; it would have to have been more than 6 million times closer to cause any gravitational disruption to Earth's Solar System. This reading of the alignment was included on the History Channel documentary \"Decoding the Past\". John Major Jenkins complained that a science fiction writer co-authored the documentary, and he went on to characterize it as \"45 minutes of unabashed doomsday hype and the worst kind of inane sensationalism\".\n\nSome believers in a 2012 doomsday used the term \"galactic alignment\" to describe a different phenomenon proposed by some scientists to explain a pattern in mass extinctions supposedly observed in the fossil record. According to the Shiva Hypothesis, mass extinctions are not random, but recur every 26 million years. To account for this, it was suggested that vertical oscillations made by the Sun on its 250-million-year orbit of the galactic center cause it to regularly pass through the galactic plane. When the Sun's orbit takes it outside the galactic plane which bisects the galactic disc, the influence of the galactic tide is weaker. However, when re-entering the galactic disc—as it does every 20–25 million years—it comes under the influence of the far stronger \"disc tides\", which, according to mathematical models, increase the flux of Oort cloud comets into the inner Solar System by a factor of 4, thus leading to a massive increase in the likelihood of a devastating comet impact. However, this \"alignment\" takes place over tens of millions of years, and could never be timed to an exact date. Evidence shows that the Sun passed through the plane bisecting the galactic disc three million years ago and in 2012 was moving farther above it.\n\nA third suggested alignment was some sort of planetary conjunction occurring on 21 December 2012; however, there was no conjunction on that date. Multi-planet alignments did occur in both 2000 and 2010, each with no ill result for the Earth. Jupiter is the largest planet in the Solar System; larger than all other planets combined. When Jupiter is near opposition, the difference in gravitational force that the Earth experiences is less than 1% of the force that the Earth feels daily from the Moon.\n\nAnother idea tied to 2012 involved a geomagnetic reversal (often referred to as a pole shift by proponents), possibly triggered by a massive solar flare, that would release an energy equal to 100 billion atomic bombs. This belief was supposedly supported by observations that the Earth's magnetic field was weakening, which could precede a reversal of the north and south magnetic poles, and the arrival of the next solar maximum, which was expected sometime around 2012.\n\nMost scientific estimates, however, say that geomagnetic reversals take between 1,000 and 10,000 years to complete, and do not start on any particular date. Furthermore, the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration predicted that the solar maximum would peak in late 2013 or 2014, and that it would be fairly weak, with a below-average number of sunspots. In any case, there was no scientific evidence linking a solar maximum to a geomagnetic reversal, which is driven by forces entirely within the Earth. Instead, a solar maximum would be mostly notable for its effects on satellite and cellular phone communications. David Morrison attributed the rise of the solar storm idea to physicist and science popularizer Michio Kaku, who claimed in an interview with Fox News that a solar peak in 2012 could be disastrous for orbiting satellites, and to NASA's headlining a 2006 webpage as \"Solar Storm Warning\", a term later repeated on several doomsday pages.\n\nSome believers in a 2012 doomsday claimed that a planet called Planet X, or Nibiru, would collide with or pass by the Earth. This idea, which appeared in various forms since 1995, initially predicted Doomsday in May 2003, but proponents abandoned that date after it passed without incident. The idea originated from claims of channeling alien beings and is widely ridiculed. Astronomers calculated that such an object so close to Earth would be visible to anyone looking up at the night sky.\n\nAuthor Graham Hancock, in his book \"Fingerprints of the Gods\", interpreted Coe's remarks in \"Breaking the Maya Code\" as evidence for the prophecy of a global cataclysm. Filmmaker Roland Emmerich later credited the book with inspiring his 2009 disaster film \"2012\".\n\nOther speculations regarding doomsday in 2012 included predictions by the Web Bot project, a computer program that purports to predict the future by analyzing Internet chatter. However, commentators have rejected claims that the bot is able to predict natural disasters, as opposed to human-caused disasters like stock market crashes.\n\nThe 2012 date was also loosely tied to the long-running concept of the Photon Belt, which predicted a form of interaction between Earth and Alcyone, the largest star of the Pleiades cluster. Critics argued that photons cannot form belts, that the Pleiades, located more than 400 light years away, could have no effect on Earth, and that the Solar System, rather than getting closer to the Pleiades, was in fact moving farther away from it.\n\nSome media outlets tied the fact that the red supergiant star Betelgeuse would undergo a supernova at some point in the future to the 2012 phenomenon. However, while Betelgeuse was certainly in the final stages of its life, and would die as a supernova, there was no way to predict the timing of the event to within 100,000 years. To be a threat to Earth, a supernova would need to be no further than 25 light years from the Solar System. Betelgeuse is roughly 600 light years away, and so its supernova would not affect Earth. In December 2011, NASA's Francis Reddy issued a press release debunking the possibility of a supernova occurring in 2012.\n\nAnother claim involved alien invasion. In December 2010, an article, first published in examiner.com and later referenced in the English-language edition of \"Pravda\" claimed, citing a Second Digitized Sky Survey photograph as evidence, that SETI had detected three large spacecraft due to arrive at Earth in 2012. Astronomer and debunker Phil Plait noted that by using the small-angle formula, one could determine that if the object in the photo were as large as claimed, it would have had to be closer to Earth than the Moon, which would mean it would already have arrived. In January 2011, Seth Shostak, chief astronomer of SETI, issued a press release debunking the claims.\n\nThe phenomenon spread widely after coming to public notice, particularly on the Internet. Hundreds of thousands of websites were posted on the subject. \"Ask an Astrobiologist\", a NASA public outreach website, received over 5,000 questions from the public on the subject from 2007, some asking whether they should kill themselves, their children or their pets. In May 2012, an Ipsos poll of 16,000 adults in 21 countries found that 8 percent had experienced fear or anxiety over the possibility of the world ending in December 2012, while an average of 10 percent agreed with the statement \"the Mayan calendar, which some say 'ends' in 2012, marks the end of the world\", with responses as high as 20 percent in China, 13 percent in Russia, Turkey, Japan and Korea, and 12 percent in the United States. At least one suicide was directly linked to fear of a 2012 apocalypse, with others anecdotally reported. Jared Lee Loughner, the perpetrator of the 2011 Tucson shooting, followed 2012-related predictions. A panel of scientists questioned on the topic at a plenary session at the Astronomical Society of the Pacific contended that the Internet played a substantial role in allowing this doomsday date to gain more traction than previous similar panics.\n\nBeginning in 2000, the small French village of Bugarach, population 189, began receiving visits from \"esoterics\"—mystic believers who had concluded that the local mountain, Pic de Bugarach, was the ideal location to weather the transformative events of 2012. In 2011, the local mayor, Jean-Pierre Delord, began voicing fears to the international press that the small town would be overwhelmed by an influx of thousands of visitors in 2012, even suggesting he might call in the army. \"We've seen a huge rise in visitors\", Delord told \"The Independent\" in March 2012. \"Already this year more than 20,000 people have climbed right to the top, and last year we had 10,000 hikers, which was a significant rise on the previous 12 months. They think Pic de Bugarach is 'un garage à ovnis' [a garage for UFOs]. The villagers are exasperated: the exaggerated importance of something which they see as completely removed from reality is bewildering. After 21 December, this will surely return to normal.\" In December 2012, the French government placed 100 police and firefighters around both Bugarach and Pic de Bugarach, limiting access to potential visitors. Ultimately, only about 1,000 visitors appeared at the height of the \"event\". Two raves were foiled, 12 people had to be turned away from the peak, and 5 people were arrested for carrying weapons. Jean-Pierre Delord was criticised by members of the community for failing to take advantage of the media attention and promote the region.\n\nThe Turkish village of Şirince, near Ephesus, expected to receive over 60,000 visitors on 21 December 2012, as New Age mystics believed its \"positive energy\" would aid in weathering the catastrophe. Only a fraction of that number actually arrived, with a substantial component being police and journalists, and the expected windfall failed to materialise.\n\nSimilarly, the pyramid-like mountain of Rtanj, in the Serbian Carpathians, attracted much apocalyptic attention, as many believed an artificial pyramid structure buried within it would emit a powerful force shield on the day, protecting those within it. Hotels around the base received up to 500 bookings a piece for rooms.\n\nIn Russia, inmates of a women's prison experienced \"a collective mass psychosis\" in the weeks leading up to the supposed doomsday, while residents of a factory town near Moscow reportedly emptied a supermarket of matches, candles, food and other supplies. The Minister of Emergency Situations declared in response that according to \"methods of monitoring what is occurring on the planet Earth\", there would be no apocalypse in December. When asked when the world would end in a press conference, Russian President Vladimir Putin said, \"In about 4.5 billion years.\"\n\nIn December 2012, Vatican astronomer Rev. José Funes wrote in the Vatican newspaper \"L'Osservatore Romano\" that apocalyptic theories around 2012 were \"not even worth discussing\".\n\nIn China, up to one thousand members of the Christian cult Almighty God were arrested after claiming that the end of b'ak'tun 13 marked the end of the world, and that it was time to overthrow Communism. Shoppers were reported to be hoarding supplies of candles in anticipation of coming darkness, while online retailer Taobao sold tickets to board Noah's Ark to customers. Bookings for wedding ceremonies on 21 December 2012 were saturated in several cities. On 14 December 2012, a man in Henan province attacked and wounded twenty-three children with a knife. Authorities suspected the man had been \"influenced\" by the prediction of the upcoming apocalypse. Academics in China attributed the widespread belief in the 2012 doomsday in their country to a lack of scientific literacy and a mistrust of the government-controlled media.\n\nOn 6 December 2012, Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard delivered a hoax speech for the radio station triple J in which she declared \"My dear remaining fellow Australians; the end of the world is coming. Whether the final blow comes from flesh-eating zombies, demonic hell-beasts or from the total triumph of K-Pop, if you know one thing about me it is this – I will always fight for you to the very end.\" Radio announcer Neil Mitchell described the hoax as \"immature\" and pondered whether it demeaned her office.\n\nThose Mesoamerican countries that once formed part of the Maya civilization – Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador – all organized festivities to commemorate the end of b'ak'tun 13 at the largest Maya sites. On 21 December 2011, the Maya town of Tapachula in Chiapas activated an eight-foot digital clock counting down the days until the end of b'ak'tun 13. On 21 December 2012, major events took place at Chichén Itzá in Mexico and Tikal in Guatemala. In El Salvador, the largest event was held at Tazumal, and in Honduras, at Copán. In all of these archaeological sites, Maya rituals were held at dawn led by shamans and Maya priests.\n\nOn the final day of b'ak'tun 13, residents of Yucatán and other regions formerly dominated by the ancient Maya celebrated what they saw as the dawn of a new, better era. According to official figures from Mexico's National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH), about 50,000 people visited Mexican archaeological sites on 21 December 2012. Of those, 10,000 visited Chichén Itzá in Yucatán, 9,900 visited Tulum in Quintana Roo, and 8,000 visited Palenque in Chiapas. An additional 10,000 people visited Teotihuacan near Mexico City, which is not a Maya site. The main ceremony in Chichén Itzá was held at dawn in the plaza of the Temple of Kukulkán, one of the principal symbols of Maya culture. The archaeological site was opened two hours early to receive thousands of tourists, mostly foreigners who came to participate in events scheduled for the end of b'ak'tun 13.\n\nThe fire ceremony at Tikal was held at dawn in the main plaza of the Temple of the Great Jaguar. The ceremony was led by Guatemalan and foreign priests. The President of Guatemala, Otto Pérez, and of Costa Rica, Laura Chinchilla, participated in the event as special guests. During the ceremony the priests asked for unity, peace and the end of discrimination and racism, with the hope that the start of a new cycle will be a \"new dawn\". About 3,000 people participated in the event.\n\nMost of these events were organized by agencies of the Mexican and Central American governments, and their respective tourism industries expected to attract thousands of visitors. Mexico is visited by about 22 million foreigners in a typical year. However, in 2012, the national tourism agency expected to attract 52 million visitors just to the regions of Chiapas, Yucatán, Quintana Roo, Tabasco and Campeche. A Maya activist group in Guatemala, Oxlaljuj Ajpop, objected to the commercialization of the date. A spokesman from the Conference of Maya Ministers commented that for them the Tikal ceremony is not a show for tourists but something spiritual and personal. The secretary of the Great Council of Ancestral Authorities commented that living Maya felt they were excluded from the activities in Tikal. This group held a parallel ceremony, and complained that the date has been used for commercial gain. In addition, before the main Tikal ceremony, about 200 Maya protested the celebration because they felt excluded. Most modern Maya were indifferent to the ceremonies, and the small number of people still practising ancient rites held solemn, more private ceremonies.\n\nOsvaldo Gomez, a technical advisor to the Tikal site, complained that many visitors during the celebration had illegally climbed the stairs of the Temple of the Masks, causing \"irreparable\" damage.\n\nIn Brazil, Décio Colla, the Mayor of the City of São Francisco de Paula, Rio Grande do Sul, mobilized the population to prepare for the end of the world by stocking up on food and supplies. In the city of Corguinho, in the Mato Grosso do Sul, a colony was built for survivors of the expected tragedy. In Alto Paraíso de Goiás, the hotels also made specific reservations for prophetic dates. On 11 October 2012, in the Brazilian city of Teresina, police interrupted what was believed to have been an attempted mass suicide by up to one hundred members of a cult headed by self-proclaimed prophet Luis Pereira dos Santos, who predicted the end of the world on the feast day of Our Lady of Aparecida. Santos was subsequently arrested.\n\nIn Bolivia, President Evo Morales participated in Quechua and Aymara rituals, organized with government support, to commemorate the Southern solstice that took place in Isla del Sol, in the southern part of Lake Titicaca. During the event, Morales proclaimed the beginning of \"Pachakuti\", meaning the world's wake up to a culture of life and the beginning of the end to wild capitalism, and he proposed to dismantle the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.\n\nOn 21 December 2012, the Uritorco in Córdoba, Argentina was closed, as a mass suicide there had been proposed on Facebook.\n\nIn the United States, sales of private underground blast shelters increased noticeably after 2009, with many construction companies' advertisements calling attention to the 2012 apocalypse. In Michigan, schools were closed for the Christmas holidays two days early, in part because rumours of the 2012 apocalypse were raising fears of repeat shootings similar to that at Sandy Hook. American reality TV stars Heidi Montag and Spencer Pratt revealed that they had spent most of their $10 million of accumulated earnings by 2010 because they believed the world would end in 2012.\n\nThe 2012 phenomenon was discussed or referenced in several media. Several TV documentaries, as well as some contemporary fictional references to the year 2012, referred to 21 December as the day of a cataclysmic event.\n\nThe UFO conspiracy TV series \"The X-Files\" cited 22 December 2012 as the date for an alien colonization of the Earth and mentioned the Mayan calendar \"stopping\" on this date. The History Channel aired a handful of special series on doomsday that included analysis of 2012 theories, such as \"Decoding the Past\" (2005–2007), \"2012, End of Days\" (2006), \"Last Days on Earth\" (2006), \"Seven Signs of the Apocalypse\" (2009), and \"Nostradamus 2012\" (2008). The Discovery Channel also aired \"2012 Apocalypse\" in 2009, suggesting that massive solar storms, magnetic pole reversal, earthquakes, supervolcanoes, and other drastic natural events could occur in 2012. In 2012, the National Geographic Channel launched a show called \"Doomsday Preppers\", a documentary series about survivalists preparing for various cataclysms, including the 2012 doomsday.\n\nHundreds of books were published on the topic. The bestselling book of 2009, Dan Brown's \"The Lost Symbol\", featured a coded mock email number (2456282.5) that decoded to the Julian date for 21 December 2012.\n\nIn cinema, the 2009 disaster film \"2012\" was inspired by the phenomenon, and advance promotion prior to its release included a stealth marketing campaign in which TV spots and websites from the fictional \"Institute for Human Continuity\" called on people to prepare for the end of the world. As these promotions did not mention the film itself, many viewers believed them to be real and contacted astronomers in panic. Although the campaign was heavily criticized, the film became one of the most successful of its year, grossing nearly $770 million worldwide. An article in \"The Daily Telegraph\" attributed the widespread fear of the 2012 phenomenon in China to the film, which was a smash hit in that country because it depicted the Chinese building \"survival arks\". Lars von Trier's 2011 film \"Melancholia\" featured a plot in which a planet emerges from behind the Sun on a collision course with Earth. Announcing his company's purchase of the film, the head of Magnolia Pictures said in a press release, \"As the 2012 apocalypse is upon us, it is time to prepare for a cinematic last supper\".\n\nThe phenomenon also inspired several rock and pop music hits. As early as 1997, \"A Certain Shade of Green\" by Incubus referred to the mystical belief that a shift in perception would arrive in 2012 (\"Are you gonna stand around till 2012 A.D.? / What are you waiting for, a certain shade of green?\"). More recent hits include \"2012 (It Ain't the End)\" (2010) performed by Jay Sean and \"Till the World Ends\" (2011) performed by Britney Spears. Towards mid-December 2012, an internet hoax related to South Korean singer Psy being one of the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse was widely circulated around social media platforms. The hoax purported that once Psy's \"Gangnam Style\" YouTube video amassed a billion views, the world would end. Indian composer A. R. Rahman, known for \"Slumdog Millionaire\", released his single \"Infinite Love\" to \"instill faith and optimism in people\" prior to the predicted doomsday. The artwork for All Time Low's 2012 album \"Don't Panic\" satirizes various cataclysmic events associated with the world ending on 21 December 2012.\n\nA number of brands ran commercials tied to the 2012 apocalypse in the months and days leading to the date. In February 2012, American automotive company General Motors aired an advertisement during the annual Super Bowl football game in which a group of friends drove Chevrolet Silverados through the ruins of human civilization following the 2012 apocalypse, while on 17 December 2012, Jell-O ran an ad saying that offering Jell-O to the Mayan gods would appease them into sparing the world. John Verret, Professor of Advertising at Boston University, questioned the utility of tying large sums of money to such a unique and short-term event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54876824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54876824", "title": "Aarhus Symposium", "text": "Aarhus Symposium\n\nAarhus Symposium is an annual leadership conference taking place at the University of Aarhus, Denmark, on the first Friday in November. The aim of the event is to connect leaders of today with leaders of tomorrow. To do so, a wide range of key decision-makers are invited to share their experiences and engage in discussions with students from various universities. Hereby, the symposium allows students to relate their academic insights to the broader business society.\n\nAarhus Symposium was founded in 2011 and has since expanded its concept to also involve Aarhus Symposium Focus and Aarhus Symposium Challenge.\n\nAarhus Symposium is a non-profit organisation, and all symposia are organised by voluntary students together with a pro-bono board of directors.\n\nFour students at Aarhus University established Aarhus Symposium in 2011: David Scherer, Jens Riis Andersen, Kasper Vinther Olesen, and Andreas Emmertsen. They gathered support from other students to organise the very first Aarhus Symposium with the objective of building a bridge between students, i.e. the future leaders, and leaders in today’s businesses and society.\n\nThe first annual Aarhus Symposium welcomed renowned speakers from the business society such as Carsten Bjerg (then CEO of Grundfos), Lars Rohde (then CEO of ATP), and Maria Rønn (CEO of Danmarks Radio). Throughout the years, the programme has extended to include prominent speakers such as His Royal Highness The Crown Prince of Denmark, Lars Rebien Sørensen (president and CEO of Novo Nordisk), and the Danish Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen.\n\nAarhus Symposium has grown through the years as a result of wide support from students, speakers, partners, and others. In 2012, the Organising Committee introduced Battle of the Economists; an event to take place on Monday in the week of Aarhus Symposium. It provided a national focus to the overall theme of Aarhus Symposium. The event was renamed Aarhus Symposium Focus in 2016 to broaden the possibilities for topics that exceed economic issues.\n\nIn 2013, Aarhus Symposium Challenge was established to strengthen the connection between students and the leaders of today. Aarhus Symposium Challenge is an essay competition in which selected speakers put forth a challenge for students to solve. Through their essay, students obtain a seat at both Aarhus Symposium and Aarhus Symposium Focus, and they potentially qualify for Leaders’ Forum. Since its initiation in 2013, an increasing number of students have participated in Aarhus Symposium Challenge, making it the primary sign-up for Aarhus Symposium and Aarhus Symposium Focus.\n\nAarhus Symposium takes place on the first Friday in November. Here, business executives and key decision-makers are invited to share their experiences and insights regarding a specific theme. They do so with different perspectives that reflect the tracks, i.e. subtopics, of the event.\n\n\"Formerly known as Battle of the Economists\"\n\nAarhus Symposium Focus is an annual conference which takes place on Monday in the week of Aarhus Symposium. Here, experts with various backgrounds are invited to share their thoughts on a topic related to the overall theme of Aarhus Symposium. The event provides a national focus as the topic strives to reflect one of Denmark’s most critical challenges.\n\nAarhus Symposium Challenge is an essay competition where selected speakers put forth a challenge for students to solve. By submitting a qualified essay, students obtain a seat at both Aarhus Symposium and Aarhus Symposium Focus. Additionally, the participating students compete for the Aarhus Symposium Award and a spot in Leaders’ Forum.\n\nLeaders’ Forum is an exclusive and intimate session where selected students discuss their essay contribution with the leader that put forth the respective challenge. Only the best essay contributions under each challenge topic qualifies for this informal session.\n\nThroughout the years, Leaders’ Forum has attracted much attention from the media inasmuch as it is unique in a Danish context and provides both the attending students and the top leaders the opportunity to learn from each other.\n\nThe most extraordinary essay contribution in Aarhus Symposium Challenge will be rewarded the Aarhus Symposium Award on stage at the very end of Aarhus Symposium. Prior winners of the Aarhus Symposium Award are:\nBesides facilitating Aarhus Symposium and Aarhus Symposium Focus, Aarhus Symposium also hosts a variety of other events that takes places at Aarhus University. Most notable are Aarhus Symposium Theme Announcement and Aarhus Symposium Challenge Launch; both of which are closely linked to the three key elements of Aarhus Symposium.\n\nThe Organising Committee of Aarhus Symposium consists of approximately 35 voluntary students, who have the responsibility for planning, funding, promoting, and executing all events. The Organising Committee is divided into smaller groups with specific focus areas:\n\n"}
{"id": "26241411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26241411", "title": "Chase's Calendar of Events", "text": "Chase's Calendar of Events\n\nChase's Calendar of Events is an annual American publication, started in 1957 by brothers William (Bill) D. Chase (a journalist and publisher from Michigan), and Harrison V. Chase (a university social scientist from Florida). It includes special events, holidays, federal and state observances, historic anniversaries, and more unusual celebratory traditions. Bill Chase worked as a newspaper librarian and saw a need for \"a single reference source for calendar dates, and for authoritative and current information about various observances throughout the year\".\n\nThe brothers gathered information on events and the first edition of 2,000 copies was printed for 1958. \"It was 32 pages, contained 364 entries and sold for $1\", while recent editions are 752 pages and contain more than 12,000 entries. A promotion sponsored by the US Chamber of Commerce was added in 1958: a pamphlet listed commercial promotions as Special Days, Weeks and Months, and remained in future editions. Contemporary Books in Chicago, Illinois, took over publication in 1983 and the Chases retired in 1987 from compiling the calendar, which is now handled by an in-house staff of editors and researchers. Contemporary Books was acquired by Tribune in 1993 and sold to McGraw-Hill Companies in September 2000. McGraw-Hill sold the property to Rowman and Littlefield Publishing Group in January 2015, where it is now published by Bernan Press, an imprint of RLPG. \nSections of the calendar include \n\n"}
{"id": "21219455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21219455", "title": "Chronology of the Shunzhi reign", "text": "Chronology of the Shunzhi reign\n\nThis is a chronicle of important events that took place under the Shunzhi Emperor of the Qing Dynasty (1636–1912) in what is now China. It spans from the death of his predecessor Hong Taiji (r. 1626–1643) in September 1643, to the emperor's own death on 5 February 1661, seven days into the eighteenth year of the Shunzhi reign period. These dates do not correspond perfectly with the Shunzhi era itself, which started on 8 February 1644—on New Year's Day of the lunisolar year following the emperor's accession—and ended on 17 February 1662 (the last day of the 18th year of Shunzhi), more than one solar year after the emperor's death. The posthumous events related to the Shunzhi Emperor's burial and posthumous cult are also included.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19167840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19167840", "title": "Chronology of the universe", "text": "Chronology of the universe\n\nThe chronology of the universe describes the history and future of the universe according to Big Bang cosmology. The earliest stages of the universe's existence are estimated as taking place 13.8 billion years ago, with an uncertainty of around 21 million years at the 68% confidence level.\n\nFor the purposes of this summary, it is convenient to divide the chronology of the universe since it originated, into five parts. It is generally considered meaningless or unclear whether time existed before this chronology:\n\nEarliest stages of chronology shown below (before neutrino decoupling) are an active area of research and based on ideas which are still speculative and subject to modification as scientific knowledge improves.\n\n\"Time\" column is based on extrapolation of observed metric expansion of space back in the past. For the earliest stages of chronology this extrapolation may be invalid. To give one example, eternal inflation theories propose that inflation lasts forever throughout most of the universe, making the notion of \"N seconds since Big Bang\" ill-defined.\n\nThe radiation temperature refers to the cosmic background radiation and is given by 2.725·(1+\"z\"), where \"z\" is the redshift.\n\nThe Planck epoch is an era in traditional (non-inflationary) Big Bang cosmology immediately after the event which began our known universe. During this epoch, the temperature and average energies within the universe were so inconceivably high compared to any temperature we can observe today, that everyday subatomic particles could not form, and even the four fundamental forces that shape our universe—electromagnetism, gravitation, weak nuclear interaction, and strong nuclear interaction—were combined and formed one fundamental force. Little is understood about physics at this temperature; different hypotheses propose different scenarios. Traditional big bang cosmology predicts a gravitational singularity before this time, but this theory relies on the theory of general relativity, which is thought to break down for this epoch due to quantum effects.\n\nIn inflationary models of cosmology, times before the end of inflation (roughly 10 second after the Big Bang) do not follow the same timeline as in traditional big bang cosmology. Models that aim to describe the universe and physics during the Planck epoch are generally speculative and fall under the umbrella of \"New Physics\". Examples include the Hartle–Hawking initial state, string landscape, string gas cosmology, and the ekpyrotic universe.\n\nAs the universe expanded and cooled, it crossed transition temperatures at which forces separated from each other. These phase transitions can be visualised as similar to condensation and freezing phase transitions of ordinary matter. At certain temperatures/energies, water molecules change their behaviour and structure, and they will behave completely differently. Like steam turning to water, the fields which define our universe's fundamental forces and particles also completely change their behaviors and structures when the temperature/energy falls below a certain point. This is not apparent in everyday life, because it only happens at much, much, higher temperatures than we usually see in our present universe.\n\nThese phase transitions are believed to be caused by a phenomenon of quantum fields called \"symmetry breaking\".\n\nIn everyday terms, as the universe cools, it becomes possible for the quantum fields that create the forces and particles around us, to settle at lower energy levels and with higher levels of stability. In doing so, they completely shift how they interact. Forces and interactions arise due to these fields, so the universe can behave very differently above and below a phase transition. For example, in a later epoch, a side effect of one phase transition is that suddenly, many particles that had no mass at all acquire a mass (they begin to interact with the Higgs boson), and a single force begins to manifest as two separate forces.\n\nThe grand unification epoch began with a phase transitions of this kind, when gravitation separated from the universal combined gauge force. This caused two forces to now exist: gravity, and an electrostrong interaction. There is no hard evidence yet, that such a combined force existed, but many physicists believe it did. The physics of this electrostrong interaction would be described by a so-called grand unified theory (GUT).\n\nThe grand unification epoch ended with a second phase transition, as the electrostrong interaction in turn separated, and began to manifest as two separate interactions, called the strong and electroweak interactions.\n\nDepending on how epochs are defined, and the model being followed, the electroweak epoch may be considered to start before or after the inflationary epoch. In some models it is described as including the inflationary epoch. In other models, the electroweak epoch is said to begin after the inflationary epoch ended, at roughly 10 seconds.\n\nAccording to traditional big bang cosmology, the electroweak epoch began 10 seconds after the Big Bang, when the temperature of the universe was low enough (10 K) for the Electronuclear Force to begin to manifest as two separate interactions, called the strong and the electroweak interactions. (The electroweak interaction will also separate later, dividing into the electromagnetic and weak interactions). The exact point where electrostrong symmetry was broken is not certain, because of the very high energies of this event.\n\nAt this point, the very early universe suddenly and very rapidly expanded to at least 10 times its previous volume (and possibly much more). This is equivalent to a linear increase of at least 10 times in every spatial dimension – equivalent to an object 1 nanometer (10 m, about half the width of a molecule of DNA) in length, expanding to one approximately 10.6 light years (about 62 trillion miles) long in a tiny fraction of a second. This change is known as inflation.\n\nAlthough light and objects within spacetime cannot travel faster than the speed of light, in this case it was the metric governing the size and geometry of spacetime itself that changed in scale. Changes to the metric are not limited by the speed of light.\n\nIn some models, it is thought to have been triggered by the separation of the strong and electroweak interactions which ended the grand unification epoch. One of the theoretical products of this phase transition was a scalar field called the inflaton field. As this field settled into its lowest energy state throughout the universe, it generated an enormous repulsive force that led to a rapid expansion of space itself. Inflation explains several observed properties of the current universe that are otherwise difficult to account for, including explaining how today's universe has ended up so exceedingly homogeneous (similar) on a very large scale, even though it was highly disordered in its earliest stages.\n\nIt is not known exactly when the inflationary epoch ended, but it is thought to have been between 10 and 10 seconds after the Big Bang. The rapid expansion of space meant that elementary particles remaining from the grand unification epoch were now distributed very thinly across the universe. However, the huge potential energy of the inflation field was released at the end of the inflationary epoch, as the inflaton field decayed into other particles, known as \"reheating\". This heating effect led to the universe being repopulated with a dense, hot mixture of quarks, anti-quarks and gluons. In other models, reheating is often considered to mark the start of the electroweak epoch, and some theories, such as warm inflation, avoid a reheating phase entirely.\n\nIn non-traditional versions of Big Bang theory (known as \"inflationary\" models), inflation ended at a temperature corresponding to roughly 10 second after the Big Bang, but this does \"not\" imply that the inflationary era lasted less than 10 second. To explain the observed homogeneity of the universe, the duration in these models must be longer than 10 second. Therefore, in inflationary cosmology, the earliest meaningful time \"after the Big Bang\" is the time of the \"end\" of inflation. \n\nAfter inflation ended, the universe continued to expand, but at a very slow rate. The slow expansion began to speed up after several billion years, believed to be due to dark energy, and is still expanding today.\n\nOn March 17, 2014, astrophysicists of the BICEP2 collaboration announced the detection of inflationary gravitational waves in the B-mode power spectrum which was interpreted as clear experimental evidence for the theory of inflation. However, on June 19, 2014, lowered confidence in confirming the cosmic inflation findings was reported and finally, on February 2, 2015, a joint analysis of data from BICEP2/Keck and Planck satellite concluded that the statistical \"significance [of the data] is too low to be interpreted as a detection of primordial B-modes\" and can be attributed mainly to polarized dust in the Milky Way.\n\nAs the universe's temperature continued to fall below a certain very high energy level, a third symmetry breaking occurs. So far as we currently know, it was the final symmetry breaking event in the formation of our universe. It is believed that below some energies unknown yet, the Higgs field spontaneously acquires a vacuum expectation value. When this happens, it breaks electroweak gauge symmetry. This has two related effects:\n\n\nAfter electroweak symmetry breaking, the fundamental interactions we know of – gravitation, electromagnetism, the strong interaction and the weak interaction – have all taken their present forms, and fundamental particles have mass, but the temperature of the universe is still too high to allow the formation of many fundamental particles we now see in the universe.\n\nIf supersymmetry is a property of our universe, then it must be broken at an energy that is no lower than 1 TeV, the electroweak scale. The masses of particles and their superpartners would then no longer be equal. This very high energy could explain why no superpartners of known particles have ever been observed.\n\nAfter cosmic inflation ends, the universe is filled with a hot quark–gluon plasma, the remains of reheating. From this point onwards the physics of the early universe is much better understood, and the energies involved in the Quark epoch are directly amenable to experiment.\n\nThe quark epoch began approximately 10 seconds after the Big Bang. This was the period in the evolution of the early universe immediately after electroweak symmetry breaking, when the fundamental interactions of gravitation, electromagnetism, the strong interaction and the weak interaction had taken their present forms, but the temperature of the universe was still too high to allow quarks to bind together to form hadrons.\n\nDuring the quark epoch the universe was filled with a dense, hot quark–gluon plasma, containing quarks, leptons and their antiparticles. Collisions between particles were too energetic to allow quarks to combine into mesons or baryons.\n\nThe quark epoch ended when the universe was about 10 seconds old, when the average energy of particle interactions had fallen below the binding energy of hadrons.\n\n\"Perhaps by 10 seconds.\"\n\nBaryons are subatomic particles such as protons and neutrons, that are composed of three quarks. It would be expected that both baryons, and particles known as antibaryons would have formed in equal numbers. However, this does not seem to be what happened – as far as we know, the universe was left with far more baryons than antibaryons. In fact, almost no antibaryons are observed in nature. It is not clear how this came about. Any explanation for this phenomenon must allow the Sakharov conditions related to baryogenesis to have been satisfied at some time after the end of cosmological inflation. Current particle physics suggests asymmetries under which these conditions would be met, but these asymmetries appear to be too small to account for the observed baryon-antibaryon asymmetry of the universe.\n\nThe quark–gluon plasma that composes the universe cools until hadrons, including baryons such as protons and neutrons, can form.\nInitially, hadron/anti-hadron pairs could form, so matter and anti-matter were in thermal equilibrium. However, as the temperature of the universe continued to fall, new hadron/anti-hadron pairs were no longer produced, and most of the newly formed hadrons and anti-hadrons annihilated each other, giving rise to pairs of high-energy photons. A comparatively small residue of hadrons remained at about 1 second of cosmic time, when this epoch ended. \n\nTheory predicts that about 1 neutron remained for every 7 protons. We believe this to be correct because, at a later stage, all the neutrons and some of the protons fused, leaving hydrogen, a hydrogen isotope called deuterium, helium and other elements, which we can measure. A 1:7 ratio of hadrons at the end of this epoch would indeed produce the observed element ratios in the early as well as current universe.\n\nAt approximately 1 second after the Big Bang neutrinos decouple and begin traveling freely through space. As neutrinos rarely interact with matter, these neutrinos still exist today, analogous to the much later cosmic microwave background emitted during recombination, around 377,000 years after the Big Bang. The neutrinos from this event have a very low energy, around 10 times smaller than is possible with present-day direct detection. Even high energy neutrinos are notoriously difficult to detect, so this cosmic neutrino background (CNB) may not be directly observed in detail for many years, if at all.\n\nHowever, Big Bang cosmology makes many predictions about the CNB, and there is very strong indirect evidence that the cosmic neutrino background exists, both from Big Bang nucleosynthesis predictions of the helium abundance, and from anisotropies in the cosmic microwave background. One of these predictions is that neutrinos will have left a subtle imprint on the cosmic microwave background (CMB). It is well known that the CMB has irregularities. Some of the CMB fluctuations were roughly regularly spaced, because of the effect of baryonic acoustic oscillations. In theory, the decoupled neutrinos should have had a very slight effect on the phase of the various CMB fluctuations.\n\nIn 2015, it was reported that such shifts had been detected in the CMB. Moreover, the fluctuations corresponded to neutrinos of almost exactly the temperature predicted by Big Bang theory ( compared to a prediction of 1.95K), and exactly three types of neutrino, the same number of neutrino flavours currently predicted by the Standard Model.\n\nPrimordial black holes are a hypothetical type of black hole proposed in 1966, that may have formed during the so-called \"radiation dominated era\", due to the high densities and inhomogeneous conditions within the first second of cosmic time. Random fluctuations could lead to some regions becoming dense enough to undergo gravitational collapse, forming black holes. Current understandings and theories place tight limits on the abundance and mass of these objects.\n\nTypically, primordial black hole formation requires density contrasts (regional variations in the Universe's density) of around formula_1 (10%), where formula_2 is the average density of the Universe. Several mechanisms could produce dense regions meeting this criterion during the early universe, including reheating, cosmological phase transitions and (in so-called \"hybrid inflation models\") axion inflation. Since primordial black holes didn't form from stellar gravitational collapse, their masses can be far below stellar mass (~2×10 g). Stephen Hawking calculated in 1971 that primordial black holes could weigh as little as 10 g. But they can have any size, so they could also be large, and may have contributed to the formation of galaxies.\n\nThe majority of hadrons and anti-hadrons annihilate each other at the end of the hadron epoch, leaving leptons (such as the electron, muons and certain neutrinos) and anti-leptons, dominating the mass of the universe. \n\nThe lepton epoch follows a similar path to the earlier hadron epoch. Initially leptons and anti-leptons are produced in pairs. About 10 seconds after the Big Bang the temperature of the universe falls to the point at which new lepton/anti-lepton pairs are no longer created and most remaining leptons and anti-leptons quickly annihilate each other, giving rise to pairs of high energy photons, and leaving a small residue of non-annihilated leptons.\n\nAfter most leptons and anti-leptons are annihilated at the end of the lepton epoch, most of the mass-energy in the universe is left in the form of photons. (Much of the rest of its mass-energy is in the form of neutrinos and other relativistic particles). Therefore the energy of the universe, and its overall behavior, is dominated by its photons. These photons continue to interact frequently with charged protons, electrons and (eventually) nuclei. They continue to do so for about the next 377,000 years.\n\nBetween about 2 and 20 minutes after the Big Bang, the temperature and pressure of the universe allow nuclear fusion to occur, giving rise to nuclei of a few light elements beyond hydrogen (\"Big Bang nucleosynthesis\"). About 25% of the protons, and all the neutrons fuse to form deuterium, a hydrogen isotope, and most of the deuterium quickly fuses to form helium-4. \n\nAtomic nuclei will easily unbind (break apart) above a certain temperature, related to their binding energy. From about 2 minutes, the falling temperature means that deuterium no longer unbinds, and is stable, and starting from about 3 minutes, helium and other elements formed by the fusion of deuterium also no longer unbind and are stable.\n\nThe short duration and falling temperature means that only the simplest and fastest fusion processes can occur. Only tiny amounts of nuclei beyond helium are formed, because nucleosynthesis of heavier elements is difficult and requires thousands of years even in stars. Small amounts of tritium (another hydrogen isotope) and beryllium-7 and -8 are formed, but these are unstable and are quickly lost again. A small amount of deuterium is left unfused because of the very short duration.\n\nTherefore, the only stable nuclides created by the end of Big Bang nucleosynthesis are protium (single proton/hydrogen nucleus), deuterium, helium-3, helium-4, and lithium-7. By mass, the resulting matter is about 75% hydrogen nuclei, 25% helium nuclei, and perhaps 10 by mass of Lithium-7. The next most common stable isotopes produced are lithium-6, beryllium-9, boron-11, carbon, nitrogen and oxygen (\"CNO\"), but these have predicted abundances of between 5 and 30 parts in 10 by mass, making them essentially undetectable and negligible.\n\nThe amounts of each light element in the early universe can be estimated from old galaxies, and is strong evidence for the Big Bang. For example, the Big Bang should produce about 1 neutron for every 7 protons, allowing for 25% of all nucleons to be fused into helium-4 (2 protons and 2 neutrons out of every 16 nucleons), and this is the amount we find today, and far more than can be easily explained by other processes. Similarly, deuterium fuses extremely easily; any alternative explanation must also explain how conditions existed for deuterium to form, but also left some of that deuterium unfused and not immediately fused again into helium. Any alternative must also explain the proportions of the various light elements and their isotopes. A few isotopes, such as lithium-7, were found to be present in amounts that differed from theory, but over time, these differences have been resolved by better observations.\n\nUntil now, the universe's large scale dynamics and behavior have been determined mainly by radiation – meaning, those constituents that move relativistically (at or near the speed of light), such as photons and neutrinos. As the universe cools, from around 47,000 years (z=3600), the universe's large scale behavior becomes dominated by matter instead. This occurs because the energy density of matter begins to exceed both the energy density of radiation and the vacuum energy density. Around or shortly after this time, the densities of non-relativistic matter (atomic nuclei) and relativistic radiation (photons) become equal, the Jeans length, which determines the smallest structures that can form (due to competition between gravitational attraction and pressure effects), begins to fall and perturbations, instead of being wiped out by free-streaming radiation, can begin to grow in amplitude.\n\nAccording to the Lambda-CDM model, by this stage, the matter in the universe is around 84.5% cold dark matter and 15.5% \"ordinary\" matter. (However the total matter in the universe is only 31.7%, much smaller than the 68.3% of dark energy). There is overwhelming evidence that dark matter exists and dominates our universe, but since the exact nature of dark matter is still not understood, Big Bang theory does not presently cover any stages in its formation.\n\nFrom this point on, and for several billion years to come, the presence of dark matter accelerates the formation of structure in our universe. In the early universe, dark matter gradually gathers in huge filaments under the effects of gravity. This amplifies the tiny inhomogeneities (irregularities) in the density of the universe which was left by cosmic inflation. Over time, slightly denser regions become denser and slightly rarefied (emptier) regions become more rarefied. Ordinary matter eventually gathers together faster than it would otherwise do, because of the presence of these concentrations of dark matter.\n\nAbout 377,000 years after the Big Bang, two connected events occurred: recombination and photon decoupling. Recombination describes the ionized particles combining to form the first neutral atoms, and decoupling refers to the photons released (\"decoupled\") as the newly formed atoms settle into more stable energy states.\n\nJust before recombination, the baryonic matter in the universe was at a temperature where it formed a hot ionized plasma. Most of the photons in the universe interacted with electrons and protons, and could not travel significant distances without interacting with ionized particles. As a result, the universe was opaque or \"foggy\". Although there was light, it was not possible to see, nor can we observe that light through telescopes.\n\nAt around 377,000 years, the universe has cooled to a point where free electrons can combine with the hydrogen and helium nuclei to form neutral atoms. This process is relatively fast (and faster for the helium than for the hydrogen), and is known as recombination. The name is slightly inaccurate and is given for historical reasons: in fact the electrons and atomic nuclei were combining for the first time.\n\nDirectly combining in a low energy state (ground state) is less efficient, so these hydrogen atoms generally form with the electrons still in a high energy state, and once combined, the electrons quickly release energy in the form of one or more photons as they transition to a low energy state. This release of photons is known as photon decoupling. Some of these decoupled photons are captured by other hydrogen atoms, the remainder remain free. By the end of recombination, most of the protons in the universe have formed neutral atoms. This change from charged to neutral particles means that the mean free path photons can travel before capture in effect becomes infinite, so any decoupled photons that have not been captured can travel freely over long distances (see Thomson scattering). The universe has become transparent to visible light, radio waves and other electromagnetic radiation for the first time in its history.\nThe photons released by these newly formed hydrogen atoms initially had a temperature/energy of around ~ 4000 K. This would have been visible to the eye as a pale yellow/orange tinted, or \"soft\", white color. Over billions of years since decoupling, as the universe has expanded, the photons have been red-shifted from visible light to radio waves (microwave radiation corresponding to a temperature of about 2.7 K). Red shifting describes the photons acquiring longer wavelengths and lower frequencies as the universe expanded over billions of years, so that they gradually changed from visible light to radio waves. These same photons can still be detected as radio waves today. They form the cosmic microwave background (\"CMB\"), and they provide crucial evidence of the early universe and how it developed.\n\nAround the same time as recombination, existing pressure waves within the electron-baryon plasma – known as baryon acoustic oscillations – became embedded in the distribution of matter as it condensed, giving rise to a very slight preference in distribution of large-scale objects. Therefore, the cosmic microwave background is a picture of the universe at the end of this epoch including the tiny fluctuations generated during inflation (see diagram), and the spread of objects such as galaxies in the universe is an indication of the scale and size of the universe as it developed over time.\n\nAfter recombination and decoupling, the universe was transparent and had cooled enough to allow light to travel long distances, but there were no light-producing structures such as stars and galaxies. Stars and galaxies are formed when dense regions of gas form due to the action of gravity, and this takes a long time within a near-uniform density of gas and on the scale required, so it is estimated that stars did not exist for perhaps hundreds of millions of years after recombination.\n\nThis period, known as the Dark Ages, began around 377,000 years after the Big Bang. During the Dark Ages, the temperature of the universe cooled from some 4000 K down to about 60 K, and only two sources of photons existed: the photons released during recombination/decoupling (as neutral hydrogen atoms formed), which we can still detect today as the cosmic microwave background (CMB), and photons occasionally released by neutral hydrogen atoms, known as the 21 cm spin line of neutral hydrogen. The hydrogen spin line is in the microwave range of frequencies, and within 3 million years, the CMB photons had redshifted out of visible light to infrared; from that time until the first stars, there were no visible light photons. Other than perhaps some rare statistical anomalies, the universe was truly dark.\n\nThe October 2010 discovery of UDFy-38135539, the first observed galaxy to have existed during the following reionization epoch, gives us a window into these times. The galaxy earliest in this period observed and thus also the most distant galaxy ever observed is currently on the record of Leiden University's Richard J. Bouwens and Garth D. Illingsworth from UC Observatories/Lick Observatory. They found the galaxy UDFj-39546284 to be at a time some 480 million years after the Big Bang or about halfway through the Cosmic Dark Ages at a distance of about 13.2 billion light-years. More recently, the UDFy-38135539, EGSY8p7 and GN-z11 galaxies were found to be around 380–550 million years after the Big Bang and at a distance of around 13.4 billion light-years. There is also currently an observational effort underway to detect the faint 21 cm spin line radiation, as it is in principle an even more powerful tool than the cosmic microwave background for studying the early universe.\n\nStructures may have begun to emerge from around 150 million years, and stars and early galaxies gradually emerged from around 400 to 700 million years. As they emerged, the Dark Ages gradually ended. Because this process was gradual, the Dark Ages only fully ended around 1 billion (1000 million) years, as the universe took its present appearance.\n\nFor about 6.6 million years, between about 10 to 17 million years after the Big Bang (redshift 137–100), the background temperature was between 373 K and 273 K, a temperature compatible with liquid water and common biological chemical reactions. Loeb (2014) speculated that primitive life might in principle have appeared during this window, which he called \"the Habitable Epoch of the Early Universe\". Loeb argues that carbon-based life might have evolved in a hypothetical pocket of the early universe that was dense enough both to generate at least one massive star that subsequently releases carbon in a supernova, and that was also dense enough to generate a planet. (Such dense pockets, if they existed, would have been extremely rare.) Life would also have required a heat differential, rather than just uniform background radiation; this could be provided by naturally-occurring geothermal energy. Such life would likely have remained primitive; it is highly unlikely that intelligent life would have had sufficient time to evolve before the hypothetical oceans freeze over at the end of the habitable epoch.\n\nThe matter in the universe is around 84.5% cold dark matter and 15.5% \"ordinary\" matter. Since the start of the matter-dominated era, the dark matter has gradually been gathering in huge spread out (diffuse) filaments under the effects of gravity. Ordinary matter eventually gathers together faster than it would otherwise do, because of the presence of these concentrations of dark matter. It is also slightly more dense at regular distances due to early baryon acoustic oscillations (BAO) which became embedded into the distribution of matter when photons decoupled. Unlike dark matter, ordinary matter can lose energy by many routes, which means that as it collapses, it can lose the energy which would otherwise hold it apart, and collapse more quickly, and into denser forms. Ordinary matter gathers where dark matter is denser, and in those places it collapses into clouds of mainly hydrogen gas. The first stars and galaxies form from these clouds. Where numerous galaxies have formed, galaxy clusters and superclusters will eventually arise. Large voids with few stars will develop between them, marking where dark matter became less common.\n\nStructure formation in the big bang model proceeds hierarchically, due to gravitational collapse, with smaller structures forming before larger ones. The earliest structures to form are the first stars (known as population III stars), dwarf galaxies, and quasars (which are thought to be bright, early active galaxies containing a supermassive black hole surrounded by a inward-spiralling accretion disk of gas). Before this epoch, the evolution of the universe could be understood through linear cosmological perturbation theory: that is, all structures could be understood as small deviations from a perfect homogeneous universe. This is computationally relatively easy to study. At this point non-linear structures begin to form, and the computational problem becomes much more difficult, involving, for example, \"N\"-body simulations with billions of particles. The Bolshoi Cosmological Simulation is a high precision simulation of this era.\n\nThese Population III stars are also responsible for turning the few light elements that were formed in the Big Bang (hydrogen, helium and small amounts of lithium) into many heavier elements. They can be huge as well as perhaps small – and non-metallic (no elements except hydrogen and helium). The larger stars have very short lifetimes compared to most Main Sequence stars we see today, so they commonly finish burning their hydrogen fuel and explode as supernovae after mere millions of years, seeding the universe with heavier elements over repeated generations. They mark the start of the Stelliferous (starry) era.\n\nAs yet, no Population III stars have been found, so our understanding of them is based on computational models of their formation and evolution. Fortunately, observations of the Cosmic Microwave Background radiation can be used to date when star formation began in earnest. Analysis of such observations made by the European Space Agency's Planck telescope in 2016 concluded that the first generation of stars formed 700 million years after the Big Bang.\n\nQuasars provides some additional evidence of early structure formation. Their light shows evidence of elements such as carbon, magnesium, iron and oxygen. This is evidence that by the time quasars formed, a massive phase of star formation had already taken place, including sufficient generations of population III stars to give rise to these elements.\n\nAs the first stars, dwarf galaxies and quasars gradually form, the intense radiation they emit reionizes much of the surrounding universe; splitting the neutral hydrogen atoms back into a plasma of free electrons and protons for the first time since recombination and decoupling.\n\nReionization is evidenced from observations of quasars. Quasars are a form of active galaxy, and the most luminous objects observed in the universe. Electrons in neutral hydrogen have a specific patterns of absorbing photons, related to electron energy levels and called the Lyman series. Ionized hydrogen does not have electron energy levels of this kind. Therefore, light travelling through ionized hydrogen and neutral hydrogen shows different absorption lines. In addition, the light will have travelled for billions of years to reach us, so any absorption by neutral hydrogen will have been redshifted by varied amounts, rather than by one specific amount, indicating when it happened. These features make it possible to study the state of ionization at many different times in the past. They show that reionization began as \"bubbles\" of ionized hydrogen which became larger over time. They also show that the absorption was due to the general state of the universe (the intergalactic medium) and not due to passing through galaxies or other dense areas. Reionization might have started as early as \"z\"=16 (250 million years of cosmic time) and was complete by around \"z\"=9 or 10 (500 million years). The epoch of reionization probably ended by around \"z\"=5 or 6 (1 billion years) as the era of Population III stars and quasars – and their intense radiation – came to an end, and the ionized hydrogen gradually reverted to neutral atoms.\n\nThese observations have narrowed down the period of time during which reionization took place, but the source of the photons that caused reionization is still not completely certain. To ionize neutral hydrogen, an energy larger than 13.6 eV is required, which corresponds to ultraviolet photons with a wavelength of 91.2 nm or shorter, implying that the sources must have produced significant amount of ultraviolet and higher energy. Protons and electrons will recombine if energy is not continuously provided to keep them apart, which also sets limits on how numerous the sources were and their longevity. With these constraints, it is expected that quasars and first generation stars and galaxies were the main sources of energy. The current leading candidates from most to least significant are currently believed to be population III stars (the earliest stars) (possibly 70%), dwarf galaxies (very early small high-energy galaxies) (possibly 30%), and a contribution from quasars (a class of active galactic nuclei).\n\nHowever, by this time, matter had become far more spread out due to the ongoing expansion of the universe. Although the neutral hydrogen atoms were again ionized, the plasma was much more thin and diffuse, and photons were much less likely to be scattered. Despite being reionized, the universe remained largely transparent during reionization. As the universe continued to cool and expand, reionization gradually ended.\n\nMatter continues to draw together under the influence of gravity, to form galaxies. The stars from this time period, known as Population II stars, are formed early on in this process, with more recent Population I stars formed later. Gravitational attraction also gradually pulls galaxies towards each other to form groups, clusters and superclusters. The Hubble Ultra Deep Field observatory has identified a number of small galaxies merging to form larger ones, at 800 million years of cosmic time (13 billion years ago) (this age estimate is now believed to be slightly overstated).\n\nJohannes Schedler's project has identified a quasar CFHQS 1641+3755 at 12.7 billion light-years away, when the universe was just 7% of its present age. On July 11, 2007, using the 10-metre Keck II telescope on Mauna Kea, Richard Ellis of the California Institute of Technology at Pasadena and his team found six star forming galaxies about 13.2 billion light years away and therefore created when the universe was only 500 million years old. Only about 10 of these extremely early objects are currently known. More recent observations have shown these ages to be shorter than previously indicated. The most distant galaxy observed as of October 2016, GN-z11, has been reported to be 32 billion light years away, a vast distance made possible through space-time expansion (redshift z=11.1; comoving distance of 32 billion light-years; lookback time of 13.4 billion years).\n\nThe universe has appeared much the same as it does now, for many billions of years. It will continue to look similar for many more billions of years into the future.\n\nBased upon the emerging science of nucleocosmochronology, the Galactic thin disk of the Milky Way is estimated to have been formed 8.8 ± 1.7 billion years ago.\n\nFrom about 9.8 billion years of cosmic time, the universe's large-scale behavior is believed to have gradually changed for the third time in its history. Its behavior had originally been dominated by radiation (relativistic constituents such as photons and neutrinos) for the first 47,000 years, and since about 377,000 years of cosmic time, its behavior had been dominated by matter. During its matter-dominated era, the expansion of the universe had begun to slow down, as gravity reigned in the initial outward expansion. But from about 9.8 billion years of cosmic time, observations show that that the expansion of the universe slowly stops decelerating, and gradually begins to accelerate again, instead. \n\nWhile the precise cause is not known, the observation is accepted as correct by the cosmologist community. By far the most accepted understanding is that this is due to an unknown form of energy which has been given the name \"dark energy\". \"Dark\" in this context means that it is not directly observed, but can currently only be studied by examining the effect it has on the universe. Research is ongoing to understand this dark energy. Dark energy is now believed to be the single largest component of the universe, as it constitutes about 68.3% of the entire mass-energy of the physical universe.\n\nDark energy is believed to act like a cosmological constant - a scalar field that exists throughout space. Unlike gravity, the effects of such a field do not diminish (or only diminish slowly) as the universe grows. While matter and gravity have a greater effect initially, their effect quickly diminishes as the universe continues to expand. Objects in the universe, which are initially seen to be moving apart as the universe expands, continue to move apart, but their outward motion gradually slows down. This slowing effect becomes smaller as the universe becomes more spread out. Eventually, the outward and repulsive effect of dark energy begins to dominate over the inward pull of gravity. Instead of slowing down and perhaps beginning to move inward under the influence of gravity, from about 9.8 billion years of cosmic time, the expansion of space starts to slowly accelerate \"outward\" at a gradually \"increasing\" rate.\n\nThe universe has existed for around 13.8 billion years, and we believe that we understand it well enough to predict its large-scale development for many billions of years into the future – perhaps as much as 100 billion years of cosmic time (about 86 billion years from now). Beyond that, we need to better understand the universe to make any accurate predictions. Therefore, the universe could follow a variety of different paths beyond this time.\n\nThere are several competing scenarios for the possible long-term evolution of the universe. Which of them will happen, if any, depends on the precise values of physical constants such as the cosmological constant, the possibility of proton decay, the energy of the vacuum (meaning, the energy of \"empty\" space itself), and the natural laws beyond the Standard Model.\nIf the expansion of the universe continues and it stays in its present form, eventually all but the nearest galaxies will be carried away from us by the expansion of space at such a velocity that our observable universe will be limited to our own gravitationally bound local galactic cluster. In the very long term (after many trillions – thousands of billions – of years, cosmic time), the Stelliferous Era will end, as stars cease to be born and even the longest-lived stars gradually die. Beyond this, all objects in the universe will cool and (with the possible exception of protons) gradually decompose back to their constituent particles and then into subatomic particles and very low level photons and other fundamental particles, by a variety of possible processes. But this will take a duration of time that is almost inconceivable to most people, compared to which the entire 13.8 billion years of the universe would be a tiny instant in time.\n\nUltimately, in the extreme future, the following scenarios have been proposed for the ultimate fate of the universe.\n\nIn this kind of extreme timescale, extremely rare quantum phenomena may also occur that are extremely unlikely to be seen on a timescale smaller than trillions of years. These may also lead to unpredictable changes to the state of the universe which would not be likely to be significant on any smaller timescale. For example, on a timescale of millions of trillions of years, black holes might appear to evaporate almost instantly, uncommon quantum tunneling phenomena would appear to be common, and quantum (or other) phenomena so unlikely that they might occur just once in a trillion years may occur many times.\n\n"}
{"id": "435236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435236", "title": "Crash cover", "text": "Crash cover\n\nA crash cover is a philatelic term for a type of cover, (including the terms air accident cover, interrupted flight cover, wreck cover) meaning an envelope or package that has been recovered from a fixed-wing aircraft, airship or aeroplane crash, train wreck, shipwreck or other accident. Crash covers are a type of interrupted mail.\n\nAviation related crash covers are a specialised collecting area of aerophilately and are much-prized items of postal history, because they are generally rare, but as tangible artifacts of often-tragic accidents they have a story to tell. The 367 covers salvaged from the \"Hindenburg\" disaster are especially desirable, with prices ranging from US$10,000 and up; a cover at the Corinphila auction in May 2001 realized 85,000 Swiss francs (US$75,000).\n\nThe American Air Mail Society has a \"Crash Cover Committee\" specializing in the study of crash covers. There is also a Wreck & Crash Mail Society, whose members collect all types of crash & wreck covers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53395686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53395686", "title": "David Monn", "text": "David Monn\n\nDavid Monn is an American event planner, interior designer, author, and artist. He is the founder and CEO of David Monn, LLC, an event production firm based in New York City. As part of the firm, Monn has been responsible for organizing and producing a variety of prominent events at locations like the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the New York Public Library, Guggenheim Museum, among others.\n\nMonn designed a White House State Dinner for former United States President Barack Obama. Monn's most recent book, \"David Monn: The Art of Celebrating\", was released in November 2016.\n\nMonn was born and raised in Fayetteville, Pennsylvania as one of six children. As a child, he showed an early interest in fashion design with hopes of attending the Parsons School of Design. In 1981 at age 18, Monn earned a job at Butte Knit, a clothing factory in his town that was a part of the Jonathan Logan Corporation. This job soon led him to New York City where he rented a studio apartment near Mindy Grossman's. While in New York, Monn took up interior decorating for himself and his friends (including Grossman).\n\nPrior to beginning his event and interior design career, Monn worked in the jewelry business for 12 years. In 2003, Gayfryd Steinberg hired Monn as the event planner and designer for the Library Lions Gala at the New York Public Library's main campus. Since then, Monn has been designing events for a wide variety of occasions. In 2004, he managed the festivities for the grand opening of the Time Warner Center. The following year, Monn was responsible for the design of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute Gala. By 2007, his clients included the Guggenheim Museum, LVMH, and the Metropolitan Opera (among others). In November 2007, Monn designed the Frank Gehry-inspired Guggenheim International Gala at Pier 40. He also designed the 100th anniversary celebration for the Plaza Hotel that year.\n\nIn May 2010, Monn designed the White House State Dinner honoring then Mexican President Felipe Calderón. In November 2016, he released his book, \"David Monn: The Art of Celebrating\", which contains 360 pages of images and text about events he has planned and designed. The book's release date was marked with a party at the New York Public Library's main campus. In January 2017, Monn designed an opening candlelight dinner for the inauguration festivities of President Donald Trump.\n\n"}
{"id": "23081696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23081696", "title": "Digitas NewFront", "text": "Digitas NewFront\n\nThe Digitas NewFront is an annual marketing conference first held during Internet Week New York. Hosted by Digitas and its brand content entity, The Third Act, the event's stated purpose is to \"bring together content creators, distributors, talent and brands to harness creative media opportunities made possible in the age of digital marketing\". In 2009, it was broadcast via public webcast. The event was produced by Amanda Anderson.\n\nFirst launched in 2008, the event was titled \"Digital Content NewFront\". The event title was later shortened to \"The NewFront\" with the stated mission to \"explore and help evolve the brand content and distribution landscape\". The event showcased online video content companies like 60 Frames, MySpaceTV, MTV New Media, Generate, Next New Networks and Vuguru. Speakers and panelists included Michael Eisner, CEO of Tornate and Vuguru, former Disney CEO and Dmitry Shapiro, the founder of Veoh Networks.\n\nIn 2018, the NewFronts ran for one week rather than two.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25177307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25177307", "title": "Diminished value", "text": "Diminished value\n\nDiminished value, Diminution in Value, or commonly referred to as \"DV\" are the terms generally used to describe the economic loss in a property's value as a result of having been damaged. Diminished Value (DV) is often associated with vehicles that have been damaged, however, it is applicable to other property of value including collectibles such as jewelry, artwork, etc. For the purposes herein, reference will involve the loss in value of a damaged automobile where the term is often applied.\n\nUnlike \"depreciation\", which is an anticipated and predictable loss in value over time, ‘Inherent Diminished Value’ is a loss in value due to a specific, sudden and unexpected negative occurrence. Diminished value of an automobile following an accident may occur in one of three ways (or a combination thereof):\n\n(1) repair-related diminished value;\n\n(2) Immediate diminished value; and\n\n(3) inherent diminished value.\n\nRepair-related diminished value is the loss of value due to the inability to perfectly repair the vehicle, so it is worth less after repairs than it was before the wreck. Immediate Diminished Value – The difference in resale value of a vehicle immediately before damage has occurred and immediately after damage has occurred (prior to repair). As courts are rarely the chosen venue for recovery of property damage, the standard of \"Immediate Diminished Value\" is rarely employed in resolving Property Damage claims. This also refers to a loss of value caused by the insurer's direct involvement in the claim adjustment in which the insurer exerts control over the repairs and repairs are incomplete, insufficiently performed, or otherwise restore the vehicle to less than the standard condition.\n\nInherent Diminished Value - Assumes optimal repair quality has been achieved and is defined as the amount by which the resale value of a repaired vehicle has been reduced simply because the subject vehicle now has a significant damage history. This is the most widely recognized and accepted form of Diminished Value. It is also the basis upon which any supplemental form of Diminished Value would be added. A common \"Supplemental\" form of Diminished Value is \"Repair Related Diminished Value\".\n\nUsually, a frame or structurally damaged vehicle cannot be re-sold as a \"certified pre-owned vehicle.\"\n\nThe true measure of a damaged vehicle's inherent loss in value can be measured as the difference in the value of the vehicle before the loss to that after the loss, prior to or after repair. The standard rule as to establishing a value on late model vehicles would be: 20-25% behind book (Black Book, KBB, NADA) and utilize actual sales results, and not on advertised prices.\n\nWhile some may claim Diminished Value (DV) is subjective and based upon perception or speculation, the old adage \"perception becomes reality' applies and as such Diminution in Value is real simply because, for the most part, no reasonable and prudent person is willing to pay the same price for a vehicle with a history of damage as they would for one never having been damaged. Retailers often offer discounts for scratches and dents on appliances, electronics and dented canned goods; it is, therefore, reasonable that the value of a damaged motor vehicle will suffer a lessening in value.\n\nAdditional factors may be taken into consideration in evaluating the loss in value of a damaged and repaired vehicle and may include, but not be limited to: the vehicle itself (i.e. rare collectible, originality, market desirability etc.), the vehicle’s pre-loss condition, severity of the sustained damages (i.e. frame damage, flood, fire etc.), the subject vehicle’s history (i.e. one owner, prior damage/repair, death of occupants etc.), quality and thoroughness of the performed repairs, (i.e. quality of parts, materials, workmanship, etc.) and additional value considerations including, but not limited to values associated with pre-owned certification programs.etc.\n\nAuto insurance companies may not readily recognize or offer to pay for diminished value. Each state may have differing opinions of DV. Example; The state of Georgia allows the insured party (the first-party Policyholder) to make a claim for their remaining economic loss for DV from their own insurance company while the neighboring state of Florida does not. Most states, however, allow the victim of another's negligence (third-party) to make a DV claim from the at-fault party.\n\nThe length of time to collect Diminished Value will vary depending upon each state's statute of limitations for first party (contractual) claims and third-party (restatement of tort) claims.\n\nA diminished value appraisal evaluates the difference in value of a motor vehicle after a collision repair. Reports are usually compiled by an Auto Appraisal Expert experienced in the field of DV and who may provide expert testimony for Appraisals, Arbitration, Mediation or Litigation in a court of law. This Assessment report is used when filing or disputing a diminished value claim against another party and/or an insurance company. The report measures a damaged vehicle’s inherent loss in value. The diminished value can be measured as the difference in the value of the vehicle before the loss to that after the loss, prior to or after repair. In most cases even if the repair was done expertly, the value of the automobile will still be considerably less after a loss. When consumers find that a vehicle has been in an accident, most consumers will never pay the same price for a repaired vehicle as compared to one with no loss history.\n\nSome reports include an assessment of the damage done to a motor vehicle, the quality of the performed repair, the market value of the vehicle before and after the accident. There are no set rules for measuring diminished value, and since every vehicle loses value differently, a one size fits all formula would be fundamentally inaccurate.\n\nRecognition of concept of diminished value varies from country to country \n\nSome states' statutes acknowledge diminished value and provide the ability for consumers to collect first party claims of DV from their own insurance companies under their own policies. Most states allow the consumer to collect third party claims from the at-fault driver's insurance company. Some states recognize liability for third party claims but not first party claims.\n\nIn Georgia, vehicle owners can collect DV against their own policy.\n\nDiminished value is part of the Florida Standard Civil Jury Instructions. Diminished value case law in Florida is based primarily on two cases.\n\nThe ability to receive diminished value financial compensation from an at-fault driver for their negligence was decided by the Florida Supreme Court in the Siegle vs. Progressive Consumer's Insurance Company case. After Siegle insurance companies are able to exclude responsibility for the payment of diminished value to the vehicle that they insure through the language in the policy.\nThe Florida Third District Court of Appeal, upheld that the correct measure of damages is the cost of repair plus any reduction in the value of the vehicle. The Court also directed that proving the reduction in value is the burden of the Plaintiff bringing the claim.\n\nDiminished value is provided in Louisiana Revised Statute 9:2800.17. The vehicle owner must prove by a preponderance of evidence that the fair market value would be less than its value before the vehicle was damaged.\n\nOn July 15, 2014, a policyholder in Washington state filed a proposed class action lawsuit in the Superior Court of Pierce County seeking diminished value insurance benefits under their automobile insurance policies. The insurance company filed a notice to remove the lawsuit to federal district court on August 20, 2014. The case is titled \"Johnston v. United Services Automobile Ass'n\".\n\nThe ability to recover damages for accelerated depreciation varies from Province to Province.\n\nIn British Columbia, law recognizes this loss as a recoverable damage and quantify the claim based on the diminished value at the time the collision occurs.\n\nThe Rules addressing the admissibility of depreciation reports in court vary by jurisdiction. For example, in British Columbia, Canada, the BC Supreme Court requires such reports to comply with Rule 11.\n\n"}
{"id": "3155871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3155871", "title": "Event management", "text": "Event management\n\nThe process of planning and coordinating the event is usually referred to as event planning and which can include budgeting, scheduling, site selection, acquiring necessary permits, coordinating transportation and parking, arranging for speakers or entertainers, arranging decor, event security, catering, coordinating with third party vendors, and emergency plans. Each event is different in its nature so process of planning & execution of each event differs on basis of type of event. \n\nThe events industry now includes events of all sizes from the Olympics down to business breakfast meetings. Many industries, charitable organizations, and interest groups hold events in order to market themselves, build business relationships, raise money, or celebrate achievement.\n\nEvent management might be a tool for strategic marketing and communication, used by companies of every size. Companies can benefit from promotional events as a way to communicate with current and potential customers. For instance, these advertising-focused events can occur as press conferences, promotional events, or product launches.\n\nEvent managers may also use traditional news media in order to target their audience, hoping to generate media coverage which will reach thousands or millions of people. They can also invite their audience to their events and reach them at the actual event.\n\nThe event manager is the person who plans and executes the event, taking responsibility for the creative, technical, and logistical elements. This includes overall event design, brand building, marketing and communication strategy, audio-visual production, script writing, logistics, budgeting, negotiation, and client service.\n\nAn event venue may be an onsite or offsite location. The event manager is usually not responsible for operations at rented event or entertainment venues, but will monitor all aspects of the event on site. Some of the tasks listed in the introduction may pass to the venue, but usually at a cost.\n\nCorporate event managers book event venues to host corporate meetings, conferences, networking events, trade shows, product launches, team building retreats or training sessions in a more tailored environment.\n\nSustainable event management (also known as event greening) is the process used to produce an event with particular concern for environmental, economic, and social issues. Sustainability in event management incorporates socially and environmentally responsible decision making into the planning, organization and implementation of, and participation in, an event. It involves including sustainable development principles and practices in all levels of event organization, and aims to ensure that an event is hosted responsibly. It represents the total package of interventions at an event, and needs to be done in an integrated manner. Event greening should start at the inception of the project, and should involve all the key role players, such as clients, organizers, venues, sub-contractors, and suppliers.\n\nEvent management software companies provide event planners with software tools to handle many common activities such as delegate registration, hotel booking, travel booking, or allocation of exhibition floorspace.\n\nA recent trend in event technology is the use of mobile apps for events. Event mobile apps have a range of uses. They can be used to hold relatively static information such as the agenda, speaker biographies, and general FAQs. They can also encourage audience participation and engagement through interactive tools such as live voting/polling, submitting questions to speakers during Q&A, or building live interactive \"word clouds\". Mobile event apps can also be used by event organisers as a means of communication. Organisers can communicate with participants through the use of alerts, notifications, and push messages. They can also be used to collect feedback from the participants through the use of surveys in app. Going a step further, some mobile event apps can also help participants to engage with each other, with sponsors, and with the organisers with built-in networking functionality.\n\nThere are an increasing number of universities which offer courses in event management, including diplomas and graduate degrees. In addition to these academic courses, there are many associations and societies that provide courses on the various aspects of the industry. Study includes organizational skills, technical knowledge, public relations, marketing, advertising, catering, logistics, decor, glamor identity, human relations, study of law and licenses, risk management, budgeting, and the study of allied industries like television, other media, and several other areas. Certification can be acquired from various sources to obtain designations such as \n\n\n"}
{"id": "18515583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18515583", "title": "Event management software", "text": "Event management software\n\nEvent management software is the generic term for a wide range of software products that are used in the management of professional and academic conferences, trade exhibitions, conventions and smaller events such as Continuing Professional Development (CPD) meetings.\n\nThe most common event management applications are:\n"}
{"id": "1647073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1647073", "title": "Event videography", "text": "Event videography\n\nEvent videography is a video production, the art of capturing social and special events onto video by a videographer. The term is used to describe the videography of any event, aside from weddings and wedding videography.\n\nEvent videography is an offshoot of wedding videography and encompasses the video documentation of social functions, such as First Communions, anniversaries, dance recitals, bar mitzvahs, color guard contests, proms, concerts, etc.\n\nEvent videography started shortly after the introduction of consumer-based video cameras, or camcorders, in the late 1970s, as videographers, who had businesses documenting weddings, began to look for other markets to offer their services.\n\nThe art of event videography is somewhat similar today as it was back when the camcorder was first introduced. The main differences lie in the improved video camera technology and equipment. Advances in high definition technology are being applied to event videography.\n\n"}
{"id": "25724894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25724894", "title": "Famous Impostors", "text": "Famous Impostors\n\nFamous Impostors is the fourth and final book of non-fiction by Bram Stoker (the author of \"Dracula\"), published in 1910. It is a book that deals with exposing various impostors and hoaxes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1216583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1216583", "title": "Farewell speech", "text": "Farewell speech\n\nA farewell speech or farewell address is a speech given by an individual leaving a position or place. They are often used by public figures such as politicians as a to the preceding career, or as statements delivered by persons relating to reasons for their leaving. The term is often used as a euphemism for \"retirement speech\", though it is broader in that it may include geographical or even biological conclusion. In the Classics, a term for a dignified and poetic farewell speech is \"apobaterion\" (ἀποβατήριον), standing opposed to the \"epibaterion\", the corresponding speech made upon arrival.\n\nMany U.S. presidential speeches have been given the moniker \"farewell address\" since George Washington's address in 1796. Some notable examples:\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "535329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=535329", "title": "Fictitious entry", "text": "Fictitious entry\n\nFictitious or fake entries are deliberately incorrect entries in reference works such as dictionaries, encyclopedias, maps, and directories. There are more specific terms for particular kinds of fictitious entry, such as Mountweazel, trap street, paper street, paper town, phantom settlement, and nihilartikel.\n\nFictitious entries are included either as a humorous hoax or as a copyright trap to reveal subsequent plagiarism or copyright infringement. \n\nThe neologism \"Mountweazel\" was coined by \"The New Yorker\" based on a fictitious biographical entry in the 1975 \"New Columbia Encyclopedia\".\n\nThe term \"nihilartikel\", combining the Latin \"nihil\" (\"nothing\") and German \"Artikel\" (\"article\"), is sometimes used.\n\nBy including a trivial piece of false information in a larger work, it is easier to demonstrate subsequent plagiarism if the fictitious entry is copied along with other material. An admission of this motive appears in the preface to Chambers' 1964 mathematical tables: \"those [errors] that are known to exist form an uncomfortable trap for any would-be plagiarist\". Similarly, trap streets may be included in a map, or invented phone numbers in a telephone directory.\n\nFictitious entries may be used to demonstrate copying, but to prove legal infringement, the material must also be shown to be eligible for copyright (see \"Feist v. Rural\", Fred Worth lawsuit or \"Nester's Map & Guide Corp. v. Hagstrom Map Co.\", 796 F.Supp. 729, E.D.N.Y., 1992.)\nMost listings of the members of the German parliament feature the fictitious politician Jakob Maria Mierscheid, allegedly a member of the parliament since 1979. Among other activities he is reported to have contributed to a major symposium on the equally fictitious stone louse in Frankfurt.\n\nFictitious entries in reference publications often occur in an attempt to catch plagiarism, such as: \n\n\nFictitious entries on maps may be called phantom settlements, trap streets, paper towns, cartographer's follies, or other names. They are intended to help unmask copyright infringements.\n\n\n\nOther examples of copyright infringement that do not fall under the above categories include: \n\n\nSome publications such as those published by Harvard biologist John Bohannon are used to detect lack of academic scrutiny, editorial oversight, fraud and/or p hacking on the part of authors or their publishers. Trap publications may be used by publishers to immediately reject articles citing them, or by academics to detect journals of ill repute (those that would publish them or works citing them).\n\nFictitious entries often occur in reference publications as a prank, or practical joke, in an attempt to be humorous, such as: \n\n\nFictitious entries occasionally feature in other publications in an attempt to be humorous, such as:\n\n\nMany publications have included false items and then challenged readers to identify it, including:\n\nFictitious entries are sometimes plot points in fiction, including:\n\n\nFictitious entries may be used to demonstrate copying, but to prove legal infringement, the material must also be shown to be eligible for copyright. However, due to the \"Feist v. Rural\", Fred Worth lawsuit where the Supreme Court ruled that \"information alone without a minimum of original creativity cannot be protected by copyright\", there are very few cases where copyright has been proven. Many of these cases that go to court are dismissed and the affected party is rewarded no compensation.\n\n\nOften times there will be errors in maps, dictionaries, and other publications, that are not deliberate and thus are not fictitious entries. For example, within dictionaries there are such mistakes known as ghost words, \"words which have no real existence […] being mere coinages due to the blunders of printers or scribes, or to the perfervid imaginations of ignorant or blundering editors.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38022101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38022101", "title": "Foreign body aspiration", "text": "Foreign body aspiration\n\nForeign body aspiration occurs when a foreign body enters the airways and causes choking. Objects can enter the esophagus through the mouth, or enter the trachea through the mouth or nose.\n\nMost cases of foreign body aspiration are in children ages 6 months to 3 years due to the tendency for children to place small objects in the mouth and nose. Children of this age usually lack molars and cannot grind up food into small pieces for proper swallowing. Small, round objects including nuts, hard candy, popcorn kernels, beans, and berries are common causes of foreign body aspiration. Latex balloons are also a serious choking hazard in children that can result in death. A latex balloon will conform to the shape of the trachea, blocking the airway and making it difficult to expel with the Heimlich maneuver.\n\nIn adults, foreign body aspiration is most prevalent in populations with impaired swallowing mechanisms such as the following: neurological disorders, alcohol use, sedative use, advanced age (most common in the 6th decade of life), and loss of consciousness. \n\nSigns and symptoms of foreign body aspiration vary based on the site of obstruction, the size of the foreign body, and the severity of obstruction. 20% of foreign bodies become lodged in the upper airway, while 80% become lodged in the mainstem or lobar bronchus. Signs of foreign body aspiration are usually abrupt in onset with coughing, choking, and/or wheezing; however, symptoms can be more progressive if the foreign body does not cause a large degree of obstruction of the airway. \n\nClassically, patients present with acute onset of choking. In these cases, the obstruction is classified as a partial or complete obstruction. Signs of partial obstruction include choking with drooling, stridor, and the ability to speak. Signs of complete obstruction include choking with inability to speak or cough, and signs of respiratory distress such as cyanosis. \n\nForeign bodies above the larynx often present with stridor, while objects below the larynx present with wheezing. Foreign bodies above the vocal cords often present with difficulty and pain with swallowing and excessive drooling. Foreign bodies below the vocal cords often present with pain and difficulty with speaking and breathing. Increased respiratory rate may be the only sign of foreign body aspiration in a child who cannot verbalize or report if they have swallowed a foreign body.\n\nIf the foreign body does not cause a large degree of obstruction, patients may present with chronic cough, asymmetrical breath sounds on exam, or recurrent pneumonia of a specific lung lobe. The right lower lobe of the lung is the most common site of recurrent pneumonia in foreign body aspiration. This is due to the fact that the anatomy of the right main bronchus is wider and steeper than that of the left main bronchus.\n\nSigns and symptoms of foreign body aspiration in adults can sometimes mimic other lung disorders such as asthma, COPD, and lung cancer. \n\nIf foreign body aspiration is suspected, finger sweeping in the oral cavity is not recommended due to the increased risk of displacing the foreign object further into the airway. \n\nMost patients receive a chest x-ray to determine the location of the foreign body. However, a negative chest x-ray cannot rule out foreign body aspiration. Lateral neck, chest, and bilateral decubitus end-expiratory chest x-rays should be obtained in patients suspected of having aspirated a foreign body. Signs on x-ray that can be indicative of foreign body aspiration include visualization of the foreign body or hyperinflation of the affected lung. Other x-ray findings that can be seen with foreign body aspiration include obstructive emphysema, atelectasis, and consolidation.\n\nWhile, x-ray can be used to visualize the location and identity of a foreign body, rigid bronchoscopy under general anesthesia is the gold-standard for diagnosis since the foreign body can be visualized and removed with this intervention. Rigid bronchoscopy is indicated when two of the three following criteria are met: report of foreign body aspiration by the patient or a witness, abnormal lung exam findings, or abnormal chest x-ray findings. \n\nTreatment of foreign body aspiration is determined by the severity of obstruction of the airway involved. In partial obstruction, the patient can usually clear the foreign body with coughing. In complete obstruction, acute intervention is required to remove the foreign body.\n\nFor choking children less than 1 year of age, the child should be placed face down over the rescuer's arm. Back blows should be delivered with the heel of the hand, then the patient should be turned face-up and chest thrusts should be administered. The rescuer should alternate five back blows followed by five chest thrusts until the object is cleared. The Heimlich maneuver should be used in choking patients older than 1 year of age to dislodge a foreign body. If the patient becomes unresponsive during physical intervention, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) should be started.\n\nIn the event that the above measures do not remove the foreign body, and adequate ventilation cannot be restored, need for treatment by trained personnel becomes necessary. Laryngoscopy should be performed in unresponsive patients if non-invasive airway clearance techniques are unsuccessful. Laryngoscopy involves placing a device in the mouth to visualize the back of the airway. If the foreign body can be seen, it can be removed with forceps. An endotracheal tube should then be placed in order to prevent airway compromise from resulting inflammation after the procedure. If the foreign body cannot be visualized, intubation, tracheostomy, or needle cricothyrotomy can be done to restore an airway for patients who have become unresponsive due to airway compromise. \n\nIf non-invasive measures do not dislodge the foreign body, and the patient can maintain adequate ventilation, rigid bronchoscopy under general anesthesia should be performed. Supplemental oxygen, cardiac monitoring, and a pulse oximeter should be applied to the patient. Efforts should be made to keep the patient calm and avoid agitating the patient to prevent further airway compromise. After the foreign body is removed, patients should receive nebulized beta-adrenergic medication and chest physiotherapy to further protect the airway.\n\nMany complications can develop after a foreign body is removed, or if a foreign body remains in the airway. Patients may develop inflammation of the airway walls or lung abscess from a foreign body remaining in the airway. Hyperinflation of the airway distal to the obstruction can also occur if the foreign body is not removed. Patients can also develop pneumonia from retained foreign bodies. Episodes of recurrent pneumonia in the same lung field should prompt evaluation for a possible foreign body in the airway. Even if the foreign body is removed, complications such as chemical bronchitis, mucosal reactions, and the development of granulation tissue are possible.\n"}
{"id": "16191394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16191394", "title": "Geohazard", "text": "Geohazard\n\nA geohazard is a geological state that may lead to widespread damage or risk. Geohazards are geological and environmental conditions and involve long-term or short-term geological processes. Geohazards can be relatively small features, but they can also attain huge dimensions (e.g., submarine or surface landslide) and affect local and regional socio-economy to a large extent (e.g., tsunamis).\n\nHuman activities, such as drilling through overpressured zones—could result in significant risk, and as such mitigation and prevention are paramount, through improved understanding of geohazards, their preconditions, causes and implications. In other cases, particularly in montane regions, natural processes can cause catalytic events of a complex nature, such as an avalanche hitting a lake causes a debris flow, with consequences potentially hundreds of miles away, or creating a lahar by volcanism.\n\nThe continued and multi-disciplinary investigation into the occurrence and implications of geohazards, in particular offshore geohazards in relation with the oil and gas exploration, lead to specific mitigation studies and establishing relevant prevention mechanisms.\n\n\nEleven distinct flood basalt episodes occurred in the past 250 million years, resulting in large volcanic provinces, creating plateaus and mountain ranges on Earth. Large igneous provinces have been connected to five mass extinction events. The timing of six out of eleven known provinces coincide with periods of global warming and marine anoxia/dysoxia. Thus, suggesting that volcanic CO2 emissions can force an important effect on the climate system.\n\n"}
{"id": "42286204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42286204", "title": "GigMasters", "text": "GigMasters\n\nGigMasters Inc. is an event services booking platform. It is headquartered in South Norwalk, Connecticut.\nGigMasters matches entertainers with planners of weddings, dances, parties, festivals, celebrations and corporate events.\n\nGigMasters was founded in 1997 by New York area entrepreneurs Michael Caldwell and Kevin Kinyon. In February of that year, the company launched the first version of its website. In September 2010, GigMasters raised $200,000 in expansion funding from investor James Marciano.\n\nIn 2013, about half of the company's booking were wedding-related. In November 2013, the company raised $1.3 million in series A funding by XO Group, parent company of TheKnot.com. Kristin Savilia, XO Group's Executive Vice President, joined GigMasters' board of directors.\n\nIn September 2014, Inc. Magazine ranked GigMasters as one of the nation's 5000 fastest growing private companies.\n\nIn October, 2015, the Caldwell and Kinyon, creators of GigMasters, sold the company for $8.5 million to XO Group.\n\nGigMasters sorts entries by instrument and by event or service type. Musicians create profiles and describe their services. Potential customers can enter their location and search for the service they need.\n"}
{"id": "32038976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32038976", "title": "Global Wind Day", "text": "Global Wind Day\n\nGlobal Wind Day is a worldwide event that occurs annually on 15 June. It is organised by EWEA (European Wind Energy Association) and GWEC (Global Wind Energy Council).\nIn association with EWEA and GWEC, national wind energy associations and companies involved in wind energy production organise events in many countries around the world. In 2011, there were events organised in 30 countries, on 4 continents. Events included visits to onshore and offshore wind farms, information campaigns, demonstration turbines being set up in cities, wind workshops and a wind parade. Many events happened on Global Wind Day (15 June) itself, but there were also events on the days and weeks before and afterwards. In 2012 there were 250 events around the globe and a very popular photo competition. \n\nThe inaugural year of Wind Day (it did not become Global Wind Day until 2009) was organised by EWEA. The main idea was to coordinate events organised by national wind energy associations and companies active in the wind energy field. Wind Day in 2007 reached 18 countries in Europe, with a participation of around 35,000 people.\n\nWind Day 2008 reached 20 European countries and attracted 100,000 people.\n\nThis was the first year that EWEA joined forces with GWEC and extended the reach from European wind energy associations and companies to coordinate Wind Day events across the globe (and changing the name to Global Wind Day). In 2009 there were 300 events in 35 countries, reaching 1 million people.\n\nIn 2009 in Portugal the Wind Day was celebrated with an event called Wind Parade. It was organised in the city of Cascais just in front of the ocean. This project aimed to promote renewable energy good practices and in particular Wind Energy. It was supported by the City Council and conceived by Energia Lateral and implied the installation of 7 skstream micro wind turbines in a very visible place by the sea in June–July 9. One of the purposes was to involve children in the event and they were invited for a contest to decorate/paint small dummy wind turbines. Over 50 applications were submitted by 30 schools. The winner decorated a dummy wind turbine with Don Quixote elements comparing his fight against the windmills but in this case the wind mills being allies of Don Quixote in an epic effort to improve the environment.\n\nIn this year, 220 events took place in 30 countries, including the display of a 29.5 metre (96.7 ft) wind turbine blade in Brussels, Belgium, next to the main building of the European Commission and European Council. More than 1 million people were reached by Global Wind Day communications around the world.\n\nIn Brussels, Belgium, the home of EWEA and GWEC, a wind parade in Place de Luxembourg educated people working in the EU area on the benefits and importance of wind energy.\n\nGlobal Wind Day events happened in 30 countries around the world in 2011. Some examples include:\nIn France there were 15 events, ranging from wind farm inauguration to a jobs-in-the-wind-industry question and answer session. \nIn Austria, journalists leapt from the top of a turbine and abseiled to the ground. \nIn Japan there were 10 events, involving field trips to wind farms, experimental wind energy facilities and making wind turbines from a kit. \nIn Australia, an open day at a wind farm was available, with a community evening to finish off the day. \nIn Mexico, a public street fair featured a drawing competition for kids and a display of wind energy history.\n\nGlobal Wind Day partners organised 250 events around the globe in 2012, from wind farm open days to workshops, from\nphoto exhibition to regattas, from kite-flying to charity runs. For the first time, this included events in\nMexico, Chile, Israel, South Korea and South Africa.\nGlobal Wind Day 2012 gained the support of 18 GWD Ambassadors,who were joined by the Danish Presidency of the EU and the United Nations. Kandeh K. Yumkella, the Director-General of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), and the leader of Secretary General Ban Ki-moon’s Sustainable Energy for All initiative said, ‘We need to double the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix by 2030. This can be achieved with significant contribution from wind energy, both grid connected andfor small-scale decentralised systems. The ‘Global Wind Day’ on 15 June, does play a central role in contributing to the UNSG’s Sustainable Energy For All initiative through galvanising the much needed support for the wind energy industry from political leaders around the globe’.\nThe ‘Wind in Mind’ photo competition saw 2,300 photos from over 40 countries submitted.\n\nFor 2018, WindEurope and GWEC launched a global photo competition to capture the power of wind in the run up to Global Wind Day.\n\n"}
{"id": "50406244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50406244", "title": "Global news flow", "text": "Global news flow\n\nGlobal news flow (also referred to as international news flow) is a field of study that deals with the news coverage of events in foreign countries. It describes and explains the flow of news from one country to another.\n\nStudies on global news flow typically attempt to understand why certain countries are more newsworthy than others.. Along the years it has been found that the economic power of countries plays a particularly crucial role in their news prominence as well as the presence of international news agencies. Thus, the US has been found to be very prominent in news mentions around the world (18%), followed by China, Western European and Middle Eastern countries (about 3-5% each).\n\nThe unequal representation of the world and the under-representation of developing countries have been already of a great concern at least since the 1950s, since they influence the way people perceive the world and the image of countries. This problem was later addressed in the MacBride report, and his set of recommendations for a New World Information and Communication Order. The unequal representation of the world has been also linked to the World System Theory, and the unequal economic structure of the world.\n\nRecent empirical studies show that among online news websites and news aggregators the unequal representation of the world has been perpetuated and even further intensified. Economically powerful countries, as well as their opponent countries (mainly in the Middle East and Asia) get the most news coverage around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "5887342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5887342", "title": "Golden Checkerboard", "text": "Golden Checkerboard\n\nGolden Checkerboard (1965) is a book by Ed Ainsworth. Its subject matter concerns the mid-20th century economic conditions of the Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians of Palm Springs, California, and the history of the 99-year lease law which enabled them to commercially develop tribal owned lands. It focuses on Indio Superior Court Judge Hilton McCabe, who is described as \"The Little White Father of the Indians of Palm Springs\", and recalls the steps taken by McCabe to set up conservatorships and leases that would give the tribe investment opportunities and economic self-sufficiency. The title of the book refers to the Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians' reservation checkerboard pattern, originating from land grants to the Southern Pacific Railroad as an incentive to build rail lines through the region, when President Ulysses S. Grant signed an Executive Order granting \"San Bernardino Base and Meridian, Township 4 South, Range 4 East, Section 14\" to the Agua Caliente Indians.\n\nSection 14, which included the warm springs at the center of Palm Springs, and other sections surrounding Palm Springs, were \"owned\" by the Indians, but held \"in trust\" by the federal government; the Indians charged fees for bathing in the springs and picnicking in the canyon. In 1917, Congress passed the Allotment Act (39 Stat. 969, 976) which directed the Secretary of the Interior to divide and distribute the Indian land; Harry E. Wadsworth was appointed as the allotting agent. In 1927, the Secretary instructed Wadsworth to make a new schedule of allotments, which he did for the 24 members of the Band who made written applications. (In fact the allotments were not carried out; Band member Lee Arenas sued the federal government to have the allotments made legal and won his case in the United States Supreme Court.) In December 1944, Secretary of the Interior Oscar Chapman, acting on the advice of Commissioner of Indian Affairs John Collier, disapproved the allotting schedule set up by Wadsworth 17 years earlier.\n\nIn January 1953, Douglas McKay became Secretary of the Interior. Thereafter McKay asked industrialist Floyd B. Odlum (former president of Atlas Corp. and husband of Jacqueline Cochran) to investigate the affairs of the Agua Caliente Indians. The report by Odlum's committee was completed in April 1955 and put into final form in April 1956. Among other things, Odlum's report determined: that the Band consisted of 83 persons, the majority of whom were minors; the value of the Indian land, allotted and unallotted, totaled as much as $12,000,000; and the value of the land could increase with proper development. Odlum also discussed the legal problems related to unequal allotments, taxes on non-productive real estate, the inability to lease land because of a 5-year limit, and conflicting claims of the allottees. The report recommended that the Indian land be placed in a private corporation or trusteeship rather than existing wardship. Odlum's recommendations were not implemented because newly elected Congressman Dalip Singh Saund, who ran against Cochran in a bitter election campaign, blocked proposed legislation. In the meantime, Congress passed Public Law No. 255 in August 1955, which allowed for leases of 50 years.\n\nIn 1959, a landmark decision by the Secretary of the Interior equalized allotted Indian lands, thereby setting the stage for development of Indian lands within the city of Palm Springs. This same legislation, however, recognizing the potential value of Indian lands within the boundaries of a world-famous resort, also called for the appointment of conservators and guardians to \"protect\" Indians and their estates from \"artful and designing persons\" who might otherwise cheat them out of their properties, which could now be legally sold by the individual tribal members who owned them. By declaring Indians as \"incompetent\" (both as children and adults) court-appointed conservators and guardians took control of a majority of Indian estates. A major oversight of the program was the appointment of judges, lawyers, and business people as Indian conservators and guardians—the very people the program sought to protect Indians and their estates from. The program was administered by the Indio Superior Court's Judge Hilton McCabe, subject of \"Golden Checkerboard\". McCabe concurrently acted as a conservator to a number of tribal members and an executor, in addition to his administrative and legal roles.\n\nThe book received favorable reviews from \"Desert Magazine\" and the \"American Bar Association Journal\".\nFollowing a lawsuit by the Indians against the \"distorted, glorifying biography\", the publisher withdrew the book from the market. \n\nWith the ability to control Indian estates, the conservatorship program fostered corruption among the conservators and administrators—a series of Pulitzer Prize (1968) winning \"Riverside Press-Enterprise\" articles authored by journalist George Ringwald exposed such instances of excessive fees, fee-splitting, and other types of questionable conduct. The conservatorship program was officially ended in 1968 after the Secretary of the Interior's Palm Springs Task Force similarly exposed it as fraudulent and corrupt.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "572337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=572337", "title": "International crisis", "text": "International crisis\n\nThe term international crisis is widespread term without a single common definition. To some, it involves \"a sequence of interactions between the governments of two or more sovereign states in severe conflict, short of actual war, but involving the perception of a dangerously high probability of war\".\n\nLebow gives a breakdown of three types of international crises:\n\nWith the exception of a justification of hostilities, the study of international crises assumes that neither side actually wants to go to war, but must be visibly prepared to do so. In the words of Groucho Marx, \"Always be sincere, even if you don't mean it\".\n\nGeorge's book presents an overview of the process and conflicting goals of crisis management as well as many examples. He discusses a number of strategies, including:\n\n\n\nInternational crises tend to result in war, almost by definition; they are then remembered best not as crises but as causes of wars. For information on international crises that resulted immediately in war, see List of wars.\n\nGiven the above, some of the crises that are best-known \"as crises\" were defused. The following crises did not immediately provoke large-scale violence, but set of anger in countries:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "163678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163678", "title": "Kalimantaan", "text": "Kalimantaan\n\nKalimantaan is a novel by C. S. Godshalk offering a fictionalized account of the exploits of James Brooke in Sarawak in Borneo.\n\nThe novel uses of a variety of writing forms, including diary entries, letters, and straight narrative to tell its story. The author intentionally makes it difficult to determine what \"really\" happens in the story from dreams and fantasies of the characters.\n\nIn 1839, an English adventurer arrived on the northwest coast of Borneo, commissioned to deliver a letter of gratitude to the Sultan of Brunei for having safely returned the crew of a British merchantman, lost on his coast. It was a region full of headhunters, pirate tribes, and slave traders. Most Europeans with the temerity to enter the region had never been heard from again. This particular adventurer, however, seems to know how to play one power against another and manages to keep his balance in the midst of chaos. After performing a service for the Sultan (resolving a local tribal conflict through the use of his schooner's guns and leading an organized assault on a small native river fort), he is named governor of Sarawak, subject to the Sultan of Brunei. Within a few years, he has become the Rajah of Sarawak, an independent state, and established a dynasty that will last one hundred years.\n\nGodshalk has changed names and details while evoking a sense of the time, place, and atmosphere of the real events. The real adventurer was James Brooke; Ms. Godshalk's is named Gideon Barr. James Brooke's schooner was named the \"Royalist\"; Gideon Barr's is the \"Carolina\" (named after his mother). James Brooke was succeeded by his nephew, Charles Johnson, who took the last name Brooke. Gideon Barr is succeeded by his nephew Richard Hogg (Ms. Godshalk does not deal with the change of last name since her story focuses on Gideon's life and ends with his death).\n\nAlthough many of the events described actually took place, one cannot simply change the names and read the novel as history. James Brooke's mother died in 1844, two years after he became Rajah. Gideon's mother dies in Borneo much earlier while he is in grade school in England, providing him an emotional link to Borneo James Brooke did not have. James Brooke never married a European, although there is evidence that he was married to a Malay woman. Gideon Barr marries an Englishwoman to provide himself an \"air of permanence\" as Rajah and we see much of the later portion of the story through Amelia Barr's eyes. Amelia Barr is fictional, but largely based on Margaret Brooke, wife of the second Rajah, and her book \"My Life in Sarawak\". Gideon also maintains a Malayan mistress who provides a note of tragedy in the way her presence poisons Gideon and Amelia's relationship.\n\nOn the other hand, the 30,000 pounds that Brooke/Barr inherited at his father's death which enabled him to acquire his schooner, the massacre of the sons of the Sultan of Brunei, the Chinese insurrection of 1857, and the commission of inquiry in Singapore all took place as described. The inquiry in Singapore was concerned with the battle of Labuan in which Brooke/Barr led British warships in a pre-emptive strike against a pirate fleet, breaking the power of the Bugis for the next twenty years. Brooke/Barr's enemies attempted to use this against him by claiming he had used British naval power to slaughter innocent natives.\n\nGodshalk uses Malay words extensively in the book. While she provides a brief Malay glossary as an appendix, it does not cover all the words she uses. Enjoyment of \"Kalimantaan\" will be enhanced if one knows the following Malay words which are not in the glossary provided by the author:\n\n\"Kampilan\", actually a Filipino word, designates a long native sword.\n\n"}
{"id": "27825029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27825029", "title": "Kelley Moore", "text": "Kelley Moore\n\nKelley Lee Moore (born March 5, 1969) is an American television personality, event planner and author. She hosts the program \"Moore to Life\" (Canceled) \"So Much Moore\"\n\n(Canceled) and appeared on the local KING-TV program \"New Day Northwest\". Her other appearances have include HGTV, Ellen, The Today Show, The View, Rachael Ray, and Tyra Banks. She wrote the book, \"Cube Chic: Take Your Office Space from Drab to Fab\" and was the Entertaining Columnist for \"Seattle Magazine\".\n\nMoore began writing stories about the Northwest for \"Seattle Magazine\" and \"Northwest Home\" in 2003. Since then, she has appeared on King 5 News and KONG TV, with design, style, and entertaining tips. Her television show, \"Moore to Life\", debuted in 2009 on Seattle’s affiliate King 5 TV. And, in the fall of 2009, she appeared as one of three designers on HGTV’s, \"Halloween Block Party\".\n\nMoore has written one book, \"Cube Chic: Take Your Office Space from Drab to Fab\", and is currently working on her second, \"Design from the Inside Out\", due to release in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "40979521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40979521", "title": "Leander Tomarkin", "text": "Leander Tomarkin\n\nLeander William Tomarkin (13 December 1895 – 1967) was a Swiss impostor who claimed to possess a doctorate in medicine, as well as to have invented a miracle medicine for the cure of typhus, tuberculosis, meningitis, and malaria. He ascended to become the personal physician of Victor Emmanuel, king of Italy, and he convinced Albert Einstein to become patron of a conference organised by him.\n\nLeander Tomarkin was born on 13 December 1895 in Zollikon, Switzerland. A doctor's son, he was the black sheep of the family, obtaining bad results at school and dropping a chemistry degree at college. He also soon developed a reputation of dishonesty. He did not take up regular employment but spent his time in his father's laboratory, hoping to invent something.\n\nTomarkin rose to fame when he offered to cure Pope Benedict XV pneumonia in January 1922. The Pope died without Tomarkin being allowed to treat him but reporters subsequently picked up the story and enabled the progress of Tomarkin's medical career with publicising his \"Antimicrobum tomarkin\" medicine, whose active ingredient he named \"Aminoortobenzoilsulfoisoamiloidrocupronucleinforminsodico\". The Antimicrobum was to reduce pneumonia mortality from about one third to 2%. Tomarkin was allowed to treat a cousin of Victor Emmanuel III of Italy, and the cousin recovered. As a result the king named Tomarkin the personal physician of the family. A clinical test at the Santo Spirito hospital in Rome was also successful, later attributed to the better care for test patient and the relatively early stage of pneumonia that the patients were in.\n\nIn May 1924 Tomarkin emigrated to the United States, and three years later founded Tomarkin-Foundation Chemistry Research. At this research centre he developed \"Catalysan\" and \"Disulphamin\", claiming that these medicines bring about mood changes and treat sickness in that way. The Tomarkin Foundation soon spread to Europe. Its dependency in Locarno started to organise conferences between 1930 and 1938. These conferences were set beautifully and had rich side programs and thus attracted prominent people such as surgeon Ferdinand Sauerbruch. In 1931 Albert Einstein assumed the honorary presidency of the conference. Einstein only stayed in that position for one year, after a former landlady of Tomarkin contacted him to help retrieve debts.\n\nAt the onset of World War II Tomarkin again emigrated to the US, due to his Jewish ancestry. With the development of industrially manufactured antibiotics in 1939 his medical invention became obsolete. He ventured into other areas, trying to invent waterproof paint and synthetic diamonds but was unsuccessful with both. Tomarkin died in 1967.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17895", "title": "Leap year", "text": "Leap year\n\nA leap year (also known as an intercalary year or bissextile year) is a calendar year containing one additional day (or, in the case of lunisolar calendars, a month) added to keep the calendar year synchronized with the astronomical or seasonal year. Because seasons and astronomical events do not repeat in a whole number of days, calendars that have the same number of days in each year drift over time with respect to the event that the year is supposed to track. By inserting (also called \"intercalating\") an additional day or month into the year, the drift can be corrected. A year that is not a leap year is called a common year.\n\nFor example, in the Gregorian calendar, each leap year has 366 days instead of 365, by extending February to 29 days rather than the common 28. These extra days occur in years which are multiples of four (with the exception of centennial years not divisible by 400). Similarly, in the lunisolar Hebrew calendar, Adar Aleph, a 13th lunar month, is added seven times every 19 years to the twelve lunar months in its common years to keep its calendar year from drifting through the seasons. In the Bahá'í Calendar, a leap day is added when needed to ensure that the following year begins on the vernal equinox.\n\nThe name \"leap year\" probably comes from the fact that while a fixed date in the Gregorian calendar normally advances one day of the week from one year to the next, the day of the week in the 12 months following the leap day (from March 1 through February 28 of the following year) will advance two days due to the extra day (thus \"leaping over\" one of the days in the week). For example, Christmas Day (December 25) fell on a Sunday in 2016, and Monday in 2017, then it will fall on Tuesday in 2018, and Wednesday in 2019 but then \"leaps\" over Thursday to fall on a Friday in 2020.\n\nThe length of a day is also occasionally changed by the insertion of leap seconds into Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), owing to the variability of Earth's rotational period. Unlike leap days, leap seconds are not introduced on a regular schedule, since the variability in the length of the day is not entirely predictable.\n\nIn the Gregorian calendar, the standard calendar in most of the world, most years that are multiples of 4 are leap years. In each leap year, the month of February has 29 days instead of 28. Adding one extra day in the calendar every four years compensates for the fact that a period of 365 days is shorter than a tropical year by almost 6 hours. Some exceptions to this basic rule are required since the duration of a tropical year is slightly less than 365.25 days. The Gregorian reform modified the Julian calendar's scheme of leap years as follows:\nEvery year that is exactly divisible by four is a leap year, except for years that are exactly divisible by 100, but these centurial years are leap years if they are exactly divisible by 400. For example, the years 1700, 1800, and 1900 were not leap years, but the years 1600 and 2000 were.\n\nOver a period of four centuries, the accumulated error of adding a leap day \"every\" four years amounts to about three extra days. The Gregorian calendar therefore drops three leap days every 400 years, which is the length of its \"leap cycle\". This is done by dropping February 29 in the three century years (multiples of 100) that cannot be exactly divided by 400. The years 1600, 2000 and 2400 are leap years, while 1700, 1800, 1900, 2100, 2200 and 2300 are common years. By this rule, the average number of days per year is 365 +  −  +  = 365.2425. The rule can be applied to years before the Gregorian reform (the proleptic Gregorian calendar), if astronomical year numbering is used.\nThe Gregorian calendar was designed to keep the vernal equinox on or close to March 21, so that the date of Easter (celebrated on the Sunday after the ecclesiastical full moon that falls on or after March 21) remains close to the vernal equinox. The \"Accuracy\" section of the \"Gregorian calendar\" article discusses how well the Gregorian calendar achieves this design goal, and how well it approximates the tropical year.\n\nThe following pseudocode determines whether a year is a \"leap year\" or a \"common year\" in the Gregorian calendar (and in the proleptic Gregorian calendar before 1582). The \"year\" variable being tested is the integer representing the number of the year in the Gregorian calendar, and the tests are arranged to dispatch the most common cases first. Care should be taken in translating mathematical integer divisibility into specific programming languages.\n\nif (\"year\" is not divisible by 4) then (it is a common year)<br>\nelse if (\"year\" is not divisible by 100) then (it is a leap year)<br>\nelse if (\"year\" is not divisible by 400) then (it is a common year)<br>\nelse (it is a leap year)\n\nThe algorithm applies to proleptic Gregorian calendar years before 1, but only if the year is expressed with astronomical year numbering. It is not valid for the BC or BCE notation. The algorithm is not necessarily valid for years in the Julian calendar, such as years before 1752 in the British Empire. The year 1700 was a leap year in the Julian calendar, but not in the Gregorian calendar.\n\nFebruary 29 is a date that usually occurs every four years, and is called leap day. This day is added to the calendar in leap years as a corrective measure, because the Earth does not orbit the sun in precisely 365 days.\n\nThe Gregorian calendar is a modification of the Julian calendar first used by the Romans. The Roman calendar originated as a lunisolar calendar and named many of its days after the syzygies of the moon: the new moon (\"Kalendae\" or calends, hence \"calendar\") and the full moon (\"Idus\" or ides). The \"Nonae\" or nones was not the first quarter moon but was exactly one \"nundina\" or Roman market week of nine days before the ides, inclusively counting the ides as the first of those nine days. This is what we would call a period of eight days. In 1825, Ideler believed that the lunisolar calendar was abandoned about 450 BC by the decemvirs, who implemented the Roman Republican calendar, used until 46 BC. The days of these calendars were counted down (inclusively) to the next named day, so February 24 was \"ante diem sextum Kalendas Martias\" (\"the sixth day before the calends of March\") often abbreviated a. d. VI Kal. Mart. The Romans counted days inclusively in their calendars, so this was actually the fifth day before March 1 when counted in the modern exclusive manner (not including the starting day).\n\nThe Republican calendar's intercalary month was inserted on the first or second day after the Terminalia (a. d. VII Kal. Mar., February 23). The remaining days of Februarius were dropped. This intercalary month, named Intercalaris or Mercedonius, contained 27 days. The religious festivals that were normally celebrated in the last five days of February were moved to the last five days of Intercalaris. Because only 22 or 23 days were effectively added, not a full lunation, the calends and ides of the Roman Republican calendar were no longer associated with the new moon and full moon.\n\nThe Julian calendar, which was developed in 46 BC by Julius Caesar, and became effective in 45 BC, distributed an extra ten days among the months of the Roman Republican calendar. Caesar also replaced the intercalary month by a single intercalary day, located where the intercalary month used to be. To create the intercalary day, the existing \"ante diem sextum Kalendas Martias\" (February 24) was doubled, producing \"ante diem bis sextum Kalendas Martias\". Hence, the year containing the doubled day was a bissextile (\"bis sextum\", \"twice sixth\") year. For legal purposes, the two days of the \"bis sextum\" were considered to be a single day, with the second half being intercalated; but in common practice by 238, when Censorinus wrote, the intercalary day was followed by the last five days of February, a. d. VI, V, IV, III and pridie Kal. Mart. (the days numbered 24, 25, 26, 27, and 28 from the beginning of February in a common year), so that the intercalated day was the \"first\" half of the doubled day. Thus the intercalated day was effectively inserted between the 23rd and 24th days of February. All later writers, including Macrobius about 430, Bede in 725, and other medieval computists (calculators of Easter), continued to state that the bissextum (bissextile day) occurred before the last five days of February.\nUntil 1970, the Roman Catholic Church always celebrated the feast of Saint Matthias on a. d. VI Kal. Mart., so if the days were numbered from the beginning of the month, it was named February 24 in common years, but the presence of the bissextum in a bissextile year immediately before a. d. VI Kal. Mart. shifted the latter day to February 25 in leap years, with the Vigil of St. Matthias shifting from February 23 to the leap day of February 24. This shift did not take place in pre-Reformation Norway and Iceland; Pope Alexander III ruled that either practice was lawful (Liber Extra, 5. 40. 14. 1). Other feasts normally falling on February 25–28 in common years are also shifted to the following day in a leap year (although they would be on the same day according to the Roman notation). The practice is still observed by those who use the older calendars.\n\nThe Revised Bengali Calendar of Bangladesh and the Indian National Calendar organise their leap years so that the every leap day is close to a February 29 in the Gregorian calendar and vice versa. This makes it easy to convert dates to or from Gregorian.\n\nThe Thai solar calendar uses the Buddhist Era (BE), but has been synchronized with the Gregorian since AD 1941.\n\nFrom AD 8 the Julian calendar received an extra day added to February in years that are multiples of 4.\n\nThe Coptic calendar and Ethiopian calendar also add an extra day to the end of the year once every four years before a Julian 29-day February.\n\nThis rule gives an average year length of 365.25 days. However, it is 11 minutes longer than a tropical year. This means that the vernal equinox moves a day earlier in the calendar about every 131 years.\n\nThe Revised Julian calendar adds an extra day to February in years that are multiples of four, except for years that are multiples of 100 that do not leave a remainder of 200 or 600 when divided by 900. This rule agrees with the rule for the Gregorian calendar until 2799. The first year that dates in the Revised Julian calendar will not agree with those in the Gregorian calendar will be 2800, because it will be a leap year in the Gregorian calendar but not in the Revised Julian calendar.\n\nThis rule gives an average year length of 365.242222 days. This is a very good approximation to the \"mean\" tropical year, but because the \"vernal equinox\" year is slightly longer, the Revised Julian calendar for the time being does not do as good a job as the Gregorian calendar at keeping the vernal equinox on or close to March 21.\n\nThe Chinese calendar is lunisolar, so a leap year has an extra month, often called an \"embolismic\" month after the Greek word for it. In the Chinese calendar the leap month is added according to a rule which ensures that month 11 is always the month that contains the northern winter solstice. The intercalary month takes the same number as the preceding month; for example, if it follows the second month (二月) then it is simply called \"leap second month\" i.e. .\n\nThe Hebrew calendar is lunisolar with an embolismic month. This extra month is called \"Adar Alef\" (first Adar) and is added before \"Adar\", which then becomes \"Adar Bet\" (second Adar). According to the Metonic cycle, this is done seven times every nineteen years (specifically, in years 3, 6, 8, 11, 14, 17, and 19). This is to ensure that Passover () is always in the spring as required by the Torah (Pentateuch) in many verses relating to Passover.\n\nIn addition, the Hebrew calendar has postponement rules that postpone the start of the year by one or two days. These postponement rules reduce the number of different combinations of year length and starting days of the week from 28 to 14, and regulate the location of certain religious holidays in relation to the Sabbath. In particular, the first day of the Hebrew year can never be Sunday, Wednesday or Friday. This rule is known in Hebrew as \"\" (), i.e., \"Rosh [ha-Shanah, first day of the year] is not Sunday, Wednesday or Friday\" (as the Hebrew word is written by three Hebrew letters signifying Sunday, Wednesday and Friday). Accordingly, the first day of Passover is never Monday, Wednesday or Friday. This rule is known in Hebrew as \"\" (), which has a double meaning — \"Passover is not a legend\", but also \"Passover is not Monday, Wednesday or Friday\" (as the Hebrew word is written by three Hebrew letters signifying Monday, Wednesday and Friday).\n\nOne reason for this rule is that Yom Kippur, the holiest day in the Hebrew calendar and the tenth day of the Hebrew year, now must never be adjacent to the weekly Sabbath (which is Saturday), i.e., it must never fall on Friday or Sunday, in order not to have two adjacent Sabbath days. However, Yom Kippur can still be on Saturday. These rules for the Feasts do not apply to the years from the Creation to the deliverance of the Hebrews from Egypt under Moses. It was at that time (cf. Exodus 13) that the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob gave the Hebrews their \"Law\" including the days to be kept holy and the feast days and Sabbaths.\n\nYears consisting of 12 months have between 353 and 355 days. In a (\"in order\") 354-day year, months have alternating 30 and 29 day lengths. In a (\"lacking\") year, the month of Kislev is reduced to 29 days. In a (\"filled\") year, the month of Marcheshvan is increased to 30 days. 13-month years follow the same pattern, with the addition of the 30-day Adar Alef, giving them between 383 and 385 days.\n\nThe observed and calculated versions of the Islamic calendar do not have regular leap days, even though both have lunar months containing 29 or 30 days, generally in alternating order. However, the tabular Islamic calendar used by Islamic astronomers during the Middle Ages and still used by some Muslims does have a regular leap day added to the last month of the lunar year in 11 years of a 30-year cycle. This additional day is found at the end of the last month, Dhu 'l-Hijja, which is also the month of the Hajj.\n\nThe Hijri-Shamsi calendar, also adopted by the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, is based on solar calculations and is similar to the Gregorian calendar in its structure with the exception that the first year starts with Hijra.\n\nIn the Hindu calendar, which is a lunisolar calendar, the embolismic month is called \"adhika maas\" (extra month). It is the month in which the sun is in the same sign of the stellar zodiac on two consecutive dark moons. \"Adhika maas\" occurs once every 33 to 34 months, compensating for the approximately eleven fewer days per year in twelve lunar months than the solar calendar. Thus, Hindu festivals tend to occur within a given span of the Gregorian calendar. For example: the No Moon during Diwali festival occurs between mid - October and mid - November. Buddhist calendars in several related forms (each a simplified version of the Hindu calendar) are used on mainland Southeast Asia in the countries of Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, Myanmar (formerly Burma) and Sri Lanka.\n\nThe Hindu Calendar also known as Vikram Samvat is used in Nepal as the national calendar. All the official work is done based on this calendar.\n\nThe calendar followed in some parts of South India (mainly in Tamil Nadu) is solar. It has a leap year every four years.\n\nThe Bahá'í calendar is a solar calendar composed of 19 months of 19 days each (361 days). Years begin at Naw-Rúz, on the vernal equinox, on or about March 21. A period of \"Intercalary Days\", called Ayyam-i-Ha, are inserted before the 19th month. This period normally has 4 days, but an extra day is added when needed to ensure that the following year starts on the vernal equinox. This is calculated and known years in advance.\n\nThe Iranian calendar is an observational calendar that starts on the spring equinox and adds a single intercalated day to the last month (Esfand) once every four or five years; the first leap year occurs as the fifth year of the typical 33-year cycle and the remaining leap years occur every four years through the remainder of the 33-year cycle. The system used is more accurate and more complicated, and is based on the time of the March equinox as observed from Tehran. The 33-year period is not completely regular; every so often the 33-year cycle will be broken by a cycle of 29 years.\n\nIn Ireland and Britain, it is a tradition that women may propose marriage only in leap years. While it has been claimed that the tradition was initiated by Saint Patrick or Brigid of Kildare in 5th century Ireland, this is dubious, as the tradition has not been attested before the 19th century. Supposedly, a 1288 law by Queen Margaret of Scotland (then age five and living in Norway), required that fines be levied if a marriage proposal was refused by the man; compensation was deemed to be a pair of leather gloves, a single rose, £1 and a kiss. In some places the tradition was tightened to restricting female proposals to the modern leap day, February 29, or to the medieval (bissextile) leap day, February 24.\n\nAccording to Felten: \"A play from the turn of the 17th century, 'The Maydes Metamorphosis,' has it that 'this is leape year/women wear breeches.' A few hundred years later, breeches wouldn't do at all: Women looking to take advantage of their opportunity to pitch woo were expected to wear a scarlet petticoat — fair warning, if you will.\"\n\nIn Finland, the tradition is that if a man refuses a woman's proposal on leap day, he should buy her the fabrics for a skirt.\n\nIn France, since 1980, a satirical newspaper entitled \"La Bougie du Sapeur\" is published only on leap year, on February 29.\n\nIn Greece, marriage in a leap year is considered unlucky. One in five engaged couples in Greece will plan to avoid getting married in a leap year.\n\nIn February 1988 the town of Anthony in Texas, declared itself \"leap year capital of the world\", and an international leapling birthday club was started.\n\nA person born on February 29 may be called a \"leapling\" or a \"leaper\". In common years, they usually celebrate their birthdays on February 28. In some situations, March 1 is used as the birthday in a non-leap year, since it is the day following February 28.\n\nTechnically, a leapling will have fewer \"birthday anniversaries\" than their age in years. This phenomenon is exploited when a person claims to be only a quarter of their actual age, by counting their leap-year birthday anniversaries only: for example, in Gilbert and Sullivan's 1879 comic opera \"The Pirates of Penzance\", Frederic the pirate apprentice discovers that he is bound to serve the pirates until his 21st \"birthday\" (that is, when he turns 88 years old, since 1900 was not a leap year) rather than until his 21st \"year\".\n\nFor legal purposes, legal birthdays depend on how local laws count time intervals.\n\nThe Civil Code of the Republic of China since October 10, 1929, implies that the legal birthday of a leapling is February 28 in common years:\n\nSince 1990 non-retroactively, Hong Kong considers the legal birthday of a leapling March 1 in common years:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34258585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34258585", "title": "Let's Do It! World", "text": "Let's Do It! World\n\nLet's Do It! World is a global civic movement that started from Estonia, asking people worldwide to join a series of local, national and regional clean-up events. Among other projects, it is the founder of World Cleanup Day.\n\nThe Let's Do It! movement was first conceived in Estonia in year 2008, where a country clean-up action called Let's do it! (in Estonian: \"Teeme Ära!\") cleaned up 10,000 tons of illegal waste by more than 50,000 volunteers in one day. Following Estonia's lead many countries also started their own country clean-up events. In 2011 a new initiative called Let's do it! World was started with the aim of promoting massive clean-ups from 24 March 2012 till 15 September 2012. After a successful World Cleanup 2012 project the next bigger goal is to have World Cleanup Day in 2018.\n\nToday, the movement has grown into a network of 113 countries. All together, 14 million participants have been engaged in movement's activities.\n\nLet's Do It! World is an accredited member of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP).\n\nSince 2017, the movement uses W sign aka Three Fingers Up as a symbol. \n\nOn the 3rd of May 2008 over 50,000 people came out of their homes to clean up Estonia, the rest followed the process via all the media channels. That's 4% out of a population of 1,3 million - which would equal 15,3 million in the USA or 57 million in India. The idea spread from Estonia to the whole Europe and beyond. Next spring, in 2009, Latvia and Lithuania cleaned their countries with more than 250,000 people participating and have done it henceforth for three years, engaging more people each year. On 20 March 2010 Portugal cleaned their country with 200,000 people. Slovenia followed shortly, breaking all records with 270,000 people (which is 13% of the overall population of the country) taking part in the action. In the beginning of June the same year, Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine was cleaned. By the end of 2011 more than 2.5 million people have participated in Let’s Do It! cleanup actions in 16 countries – Estonia, India, Slovenia, Serbia, Finland, Romania, Latvia, Lithuania, Portugal, Bulgaria, Moldova, Ukraine, Cambodia, Russia, Hungary and Brazil.\n\nIn 2012, starting from 24 March until 25 September, a series of cleanups happened around the globe, on all continents, bringing together millions of volunteers in 96 countries. The action was initiated on 24 March 2012 by volunteers in Slovenia and Portugal.\n\nTo bring together doers and initiators and share existing experience – Let's Do It! teams were organizing workshops and regional gatherings, introducing the World Cleanup 2012 around the world. Each group or organisation was leading the cleanup action in their country.\nAfter a successful World Cleanup 2012 project, the network set more ambitious goals. During the Let's Do It! Clean World Conference held in Prishtina, Kosovo on the 6th-9th of February 2014, it was agreed, that the aim of the global movement is to clean up the whole World from illegally dumped solid waste and to then keep the planet clean. To reach the essential transformation in the global society, the leaders of country cleanups set the ambitious goal to involve 380 million people by 2018. According to Let's Do It! World, this is around 5% of the world’s population and is estimated to be the amount to create a lasting change.\n\nThe most massive cleanup actions (data: October 2014) within the movement have happened in Slovenia, Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Kosovo and in Albania.\n\nIn 2012, 289,000 Slovenians came out of the homes and cleaned up the entire country in just one day. This is 14% of the country's population.\n\nIn 2013, 375,000 cleaned up the country in Bulgaria in a one-day country cleanup action (13,9% of country's population).\n\nIn 2012, 210,000 people (10% of country's population) cleaned up Latvia from illegal waste in just one day.\n\nIn 2013, a massive civic cleanup action also took place in Kosovo, bringing together 132,000 people (7% of the population) and in the same year, Albania also had a massive cleanup action, uniting 147,000 people (5,25%) to clean up the country in just one day.\n\nIn 2015, 250,000 people (8,6% of country's population) cleaned up Lithuania from illegal waste in one day.\n\nIn 2015, over 500,000 people participated in Let's Do It! actions in Ukraine cleaning up illegal dump-sites around the country. \n\nAround 15 millions people in 158 countries took part on the World Clean Up Day, the 15th of September 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10150504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10150504", "title": "List of auto shows and motor shows by continent", "text": "List of auto shows and motor shows by continent\n\nAn auto show (also: motor show or car show) is a public exhibition of current automobile models, debuts, concept cars, or out-of-production classics. The five most prestigious auto shows, sometimes called the \"Big Five\", are generally considered to be held in Frankfurt, Geneva, Detroit, Paris and Tokyo.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29752766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29752766", "title": "List of fan conventions by date of founding", "text": "List of fan conventions by date of founding\n\nThe list of modern fan conventions for various genres of entertainment extends to the first conventions held in the 1930s. \n\nSome fan historians claim that the 1936 Philadelphia Science Fiction Conference, a.k.a. Philcon, was the first science fiction convention ever held. Others, such as Fred Patten and Rob Hansen, make this claim for the January 1937 event in Leeds, England, organized by the Leeds Science Fiction League, which was specifically organised as a conference, with a program and speakers. Out of this came the first incarnation of the British Science Fiction Association.\n\nWhile a few conventions were created in various parts of the world within the period between 1935-1960, the number of convention establishments increased slightly in the 1960s and then increased dramatically in the 1970s, with many of the largest conventions in the modern era being established during the latter decade. Impeti for further establishment of local fan conventions include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23563446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23563446", "title": "List of largest funerals", "text": "List of largest funerals\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23375589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23375589", "title": "List of modern infrastructure failures", "text": "List of modern infrastructure failures\n\nInfrastructure includes the basic physical and organizational structures needed for the operation of a society or enterprise, or the services and facilities necessary for an economy to function. This entry aggregates articles on and lists of modern infrastructure failures by category (type of infrastructure).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "34657877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34657877", "title": "List of occasions known by their dates", "text": "List of occasions known by their dates\n\nThis is a list of occasions, such as holidays and events, named after or commonly referred to by the calendar day on which they fall.\n\n"}
{"id": "21396853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21396853", "title": "List of science and engineering blunders", "text": "List of science and engineering blunders\n\nThis is a list of engineering blunders, i.e., gross errors or mistakes resulting from grave lack of proper consideration, such as stupidity, confusion, carelessness, or culpable ignorance, which resulted in notable incidents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1681795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1681795", "title": "Local news", "text": "Local news\n\nIn journalism, local news refers to coverage of events, by the news, in a local context that would not be an interest of another locality, or otherwise be of national or international scope. Local news, in contrast to national or international news, caters to the news of their regional and local communities; they focus on more localized issues and events. Some key features of local newsrooms includes regional politics, business, and human interest stories. Local news readership has been declining in recent years, according to a recent study.\n\nOpt-outs of local television news are frequent before, during, or after national evening news television programming. Often times, television networks can also commission or make provisions for their local stations to produce a longer standalone local news programmes. In some cases, local television markets/viewing areas within a country may even have a dedicated 24-hour local news channel. Local news stations have also started covering less and less local politics in favor of stories that they believe will garner more clicks or attention. A study has also shown that there has also been less investigative journalism within local news stations in recent years.\n\nLocal news largely covers the following:\n\nNational and international news, however, tend to cover a wider range of content, including news concerning specialized institutions of wide-ranging international power or influence, such as:\n\nIn the United States, local news is provided on local commercial broadcasting channels (some of which are television network affiliates). They can either be standalone newscasts that run for at least a half-hour or short segments that air attached to national morning newscasts approximately 25 and 55 minutes past the hour. As not all stations are owned and operated by a television network, the graphics, branding, and studio designs of a station's newscasts often differ from the network they are affiliated with although in recent years, affiliates have made some form of on-air reference to their corresponding networks in the branding of their newscasts. In addition, the local news departments of stations also superimpose their on-screen digital clocks, thermometers, and (occasionally) local news tickers on graphics provided by networks during morning network newscasts. Some cable channels are dedicated to local news coverage. Examples of this include NY1 in New York and NewsChannel 8 in the Washington DC market.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, most local news is provided on a local network station with similar branding and studio design to that of the national network news. Examples of this include the nationally networked BBC News and its regional news services such as BBC North West Tonight (on BBC North West) and BBC Newsline (on BBC Northern Ireland); the nationally networked ITV News and its regional stations including ITV Granada and UTV. The long version of BBC and ITV's local news shows often air during the 18:00 hour on weekday evenings. STV, which simulcasts most of the ITV network's programmes in Scotland, is not owned and operated by ITV but has its own branded newscast that broadcasts Scottish-centred news at the same time as ITV's regional news services.\n\nIn France, most local news is aired on France Televisions' France 3. Additionally BFM TV also has a local news channel for the Ile-de-France region called BFM Paris.\n\nNorway's public broadcaster, NRK1, airs a local news programme called NRK Distriktsnyheter (name of viewing area) every weekday evening at 18:45 Central European Time, just before the main national newscast Dagsrevyen. A replay of all local newscasts across the country is shown on NRK2 the following morning (Tuesday to Saturday).\n\nIn Sweden, SVT's regional news is simply called SVT Nyheter (name of viewing area) which shares the same branding as the network's main newscast, Rapport. Unlike SVT's counterparts in the US and UK, during morning programmes, the local news opt-out airs in the middle of each half-hour. Since June 2007, the morning regional cut-ins no longer feature an in-studio presenters but instead show compiled short reports from various correspondents across the region. When SVT World was still airing, the simulcast of the morning programme featured a different regional opt-out during each half-hour. A 13-minute standalone local newscast airs at 18:30 Central European Time each weekday evening after Sportnytt (SVT's sport news) on SVT1. Additionally, a short local news segment is incorporated into SVT's other evening newscast Aktuellt which airs on SVT2. In that case, this local news segment shares the same branding and graphics as Aktuellt. There are no local SVT newscasts on Saturdays.\n\nA lot of newspapers specialise in covering the cities they are based in. Although paper copies of local newspapers are usually sold and circulated exclusively in the local areas they operate (with entities such as libraries or relatives wanting a copy of the paper where a family member is mentioned being mailed copies of outside of circulation areas), companies may make digital copies of their newspapers available to interested readers directly on their website or through services such as PressReader often with a paid subscription.\n\nIn the United States, although newspapers such as \"The New York Times\" and \"The Washington Post\" have a 'national' focus on their front pages, they still have dedicated sections for news in the areas they are based in. Weather sections also highlight conditions in the local area and the sport sections feature local teams alongside national sport stories. Their local editions also feature local classified ads.\n\nIn the age of digital media, local news readership has started to fall. This can be attributed to the younger generation's disinterest in traditional news sources and the inability of news stations to fully integrate their business models and practices into the age of digital journalism. While national and international news industries began using Twitter as a way to break news and interact with their audiences, local news mediums have fallen behind, trending towards using Twitter as a secondary source for spreading information rather than a primary tool for audience engagement.\n\nSince Internet sites reach a larger audience, more local news agencies have started their own websites to compete in the digital age. Websites are a great way for local news stations to produce more interactive content, which engages the audiences and increases readership.\n\nAside from the Internet, Twitter specifically has become a great way to engage the younger generation in news, gain more readership, and spread information. National news sources have started using Twitter to quickly notify the public of breaking news and to interact with their readers, but local news have failed to integrate Twitter and other forms of social media into their journalism practices as successfully. While local TV news stations have actually been a bit more effective with using social media, local newspapers have overall fallen behind. By engaging the audience and spreading important information, social media has been considered a solid method for strengthening the core standards of journalism. As a result, social media like Twitter has become a vital tool for news agencies to incorporate into their everyday practices.\n\nAs a result of the transition to digital content, local news agencies have had to change their business models. Although they previously gained revenue from subscriptions, more agencies have started making money from online advertising, but this only accounts for a small portion of revenue. This loss in revenue has been linked to a decline in local journalistic integrity, because with less profit, the need to make money through clickbait articles has become a necessity.\n\n"}
{"id": "27869730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27869730", "title": "New Milford, New Hampshire", "text": "New Milford, New Hampshire\n\nNew Milford is a fictional town in New Hampshire, United States. It was the subject of a hoax article published in 2011 by \"The White Pine Series of Architectural Monographs\", which described the community as being a flourishing Victorian-era village in the White Mountains during the early 20th century. According to the article, New Milford had been incorporated in 1852 by working-class quarry workers, had enjoyed prosperity for many years, and then declined in the early 20th century, following a succession of unfortunate disasters at the quarry site, the decline of rail-based tourism, the Great Depression, and the outbreak of World Wars. Research by the Milford, New Hampshire, Historical Society and the New Hampshire State Library following the publication of the article led to the discovery that the article was fictitious.\n\n"}
{"id": "20781999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20781999", "title": "News", "text": "News\n\nNews is information about current events. This may be provided through many different media: word of mouth, printing, postal systems, broadcasting, electronic communication, or through the testimony of observers and witnesses to events. It is also used as a platform to manufacture opinion for the population see propaganda.\n\nCommon topics for news reports include war, government, politics, education, health, the environment, economy, business, fashion, and entertainment, as well as athletic events, quirky or unusual events. Government proclamations, concerning royal ceremonies, laws, taxes, public health, and criminals, have been dubbed news since ancient times. Humans exhibit a nearly universal desire to learn and share news, which they satisfy by talking to each other and sharing information. Technological and social developments, often driven by government communication and espionage networks, have increased the speed with which news can spread, as well as influenced its content. The genre of news as we know it today is closely associated with the newspaper, which originated in China as a court bulletin and spread, with paper and printing press, to Europe.\n\nThe English word \"news\" developed in the 14th century as a special use of the plural form of \"new\". In Middle English, the equivalent word was \"newes\", like the French \"nouvelles\" and the German \"Neues\". Similar developments are found in the Slavic languages the Czech and Slovak \"noviny\" (from \"nový\", \"new\"), the cognate Polish \"nowiny\", the Bulgarian \"novini\", and Russian \"novosti\" – and in the Celtic languages: the Welsh \"newyddion\" (from \"newydd\") and the Cornish \"nowodhow\" (from \"nowydh\").\n\nJessica Garretson Finch is credited with coining the phrase \"current events\" while teaching at Barnard College in the 1890s.\n\nAs its name implies, \"news\" typically connotes the presentation of new information. The newness of news gives it an uncertain quality which distinguishes it from the more careful investigations of history or other scholarly disciplines. Whereas historians tend to view events as causally related manifestations of underlying processes, news stories tend to describe events in isolation, and to exclude discussion of the relationships between them. News conspicuously describes the world in the present or immediate past, even when the most important aspects of a news story have occurred long in the past—or are expected to occur in the future. To make the news, an ongoing process must have some \"peg\", an event in time which anchors it to the present moment. Relatedly, news often addresses aspects of reality which seem unusual, deviant, or out of the ordinary. Hence the famous dictum that \"Dog Bites Man\" is not news, but \"Man Bites Dog\" is.\n\nAnother corollary of the newness of news is that, as new technology enables new media to disseminate news more quickly, 'slower' forms of communication may move away from 'news' towards 'analysis'.\n\nAccording to some theories, \"news\" is whatever the news industry sells. Journalism, broadly understood along the same lines, is the act or occupation of collecting and providing news. From a commercial perspective, news is simply one input, along with paper (or an electronic server) necessary to prepare a final product for distribution. A news agency supplies this resource \"wholesale\" and publishers enhance it for retail.\n\nMost purveyors of news value impartiality, neutrality, and objectivity, despite the inherent difficulty of reporting without political bias. Perception of these values has changed greatly over time as sensationalized 'tabloid journalism' has risen in popularity. Michael Schudson has argued that before the era of World War I and the concomitant rise of propaganda, journalists were not aware of the concept of bias in reporting, let alone actively correcting for it. News is also sometimes said to portray the truth, but this relationship is elusive and qualified.\n\nParadoxically, another property commonly attributed to news is sensationalism, the disproportionate focus on, and exaggeration of, emotive stories for public consumption. This news is also not unrelated to gossip, the human practice of sharing information about other humans of mutual interest. A common sensational topic is violence; hence another news dictum, \"if it bleeds, it leads\".\n\nNewsworthiness is defined as a subject having sufficient relevance to the public or a special audience to warrant press attention or coverage. Journalists apply news values to identify a news story. News values determine how much attention a news story is given by a media outlet, and the attention it is given by its audience or readers.\n\nIn some countries and at some points in history, what news media and the public have considered \"newsworthy\" has met different definitions, such as the notion of news values. Many news values seem to be common across cultures. People seem to be interested in news to the extent which it has a big impact, describes conflicts, happens nearby, involves well-known people, and deviates from the norms of everyday happenings. War is a common news topic, partly because it involves unknown events that could pose personal danger.\n\nEvidence suggests that cultures around the world have found a place for people to share stories about interesting new information. Among Zulus, Mongolians, Polynesians, and American Southerners, anthropologists have documented the practice of questioning travelers for news as a matter of priority. Sufficiently important news would be repeated quickly and often, and could spread by word of mouth over a large geographic area. Even as printing presses came into use in Europe, news for the general public often travelled orally via monks, travelers, town criers, etc.\n\nThe news is also transmitted in public gathering places, such as the Greek forum and the Roman baths. Starting in England, coffeehouses served as important sites for the spread of news, even after telecommunications became widely available. In the Muslim world, people have gathered and exchanged news at mosques and other social places. Travelers on pilgrimages to Mecca traditionally stay at caravanserais, roadside inns, along the way, and these places have naturally served as hubs for gaining news of the world. In late medieval Britain, reports (\"tidings\") of major events were a topic of great public interest, as chronicled in Chaucer's 1380 \"The House of Fame\" and other works.\n\nBefore the invention of newspapers in the early 17th century, official government bulletins and edicts were circulated at times in some centralized empires. The first documented use of an organized courier service for the diffusion of written documents is in Egypt, where Pharaohs used couriers for the diffusion of their decrees in the territory of the State (2400 BC). Julius Caesar regularly publicized his heroic deeds in Gaul, and upon becoming Emperor of Rome began publishing government announcements called \"Acta Diurna\". These were carved in metal or stone and posted in public places. In England, parliamentary declarations were delivered to sheriffs for public display and reading at the market.\n\nSpecially sanctioned messengers have been recognized in Vietnamese culture, among the Khasi people in India, and in the Fox and Winnebago cultures of the American midwest. The Zulu Kingdom used runners to quickly disseminate news. In West Africa, news can be spread by griots. In most cases, the official spreaders of news have been closely aligned with holders of political power.\n\nTown criers were a common means of conveying information to citydwellers. In thirteenth-century Florence, criers known as \"banditori\" arrived in the market regularly, to announce political news, to convoke public meetings, and to call the populace to arms. In 1307 and 1322–1325, laws were established governing their appointment, conduct, and salary. These laws stipulated how many times a banditoro was to repeat a proclamation (forty) and where in the city they were to read them. Different declarations sometimes came with additional protocols; announcements regarding the plague were also to be read at the city gates. These proclamations all used a standard format, beginning with an \"exordium\"—\"The worshipful and most esteemed gentlemen of the Eight of Ward and Security of the city of Florence make it known, notify, and expressly command, to whosoever, of whatever status, rank, quality and condition\"—and continuing with a statement (\"narratio\"), a request made upon the listeners (\"petitio\"), and the penalty to be exacted from those who would not comply (\"peroratio\"). In addition to major declarations, \"bandi\" (announcements) might concern petty crimes, requests for information, and notices about missing slaves. Niccolò Machiavelli was captured by the Medicis in 1513, following a bando calling for his immediate surrender. Some town criers could be paid to include advertising along with news.\n\nUnder the Ottoman Empire, official messages were regularly distributed at mosques, by traveling holy men, and by secular criers. These criers were sent to read official announcements in marketplaces, highways, and other well-traveled places, sometimes issuing commands and penalties for disobedience.\n\nThe spread of news has always been linked to the communications networks in place to disseminate it. Thus, political, religious, and commercial interests have historically controlled, expanded, and monitored communications channels by which news could spread. Postal services have long been closely entwined with the maintenance of political power in a large area.\n\nOne of the imperial communication channels, called the \"Royal Road\" traversed the Assyrian Empire and served as a key source of its power. The Roman Empire maintained a vast network of roads, known as \"cursus publicus\", for similar purposes.\n\nVisible chains of long distance signaling, known as optical telegraphy, have also been used throughout history to convey limited types of information. These can have ranged from smoke and fire signals to advanced systems using semaphore codes and telescopes. The latter form of optical telegraph came into use in Japan, Britain, France, and Germany from the 1790s through the 1850s.\n\nThe world's first written news may have originated in eighth century BCE China, where reports gathered by officials were eventually compiled as the \"Spring and Autumn Annals\". The annals, whose compilation is attributed to Confucius, were available to a sizeable reading public and dealt with common news themes—though they straddle the line between news and history. The Han dynasty is credited with developing one of the most effective imperial surveillance and communications networks in the ancient world. Government-produced news sheets, called tipao, circulated among court officials during the late Han dynasty (second and third centuries AD). Between 713 and 734, the \"Kaiyuan Za Bao\" (\"Bulletin of the Court\") of the Chinese Tang Dynasty published government news; it was handwritten on silk and read by government officials. The court created a Bureau of Official Reports (\"Jin Zhouyuan\") to centralize news distribution for the court. Newsletters called \"ch'ao pao\" continued to be produced and gained wider public circulation in the following centuries. In 1582 there was the first reference to privately published newssheets in Beijing, during the late Ming Dynasty.\n\nJapan had effective communications and postal delivery networks at several points in its history, first in 646 with the Taika Reform and again during the Kamakura period from 1183–1333. The system depended on \"hikyaku\", runners, and regularly spaced relay stations. By this method, news could travel between Kyoto and Kamakura in 5–7 days. Special horse-mounted messengers could move information at the speed of 170 kilometers per day. The Japanese shogunates were less tolerant than the Chinese government of news circulation. The postal system established during the Edo period was even more effective, with average speeds of 125–150 km/day and express speed of 200 km/day. This system was initially used only by the government, taking private communications only at exorbitant prices. Private services emerged and in 1668 established their own \"nakama\" (guild). They became even faster, and created an effective optical telegraphy system using flags by day and lanterns and mirrors by night.\n\nIn Europe, during the Middle Ages, elites relied on runners to transmit news over long distances. At 33 kilometres per day, a runner would take two months to bring a message across the Hanseatic League from Bruges to Riga. In the early modern period, increased cross-border interaction created a rising need for information which was met by concise handwritten newssheets. The driving force of this new development was the commercial advantage provided by up-to-date news.\n\nIn 1556, the government of Venice first published the monthly \"Notizie scritte\", which cost one gazetta. These avvisi were handwritten newsletters and used to convey political, military, and economic news quickly and efficiently to Italian cities (1500–1700)—sharing some characteristics of newspapers though usually not considered true newspapers. \"Avvisi\" were sold by subscription under the auspices of military, religious, and banking authorities. Sponsorship flavored the contents of each series, which were circulated under many different names. Subscribers included clerics, diplomatic staff, and noble families. By the last quarter of the seventeenth century \"avvisi\" long passages from were finding their way into published monthlies such as the Mercure de France and, in northern Italy, \"Pallade veneta\".\nPostal services enabled merchants and monarchs to stay abreast of important information. For the Holy Roman Empire, Emperor Maximillian I in 1490 authorized two brothers from the Italian Tasso family, Francesco and Janettto, to create a network of courier stations linked by riders. They began with a communications line between Innsbruck and Mechelen and grew from there. In 1505 this network expanded to Spain, new governed by Maximilian's son Philip. These riders could travel 180 kilometers in a day. This system became the Imperial Reichspost, administered by Tasso descendents (subsequently known as Thurn-und-Taxis), who in 1587 received exclusive operating rights from the Emperor. The French postal service and English postal service also began at this time, but did not become comprehensive until the early 1600s. In 1620, the English system linked with Thurn-und-Taxis.\n\nThese connections underpinned an extensive system of news circulation, with handwritten items bearing dates and places of origin. Centred in Germany, the network took in news from Russia, the Balkans, Italy, Britain, France, and the Netherlands. The German lawyer Christoph von Scheurl and the Fugger house of Augsburg were prominent hubs in this network. Letters describing historically significant events could gain wide circulation as news reports. Indeed, personal correspondence sometimes acted only as a convenient channel through which news could flow across a larger network. A common type of business communication was a simple listing of current prices, the circulation of which quickened the flow of international trade. Businesspeople also wanted to know about events related to shipping, the affairs of other businesses, and political developments. Even after the advent of international newspapers, business owners still valued correspondence highly as a source of reliable news that would affect their enterprise. Handwritten newsletters, which could be produced quickly for a limited clientele, also continued into the 1600s.\n\nThe spread of paper and the printing press from China to Europe preceded a major advance in the transmission of news. With the spread of printing presses and the creation of new markets in the 1500s, news underwent a shift from factual and precise economic reporting, to a more emotive and freewheeling format. (Private newsletters containing important intelligence therefore remained in use by people who needed to know.) The first newspapers emerged in Germany in the early 1600s. Relation aller Fürnemmen und gedenckwürdigen Historien, from 1605, is recognized as the world's first formalized 'newspaper'; while not a 'newspaper' in the modern sense, the Ancient Roman acta diurna served a similar purpose circa 131 BC.\n\nThe new format, which mashed together numerous unrelated and perhaps dubious reports from far-flung locations, created a radically new and jarring experience for its readers. A variety of styles emerged, from single-story tales, to compilations, overviews, and personal and impersonal types of news analysis.\n\nNews for public consumption was at first tightly controlled by governments. By 1530, England had created a licensing system for the press and banned \"seditious opinions\". Under the Licensing Act, publication was restricted to approved presses—as exemplified by The London Gazette, which prominently bore the words: \"Published By Authority\". Parliament allowed the Licensing Act to lapse in 1695, beginning a new era marked by Whig and Tory newspapers. (During this era, the Stamp Act limited newspaper distribution simply by making them expensive to sell and buy.) In France, censorship was even more constant. Consequently, many Europeans read newspapers originating from beyond their national borders—especially from the Dutch Republic, where publishers could evade state censorship.\n\nThe new United States saw a newspaper boom beginning with the Revolutionary era, accelerated by spirited debates over the establishment of a new government, spurred on by subsidies contained in the 1792 Postal Service Act, and continuing into the 1800s. American newspapers got many of their stories by copying reports from each other. Thus by offering free postage to newspapers wishing to exchange copies, the Postal Service Act subsidized a rapidly growing news network through which different stories could percolate. Newspapers thrived during the colonization of the West, fueled by high literacy and a newspaper-loving culture. By 1880, San Francisco rivaled New York in number of different newspapers and in printed newspaper copies per capita. Boosters of new towns felt that newspapers covering local events brought legitimacy, recognition, and community. The 1830s American, wrote Alexis de Tocqueville, was \"a very civilized man prepared for a time to face life in the forest, plunging into the wilderness of the New World with his Bible, ax, and newspapers.\" In France, the Revolution brought forth an abundance of newspapers and a new climate of press freedom, followed by a return to repression under Napoleon. In 1792 the Revolutionaries set up a news ministry called the \"Bureau d'Esprit\".\n\nSome newspapers published in the 1800s and after retained the commercial orientation characteristic of the private newsletters of the Renaissance. Economically oriented newspapers published new types of data enabled the advent of statistics, especially economic statistics which could inform sophisticated investment decisions. These newspapers, too, became available for larger sections of society, not just elites, keen on investing some of their savings in the stock markets. Yet, as in the case other newspapers, the incorporation of advertising into the newspaper led to justified reservations about accepting newspaper information at face value. Economic newspapers also became promoters of economic ideologies, such as Keynesianism in the mid-1900s.\n\nNewspapers came to sub-Saharan Africa via colonization. The first English-language newspaper in the area was \"The Royal Gazette and Sierra Leone Advertiser\", established in 1801, and followed by \"The Royal Gold Coast Gazette and Commercial Intelligencer\" in 1822 and the \"Liberia Herald\" in 1826. A number of nineteenth-century African newspapers were established by missionaries. These newspapers by and large promoted the colonial governments and served the interests of European settlers by relaying news from Europe. The first newspaper published in a native African language was the \"Muigwithania\", published in Kikuyu by the Kenyan Central Association. \"Muigwithania\" and other newspapers published by indigenous Africans took strong opposition stances, agitating strongly for African independence. Newspapers were censored heavily during the colonial period—as well as after formal independence. Some liberalization and diversification took place in the 1990s.\n\nNewspapers were slow to spread to the Arab world, which had a stronger tradition of oral communication, and mistrust of the European approach to news reporting. By the end of the eighteenth century, the Ottoman Empire's leaders in Istanbul did monitor the European press, but its contents were not disseminated for mass consumption. Some of the first written news in modern North Africa arose in Egypt under Muhammad Ali, who developed the local paper industry and initiated the limited circulation of news bulletins called \"jurnals\". Beginning in the 1850s and 1860s, the private press began to develop in the multi-religious country of Lebanon.\n\nThe development of the electrical telegraph, which often travelled along railroad lines, enabled news to travel faster, over longer distances. (Days before Morse's Baltimore–Washington line transmitted the famous question, \"What hath God wrought?\", it transmitted the news that Henry Clay and Theodore Frelinghuysen had been chosen by the Whig nominating party.) Telegraph networks enabled a new centralization of the news, in the hands of wire services concentrated in major cities. The modern form of these originated with Charles-Louis Havas, who founded Bureau Havas (later Agence France-Presse) in Paris. Havas began in 1832, using the French government's optical telegraph network. In 1840 he began using pigeons for communications to Paris, London, and Brussels. Havas began to use the electric telegraph when it became available.\n\nOne of Havas's protoges, Bernhard Wolff, founded Wolffs Telegraphisches Bureau in Berlin in 1849. Another Havas disciple, Paul Reuter, began collecting news from Germany and France in 1849, and in 1851 immigrated to London, where he established the Reuters news agency—specializing in news from the continent. In 1863, William Saunders and Edward Spender formed the Central Press agency, later called the Press Association, to handle domestic news. Just before insulated telegraph line crossed the English Channel in 1851, Reuter won the right to transmit stock exchange prices between Paris and London. He maneuvered Reuters into a dominant global position with the motto \"Follow the Cable\", setting up news outposts across the British Empire in Alexandria (1865), Bombay (1866), Melbourne (1874), Sydney (1874), and Cape Town (1876). In the United States, the Associated Press became a news powerhouse, gaining a lead position through an exclusive arrangement with the Western Union company.\n\nThe telegraph ushered in a new global communications regime, accompanied by a restructuring of the national postal systems, and closely followed by the advent of telephone lines. With the value of international news at a premium, governments, businesses, and news agencies moved aggressively to reduce transmission times. In 1865, Reuters had the scoop on the Lincoln assassination, reporting the news in England twelve days after the event took place. In 1866, an undersea telegraph cable successfully connected Ireland to Newfoundland (and thus the Western Union network) cutting trans-Atlantic transmission time from days to hours. The transatlantic cable allowed fast exchange of information about the London and New York stock exchanges, as well as the New York, Chicago, and Liverpool commodity exchanges—for the price of $5–10, in gold, per word. Transmitting On 11 May 1857, a young British telegraph operator in Delhi signaled home to alert the authorities of the Indian Rebellion of 1857. The rebels proceeded to disrupt the British telegraph network, which was rebuilt with more redundancies. In 1902–1903, Britain and the U.S. completed the circumtelegraphy of the planet with transpacific cables from Canada to Fiji and New Zealand (British Empire), and from the US to Hawaii and the occupied Philippines. U.S. reassertions of the Monroe Doctrine notwithstanding, Latin America was a battleground of competing telegraphic interests until World War I, after which U.S. interests finally did consolidate their power in the hemisphere.\nBy the turn of the century (i.e., circa 1900), Wolff, Havas, and Reuters formed a news cartel, dividing up the global market into three sections, in which each had more-or-less exclusive distribution rights and relationships with national agencies. Each agency's area corresponded roughly to the colonial sphere of its mother country. Reuters and the Australian national news service had an agreement to exchange news only with each other. Due to the high cost of maintaining infrastructure, political goodwill, and global reach, newcomers found it virtually impossible to challenge the big three European agencies or the American Associated Press. In 1890 Reuters (in partnership with the Press Association, England's major news agency for domestic stories) expanded into \"soft\" news stories for public consumption, about topics such as sports and \"human interest\". In 1904, the big three wire services opened relations with \"Vestnik\", the news agency of Czarist Russia, to their group, though they maintained their own reporters in Moscow. During and after the Russian Revolution, the outside agencies maintained a working relationship with the Petrograd Telegraph Agency, renamed the Russian Telegraph Agency (ROSTA) and eventually the Telegraph Agency of the Soviet Union (TASS).\n\nThe Chinese Communist Party created its news agency, the Red China News Agency, in 1931; its primary responsibilities were the \"Red China\" newspaper and the internal \"Reference News\". In 1937, the Party renamed the agency \"Xinhua\", New China. Xinhua became the official news agency of the People's Republic of China in 1949.\n\nThese agencies touted their ability to distill events into \"minute globules of news\", 20–30 word summaries which conveyed the essence of new developments. Unlike newspapers, and contrary to the sentiments of some of their reporters, the agencies sought to keep their reports simple and factual. The wire services brought forth the \"inverted pyramid\" model of news copy, in which key facts appear at the start of the text, and more and more details included as it goes along. The sparse telegraphic writing style spilled over into newspapers, which often reprinted stories from the wire with little embellishment. In a 20 September 1918 \"Pravda\" editorial, Lenin instructed the Soviet press to cut back on their political rambling and produce many short anticapitalist news items in \"telegraph style\".\n\nAs in previous eras, the news agencies provided special services to political and business clients, and these services constituted a significant portion of their operations and income. The wire services maintained close relationships with their respective national governments, which provided both press releases and payments. The acceleration and centralization of economic news facilitated regional economic integration and economic globalization. \"It was the decrease in information costs and the increasing communication speed that stood at the roots of increased market integration, rather than falling transport costs by itself. In order to send goods to another area, merchants needed to know first whether in fact to send off the goods and to what place. Information costs and speed were essential for these decisions.\n\nThe British Broadcasting Company began transmitting radio news from London in 1922, dependent entirely, by law, on the British news agencies. BBC radio marketed itself as a news by and for social elites, and hired only broadcasters who spoke with upper-class accents. The BBC gained importance in the May 1926 general strike, during which newspapers were closed and the radio served as the only source of news for an uncertain public. (To the displeasure of many listeners, the BBC took an unambiguously pro-government stance against the strikers).\n\nIn the USA, RCA's Radio Group established its radio network, NBC, in 1926. The Paley family founded CBS soon after. These two networks, which supplied news broadcasts to subsidiaries and affiliates, dominated the airwaves throughout the period of radio's hegemony as a news source. Radio broadcasters in the United States negotiated a similar arrangement with the press in 1933, when they agreed to use only news from the Press–Radio Bureau and eschew advertising; this agreement soon collapsed and radio stations began reporting their own news (with advertising). As in Britain, American news radio avoided \"controversial\" topics as per norms established by the National Association of Broadcasters. By 1939, 58% of Americans surveyed by \"Fortune\" considered radio news more accurate than newspapers, and 70% chose radio as their main news source. Radio expanded rapidly across the continent, from 30 stations in 1920 to a thousand in the 1930s. This operation was financed mostly with advertising and public relations money.\n\nThe Soviet Union began a major international broadcasting operation in 1929, with stations in German, English and French. The Nazi Party made use of the radio in its rise to power in Germany, with much of its propaganda focused on attacking the Soviet Bolsheviks. The British and Italian foreign radio services competed for influence in North Africa. All four of these broadcast services grew increasingly vitriolic as the European nations prepared for war.\n\nThe war provided an opportunity to expand radio and take advantage of its new potential. The BBC reported on Allied invasion of Normandy on 8:00 a.m. of the morning it took place, and including a clip from German radio coverage of the same event. Listeners followed along with developments throughout the day. The U.S. set up its Office of War Information which by 1942 sent programming across South America, the Middle East, and East Asia. Radio Luxembourg, a centrally located high-power station on the continent, was seized by Germany, and then by the United States—which created fake news programs appearing as though they were created by Germany. Targeting American troops in the Pacific, the Japanese government broadcast the \"Zero Hour\" program, which included news from the U.S. to make the soldiers homesick. But by the end of the war, Britain had the largest radio network in the world, broadcasting internationally in 43 different languages. Its scope would eventually be surpassed (by 1955) by the worldwide Voice of America programs, produced by the United States Information Agency.\n\nIn Britain and the United States, television news watching rose dramatically in the 1950s and by the 1960s supplanted radio as the public's primary source of news. In the U.S., television was run by the same networks which owned radio: CBS, NBC, and an NBC spin-off called ABC. Edward R. Murrow, who first entered the public ear as a war reporter in London, made the big leap to television to become an iconic newsman on CBS (and later the director of the United States Information Agency).\n\nTed Turner's creation of the Cable News Network (CNN) in 1980 inaugurated a new era of 24-hour satellite news broadcasting. In 1991, the BBC introduced a competitor, BBC World Service Television. Rupert Murdoch's Australian News Corporation entered the picture with Fox News Channel in the US, Sky News in Britain, and STAR TV in Asia. Combining this new appartus with the use of embedded reporters, the United States waged the 1991–1992 Gulf War with the assistance of nonstop media coverage. CNN's specialty is the crisis, to which the network is prepared to shift its total attention if so chosen. CNN news was transmitted via INTELSAT communications satellites. CNN, said an executive, would bring a \"town crier to the global village\".\n\nIn 1996, the Qatar-owned broadcaster Al Jazeera emerged as a powerful alternative to the Western media, capitalizing in part on anger in the Arab & Muslim world regarding biased coverage of the Gulf War. Al Jazeera hired many news workers conveniently laid off by BBC Arabic Television, which closed in April 1996. It used Arabsat to broadcast.\n\nThe early internet, known as ARPANET, was controlled by the U.S. Department of Defense and used mostly by academics. It became available to a wider public with the release of the Netscape browser in 1994. At first, news websites were mostly archives of print publications. An early online newspaper was the \"Electronic Telegraph\", published by \"The Daily Telegraph\". A 1994 earthquake in California was one of the first big stories to be reported online in real time. In 1995, the release of web browser Netscape made news sites accessible to more people. On the day of the Oklahoma City bombing in April 1995, people flocked to newsgroups and chatrooms to discuss the situation and share information. The \"Oklahoma City Daily\" posted news to its site within hours. Two of the only news sites capable of hosting images, the \"San Jose Mercury News\" and \"Time\" magazine, posted photographs of the scene.\n\nQuantitatively, the internet has massively expanded the sheer volume of news items available to one person. The speed of news flow to individuals has also reached a new plateau. This insurmountable flow of news can daunt people and cause information overload. Zbigniew Brzezinski called this period the \"technetronic era\", in which \"global reality increasingly absorbs the individual, involves him, and even occasionally overwhelms him.\"\n\nIn cases of government crackdowns or revolutions, the Internet has often become a major communication channel for news propagation; while it's a (relatively) simple act to shut down a newspaper, radio or television station, mobile devices such as smartphones and netbooks are much harder to detect and confiscate. The propagation of internet-capable mobile devices has also given rise to the citizen journalist, who provide an additional perspective on unfolding events.\n\nNews can travel through different communication media. In modern times, printed news had to be phoned into a newsroom or brought there by a reporter, where it was typed and either transmitted over wire services or edited and manually set in type along with other news stories for a specific edition. Today, the term \"breaking news\" has become trite as commercial broadcasting United States cable news services that are available 24 hours a day use live communications satellite technology to bring current events into consumers' homes as the event occurs. Events that used to take hours or days to become common knowledge in towns or in nations are fed instantaneously to consumers via radio, television, mobile phone, and the internet.\n\nSpeed of news transmission, of course, still varies wildly on the basis of where and how one lives.\n\nMost large cities in the United States historically had morning and afternoon newspapers. With the addition of new communications media, afternoon newspapers have shut down and morning newspapers have lost circulation. Weekly newspapers have somewhat increased. In more and more cities, newspapers have established local market monopolies—i.e., a single newspaper is the only one in town. This process has accelerated since the 1980s, commensurate with a general trend of consolidation in media ownership. In China, too, newspapers have gained exclusive status, city-by-city, and pooled into large associations such as Chengdu Business News. These associations function like news agencies, challenging the hegemony of Xinhua as a news provider.\n\nThe world's top three most circulated newspapers all publish from Japan.\n\nAbout one-third of newspaper revenue comes from sales; the majority comes from advertising. Newspapers have struggled to maintain revenue given declining circulation and the free flow of information over the internet; some have implemented paywalls for their websites.\n\nIn the U.S., many newspapers have shifted their operations online, publishing around the clock rather than daily in order to keep pace with the internet society. Prognosticators have suggested that print newspapers will vanish from the U.S. in 5–20 years. Many newspapers have started to track social media engagement for trending news stories to cover. Spain's Público has reshaped their social media strategy and grew their audience by 40 %.\n\nInternationally distributed news channels include BBC News, CNN, Fox News, MSNBC, and Sky News. Televisions are densely concentrated in the United States (98% of households), and the average American watches 4 hours of television programming each day. In other parts of the world, such as Kenya—especially rural areas without much electricity—televisions are rare.\n\nThe largest supplier of international video news is Reuters TV, with 409 subscribers in 83 countries, 38 bureaus, and a reported audience of 1.5 billion people each day. The other major video news service is Associated Press Television News. These two major agencies have agreements to exchange video news with ABC, NBC, CBS, CNN, and Eurovision—itself a sizeable video news exchange. CNN International is a notable broadcaster in times of crisis.\n\nOnline journalism is news that is reported on the internet. News can be delivered more quickly through this method of news as well as accessed more easily. The internet era has transformed the understanding of news. Because the internet allows communication which is not only instantaneous, but also bi- or multi-directional, it has blurred the boundaries of who is a legitimate news producer. A common type of internet journalism is called blogging, which is a service of persistently written articles uploaded and written by one or more individuals. Millions of people in countries such as the United States and South Korea have taken up blogging. Many blogs have rather small audiences; some blogs are read by millions each month. Social media sites, especially Twitter and Facebook, have become an important source of breaking news information and for disseminating links to news websites. Twitter declared in 2012: \"It's like being delivered a newspaper whose headlines you'll always find interesting—you can discover news as it's happening, learn more about topics that are important to you, and get the inside scoop in real time.\" Cell phone cameras have normalized citizen photojournalism.\n\nMichael Schudson, professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, has said that \"[e]verything we thought we once knew about journalism needs to be rethought in the Digital Age.\" Today the work of journalism can be done from anywhere and done well. It requires no more than a reporter and a laptop. In that way, journalistic authority seems to have become more individual- and less institution-based. But does the individual reporter always have to be an actual journalist? Or can journalistic work be done from anywhere and by anyone? These are questions that refer to the core of journalistic practice and the definition of \"news\" itself. As Schudson has given emphasis to, the answer is not easily found; \"the ground journalists walk upon is shaking, and the experience for both those who work in the field and those on the outside studying it is dizzying\".\n\nSchudson has identified the following six specific areas where the ecology of news in his opinion has changed:\n\nThese alterations inevitably have fundamental ramifications for the contemporary ecology of news. \"The boundaries of journalism, which just a few years ago seemed relatively clear, and permanent, have become less distinct, and this blurring, while potentially the foundation of progress even as it is the source of risk, has given rise to a new set of journalistic principles and practices\", Schudson puts it. It is indeed complex, but it seems to be the future.\n\nOnline news has also changed the geographic reach of individual news stories, diffusing readership from city-by-city markets to a potentially global audience.\n\nThe growth of social media networks have also created new opportunities for automated and efficient news gathering for journalists and newsrooms. Many newsrooms (broadcasters, newspapers, magazines, radio and TV) have started to perform news gathering on social media platforms. Social media is creating changes in the consumer behaviour and news consumption. According to a study by Pew Research, a large portion of Americans read news on digital and on mobile devices.\n\nBecause internet does not have the \"column inches\" limitation of print media, online news stories can, but don't always, come bundled with supplementary material. The medium of the world wide web also enables hyperlinking, which allows readers to navigate to other pages related to the one they're reading.\n\nDespite these changes, some studies have concluded that internet news coverage remains fairly homogenous and dominated by news agencies. And journalists working with online media do not identify significantly different criteria for newsworthiness than print journalists.\n\nNews agencies are services which compile news and disseminate it in bulk. Because they disseminate information to a wide variety of clients, who repackage the material as news for public consumption, news agencies tend to use less controversial language in their reports. Despite their importance, news agencies are not well known by the general public. They keep low profiles and their reporters usually do not get bylines.\n\nThe oldest news agency still operating is the Agence France-Presse (AFP). It was founded in 1835 by a Parisian translator and advertising agent, Charles-Louis Havas as Agence Havas. By the end of the twentieth century, Reuters far outpaced the other news agencies in profits, and became one of the largest companies in Europe. In 2011, Thomson Reuters employed more than 55,000 people in 100 countries, and posted an annual revenue of $12.9 billion.\n\nUnited Press International gained prominence as a world news agency in the middle of the twentieth century, but shrank in the 1980s and was sold off at low prices. It is owned by the Unification Church company News World Communications.\n\nNews agencies, especially Reuters and the newly important Bloomberg News, convey both news stories for mass audiences and financial information of interest to businesses and investors. Bloomberg LP, a private company founded by Michael Bloomberg in 1981, made rapid advances with computerized stock market reporting updated in real time. Its news service continued to exploit this electronic advantage by combining computer-generated analytics with text reporting. Bloomberg linked with Agence France Presse in the 1990s.\n\nFollowing the marketization of the Chinese economy and the media boom of the 1990s, Xinhua has adopted some commercial practices including subscription fees, but it remains government-subsidized. It provides newswire, news photos, economic information, and audio and video news. Xinhua has a growing number of subscribers, totaling 16,969 in 2002, including 93% of Chinese newspapers. It operates 123 foreign bureaus and produces 300 news stories each day.\n\nOther agencies with considerable reach include Deutsche Presse-Agentur (Germany), Kyodo News (Japan), the \"Agenzia Nazionale Stampa Associata\" (Italy), the Middle East News Agency (Egypt), Tanjug (Serbia), EFE (Spain), and Anadolu Agency (Turkey).\n\nOn the internet, news aggregators play a role similar to that of the news agency—and, because of the sources they select, tend to transmit news stories which originate from the main agencies. Of articles displayed by Yahoo! News in the U.S., 91.7% come from news agencies: 39.4% from AP, 30.9% AFP, and 21.3% Reuters. In India, 60.1% of Yahoo! News stories come from Reuters. Google News relies somewhat less on news agencies, and has shown high volatility, in the sense of focusing heavily on the most recent handful of salient world events. In 2010, Google News redesigned its front page with automatic geotargeting, which generated a selection of local news items for every viewer.\n\nIn the 20th century, global news coverage was dominated by a combination of the \"Big Four\" news agencies—Reuters, Associated Press, Agence France Press, and United Press International—representing the Western bloc, and the Communist agencies: TASS from the Soviet Union, and Xinhua from China. Studies of major world events, and analyses of all international news coverage in various newspapers, consistently found that a large majority of news items originated from the four biggest wire services.\n\nTelevision news agencies include Associated Press Television News, which bought and incorporated World Television News; and Reuters Television. Bloomberg News created in the 1990s, expanded rapidly to become a player in the realm of international news. The Associated Press also maintains a radio network with thousands of subscribers worldwide; it is the sole provider of international news to many small stations.\n\nBy some accounts, dating back to the 1940s, the increasing interconnectedness of the news system has accelerated the pace of world history itself.\n\nThe global news system is dominated by agencies from Europe and the United States, and reflects their interests and priorities in its coverage. Euro-American control of the global news system has led to criticism; that events around the world are constantly compared to events like the Holocaust and World War Two which are considered foundational in the West. Since the 1960s, a significant amount of news reporting from the Third World has been characterized by some form \"development journalism\", a paradigm which focuses on long-term development projects, social change, and nation-building. When in 1987 the U.S. media reported on a riot in the Dominican Republic—the first major news item regarding that country in years—the resulting decline in tourism lasted for years and had a noticeable effect on the economy. The English language predominates in global news exchanges. Critics have accused the global news system of perpetuating cultural imperialism. Critics further charge that the Western media conglomerates maintain a bias towards the status quo economic order, especially a pro-corporate bias.\n\nThe United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has promoted a New World Information and Communication Order, which envisions an international news exchange system involving national news agencies in every country. UNESCO encouraged the new states formed from colonial territories in the 1960s to establish news agencies, to generate domestic news stories, exchange news items with international partners, and disseminate both types of news internally. Along these lines, the 1980 MacBride report, \"Many Voices, One World\", called for an interdependent global news system with more participation from different governments. To this end, also, UNESCO formed the Non-Aligned News Agencies Pool.\n\nThe Inter Press Service, founded in 1964, has served as an intermediary for Third World press agencies. Inter Press Service's editorial policy favors coverage of events, institutions, and issues which relate to inequality, economic development, economic integration, natural resources, population, health, education, and sustainable development. It gives less coverage than other agencies to crime, disasters, and violence. Geographically, 70% of its news reporting concerns Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Caribbean. IPS has the most subscribers in Latin America and southern Africa. IPS receives grants from organizations such as the United Nations Development Program and other United Nations agencies, Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung, Federatie Nederlandse Vakbeweging, the Diocese of Graz, the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, the Ford Foundation, the MacArthur Foundation, and the W. Alton Jones Foundation to report news on chosen topics, including the environment, sustainable development, and women's issues.\n\nBeginning in the 1960s, the United States Agency for International Development, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and UNESCO developed the use of satellite television for international broadcasting. In India, 1975–1976, these agencies implemented an experimental satellite television system, called the Satellite Instructional Television Experiment, with assistance from the Indian Space Research Organisation, and All India Radio.\n\nBy the 1980s, much of the Third World had succumbed to a debt crisis resulting from unrepayably large loans accumulated since the 1960s. At this point, the World Bank took an active role in the governance of many countries, and its authority extended to communications policy. The policy of developing Third World media gave way to a global regime of free trade institutions like the World Trade Organization, which also protected the free flow of information across borders. The World Bank also promoted privatization of national telecommunications, which afforded large multinational corporations the opportunity to purchase networks and expand operations in the Third World.\n\nIn countries with less telecommunications infrastructure, people, especially youth, tend today to get their news predominantly from mobile phones and, less so, from the internet. Older folks listen more to the radio. The government of China is a major investor in Third World telecommunications, especially in Africa. Some issues relating to global information flow were revisited in light of the internet at the 2003/2005 World Summit on the Information Society, a conference which emphasized the role of civil society and the private sector in information society governance.\n\nNews values are the professional norms of journalism. Commonly, news content should contain all the \"Five Ws\" (who, what, when, where, why, and also how) of an event. Newspapers normally place hard news stories on the first pages, so the most important information is at the beginning, enabling busy readers to read as little or as much as they desire. Local stations and networks with a set format must take news stories and break them down into the most important aspects due to time constraints.\n\nJournalists are often expected to aim for objectivity; reporters claim to try to cover all sides of an issue without bias, as compared to commentators or analysts, who provide opinion or personal points of view. The resulting articles lay out facts in a sterile, noncommittal manner, standing back to \"let the reader decide\" the truth of the matter. Several governments impose certain constraints against bias. In the United Kingdom, the government agency of Ofcom (Office of Communications) enforces a legal requirement of \"impartiality\" on news broadcasters. Both newspapers and broadcast news programs in the United States are generally expected to remain neutral and avoid bias except for clearly indicated editorial articles or segments. Many single-party governments have operated state-run news organizations, which may present the government's views.\n\nMid-twentieth-century news reporting in the United States focused on political and local issues with important socio-economic impacts, such as the landing of a living person on the moon or the cold war. The focus similarly remains on political and local issues; the news mass media now comes under criticism for over-emphasis on \"non-news\" and \"gossip\" such as celebrities' personal social issues, local issues of little merit, as well as biased sensationalism of political topics such as terrorism and the economy. The dominance of celebrity and social news, the blurring of the boundary between news and reality shows and other popular culture, and the advent of citizen journalism may suggest that the nature of 'news' and news values are evolving and that traditional models of the news process are now only partially relevant. Newsworthiness does not only depend on the topic, but also the presentation of the topic and the selection of information from that topic.\n\nAlthough newswriters have always laid claim to truth and objectivity, the modern values of professional journalism were established beginning in the late 1800s and especially after World War I, when groups like the American Society of Newspaper Editors codified rules for unbiased news reporting. These norms held the most sway in American and British journalism, and were scorned by some other countries. These ideas have become part of the practice of journalism across the world. Soviet commentators said stories in the Western press were trivial distractions from reality, and emphasized a socialist realism model focusing on developments in everyday life.\n\nEven in those situations where objectivity is expected, it is difficult to achieve, and individual journalists may fall foul of their own personal bias, or succumb to commercial or political pressure. Similarly, the objectivity of news organizations owned by conglomerated corporations fairly may be questioned, in light of the natural incentive for such groups to report news in a manner intended to advance the conglomerate's financial interests. Individuals and organizations who are the subject of news reports may use news management techniques to try to make a favourable impression. Because each individual has a particular point of view, it is recognized that there can be no absolute objectivity in news reporting. Journalists can collectively shift their opinion over what is a controversy up for debate and what is an established fact, as evidenced by homogenization during the 2000s of news coverage of climate change.\n\nSome commentators on news values have argued that journalists' training in news values \"itself\" represents a systemic bias of the news. The norm of objectivity leads journalists to gravitate towards certain types of acts and exclude others. A journalist can be sure of objectivity in reporting that an official or public figure has made a certain statement. This is one reason why so much news reporting is devoted to official statements. This lemma dates back to the early history of public news reporting, as exemplified by an English printer who on 12 March 1624 published news from Brussels in the form of letters, with the prefacing comment: \"Now because you shall not say, that either out of my owne conceit I misliked a phrase, or presumptuously tooke upon me to reforme any thing amisse, I will truly set you downe their owne words.\"\n\nFeminist critiques argue that discourse defined as objective by news organizations reflects a male-centered perspective. In their selection of sources, journalists rely heavily on men as sources of authoritative- and objective-seeming statements. News reporting has also tended to discuss women differently, usually in terms of appearance and relationship to men.\n\nThe critique of traditional norms of objectivity comes from within news organizations as well. Said Peter Horrocks, head of television news at BBC: \"The days of middle-of-the-road, balancing Left and Right, impartiality are dead. […] we need to consider adopting what I like to think of as a much wider 'radical impartiality'—the need to hear the widest range of views—all sides of the story.\"\n\nViewed from a sociological perspective, news for mass consumption is produced in hierarchical organizations. Reporters, working near the bottom of the structure, are given significant autonomy in researching and preparing reports, subject to assignments and occasional intervention from higher decision-makers. Owners at the top of the news hierarchy influence the content of news indirectly but substantially. The professional norms of journalism discourage overt censorship; however, news organizations have covert but firm norms about how to cover certain topics. These policies are conveyed to journalists through socialization on the job; without any written policy, they simply learn how things are done. Journalists comply with these rules for various reasons, including job security. Journalists are also systematically influenced by their education, including journalism school.\n\nNews production is routinized in several ways. News stories use familiar formats and subgenres which vary by topic. \"Rituals of objectivity\", such as pairing a quotation from one group with a quotation from a competing group, dictate the construction of most news narratives. Many news items revolve around periodic press conferences or other scheduled events. Further routine is established by assigning each journalist to a beat: a domain of human affairs, usually involving government or commerce, in which certain types of events routinely occur.\n\nA common scholarly frame for understanding news production is to examine the role of information gatekeepers: to ask why and how certain narratives make their way from news producers to news consumers. Obvious gatekeepers include journalists, news agency staff, and wire editors of newspapers. Ideology, personal preferences, source of news, and length of a story are among the many considerations which influence gatekeepers. Although social media have changed the structure of news dissemination, gatekeeper effects may continue due to the role of a few central nodes in the social network.\n\nNew factors have emerged in internet-era newsrooms. One issue is \"click-thinking\", the editorial selection of news stories—and of journalists—who can generate the most website hits and thus advertising revenue. Unlike a newspaper, a news website has detailed data collection about which stories are popular and who is reading them. The drive for speedy online postings, some journalists have acknowledged, has altered norms of fact-checking so that verification takes place after publication.\n\nJournalists' sometimes unattributed echoing of other news sources can also increase the homogeneity of news feeds. The digital age can accelerate the problem of circular reporting: propagation of the same error through increasingly reliable sources. In 2009, a number of journalists were embarrassed after all reproducing a fictional quotation, originating from Wikipedia.\n\nNews organizations have historically been male-dominated, though women have acted as journalists since at least the 1880s. The number of female journalists has increased over time, but organizational hierarchies remain controlled mostly by men. Studies of British news organizations estimate that more than 80% of decision-makers are men. Similar studies have found 'old boys' networks' in control of news organizations in the United States and the Netherlands. Further, newsrooms tend to divide journalists by gender, assigning men to \"hard\" topics like military, crime, and economics, and women to \"soft\", \"humanised\" topics.\n\nFor various reasons, news media usually have a close relationship with the state, and often church as well, even when they cast themselves in critical roles. This relationship seems to emerge because the press can develop symbiotic relationships with other powerful social institutions. In the United States, the Associated Press wire service developed a \"bilateral monopoly\" with the Western Union telegraph company.\n\nThe news agencies which rose to power in the mid-1800s all had support from their respective governments, and in turn served their political interests to some degree. News for consumption has operated under statist assumptions, even when it takes a stance adversarial to some aspect of a government. In practice, a large proportion of routine news production involves interactions between reporters and government officials. Relatedly, journalists tend to adopt a hierarchical view of society, according to which a few people at the top of organizational pyramids are best situated to comment on the reality which serves as the basisi of news. Broadly speaking, therefore, news tends to normalize and reflect the interests of the power structure dominant in its social context.\n\nToday, international non-governmental organizations (NGOs) rival and may surpass governments in their influence on the content of news.\n\nGovernments use international news transmissions to promote the national interest and conduct political warfare, alternatively known as public diplomacy and, in the modern era, international broadcasting. International radio broadcasting came into wide-ranging use by world powers seeking cultural integration of their empires. The British government used BBC radio as a diplomatic tool, setting up Arabic, Spanish and Portuguese services in 1937. American propaganda broadcasters include Voice of America and Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, set up during the Cold War and still operating today. The United States remains the world's top broadcaster, although by some accounts it was surpassed for a time circa 1980 by the Soviet Union. Other major international broadcasters include the People's Republic of China, Taiwan, Germany, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, North Korea, India, Cuba, and Australia. Around the world (and especially, formerly, in the Soviet bloc), international news sources such as the BBC World Service are often welcomed as alternatives to domestic state-run media.\n\nGovernments have also funneled programming through private news organizations, as when the British government arranged to insert news into the Reuters feed during and after World War Two. Past revelations have suggested that the U.S. military and intelligence agencies create news stories which they disseminate secretly into the foreign and domestic media. Investigation into the Central Intelligence Agency pursued in the 1970s found that it owned hundreds of news organizations (wire services, newspapers, magazines) outright. Soviet news warfare also involved the creation of front groups, like the International Organization of Journalists. The Russian KGB heavily pursued a strategy of disinformation, planting false stories which made their way to news outlets worldwide.\n\nBroadcasts into Iraq before the Second Gulf War mimicked the style of local programming. The US also launched Middle East Broadcasting Networks, featuring the satellite TV station Alhurra and radio station Radio Sawa to beam 24-hour programming to Iraq and environs.\n\nToday, Al Jazeera, a TV and internet news network owned by the government of Qatar, has become one of the foremost news sources in the world, appreciated by millions as an alternative to the Western media. State-owned China Central Television operates 18 channels and reaches more than a billion viewers worldwide. Iran's Press TV and Russia's Russia Today, branded as RT, also have multiplatform presences and large audiences.\n\nAs distinct from advertising, which deals with marketing distinct from news, public relations involves the techniques of influencing news in order to give a certain impression to the public. A standard public relations tactic, the \"third-party technique\", is the creation of seemingly independent organizations, which can deliver objective-sounding statements to news organizations without revealing their corporate connections. Public relations agencies can create complete content packages, such as Video News Releases, which are rebroadcast as news without commentary or detail about their origin. Video news releases seem like normal news programming, but use subtle product placement and other techniques to influence viewers.\n\nPublic relations releases offer valuable newsworthy information to increasingly overworked journalists on deadline. (This pre-organized news content has been called an information subsidy.) The journalist relies on appearances of autonomy and even opposition to established interests—but the public relations agent seek to conceal their client's influence on the news. Thus, public relations works its magic in secret.\n\nPublic relations can dovetail with state objectives, as in the case of the 1990 news story about Iraqi soldiers taking \"babies out of incubators\" in Kuwaiti hospitals. During the Nigerian Civil War, both the federal government and the secessionist Republic of Biafra hired public relations firms, which competed to influence public opinion in the West, and between them established some of the key narratives employed in news reports about the war.\n\nOverall, the position of the public relations industry has grown stronger, while the position of news producers has grown weaker. Public relations agents mediate the production of news about all sectors of society.\n\nOver the centuries, commentators on newspapers and society have repeatedly observed widespread human interest in news. Elite members of a society's political and economic institutions might rely on news as one limited source of information, for the masses, news represents a relatively exclusive window onto the operations by which a society is managed.\n\nRegular people in societies with news media often spend a lot of time reading or watching news reports. Newspapers became significant aspects of national and literary culture—as exemplified by James Joyce's \"Ulysses\", which derives from the newspapers of June 16 (and thereabouts), 1904, and represents the newspaper office itself as a vital part of life in Dublin.\n\nA 1945 study by sociologist Bernard Berelson found that during the 1945 New York newspaper strike, New Yorkers exhibited a virtual addiction to news, describing themselves as \"lost\", \"nervous\", \"isolated\", and \"suffering\" due to the withdrawal. Television news has become still further embedded in everyday life, with specific programming anticipated at different times of day. Children tend to find the news boring, too serious, or emotionally disturbing. They come to perceive news as characteristic of adulthood, and begin watching television news in their teenage years because of the adult status it confers.\n\nPeople exhibit various forms of skepticism towards the news. Studies of tabloid readers found that many of them gain pleasure from seeing through the obviously fake or poorly constructed stories—and get their \"real news\" from television.\n\nAn important feature distinguishing news from private information transfers is the impression that when one reads (or hears, or watches) it, one joins a larger public. In this regard news serves to unify its receivers under the banner of a culture, or a society, as well as into the sub-demographics of a society targeted by their favorite kind of news. News thus plays a role in nation-building, the construction of a national identity.\n\nImages connected with news can also become iconic and gain a fixed role in the culture. Examples such as Alfred Eisenstaedt's photograph \"V-J Day in Times Square\", Nick Ut's photograph of Phan Thi Kim Phuc and other children running from a napalm blast in Vietnam; Kevin Carter's photograph of a starving child being stalked by a vulture; etc.\n\nWith the new interconnectedness of global media, the experience of receiving news along with a world audience reinforces the social cohesion effect on a larger scale. As a corollary, global media culture may erode the uniqueness and cohesion of national cultures.\n\nThis collective form experience can be understood to constitute a political realm or public sphere. In this view, the news media constitute a fourth estate which serves to check and balance the operations of government.\n\nThis idea, at least as a goal to be sought, has re-emerged in the era of global communications. Today, unprecedented opportunities exist for public analysis and discussion of world events. According to one interpretation of the CNN effect, instantaneous global news coverage can rally public opinion as never before to motivate political action. In 1989, local and global communications media enabled instant exposure to and discussion of the Chinese government's actions in Tiananmen Square. The news about Tiananmen Square traveled over fax machine, telephone, newspaper, radio, and television, and continued to travel even after the government imposed new restrictions on local telecommunications.\n\nAs the technological means for disseminating news grew more powerful, news became an experience which millions of people could undergo simultaneously. Outstanding news experiences can exert profound influence on millions of people. Through its power to effect a shared experience, news events can mold the collective memory of a society.\n\nOne type of news event, the media event, is a scripted pageant organized for mass live broadcast. Media events include athletic contests such as the Super Bowl and the Olympics, cultural events like awards ceremonies and celebrity funerals, and also political events such as coronations, debates between electoral candidates, and diplomatic ceremonies. These events typically unfold according to a common format which simplifies the transmission of news items about them. Usually they have the effect of increasing the perceived unity of all parties involved, which include the broadcasters and audience. Today, international events such as a national declaration of independence, can be scripted in advance with the major news agencies, with staff specially deployed to key locations worldwide in advance of the life news broadcast. Public relations companies can participate in these events as well.\n\nThe perception that an ongoing crisis is taking place further increases the significance of live news. People rely on the news and constantly seek more of it, to learn new information and to seek reassurance amidst feelings of fear and uncertainty. Crises can also increase the effect of news on social cohesion, and lead the population of a country to \"rally\" behind its current leadership. The rise of a global news system goes hand in hand with the advent of terrorism and other sensational acts, which have power in proportion to the audience they capture. In 1979, the capture of American hostages in Iran dominated months of news coverage in the western media, gained the status of a \"crisis\", and influenced a presidential election.\n\nSouth Africans overwhelmingly describe the end of Apartheid as a source of the country's most important news. In the United States, news events such as the assassinations of the 1960s (of John F. Kennedy, Martin Luther King, Jr., and Robert F. Kennedy), the 1969 moon landing, the 1986 Challenger explosion, the 1997 death of Princess Diana, the intervention of the Supreme Court in the 2000 presidential election and the 2001 September 11 attacks. In Jordan, people cited numerous memorable news events involving death and war, including the death of King Hussein, Princess Diana, and Yitzhak Rabin. Positive news stories found memorable by Jordanians featured political events affecting their lives and families—such as the Israeli withdrawal from South Lebanon, and the Israel–Jordan peace treaty.\n\nNews coverage can also shape collective memory in retrospect. A study of Israeli news coverage leading up to the media event of the nation's 60th birthday found that news coverage of events like the Holocaust, World War Two, and subsequent Israeli wars increased the perceived importance of these events in the minds of citizens.\n\nNews making is the act of making the news or doing something that is considered to be newsworthy. When discussing the act of news making, scholars refer to specific models. Five of these models are the Professional Model, Mirror Model, Organizational Model, Political Model, and Civic Journalism Model.\n\nThe Professional Model is when skilled peoples put certain events together for a specific audience. The reaction of the audience is influential because it can determine the impact that the particular article or newspaper has on the readers. The Mirror Model states that news should reflect reality. This model aims to focus on particular events and provide accuracy in reporting. The Organizational Model is also known as the Bargaining Model. It focuses on influencing various news organizations by applying pressures to governmental processes. The Political Model outlines that news represents the ideological biases of the people as well as the various pressures of the political environment. This model mainly influences journalists and attempts to promote public opinion. The Civic Journalism Model is when the press discovers the concerns of the people and uses that to write stories. This allows the audience to play an active role in society.\n\nModels of news making help define what the news is and how it influences readers. But it does not necessarily account for the content of print news and online media. Stories are selected if they have a strong impact, incorporate violence and scandal, are familiar and local, and if they are timely.\n\nNews Stories with a strong impact can be easily understood by a reader. Violence and scandal create an entertaining and attention-grabbing story. Familiarity makes a story more relatable because the reader knows who is being talked about. Proximity can influence a reader more. A story that is timely will receive more coverage because it is a current event. The process of selecting stories coupled with the models of news making are how the media is effective and impactful in society.\n\nExposure to constant news coverage of war can lead to stress and anxiety. Television coverage of the destruction of the World Trade Center in 2001, which repeated the same footage over and over, led to symptoms of trauma experienced across the United States. Studies have indicated that children have been traumatized by exposure to television of other frightening events, including the Challenger disaster. Journalists themselves also experience trauma and guilt.\n\nResearch also suggest that constant representations of violence in the news lead people to overestimate the frequency of its occurrence in the real world, thus increasing their level of fear in everyday situations.\n\nThe content and style of news delivery certainly have effects on the general public, with the magnitude and precise nature of these effects being tough to determine experimentally. In Western societies, television viewing has been so ubiquitous that its total effect on psychology and culture leave few alternatives for comparison.\n\nNews is the leading source of knowledge about global affairs for people around the world. According to agenda-setting theory, the general public will identify as its priorities those issues which are highlighted on the news. The agenda-setting model has been well-supported by research, which indicate that the public's self-reported concerns respond to changes in news coverage rather than changes in the underlying issue itself. The less an issue obviously affects people's lives, the bigger an influence media agenda-setting can have on their opinion of it. The agenda-setting power becomes even stronger in practice because of the correspondence in news topics promulgated by different media channels.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16164690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16164690", "title": "Normal Accidents", "text": "Normal Accidents\n\nNormal Accidents: Living with High-Risk Technologies is a 1984 book by Yale sociologist Charles Perrow, which provides a detailed analysis of complex systems from a sociological perspective. It was the first to \"propose a framework for characterizing complex technological systems such as air traffic, marine traffic, chemical plants, dams, and especially nuclear power plants according to their riskiness\". Perrow argues that multiple and unexpected failures are built into society's complex and tightly coupled systems. Such accidents are unavoidable and cannot be designed around.\n\nPerrow's argument, based on systemic features and human error, is that big accidents tend to escalate, and technology is not the problem, the organizations are. Each of these principles is still relevant today.\n\n\"Normal\" accidents, or system accidents, are so-called by Perrow because such accidents are inevitable in extremely complex systems. Given the characteristic of the system involved, multiple failures which interact with each other will occur, despite efforts to avoid them. Perrow said that operator error is a very common problem, many failures relate to organizations rather than technology, and big accidents almost always have very small beginnings. Such events appear trivial to begin with before unpredictably cascading through the system to create a large event with severe consequences.\n\n\"Normal Accidents\" contributed key concepts to a set of intellectual developments in the 1980s that revolutionized the conception of safety and risk. It made the case for examining technological failures as the product of highly interacting systems, and highlighted organizational and management factors as the main causes of failures. Technological disasters could no longer be ascribed to isolated equipment malfunction, operator error or acts of God. \n\nPerrow identifies three conditions that make a system likely to be susceptible to Normal Accidents. These are:\n\nThe inspiration for Perrow's books was the 1979 Three Mile Island accident, where a nuclear accident resulted from an unanticipated interaction of multiple failures in a complex system. The event was an example of a normal accident because it was \"unexpected, incomprehensible, uncontrollable and unavoidable\".\n\nPerrow concluded that the failure at Three Mile Island was a consequence of the system's immense complexity. Such modern high-risk systems, he realized, were prone to failures however well they were managed. It was inevitable that they would eventually suffer what he termed a 'normal accident'. Therefore, he suggested, we might do better to contemplate a radical redesign, or if that was not possible, to abandon such technology entirely. \n\nOne disadvantage of any new nuclear reactor technology is that safety risks may be greater initially as reactor operators have little experience with the new design. Nuclear engineer David Lochbaum has explained that almost all serious nuclear accidents have occurred with what was at the time the most recent technology. He argues that \"the problem with new reactors and accidents is twofold: scenarios arise that are impossible to plan for in simulations; and humans make mistakes\". As one director of a U.S. research laboratory put it, \"fabrication, construction, operation, and maintenance of new reactors will face a steep learning curve: advanced technologies will have a heightened risk of accidents and mistakes. The technology may be proven, but people are not\".\n\nSometimes, engineering redundancies which are put in place to help ensure safety, may backfire and produce less, not more reliability. This may happen in three ways: First, redundant safety devices result in a more complex system, more prone to errors and accidents. Second, redundancy may lead to shirking of responsibility among workers. Third, redundancy may lead to increased production pressures, resulting in a system that operates at higher speeds, but less safely.\n\n\"Normal Accidents\" is a very widely cited book, with more than 1,000 citations in the Social Science Citation Index and Science Citation Index to 2003. A German translation of the book was published in 1987 with a second edition in 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1100845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1100845", "title": "Oera Linda Book", "text": "Oera Linda Book\n\nThe Oera Linda Book is a manuscript written in a form of Old Frisian, purporting to cover historical, mythological, and religious themes of remote antiquity, from 2194 BCE to 803 CE. Among academics in Germanic philology, the document is widely considered to be a hoax or forgery.\n\nThe manuscript first came to public awareness in the 1860s. In 1872, Jan Gerhardus Ottema published a Dutch translation and defended it as genuine. Over the next few years there was a heated public controversy, but by 1879 it was universally accepted that the text was a recent composition. Nevertheless, a public controversy was revived in the context of 1930s Nazi occultism, and the book is still occasionally brought up in esotericism and Atlantis literature. The manuscript's author is not known with certainty, hence it is unknown whether the intention was to produce a hoax, a parody or simply an exercise in poetic fantasy.\n\nHistorian Goffe Jensma published a monograph on the manuscript in 2004, \"De gemaskerde god\" (\"The Masked God\"), including a new translation and a discussion of the history of its reception. Jensma concludes that it was probably intended as a \"hoax to fool some nationalist Frisians and orthodox Christians\", as well as an \"experiential exemplary exercise\" by Dutch theologian and poet François Haverschmidt.\n\nThe Oera Linda Book, known in Old Frisian as \"Thet Oera Linda Bok\", came to light in 1867 when Cornelis Over de Linden (1811–1874) handed the manuscript, which he claimed to have inherited from his grandfather, via his aunt, over to Eelco Verwijs (1830–1880), the provincial librarian of Friesland, for translation and publication. Verwijs rejected the manuscript, but in 1872 Jan Gerhardus Ottema (1804–1879), a prominent member of the Frisian Society for History and Culture, published a Dutch translation. Ottema believed it to be written in authentic Old Frisian. The book was subsequently translated into English by William Sandbach in 1876, and published by Trübner & Co. of London.\n\nWithin the first few years after the appearance of the Oera Linda Book, its recent origin was established not only based on the exceptional claims being made, but also because of a number of anachronisms it contained. The text was nevertheless a source of inspiration for a number of occultists and speculative historians. While there was some debate among Dutch academics and in a number of newspapers about the book's authenticity during the 1870s, by 1879 it was widely recognized as a forgery.\n\nMore than forty years later, beginning in 1922, Dutch \"völkisch\" philologist Herman Wirth revived the issue. Wirth published a German translation of what he dubbed the \"Nordic Bible\" in 1933, as \"Die Ura Linda Chronik\".\n\nA panel discussion on Wirth's book at the University of Berlin on 4 May 1934 was the immediate impulse for the foundation of the Ahnenerbe Nazi \"think tank\" by Himmler and Wirth, together with Richard Walther Darré. Because of the infatuation of Himmler with the Oera Linda Book and its consequent association with Nazi occultism, it became known as \"Himmler's Bible\". Wirth's book was by no means universally acclaimed among the Nazi-era Nordicist academics, and the 1934 panel discussion was steeped in heated controversy. Alfred Rosenberg and his circle rejected it. Gustav Neckel had praised Wirth's work before publication, but upon seeing its content published a dismayed recension.\n\nSpeaking in defense of the book's authenticity were Walther Wüst and Otto Huth, besides Wirth himself. Speaking against its authenticity were Neckel, Karl Hermann Jacob-Friesen (who identified it as a satirical hoax by Linden) and Arthur Hübner. Hübner was one of the most respected Germanists of his generation, and his verdict of the Oera Linda being a falsification settled the defeat of Wirth's party. The public defeat of Himmler's scholarly brand of \"esoteric Nordicism\" resulted in the foundation of Ahnenerbe, which attracted occultists such as Karl Maria Wiligut and was viewed with suspicion by the mainstream National Socialist ideologues of Amt Rosenberg.\n\nThe book experienced a revival of popularity in the English-speaking world with the writings of Robert Scrutton. In \"The Other Atlantis\" (1977) he reproduced the full text of Sandbach's 1876 English translation, interspersed with his own commentaries on history and mythology. In \"Secrets of Lost Atland\" (1979) he became the first to link the book with the concept of earth mysteries, and, in particular, ley lines and telluric energy. Following Scrutton's example, English language accounts of the Oera Linda Book tend to place it within the New Age or alternate history genres, and do not associate it with National Socialism, as is the case in Germany.\n\nAnother figure to formulate a contemporary Neopagan tradition influenced by the Oera Linda Book was Tony Steele, who considered the book to reveal the genuine truth about the ancient European megalithic culture. In \"Water Witches\" (1998) he examined the book's use as a cultural identity marker by the Frisian-descended canal folk of the English Midlands. In \"The Rites and Rituals of Traditional Witchcraft\" (2001) he connected the religious practices of the priestesses described in the book with later medieval witchcraft traditions.\n\nAmong those who doubt the book's authenticity, the most popular candidates for the author of the manuscript are Cornelis Over de Linden or Eelco Verwijs. A recent third choice is the Protestant preacher François Haverschmidt (1835–1894), well known for writing poetry under the pseudonym Piet Paaltjens. Haverschmidt lived in Friesland and was an acquaintance of Verwijs.\n\nGoffe Jensma (2004) argued that Haverschmidt was the main writer of the book, with the help of Over de Linden and Verwijs. According to Jensma, Haverschmidt intended the Oera Linda Book as a parody of the Christian Bible. An article in late 2007 by Jensma says that the three authors of the translation intended it \"to be a temporary hoax to fool some nationalist Frisians and orthodox Christians and as an experiential exemplary exercise in reading the Holy Bible in a non-fundamentalist, symbolical way.\" Ignoring clues that it was a forgery, J. G. Ottema took it seriously, and it achieved popularity for the reasons given above. Its creators felt unable to admit that they had written it, and it became the foundation for new occult beliefs. Jensma concludes his article by saying \"It is a perfect irony that a book written to unmask the Holy Bible as a book of human making was to become a bible itself.\"\n\nThemes running through the Oera Linda Book include catastrophism, nationalism, matriarchy, and mythology. The text alleges that Europe and other lands were, for a large part of their history, ruled by a succession of folk-mothers presiding over a hierarchical order of celibate priestesses dedicated to the goddess Frya, daughter of the creator god Wr-alda and Jrtha, the earth mother. The claim is also made that this Frisian civilization possessed an alphabet that was the ancestor of the Greek and Phoenician alphabets. Modern historiography is essentially ignored, particularly in the area of basic chronology of known events in the recent and distant past of Europe. Geological as well as geographical evidence that was readily available even as far back as Over de Linden's time is also mostly absent from the manuscript.\n\nThe earliest portion of the Oera Linda Book, namely \"Frya’s Tex\", was supposedly composed in 2194 BC, whereas the most recent part, the letter of Hidde Oera Linda, dates to AD 1256. Almost half of the entire book comprises \"The Book of Adela’s Followers\", the original text around which the rest grew. It is purported to have been compiled in the 6th century BC from a mixture of contemporary writings and ancient inscriptions. The last two sections of the Oera Linda Book contain a number of lacunae and the book itself breaks off in mid-sentence.\n\nIt also describes a lost land called Atland (the name given to Atlantis by the 17th century scholar Olof Rudbeck), which was supposedly submerged in 2194 BC, the same year as 19th century Dutch and Frisian almanacs, following traditional Biblical chronology given for Noah's flood.\n\nThe Oera Linda Book is divided into six sections, further subdivided into a total of 53 chapters.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28962098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28962098", "title": "Riders of Judgment", "text": "Riders of Judgment\n\nRiders of Judgment is the fifth book chronologically in Frederick Manfred's \"The Buckskin Man Tales\", which trace themes through five novels set in the 19th Century Great Plains. The story fictionalizes Wyoming's Johnson County War, based on Manfred's original research (which relied heavily on Johnson County Historian Thelma Condit). His analysis of events is close to the story as recounted in Helena Huntington Smith's \"The War on Powder River\", which was published about ten years after Manfred's novel.\n\nThe novel was the source for the made-for-television film \"The Johnson County War,\" starring Tom Berenger. Manfred's novelization uses Nate Champion, Jack Flagg, and John Tisdale as the models for his Hammett brothers, Cain, Harry, and Dale, and turns Frank Canton into a strange family nemesis called variously Hunt Lawton and Link Keeler. Manfred changes the names of the county and the nearby towns.\n\n"}
{"id": "48875904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48875904", "title": "The Sound of Music Live (2015)", "text": "The Sound of Music Live (2015)\n\nThe Sound of Music Live is a television special that was originally broadcast by ITV on 20 December 2015. The special was an adaptation of Rodgers and Hammerstein's Broadway musical \"The Sound of Music\", starring Kara Tointon as Maria von Trapp, performed and televised live from 3 Mills Studios in London. \n\nOn 9 November 2018, the production was broadcast in the United States as part of PBS's performing arts anthology series \"Great Performances\".\n\nIn October 2015, ITV announced that it would transmit a live adaptation of the musical \"The Sound of Music\" as part of its holiday programming lineup, in what would be the first time that such a programme had been attempted in the United Kingdom. \"The Sound of Music Live\" was part of ITV's continuing efforts to broadcast more live \"event\" programs, which are designed to attract critical masses of viewers by encouraging them to watch via the original broadcast, rather than via catch-up services and digital video recorders. The desire for increased ITV viewership came especially in the wake of declining ratings for its reality music competition \"The X Factor\", whose series 12 finale had the second-smallest viewership in the programme's history. ITV had similarly broadcast live episodes of its series \"Coronation Street\" in 2000 and 2010 in honour of its 40th and 50th anniversary respectively, and in 2015 for ITV's 60th anniversary.\n\nThis was not the first time that \"The Sound of Music\" had been adapted in such a manner. In 2013, U.S. network NBC broadcast its own live television adaptation of \"The Sound of Music\" starring country singer Carrie Underwood; similarly to ITV's version, it was an adaptation of the original musical, and not based on the film version. Although it received mixed reviews, it was seen by over 18 million viewers. As follow-ups, NBC produced similar adaptations of \"Peter Pan\" and \"The Wiz\" in 2014 and 2015 respectively. Creative director Coky Giedroyc stated that ITV's iteration would be a \"whole different animal\" in comparison to NBC's, explaining that she wanted to \"keep it true to the original\", and maintain a focus on the political aspects of the story. The production was conducted on soundstages at 3 Mills Studios in London, with the sets alone having a budget of nearly £750,000.\n\nKara Tointon played Maria, and Julian Ovenden played Captain Georg von Trapp. The supporting cast included veterans of British television and theatre, including Alexander Armstrong as Max Detweiler, Katherine Kelly as Baroness Elsa Schraeder, Maria Friedman as Mother Abess, Evelyn Hoskins as Liesl von Trapp, Jon Tarcy as Rolf Gruber, Mel Giedroyc as the housekeeper, Frau Schmidt, and Paul Copley as the butler, Franz.\n\n\"The Sound of Music Live\" received mixed reviews. Mark Shenton of \"The Stage\" said it was a failed experiment, with \"uninspired and sometimes insipid\" choreography and direction, although he praised the cast's performances. Claire Allfree of \"The Daily Telegraph\" said it lacked both the intimacy of live theatre and the scope of the big screen, but nevertheless judged it \"more a success than it was a failure,\" saying that former \"EastEnders\" star Tointon \"brought a refreshing earthiness and grit to Maria that made the passionate, unconventional novice feel thoroughly modern and accessible.\" \"The Mirror\" said that Tointon was \"showered with praise\" for her performance.\n\nThe programme was watched by over 3.82 million viewers according to overnight ratings figures, being beaten by the series eleven finale of \"The Apprentice\" (5.31 million) and its lead-in, the BBC Sports Personality of the Year presentation (5.78 million).\n\n"}
{"id": "19206107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19206107", "title": "Third Eurovision Dance Contest", "text": "Third Eurovision Dance Contest\n\nThe third Eurovision Dance Contest was originally planned to be organised in Baku, Azerbaijan at the Heydar Aliyev Sports and Exhibition Complex on 26 September 2009. İctimai Television was planning to increase the number of participating countries as well as inviting a world-famous star to host the contest, listing Jennifer Lopez, Kylie Minogue and Shakira as candidates. An additional extravaganza open-air concert was planned to be held, bringing together ex-participants of the Eurovision, Junior Eurovision and Eurovision Dance Contests on one stage.\n\nOn the date of cancellation, two countries had finished selection of the participating couples for the contest:\n\n\nHowever, on 28 May 2009, European Broadcasting Union (EBU) had announced that the contest was postponed at least until Autumn 2010 as \"the number of broadcasters that signed up for participation had not reach the desired level\". According to a preliminary calculations, at least five countries that were taking part in Eurovision Dance Contest 2008, namely , , , and had announced withdrawal from the contest, with only confirming its participation as a début country.\n\nAccording to contest coordinator on behalf of EBU Tal Barnea \"concrete plans for a 2010 autumn event were being developed, with considerable changes to introduce a new programme proposal\". These plans were expected to be unveiled in the autumn of 2009. EBU also praised \"the commendable work on the next Eurovision Dance Contest already completed by our partners Ictimai Television and the Azerbaijani officials\" stating that 2010 edition of the contest was planned to take place in Baku, Azerbaijan as well. \n\nIn January 2010, EBU Eurovision coordinator, Svante Stockselius, announced that contest has been postponed again, and is now unlikely to happen at all, at least within the next couple of years. He explained this decision was the fact that the popularity of televised dance shows had calmed down recently.\n\n"}
{"id": "21828440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21828440", "title": "This Is It (concert residency)", "text": "This Is It (concert residency)\n\nThis Is It was a planned concert residency by Michael Jackson which was scheduled to begin in July 2009 and end September 29, 2009 with a second leg which was scheduled to run from January 2010 through March 2010 with a total of 50 shows. Jackson announced This Is It at a press conference in the O2 Arena, stating that it would be his final series of concerts in London. AEG Live, the concert promoters, released a promotional video that took up an entire commercial break, setting a record for ITV. Initially, only 10 concerts were announced, but following public demand, 40 more concerts were added. Ticket sales broke several records and Jackson's album sales increased following the announcement; AEG Live estimated that the first 10 dates alone would have earned Jackson approximately £50 million. \n\nIn preparation for the concert series, Jackson had been collaborating with high-profile figures including fashion designer Christian Audigier, choreographer Kenny Ortega and bodybuilder Lou Ferrigno. Prior to Jackson's death in 2009, Allgood Entertainment sued Jackson for $40 million, claiming that he had breached an exclusivity agreement with them by agreeing to the This Is It concerts; the case was dismissed.\n\nAfter Jackson's death, AEG Live offered either refunds to ticket holders or a special \"souvenir\" ticket designed by Jackson. The cancelled shows, record-breaking ticket sales and potential for a world tour led to This Is It being termed \"the greatest concert[s] that never happened.\" Columbia Pictures acquired the footage of the rehearsals and released a concert film, \"Michael Jackson's This Is It,\" accompanied by a compilation album of the same name.\n\nJackson announced the first 10 performances during a press conference at the O2 Arena on March 5, 2009. As many as 7,000 fans and 350 reporters awaited Jackon's arrival, many donning Jackson-related clothing. He commented at the conference, \"I just wanted to say that these will be my final show performances in London. When I say this is it, it really means this is it\", adding that it was his \"final curtain call\", although he may have just been referring to performing in London. Organizers touted the residency as, \"dramatic shows [that] promise an explosive return with a band of the highest calibre, a state-of-the-art stage show and incredible surprise support acts\". Hours before the press conference, promotional posters for the residency were displayed around London. Further promotion took up an entire commercial break period on ITV London during \"Dancing on Ice\", the first time this has ever happened for a musical artist. The advert, which cost £1 million to air, was viewed by 11 million people.\n\nThe shows, Jackson's first significant concert events since the in 2001, had been cited as one of the year's most important musical events, and as the greatest comeback in the history of pop. Randy Phillips, president and chief executive of AEG Live, stated that the first 10 dates would earn Jackson approximately £50 million (about US$80.1 million). \"The Guardian\" characterized the concerts as an \"astonishing comeback for a man who in recent years has been dogged by controversy\", adding that Jackson still had \"enormous commercial clout\". The \"Evening Standard\" stated that the deal was the \"showbiz coup of the decade\" for AEG Live, while \"The Independent\" remarked that the finalized 50 concerts would provide London with a \"much-needed\" economic boost. Joe Cohen, chief executive of Seatwave, told BBC 6 Music that the shows would generate £1 billion for the economy.\n\nSome websites offered early tickets, which the Association of Secondary Ticket Agents warned were fake. \"We are warning people not to buy tickets that are not yet on sale because it is unlikely that they will receive those tickets\", announced the organization's chief, Graham Burns. He concluded, \"It's impossible when the dates haven't been announced to be selling tickets for something when there are no announced dates\". Jackson's official website allowed fans to register early for a \"pre-sale\" draw. Some fans had difficulty applying, as the website could not deal with the large number of registrations—reportedly up to 16,000 applications a second. In the space of 24 hours, nearly a million people from around the world registered for pre-sale tickets, enough to fill the venue 50 times over. Tickets that had not even been printed were selling on auction website eBay for £300. Sales of Jackson's albums increased following the press conference. Overnight, sales of \"Off the Wall\" rose 200%, \"Bad\" rose 110%, \"Dangerous\" rose 165% and \"Thriller 25\" rose 155%.\n\nThe two-day pre-sale began on March 11, and 40 extra dates were added to meet high demand—five of these dates were reserved in their entirety for the public sale. More than 1.5  million fans caused two sites offering pre-sale tickets to crash within minutes of going online. In the space of two hours, 190,000 tickets were sold. Two million people tried to buy pre-sale tickets in the space of 18 hours. Veronica Schmidt of \"The Times\" stated of the reception, \"Michael Jackson has floored his critics\", while organizers proclaimed it a \"cultural phenomenon\". It was announced that Jackson would break the record for number of shows performed by an artist at a single venue, which had been set by Prince, who hosted a residency at the same arena for his concerts. According to Jackson's website, the following records were or would have been broken: \"The biggest audience ever to see an artist in one city\", \"The greatest number of people to attend a series of arena shows\", \"The fastest ticket sales in history\". Randy Phillips acknowledged that Jackson could have sold out even more dates, but this would have conflicted with other career plans. On March 13, the other 50% of seats for dates 1–45 and all the seats for dates 46–50 went on sale to the general public. Within four hours, all 50 dates had sold out. At this stage, the sales of \"King of Pop\" were up 400% and the sales of \"Thriller\" were up 200%. Tickets appeared on eBay for as much as £10,000.\n\nThe 50-concert run was originally scheduled to start on July 8, 2009 and conclude on February 24, 2010. Each of the shows would have been performed at the O2 Arena in London, which has a capacity of 23,000. New York-based fashion designer Zaldy served as head costumer, creating ten of Jackson's stage looks while the other six were created by his longtime costumers, Michael Bush and Dennis Tompkins. Jay Ruckel from La Crasia Gloves recreated Jackson's iconic single glove for the concerts. The costumes he was to wear during the shows were encrusted with 300,000 Swarovski crystals. In April 2009, thousands of dancers flew in from all around the world to audition from the 13th to the 15th for Jackson, who helped select the 11 finalists in person. Kenny Ortega, who had collaborated with Jackson previously, was to work on the overall design and direction of concerts. Ortega said that the final product would have been a \"theatrical musical experience\". According to Randy Philips, £13 million was to be spent on producing the concerts, which would have included 18–22 songs and 22 different sets. There also would have been aerial dancing similar to routines by Cirque du Soleil. Carla Ferrigno told Reuters that her husband Lou had been helping Jackson train in advance of the shows. Jackson and Ferrigno had previously worked together.\n\nOn May 20, it was announced that the first concert would be pushed back five days to July 13 and three other July dates would be rescheduled for March 2010. AEG Live said that the delay was necessary because more time was needed for dress rehearsals. The revised schedule called for 27 shows between July 13 and September 29, 2009, followed by a three-month break, before resuming in the new year with 23 more shows between January 7 and March 6, 2010. Some fans petitioned for the reversal of AEG Live's decision. In late June, several hundred seats for each of the dates were put on sale. These seats were held back until production logistics were worked out.\n\nIt was suggested that after the London concerts, Jackson might head to Australia, Europe, India, China, Hong Kong and Japan before moving on to North America. Randy Phillips, the CEO of AEG Live, told The LA Times that Australia was part of Michael Jackson's international tour plans.\n\nAccording to Jermaine Jackson's 2011 book \"You Are Not Alone: Michael Through a Brother's Eyes\", after the London concerts were finished, Jackson was planning to extend his deal with AEG Live which included new music, a potential three-picture movie deal, a series of one-off concert dates starting in China, a halftime slot at one of the future Super Bowl games to surpass his own halftime show at the Super Bowl XXVII in January 1993 and two more tours (one of which was to be a final reunion with his brothers based on a promise made to their mother to see her sons perform together one last time before she passed away). After the deal was completed, he planned to take time off from musical entertainment and move on to (possibly) directing his own film ideas, such as making a feature-length motion picture based on his 1982 song \"Thriller\" and the music video of the same name. It was also later revealed that a yearly Halloween television special based on his horror-themed songs, such as \"Thriller\" and \"Ghosts\", was part of Jackson's deal with AEG Live.\n\nIn Conrad Murray's manslaughter trial, David Walgren stated another one of Jackson's future plans was to open a children's hospital. This was heard in an audio tape Conrad Murray played of Jackson under the influence of propofol on May 10, 2009. His voice is barely recognisable in the recording, but he can be clearly heard saying that he wanted to build the greatest children's hospital in the world and name it after himself: The \"Michael Jackson's Children's Hospital\". Walgren also stated that while the tour was happening, Jackson wanted to buy an estate with streams, horses and animals so his three children, Prince, Paris and Blanket could live normal lives as their father performed the concerts, as he was photographed looking for a house in the United Kingdom with his children. Walgren also said that the tour would begin that summer, and Jackson could take his children out of school and bring them with him so they could see him perform in London.\n\nAs shown in \"Michael Jackson's This Is It\", songs prepared for the concerts included \"Wanna Be Startin' Somethin'\", \"Jam\", \"They Don't Care About Us\", \"Human Nature\", \"Smooth Criminal\", \"The Way You Make Me Feel\", a medley of songs by The Jackson 5 consisting of \"I Want You Back\", \"The Love You Save\", \"I'll Be There\" and \"Shake Your Body (Down to the Ground)\", \"I Just Can't Stop Loving You\", \"Thriller\", \"Beat It\", \"Black or White\", \"Earth Song\", \"Billie Jean\", and \"Man in the Mirror\". Later on, \"Stranger in Moscow\", \"You Are Not Alone\", \"Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough\", \"Rock with You\", \"Dirty Diana\" ,\"You Rock My World\", \"Dangerous\", \"We Are the World\", \"Heal the World\" and \"Will You Be There\" were also confirmed to have been planned for the shows. Due to the larger than usual roster of songs, as well as time constraints, Jackson would perform some songs with one verse less than he did in previous tours (such as \"Wanna Be Startin' Somethin'\", \"Jam\", \"The Way You Make Me Feel\" and \"Black or White\"). \"Bad\" was rumored to have been reserved for select concerts. On the final dates, Jackson wanted to perform a ballad called \"River Ripple\", written by him, with an African choir and his children. During the final concert before \"Man in the Mirror\", Michael was slated to premiere a song called \"Best of Joy\", written and recorded in 2009 prior to Jackson's death. As of 2018, the full version of \"River Ripple\" remains unreleased (although snippets of the song have leaked on YouTube), while \"Best of Joy\" was officially released in 2010 on Jackson's first posthumous album of unreleased songs, \"Michael\".\n\n\n\nIn June 2009, concert promoter Allgood Entertainment, represented by Ira Meyerowitz and Jon Kekielek of MJlawfirm, sued Jackson for $40 million. He claimed that Jackson, through his manager Frank DiLeo, had agreed to a single and a $30 million reunion concert with The Jackson 5 and his sister Janet Jackson. According to the concert promoter, the alleged contractual agreement prevented Jackson from performing elsewhere before the reunion concert and for a three-month period after it. Thus, agreeing to a 50 date residency at the O2 arena was an alleged breach of the Allgood Entertainment contract. The filing company stated that AEG Live knew of the alleged agreement with Jackson and used their dominance in the industry to coerce Jackson into agreeing to the residency. In August 2010, the judge dismissed the case, stating that there was no evidence of a binding agreement, no contracts were signed. The case was in limbo as of 2013.\n\nOn June 25, 2009, Jackson died after going into cardiac arrest which was caused by an overdose of Propofol and benzodiazepines, eighteen days before his planned first show. AEG Live, who persuaded Jackson to sign up for the shows, faced a liability of up to £300 million and an empty venue for the next nine months. The O2 arena stated that full refunds, including all ticket service charges, would be available to those who purchased tickets through authorized agents, but that \"fans will have the option to be sent the actual tickets they would have received to attend the shows in lieu of the full refunds which are being offered.\" Fans who bought their tickets from private sellers potentially faced difficulties. eBay recommended that purchasers contact their sellers for refunds and stated that those who used PayPal can get their money back if the purchase was made during the last 45 days, then later stated that \"all buyers on the site will receive a full refund for their ticket purchase\".\n\nFollowing Jackson's death, AEG stated that they had over \"100 hours of footage of preparations and rehearsals for the shows\". On August 10, 2009, Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Mitchell Beckloff approved a deal between film distributor Columbia Pictures and AEG Live for the former company to purchase and distribute rehearsal footage of Jackson for a film entitled \"Michael Jackson's This Is It\". According to court documents, Columbia paid $60 million (£35 million) for rights to the rehearsal footage. The papers filed in court had reportedly stated that Jackson's estate will get 90% of the profits and that AEG Live will get the remaining 10% from the film's revenue. The film was directed by Kenny Ortega who was also the director of the live concert. It was compiled mostly from footage that was shot as reference for production discussions and was never meant to be shown publicly. Some of the music and vocals in the film were added from previous recordings, though most were from the live performance. The film was released on October 28, 2009.\n\nAn accompanying album to the film was also released. Titled \"This Is It\", the compilation was distributed internationally on October 26, and to North America the following day. The two-disc album features music \"inspired from the documentary of the same name\". Of the album, Sony said, \"Disc one will feature the original album masters of some of Michael's biggest hits arranged in the same sequence as they appear in the film\" and stated that \"the disc ends with two versions of the 'never-released' 'This Is It' [...] This song is featured in the film's closing sequence and includes backing vocals by Michael's brothers, The Jacksons and Alvin Chea of Take 6.\" Sony added that the second disc will feature previously unreleased versions from Jackson's \"catalogue of hits\", along with a spoken word poem entitled \"Planet Earth\" and a 36-page commemorative booklet with \"exclusive photos of Michael from his last rehearsal\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11778750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11778750", "title": "Tonto Basin (novel)", "text": "Tonto Basin (novel)\n\n\"For the geographical place see Tonto Basin\n\nTonto Basin is a western novel written by Zane Grey.\n\n\"Tonto Basin\" is the original version of the shorter novel \"To The Last Man\" (1921). Grey submitted the manuscript of \"Tonto Basin\" to the magazine \"The Country Gentleman,\" which published it in serialization as \"To the Last Man\" from May 28, 1921 through July 30, 1921. This was a much shorter version of the original leaving out much of the backstory and character development. This shorter version was published as a book by Harper Brothers in 1921.\n\nA story of a feud between two families, the evil it causes, and the power of love to transcend all.\n\nThe story begins with 24-year-old Jean Isbel in the last stages of a multi-week trip from Oregon to the frontier in Arizona where his family had moved four years earlier to start a cattle ranch. As he nears his destination he meets a woman in the woods, and falls in love at first sight. As they part they learn that they are mortal enemies. She is Ellen Jorth, and her family is locked in a deadly feud with his.\n\nJean dreads the part his father, Gaston, wants him to play in the feud. He can’t get Ellen out of his mind. They meet again and his words awake in her doubt and fear that her father, Lee Jorth, is not an honorable man but in fact a horse thief and cattle rustler. As events unfold her fears are proved true. Through thick and thin Jean Isbel defends Ellen’s honor and believes the best of her.\n\nThe feud erupts into fatal gun battles, first at the Isbel ranch house, and then at the general store in the nearby town. Most of the Isbel and Jorth clans are killed, with several of their allies. The remnant of the Jorths flee with Ellen in tow to a hide-out hidden in a deep box cañon.\n\nJean and his allies track them and there is a deadly gun battle in the woods nearby. Ellen is forced by one of the three remaining Jorth allies to flee once again. During their flight their horse is shot out from under them. Ellen now on foot meets one of the dying Isbels and finally learns the certain truth that her father, family, and their allies were horse thieves and cattle rustlers as she feared.\n\nWhen she finally makes her way back to the hide-out, she arrives just after Jean has been forced to take refuge in the loft, unknown to her. One of the two remaining rustlers attacks her with rape in mind but is interrupted by the arrival of the other rustler. Ellen discovers Jean during this interruption. When the rustler returns a few minutes later, Ellen is forced to kill him to protect herself and Jean. A minute later Jean kills the last rustler.\n\nThe story ends with Jean and Ellen declaring their love for each other.\n\nThe book is concerned with the destruction deadly violence wreaks on those family members who survive. Grey writes about the intense concern Jean feels for the impact the violence will have on the wives and children whose husbands and fathers will die in the feud.\n\nThe feud is caused by a love triangle between Gaston Isbel, Lee Jorth, and Ellen the woman both love, and the mother of Ellen Jorth. The story explores how love, betrayal, and jealousy can engender a hate which leads two men to destroy their families, without a thought to the pain and suffering of those relatives who will be left to bury the dead.\n\nEllen grows from a naïve girl to a woman of understanding under the severe trial of the events which overtake her. She begins to examine critically her own behavior with wisdom and insight. She grows and matures emotionally and psychologically, becoming aware that her father whom she had supported with unquestioning trust, is in fact a scoundrel, a thief, and a thoroughly dishonorable rogue. At the end she acts decisively and fatally to protect herself, her virtue, and the man she loves.\n\n\nIn the early 1990s, Jon Tuska, was researching the filmography of Zane Grey. During this research he discovered that \"Last of the Duanes\" and \"Rangers of the Lone Star\" were much altered from the holograph found \"in the bottom drawer of a file cabinet in the Zane Grey, Inc. room where it had survived for eighty years.\". This caused him to request that they \"tell me of any other manuscripts...that had met a similar fate.\" The result was the discovery of the complete holographic manuscript of the novel \"To the Last Man\". A comparison of the holograph with \"To the Last Man\" revealed that the holograph was much longer, and contained detail which altered the meaning of the story. The complete uncut version was published in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "33761097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33761097", "title": "Use error", "text": "Use error\n\nThe term use error has recently been introduced to replace the commonly used terms human error and user error. The new term, which has already been adopted by international standards organizations for medical devices (see #Use errors in health care below for references), suggests that accidents should be attributed to the circumstances, rather than to the human beings who happened to be there.\n\nThe term \"use error\" was first used in May 1995 in an MD+DI guest editorial, “The Issue Is ‘Use,’ Not ‘User,’ Error,” by William Hyman. Traditionally, human errors are considered as a special aspect of human factors. Accordingly, they are attributed to the human operator, or user.\nWhen taking this approach, we assume that the system design is perfect, and the only source for the use errors is the human operator. For example, the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) HFACS \nclassifies use errors attributed to the human operator, disregarding improper design and configuration setting, which often result in missing alarms, or in inappropriate alerting.\n\nThe need for changing the term was due to a common malpractice of the stakeholders (the responsible organizations, the authorities, journalists) in cases of accidents. Instead of investing in fixing the error-prone design, management attributed the error to the users.\nThe need for the change has been pointed out by the accident investigators: \n\nA mishap is typically considered as either a use error or a force majeure:\n\n\nIn 1998, Cook, Woods and Miller presented the concept of hindsight bias, exemplified by celebrated accidents in medicine, by a workgroup on patient safety\nThe workgroup pointed at the tendency to attribute accidents in health care to isolated human failures.\nThey provide references to early research about the effect of knowledge of the outcome, which was unavailable beforehand, on later judgement about the processes that led up to that outcome. They explain that in looking back, we tend to oversimplify the situation that the actual practitioners faces. They conclude focusing on the hindsight knowledge prevents our understanding of the richer story, the circumstances of the human error.\n\nAccording to this position, the term Use Error is formally defined in several international standards, such as IEC 62366, ISO 14155 and ISO 14971, to describe\n\nISO standards about medical devices and procedures provide examples of use errors, which are attributed to human factors, include slips, lapses and mistakes. Practically, this means that they are attributed to the user, implying the user’s accountability.\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration glossary of medical devices provides the following explanation about this term:\n\nWith this interpretation by ISO and the FDA, the term ‘use error’ is actually synonymous with ‘user error’.\nAnother approach, which distinguishes ‘use errors’ from ‘user errors', is taken by IEC 62366. Annex A includes an explanation justifying the new term:\n\nThis explanation complies with “The New View”, which Sidney Dekker suggested as an alternative to “The Old View”. This interpretation favors investigations intended to understand the situation, rather than blaming the operators.\n\nIn a 2011 report draft on health IT usability, the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) defines \"use error\" in healthcare IT this way: “Use error is a term used very specifically to refer to user interface designs that will engender users to make errors of commission or omission. It is true that users do make errors, but many errors are due not to user error per se but due to designs that are flawed, e.g., poorly written messaging, misuse of color-coding conventions, omission of information, etc.\".\n\nAn example of an accident due to a user error is the ecological disaster of 1967 caused by the Torrey Canyon supertanker. The accident was due to a combination of several exceptional events, the result of which was that the supertanker was heading directly to the rocks. At that point, the captain failed to change the course because the steering control lever was inadvertently set to the Control position, which disconnected the rudder from the wheel at the helm.\n\nExamples of the second type are the Three Mile Island accident described above, the NYC blackout following a storm and the chemical plant disaster in Bhopal, India (Bhopal Disaster).\n\nThe URM Model characterizes use errors in terms of the user’s failure to manage a system deficiency. Six categories of use errors are described in a URM document:\n\nErik Hollnagel argues that going from and 'old' view to a 'new' view is not enough. One should go all the way to a 'no' view. This means that the notion of error, whether user error or use error might be destructive rather than constructive. \nInstead, he proposes to focus on the performance variability of everyday actions, on the basis that this performance variability is both useful and necessary. In most cases the result is that things go right, in a few cases that things go wrong. But the reason is the same.\n\nHollnagel expanded on this in his writings about the efficiency–thoroughness trade-off principle\nof Resilience Engineering,\n\nand the Resilient Health Care Net.\n"}
{"id": "31341292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31341292", "title": "When Technology Fails", "text": "When Technology Fails\n\nWhen Technology Fails, edited by Neil Schlager, is a collection of 103 case studies about significant technological disasters, accidents, and failures of the 20th century. It was published in 1994 by Gale Research, Inc. It was one of the top referenced books in the New York Public Library in 1995. The book was updated and re-released in 2005.\n\nThe book consists of 1,000- to 1,500-word entries, arranged by subject, that discuss the background, timeline, and impact of each event. Each entry is written by journalists, engineers, and researchers, and provides a cursory overview, rather than in-depth technological analysis. Entries are supplemented by bibliographies, black-and-white photographs, charts, and other print media.\n\n\n"}
