{"id": "38509307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38509307", "title": "10 Essential Public Health Services", "text": "10 Essential Public Health Services\n\nThe 10 Essential Public Health Services is a US government document which codifies the responsibilities of public health agencies and institutions in the United States.\n\nOrganized according to the \"three fundamental purposes of public health\" — assessment, policy development, and assurance — the essential services include the following:\n\n\n\n\nIn 1988, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) released an assessment of the U.S. public health system titled, \"The Future of Public Health\". The report described the network of county, state, and national public health agencies as being in \"disarray\" and prompted a national discussion about the state of public health in the country. Questioning the ability of existing public health systems to provide essential services, the report sought to establish a comprehensive framework delineating the \"three fundamental purposes of public health.\" These purposes included \"assessment, policy development, and assurance.\"\n\nThough health policy academicians identified with and understood the IOM framework, policy makers found its highly conceptual language difficult to apply. Therefore, as part of President Clinton’s 1994 healthcare reform efforts, a federal working-group was tasked with reviewing and supplementing the framework. Under the auspices of both the Center for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) Public Health Practice Program Office and the Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, the group sought to\n\nThese efforts culminated in the publication of \"The Essential Services of Public Health\" in late 1994.\nPublic Health Units\n\nThe report was well received. Public health agencies and professional organizations began to align guidelines and employ self-assessment tools in support of the ten Essential Services. The CDC launched a number of research projects aimed at developing strategies for measuring how well public health agencies provided the services. Many of these studies were the first of their kind and ushered in an era of health agency monitoring and assessment.\n\nIn 2002, the CDC and several national public health associations launched the National Public Health Performance Standards Program (NPHPSP). With the goal of developing a consensus-based set of performance standards for state and local public health delivery systems, the NPHPSP adopted the Essential Public Health Services as \"the fundamental framework\" underpinning its assessment strategy. The NPHPSP consists of three instruments — The State Public Health System Assessment, The Local Public Health System Assessment, and The Local Public Health Governance Assessment — and covers the gamut of public health action as described by the Essential Public Health Services.\n\nIt is essential for public health organizations to monitor and evaluate the health status of populations in order to identify trends and to target health resources. Components of this service include: utilization of appropriate tools to interpret and disseminate data to audiences of interest; collaboration in integrating and managing public health; and accurate and periodic assessment of the community’s health status. Specifically, public health organizations can monitor and evaluate the health status of their populations by creating a disease reporting system, community health profiles, and health surveys. For example, the Los Angeles Department of Public Health completes a Los Angeles County Health Survey (LACHS) every two to four years to obtain population-based data. This information is used for public health assessment and planning and for evaluating changes in health over time in Los Angeles County.\n\nIn order to appropriately allocate public health resources, it is essential to diagnose and investigate health problems and hazards in the community. Components in this service include: population-based screening of diseases; access to public health laboratories capable of completing rapid screening and high volume testing; and epidemiologic investigations of disease outbreaks and patterns of disease. The Los Angeles County Health and Examination Survey (LA HANES) was piloted in 2011 and aims to establish a profile description of health outcomes of residents of Los Angeles County (e.g. adult obesity and cardiovascular disease is monitored via collection of physical measurements such as blood pressure and body mass index). These survey results will inform public education and chronic disease prevention efforts. Emergency preparedness is also an essential component of public health organizations. Teams must be available and prepared to combat natural disasters, severe weather, outbreaks, bioterrorism, mass casualties and chemical emergencies.\n\nOnce public health priorities have been established through monitoring and investigation of health problems in the community, educational activities that promote improved health should be disseminated. Components in this service include: both the availability of health information and educational resources and the presence of health education and health promotion programs. This can be achieved through media advocacy and social marketing. An example of this is the Eat Less, Weigh Less campaign executed by the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health that aims to increase awareness about appropriate portion sizes using advertisements on buses, billboards and social media. It is also essential to establish health education and health promotion program partnerships with organizations in the community, such as schools, churches and employment facilities.\n\nPublic health organizations on the local, state and national level can mobilize community partnerships to identify and solve health problems. Components of this service include: building coalitions to utilize the full range of available resources; convening and facilitating partnerships that will undertake defined health improvement projects; and provide assistance to partners and communities to solve health problems. Of particular importance is identification of potential stakeholders who will contribute to or benefit from public health activities. First 5 LA is a community partner who supports targeted programs that address the needs of Los Angeles County children ages zero to five and their families. They work closely with the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health to improve the physical and emotional health of this population. It is important to note that many of these stakeholders may not be considered to be health-related at first glance. For example, organizations involved in urban planning may be influential in improving the health of its residents. This could include increasing the walkability of a community or the number of parks or bike trails in a neighborhood.\n\nPolicies can be effective in modifying human behavior and reducing negative health outcomes. Components in this service include: development of policy to guide the practice of public health; alignment of resources and strategies for community health efforts; and systematic health planning strategies to guide community health improvement. In response to increasing rates of obesity and cardiovascular disease, the New York City Board of Health passed a ban on the sale of sodas and other sugary drinks larger than 16 ounces at restaurants, street carts and movie theaters. In addition to policies that can support health efforts, laws can reduce negative health outcomes. For example, dram shop liability is a law that holds the owner or server at a bar or restaurant where a patron consumed their last alcoholic beverage responsible for injuries or deaths caused as a result of alcohol-related incidents. A systematic review completed by the Task Force on Community Preventive Services, found strong evidence of the effectiveness of this law in reducing alcohol-related harms.\n\nIt is important that individuals and organizations comply with existing laws and regulations in order to ensure the overall health and safety of the general public. Components of this service include: reviewing, evaluating, and revising laws and regulations put in place to protect the health and safety of the public; educating persons and organizations about these laws and regulations to improve compliance and encourage enforcement of them; and enforcing actions that protect the health of the public (e.g., protection of drinking water; enforcement of clean air standards; enforcement of laws prohibiting the sale of alcoholic and tobacco products to minors, of laws concerning the use of seat belts and child safety seats; mandating childhood immunizations; facilitating timely follow-ups in the event of hazards and outbreaks of exposure-related diseases; monitoring quality of health services; conducting the timely review of new drugs, biologics, and medical devices; ensuring food safety; and enforcing housing and sanitation codes).\n\nHaving access to care when it is needed is important in helping individuals prevent and avoid unfavorable health outcomes and medical costs. At the local level, components of this service include: identifying populations that face barriers to accessing health services and addressing their personal health needs, assuring the linkage of these populations to appropriate health services by coordinating provider services, and developing and implementing interventions that address the barriers they face in attempting to access care. At the state and governance levels, components of this service include: assessing access to and availability of state health services; partnering with public, private, and non-profit sectors to provide a coordinated system of health care; assuring access to this coordinated health care system by using outreach efforts that link individuals to the health services they need; developing and implementing a continuous improvement process to assure the equitable distribution of resources for those in greatest need of these services. The National HIV/AIDS Strategy (NHAS) employs this service idea as one of the action steps for achieving increased access to care and improved health outcomes for people living with HIV.\n\nHealth care workers and staff who are competent (i.e., skilled in the core principles of public health practice) are more likely to provide care and other services more effectively and efficiently compared to those who are not. Components of this service include: making sure that the workforce meets the health needs of the population, maintaining public health workforce standards by developing and implementing efficient licensure and credentialing processes and incorporating core public health competencies into personnel systems, and adopting continuous quality improvement methods and long-term learning opportunities for public health workforce members. In two 2002 reports, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) recommended instituting a certification examination as a way of ensuring minimum competence in public health. Web-based training strategies may be useful in providing the long-term learning opportunities that many current and upcoming public health workers need in order to serve as well-informed advocates of public health and safety.\n\nGiven scarce resources, it is important to keep track of whether or not programs and/or policies end up producing intended outcomes. Components of this service include: assessing the accessibility, quality and effectiveness of services and programs delivered; providing policymakers with the information they need in order to make well-informed decisions regarding the allocation of scarce resources; tracking efficiency, effectiveness, and quality of services analyzing data on health status and service utilization; and striving to improve the public health system’s capacity to well serve the population. Cost-effectiveness analysis has been proposed as one possible strategy for informing policymakers on how best to allocate health care resources.\n\nThrough research, the health and health care problems that individuals face can be better understood, and therefore be better and more appropriately addressed given the evidence provided by such research efforts. Components of this service include: fostering the development of a continuum of innovative solutions for health programming in terms of both practical field-based efforts as well as academic efforts, establishing a consortium of research institutions and other institutions of higher learning to encourage more collaborative and cross-cutting efforts, and ensuring the public health system’s capacity to perform timely epidemiological and health policy analyses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48739272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48739272", "title": "An apple a day keeps the doctor away", "text": "An apple a day keeps the doctor away\n\n\"An apple a day keeps the doctor away\" is a common English-language proverb of Welsh origin. It espouses the folk-wisdom that apple consumption (or consumption of fruits and vegetables in general) has identifiable health benefits.\n\nFirst recorded in the 1860s, the proverb originated in Wales, and was particularly prevalent in Pembrokeshire. The original wording of the saying was \"Eat an apple on going to bed, and you’ll keep the doctor from earning his bread.\" The current phrasing, \"An apple a day keeps the doctor away\", began usage at the end of the 19th century, early print examples found as early as 1899.\n\nThe background for the proverb was that at bedtime it was served either a fried apple filled with caraway seeds or a fresh apple with caraway seeds stuck in the apple.\nCaraway was considered very healthy and the apple was a way to eat as much caraway as possible.\n\nA 2011 study found that consumption of apples and pears might prevent strokes. A 2012 study found that apple consumption significantly lowered bad cholesterol levels in middle-aged adults. In 2013, the \"BMJ\" published a study as part of its humorous Christmas issue comparing the effects of prescribing everyone in the UK over age 50 either an apple or a statin a day. The study concluded that both interventions would be similarly effective. \n\nA 2015 study looked directly at the relationship between apple consumption and physician visits and found no evidence that the proverb was true. The study did, however, find that people who ate an apple a day did use fewer prescription medications.\n\nHowever, a 2011 study found that adding one ‘Golden Delicious’ apple to the daily diet of a small group of overweight men led to higher levels of LDL cholesterol and triglycerides. The results were attributed to the higher sugar and low-phenolic content of ‘Golden Delicious’ apples.\n"}
{"id": "17967022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17967022", "title": "Anterior shoulder", "text": "Anterior shoulder\n\nAnterior shoulder in obstetrics refers to that shoulder of the fetus that faces the pubic symphysis of the mother during delivery. Depending upon the original position of the fetus, either the left or the right shoulder can be the anterior shoulder. It is known as the anterior shoulder as it faces the anterior of the mother. This distinction between the anterior and the posterior shoulder is important as the anterior shoulder is delivered first.\n\n"}
{"id": "13941004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13941004", "title": "CLP Regulation", "text": "CLP Regulation\n\nThe CLP Regulation (for \"Classification, Labelling and Packaging\") is a European Union regulation from 2008, which aligns the European Union system of classification, labelling and packaging of chemical substances and mixtures to the Globally Harmonised System (GHS). It is expected to facilitate global trade and the harmonised communication of hazard information of chemicals and to promote regulatory efficiency. It complements the 2006 Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) Regulation (EC No 1907/2006) and replaces the current system contained in the Dangerous Substances Directive (67/548/EEC) and the Dangerous Preparations Directive (1999/45/EC).\n\nThe European Unions 2008 \"Classification, Labelling and Packaging\" regulation incorporates the classification criteria and labelling rules agreed at the UN level, the so-called Globally Harmonised System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS). It introduced new classification criteria, european hazard symbols (pictograms) and Risk and Safety Statements for labelling, while taking into account elements which were part of the prior EU legislation.\n\nThe regulation requires companies to appropriately classify, label and package their substances and mixtures before placing them on the market. It aims to protect workers, consumers and the environment by labelling that reflects a particular chemical's possible hazards. It also addresses the notification of classifications, the establishment of a list of harmonised classifications and the creation of a classification and labelling inventory, as required by REACH.\n\nThe regulation came into force in January 2009. Manufacturers and importers had already pre-registered more than 140,000 substances with the European Chemicals Agency under the REACH Regulation. They had until 1 December 2010 to propose \"provisional classifications\" for these substances, which have been used for the labelling of pure substances since that date. The deadline for classifying mixtures was 31 May 2015. The deadline for re-labelling and re-packaging of products already on the market was two years later: 1 June 2017.\n\nIn 2008, Directive 2008/112/EC and regulation (EC) No 1336/2008 adapted classification-based provisions in other existing EU legislation (“downstream legislation”) to the new rules.\nPursuant to article 53 of the CLP Regulation, in 2009 a first adaptation to the technical and scientific progress (ATP) was made with Commission Regulation 790/2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1077065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1077065", "title": "Cancer registry", "text": "Cancer registry\n\nA cancer registry is a systematic collection of data about cancer and tumor diseases. The data are collected by Cancer Registrars. Cancer Registrars capture a complete summary of patient history, diagnosis, treatment, and status for every cancer patient in the United States, and other countries.\n\nThe Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) program of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) was established in 1973 as a result of the National Cancer Act of 1971. The National Program of Cancer Registries (NPCR) was established by Congress through the Cancer Registries Amendment Act in 1992, and administered by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). NPCR and SEER together collect cancer data for the entire U.S. population. CDC and NCI, in collaboration with the North American Association of Central Cancer Registries, have been publishing annual federal cancer statistics in the United States Cancer Statistics: Incidence and Mortality report. Information maintained in the cancer registry includes: demographic information, medical history, diagnostic findings, cancer therapy and follow up details. The data is used to evaluate patient outcome, quality of life, provide follow-up information, calculate survival rates, analyze referral pattern, allocate resources at regional or state level, report cancer incidence as required under state law, and evaluate efficacy of treatment modalities.\n\nThere exist population-based cancer registries, hospital cancer registries (also called hospital-based cancer registries), and special purpose registries.\n\nIn 1926, Yale-New Haven Hospital became the first to set up a cancer registry. In 1956, the American College of Surgeons (ACoS) formally adopted a policy to encourage, through their Approvals Program, the development of hospital-based cancer registries. In 1973, The Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) Program of NCI establishes the first national cancer registry program. In 1992, U.S. Public Law 102-515 establishes the National Program of Cancer Registries (NPCR) and is administered by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).. By 1993, most states considered cancer a reportable disease.\n\nPopulation-based cancer registries monitor the frequency of new cancer cases (so-called incident cases) every year in well defined populations and over time by collecting case reports from different sources (treatment facilities, clinicians and pathologists, and death certificates). The frequency of these incident cases are expected per 100,000 of the mother population. If an unexpected accumulation can be observed, a hypothesis about possible causes is generated. This hypothesis is investigated in a second step by collecting more detailed data. The aim is to recognize and to reduce risks. Population-based registries can also monitor the effects of preventive measures. All population-based central registries in the United States and Canada are members of the North American Association of Central Cancer Registries. This organization acts as a voice for the registries when dealing with national standard-setting organizations, sets standards for digital cancer record transmission, and certifies the registries for the quality of their data, among other functions.\n\nHospital cancer registries aim at the improvement of cancer therapy. Therefore they have to collect detailed data about diagnosis and therapy. Improvements can be achieved by:\n\n\nSince the data needed by hospital cancer registries usually include those of population-based cancer registries and both use the same classifications, data can be sent from a hospital cancer registry to a population-based registry thus reducing documentation efforts.\n\nHospital and population-based cancer registries report their incidence data to national organizations that aggregate and publish the data. The way in which these data are formatted to be submitted to these organizations are determined by standards released by standard-setting organizations. Edits are run on the data to check for inaccuracies and duplicate cases before being submitted electronically. Different organizations have different standards for data reliability and completeness, and some award certifications based on the adherence to these standards.\n\nThe Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program of the National Cancer Institute collects and publish data on cancer incidence and survival throughout the United States. The information from population-based cancer registries covers approximately 28 percent of the US population. This coverage includes 26 percent of African Americans, 41 percent of Hispanics, 43 percent of American Indians and Alaska Natives, 54 percent of Asians, and 71 percent of Hawaiian/Pacific Islanders. The SEER program population-based cancer registries include Arizona Indians, Cherokee Nation, Connecticut, Detroit, Georgia Center for Cancer Statistics (Atlanta, Great Georgia, and Rural Georgia), Greater Bay Area Cancer Registry (San Francisco-Oakland and San Jose-Monterey), Greater California, Hawaii, Iowa, Kentucky, Los Angeles, Louisiana, New Jersey, New Mexico, Seattle-Puget Sound, and Utah. Selection of the geographic areas is based on the ability to operate and maintain a high quality population-based cancer reporting system.\n\nThe program has state-based cancer registries that collect, analyze and report cancer cases and deaths to a central cancer registry. NPCR was established in 1992 and administered by the CDC. NPCR supports central cancer registries in 45 states, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Pacific Island Jurisdictions (covers approximately 96% of the U.S. population). State Cancer Registries monitor cancer trends, determine cancer patterns, direct planning and evaluation of cancer control programs, help set priorities for allocating health resources, promote research, and provide information on cancer incidence.\nThe data collected helps public health professionals understand and address the cancer burden. The ninth volume of Cancer Incidence in Five Continents, published by International Agency for Research on Cancer, includes cancer incidence data from 32 NPCR-funded registries. NPCR’s future direction is to expand the use of information technology designed to support, improve, and enhance the management and exchange of electronic data in cancer surveillance.\n\nThe Swedish Cancer Registry was established in 1958. The health care providers in Sweden are required to report newly detected cancer cases diagnosed at clinical, morphological, and laboratory examination (as well as those discovered during autopsy) to the registry. Every year, the regional registries send cancer data to the National Cancer Register. The information available in the registry include patient’s personal information (PIN, sex, age and place of residence), medical records (date of diagnosis, site of the tumor, method used for diagnosis, and hospital where the patient is being treated), and follow-up data (date and cause of death or date of migration).\n\n"}
{"id": "15807148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15807148", "title": "Chelates in animal nutrition", "text": "Chelates in animal nutrition\n\nChelates ( che·late ) [kee-leyt] in animal feed are organic forms of essential trace minerals such as copper, iron, manganese and zinc.\n\nAnimals absorb, digest and use mineral chelates better than inorganic minerals. This means that lower concentrations can be used in animal feeds. In addition, animals fed chelated sources of essential trace minerals excrete lower amounts in their faeces, and so there is less environmental contamination. Mineral chelates also offers health and welfare benefits in animal nutrition\n\nSince the 1950s, animal feeds have been supplemented with essential trace minerals such as copper (Cu), iron (Fe), iodine (I), manganese (Mn), molybdenum (Mo), selenium (Se) and zinc (Zn). Initially, such supplementation was by means of inorganic salts of essential trace elements. From the 1960s onwards, genetic improvement of farm livestock resulted in increased nutritional requirements for these nutrients. Chelated minerals were developed in the 1980s and 1990s. Trace mineral chelates have proven to be better than inorganic minerals in meeting the nutritional needs of modern farm animals.\n\nThe objective of supplementation with trace minerals is to avoid a variety of deficiency diseases. Trace minerals carry out key functions in relation to many metabolic processes, most notably as catalysts for enzymes and hormones, and are essential for optimum health, growth and productivity. For example, supplementary minerals help ensure good growth, bone development, feathering in birds, hoof, skin and hair quality in mammals, enzyme structure and functions, and appetite. Deficiency of trace minerals affect many metabolic processes and so may be manifested by different symptoms, such as poor growth and appetite, reproductive failures, impaired immune responses, and general ill-thrift. From the 1950s to the 1990s most trace mineral supplementation of animal diets was in the form of inorganic minerals, and these largely eradicated associated deficiency diseases in farm animals.\n\nThe role in fertility and reproductive diseases of dairy cattle highlights that organic forms of Zn are retained better than inorganic sources and so may provide greater benefit in disease prevention, notably mastitis and lameness\n\nIn recent decades, global food animal production has intensified and genetic potential for growth and yields has improved. As a result, commercial tendencies have been to increase trace mineral supplementation,in order to allow for the greater mineral requirements of superior stock reared under industrial conditions. Increasing the concentration of inorganic minerals in animal diets has led to several problems.\n\nThe use of high Cu in swine and poultry rations has caused accidental Cu poisoning in more sensitive animals, such as sheep grazing pastures fertilised with pig or poultry manure SCAN (2003a) Opinion of the Scientific Committee for Animal Nutrition on the use of copper in feedingstuffs. Secondly, inorganic minerals may form insoluble complexes with other dietary agents resulting in low absorption. In addition, it is thought that the positive charge of many inorganic minerals reduces access to the enterocytes due to repulsion by the negatively charged mucin layer and competition for binding sites.\n\nFinally, the poor retention and high excretion rates of inorganic minerals led to environmental concerns during the 1980s and 1990s, especially in Europe .Opinion of the Scientific Committee for Animal Nutrition on the use of zinc in feedingstuffs]. The European Union is concerned about possible detrimental effects of excess supplementation with trace minerals on the environment or human and animal health, and so in 2003 legislated a reduction in permitted feed concentrations of several trace metals (Co, Cu, Fe, Mn and Zn).\n\nResearch in trace element nutrition has led to the development of more bioavailable organic minerals, including trace minerals derived from chelates. Chelates allow a lower supplementation rate of trace minerals with an equivalent or improved effect on animal health, growth and productivity . Some samples of natural minerals at the Wikimedia Commons:\n\n\nSome notice concluded that the utilisation of organic Cu from a copper chelate or copper lysine were higher than that of inorganic Cu sulfate when fed to rats in the presence and absence of elemental Zn or Fe. The data suggest that, unlike inorganic Cu, organic Cu chelates exhibit absorption and excretion mechanisms that do not interfere with Fe. Copper chelate also achieved higher liver Zn, suggesting less interference at gut absorption sites in comparison with the other forms of Cu.\n\nEffect of organic zinc sources on performance, zinc status and carcass, meat and claw quality in fattening bulls. Livestock Prod. compared a Zn chelate, a Zn polysaccharide complex and ZnO (inorganic zinc oxide) in bull beef cattle, and concluded that the organic forms resulted in some improvement in hoof claw quality.\n\nCompared the bioavailability of Cu and Zn chelates in sheep with the inorganic sulfate forms, at \"low\" and \"high\" supplementation rates. Copper and Zn chelates at the lower rates caused significantly greater increases in blood plasma concentrations than the corresponding treatments with Zn sulfate (p<0.05) and Cu sulfate (p<0.01).\nIn addition, Zinc chelate supplementation resulted in significantly greater hoof horn Zn content than did Zn sulfate (p<0.05). At the \"low\" supplementation rate Zinc chelate achieved better hoof quality than Zn sulfate (p<0.05). The data suggest that Cu and Zn chelates are more readily absorbed and more easily deposited in key tissues such as hooves, in comparison with inorganic Zn forms.\n\nIn weaned piglets evaluated various supplementation rates of organic Zn in the form of a chelate or as a polysaccharide complex and compared these with ZnO, zinc oxide, at 2,000 ppm. Feeding lower concentrations of organic Zn greatly decreased the amount of Zn excreted in comparison with inorganic Zn, without loss of growth performance.\n\nStudied a Copper chelate in weaned pigs in comparison with inorganic Cu and sulfate. Piglet performance was consistently better with organic Cu at 50 to 100 ppm, in comparison with inorganic Cu at 250 ppm. In addition, organic Cu increased Cu absorption and retention, and decreased Cu excretion 77% and 61% respectively, compared with 250 ppm inorganic Cu.\n\nThe effects of an Mg chelate in broiler chickens in comparison with magnesium oxide and an unsupplemented control group. Diets for fattening chicken are not normally supplemented with Mg, but this study indicated positive effects on performance and meat quality. During the first 3 weeks of life, the Mg chelate improved feed efficiency significantly in comparison with both the inorganic MgO and the negative control group (p<0.05). Thigh meat pH and oxidative deterioration during storage were also studied. The Mg chelate increased thigh meat pH in comparison with the negative control (p<0.05). Mg supplementation significantly reduced chemical indicators (TBARS) of oxidative deterioration in liver and thigh muscle (p<0.01), with Mg chelate significantly more efficient than MgO (p<0.01). The data suggest that organic Mg in the form of a chelate is capable of reducing oxidation, and so improve chicken meat quality.\n\nA Zn chelate supplement was compared with Zn sulfate in broiler chickens.Weight gain and feed intake increased quadratically (p<0.05) with increasing Zn concentrations from the chelate and linearly with Zn sulfate. The relative bioavailability of the Zn chelate was 183% and 157% of Zn sulfate for weight gain and tibia Zn, respectively. The authors concluded that the supplemental concentration of Zn required in corn-soy diets for broilers from 1–21 days of age would be 9.8 mg/kg diet as Zn chelate and 20.1 mg/kg diet as Zn sulfate,respectively.\n\nThe effect of replacing inorganic minerals with organic minerals in broiler chickens. One group of chickens received inorganic sulfates of Cu (12 ppm), Fe (45 ppm), Mn (70 ppm) and Zn (37 ppm) and their performance was compared to a similar group supplemented with chelates of Cu (2.5 ppm), Fe, Mn, and Zn (all at 10 ppm). \nThere were no differences in performance between the birds fed the high inorganic minerals and the birds fed the low organic chelates. Faecal concentrations of Cu, Fe, Mn and Zn were 55%, 73%, 46% and 63%, respectively, of control birds fed inorganic minerals.\n\nA broiler study reported also compared inorganic and organic mineral supplementation in broiler chickens. Control birds were fed Cu, Fe, Mn Se and Zn in inorganic forms (15 ppm Cu 15 from sulfate; 60 ppm Fe from sulfate etc.),and compared with three treatment groups supplemented with organic forms. Apart from improved feathering, most likely associated with the presence of organic Se, there were no significant performance differences between birds fed inorganic and organic minerals. The authors concluded that the use of organic trace minerals permits a reduction of at least 33% in supplement rates in comparison with inorganic minerals, without compromising performance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14441062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14441062", "title": "Chronic care management", "text": "Chronic care management\n\nChronic care management encompasses the oversight and education activities conducted by health care professionals to help patients with chronic diseases and health conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure, lupus, multiple sclerosis and sleep apnea learn to understand their condition and live successfully with it. This term is equivalent to disease management for chronic conditions. The work involves motivating patients to persist in necessary therapies and interventions and helping them to achieve an ongoing, reasonable quality of life.\n\nHistorically, there has been little coordination across the multiple settings, providers and treatments of chronic illness care. In addition, the treatments for chronic diseases are often complicated, making it difficult for patients to comply with treatment protocols. \n\nEffective medical care usually requires longer visits to the doctor's office than is common in acute care. Moreover, in treating chronic illnesses, the same intervention, whether medical or behavioral, may differ in effectiveness depending on when in the course of the illness the intervention is suggested. Fragmentation of care is a risk for patients with chronic diseases, because frequently multiple chronic diseases coexist. Necessary interventions can require input from multiple specialists that may not usually work together, and to be effective, they require close, careful coordination.\n\nAs a consequence, patients with chronic conditions can fare poorly in the current acute-care model of care delivery.\n\nHistorically, reimbursement has been challenging for care coordination services. Medicare recently started paying for services related to chronic care management. Medicare pays a monthly fee for patients who consent to treatment for a minimum of 20 minutes of telehealth services.\n\nPatients with chronic conditions have an important role in the management of their conditions, as they are often the ones administering the treatments in everyday life. They also play an important role in monitoring their health and changes in their health by means of Observations of Daily Living (ODLs). Resulting information may inform both self care and clinical care.\n\nCertain problems related to chronic illness are not specifically medical, but involve patients' interactions with families and workplaces. Interventions often require patients and families to make difficult lifestyle changes. Patients need to be educated on the benefits of treatment and the risks of not properly following their treatment regimen. They need to be motivated to comply because treatment usually produces an improved state, rather than the results that most patients desire—a cure. Chronic care management helps patients systematically monitor their progress and coordinate with experts to identify and solve any problems they encounter in their treatment.\n\nIt would appear from the above, that chronically ill persons are better cared for by primary care physicians. Considering the diverse nature of chronic health problems and the roles that psychosocial environments play in their course, a purely biological model of care is usually inadequate. The biopsychosocial model of care is the ideal alternative.\n\nAlthough acute care has characterized all medical care until recently, several varieties of managed care have emerged in the past decades in an effort to improve care, reduce unnecessary service utilization and control spiraling costs. Despite its initial promise, however, managed care has not achieved truly coordinated care. In actual operation it appears to emphasize its fiscal goals. Moreover, managed care does not address the complexity of chronic conditions, and in the interests of cost-cutting, tends to reduce time with patients rather than increase it.\n\nIn the latter part of the 20th century, researchers began to develop care models for the assessment and treatment of the chronically ill.\n\nNurse researchers, such as S. Wellard, C. S. Burckhardt, C. Baker and P. N. Stern, and I. M. Lubkin and P. D. Larson, were often on the front lines of actual care for patients with ongoing treatments for conditions such as diabetes or renal failure. They stated that their patients experienced a series of \"phases\", and that during some of these phases the patients responded to the same interventions quite differently.\n\nIndividuals who suffered from chronic illnesses, such as C. Register and S. Wells, have given detailed accounts of their experiences and made recommendations about how to manage chronic conditions. Associations proliferated for those with specific conditions (Sjögren's syndrome, chronic fatigue syndrome, peripheral neuropathy, etc.), and these groups have engaged in advocacy work, acted as clearinghouses for information, and began funding research.\n\nEdward H. Wagner, M.D., Director of The MacColl Institute for Healthcare Innovation, Director of The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation national program \"Improving Chronic Illness Care\", and Senior Investigator at Group Health Research Institute in Seattle, WA developed the Chronic Care Model, or CCM. The CCM summarizes the basic elements for improving care in health systems on different levels. These elements are the community, the health system, self-management support, delivery system design, decision support and clinical information systems. Evidence-based change concepts under each element, in combination, foster productive interactions between informed patients who take an active part in their care and providers with resources and expertise. The Chronic Care Model can be applied to a variety of chronic illnesses, health care settings and target populations. The bottom line is healthier patients, more satisfied providers, and cost savings.\nThe Stanford Self-Management Program is a community-based self-management program that helps people with chronic illness gain self-confidence in their ability to control their symptoms and manage how their health problems will affect their lives.\n\nPartnership for Solutions, a Johns Hopkins/Robert Wood Johnson collaborative, conducts research to improve the care and quality of life for individuals with chronic health conditions.\n\nJ. O. Prochaska and his colleagues, investigating issues associated with the treatment of addictions, have described a transtheoretical model of behavior change as a process rather than an event. They have advocated assessment and treatment based on the patient’s stage in the process.\n\nPatricia Fennell, working on the experiences of imposed change (such as illness, grief, or trauma), has developed the Fennell Four Phase Model of chronic illness. Fennell says people commonly experience four phases as they learn to incorporate their changed physical abilities or psychological outlook into their personality and lifestyle: Crisis, Stabilization, Integration, and Resolution.\n\nEstablished by the investment banking firm Wyatt Matas, the term Care Cycle Management is a chronic care business model that integrates interventional disease management with care delivery to manage the care of high-cost patients.\n\nThe Flinders Human Behaviour & Health Research Unit (based in Adelaide, South Australia) has developed the Flinders ProgramTM, a generic set of tools and processes that allows for assessment of chronic condition management behaviours, collaborative identification of problems and goal setting leading to the development of individualised care plans with the goal of raising the quality of life for people living with chronic disease. The Flinders ProgramTM has been adapted to specific contexts to meet the needs of Indigenous Australians and veterans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20902512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20902512", "title": "Code of safe working practices", "text": "Code of safe working practices\n\nThe Code of Safe Working Practices (COSWP) is published by the Maritime and Coastguard Agency (MCA) of the UK. The code details the regulatory framework for health and safety aboard ship, safety management and statutory duties underlying to the advice in the code and the areas that should be covered when introducing a new recruit to safety procedures on board.\n\nThe code arose from the Health and Safety at Work act (1974).\n"}
{"id": "58828704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58828704", "title": "Deaf mental health care", "text": "Deaf mental health care\n\nDeaf mental health care is the providing of counseling, therapy, and other psychiatric services to people who are deaf and hard of hearing in ways that are culturally aware and linguistically accessible. It term also covers research, training, and services in ways that improve mental health for deaf people. These services consider those with a variety of hearing levels and experiences with deafness focusing on their psychological well-being. The National Association of the Deaf has identified that specialized services and knowledge of the Deaf increases successful mental health services to this population. States such as North Carolina, South Carolina, and Alabama have specialized Deaf mental health services. The Alabama Department of Mental Health has established an office of Deaf services to serve the more than 39,000 deaf and hard of hearing person who will require mental health services.\n\nThere are multiple models of deafness; Deaf mental health focuses on a cultural model in that people who are deaf view themselves as part of a socio-cultural linguistic community, rather than people with a medical deficit or disability. Accordingly, providing deaf mental heath care to people of the Deaf community requires services from clinicians, doctors, and interpreters who are trained with this perspective and the inclusion of deaf professionals in this system of health care. \n\nEarly access to language in deaf children is important for normal development of language. Deprivation of language can negatively affect mental health and in severe cases can cause mental health syndrome. Access to auditory and visual language is important, and availability differs based on each child's abilities. Approximately 40% of deaf children also have additional disabilities.\n\nMany states have deaf schools and institutions that provide appropriate language models along with mental health services for their students and those in the surrounding Deaf communities. The Lexington School for the Deaf in Queens, New York provides a variety of educational and social services for the deaf. The Texas School for the Deaf in Austin, Texas also provides a focus on mental health for students.\n\nDeaf children in mainstream schools may be more neglected in the classroom than their hearing peers. It is also more common for deaf children to have a harder time making friends. Bullying can occur frequently among children who are deaf or hard of hearing, which can lead to negative mental health outcomes.\n\nFor a deaf person, obtaining access to proper medical treatment is challenging and they face a variety of obstacles in communication and access. This can include the way in which medical professionals initiate patient's various health exams without prior modification suitable for deaf individuals. Communication challenges and lack of doctor awareness of the culture and language of the deaf can lead deaf patients to avoid making medical appointments. An increase in the amount of professionals who are trained in American Sign Language (ASL) and have experience with Deaf culture increase positive mental health outcomes for deaf people.\n\nAge-related hearing loss gradually occurs in many people as they get older, typically affecting those over the age of 65. This type of hearing loss can lead to feelings of embarrassment and isolation due to the fact that those affected may no longer be able to hear family, friends, or simple everyday sounds. Those with hearing loss are less likely to want to engage in social activities due to frustration over not being able to hear. A study conducted by the National Council of Aging (NCOA) showed that a large portion of elders with hearing loss who were studied, reported symptoms of lasting depression. Higher rates of exclusion from social and employment opportunities due to higher rates of miscommunication, making deaf adults more susceptible to mental illnesses. \n\nStudies have found that when a person becomes deaf at an older age, it has a less extreme impact on their mental health than it does when hearing loss begins at an earlier age. However, those who were either born deaf or lost their hearing at a younger age and then age as a deaf person face some particularly difficult challenges. When a non-deaf person ages, isolationist tendencies are generally increased. This increase is even more drastic for deaf people. Furthermore, many technological advancements that are heavily dependent on auditory communication also present challenges to deaf people.\n\nThe type and onset of deafness may cause different types of language disfluencies, diagnoses, and treatments of clients who are deaf. Cultural knowledge, language skills (e.g., fluency in ASL or access to trained interpreters), and other social-cultural factors are part of the deaf mental health access model. Lack of knowledge about Deaf culture and sign language among mental health professionals can make it difficult for deaf people to access appropriate services.\n\nThe National Association of the Deaf has eight recommendations for qualifications of interpreters working in mental health settings:\n\n\nSpecific knowledge and training in mental health contexts is necessary for adequate sign language interpreting for mental health clients. Accordingly, the State of Alabama requires \"Certification of mental health interpreters for persons who are deaf\" for interpreters to work in mental health contexts, and this certification must be renewed yearly by either: a) working 40 hours in clinical settings; b) attending 40 hours of training; or c) a combination of work in clinical settings and training equaling 40 hours. To provide the opportunity for education and training, the Alabama Department of Mental Health's Office of Deaf Services established the Alabama's Mental Health Interpreter Training Project. \n\n"}
{"id": "52577251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52577251", "title": "Disability and religion", "text": "Disability and religion\n\nTopics on disability and religion may concentrate on the manner in which disabled people are treated within religious communities, the religious texts of those religions, or the general input from religious discourse on matters relating to the disabled. Studies on the relationship between religion and the disabled vary widely, with some postulating the existence of ableism and others viewing religion as a primary medium through which to assist the disabled. Religious exhortation often prompts adherents to treat the disabled with deference, however when the disability constitutes a mental illness such an approach may be slanted with an acknowledgement of the latter's naivete. In religions with an eschatological belief in divine judgment, there are often traditions promulgating an exemption from judgement in the afterlife for the mentally disabled, as well as for children who die before reaching maturity due to both lacking an understanding of their actions in a manner analogous to the mental disorder defense. Regarding the rationale behind God's creation of disabled people, some religions maintain that their contrast with the able-bodied permits the able-bodied to reflect and God to subsequently assess the level of gratitude shown by each individual for their health.\n\n"}
{"id": "3275308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3275308", "title": "Dry enema", "text": "Dry enema\n\nA dry enema is an alternative technique for cleansing the human rectum either for reasons of health, or for sexual hygiene. It is accomplished by squirting a small amount of sterile lubricant into the rectum, resulting in a bowel movement more quickly and with less violence than can be achieved by an oral laxative.\n\nIt is called \"dry\" by contrast to the more usual wet enema, because no water is used.\n\nA rudimentary form of \"dry\" enema is the use of a non-medicated glycerin suppository. However, due to the relative hardiness of the suppository - necessary for its insertion into the human body - before the glycerin can act, it must be melted by the heat of the body, and hence it does not take effect for up to an hour. Often the hygroscopic glycerin irritates the sensitive membranes of the rectum resulting in forceful expulsion of the suppository without any laxative effects.\n\nA quicker form of the dry enema utilizes the injection of a small amount of water-based lubricant such as KY Jelly into the rectum via a non-hypodermic syringe, such as an oral syringe, or from some other source. Then again since the glycerin itself is an effective producer of the desired contraction of the colonic muscles it is simpler - and more easily controlled - to introduce 5 - 10 cc of glycerin directly into the rectum. Specialist syringes are available for this purpose but are hard to find. An alternative is to use an enema nozzle which has an intake end which is compatible with a standard hypodermic syringe. This allows the immediate injection of the 5-10 ccs. required, and results can be expected in 2–4 minutes. Another alternative is to use a normal 5 or 10cc syringe inserted directly into the anus. This needs to be done carefully to avoid scratching the anal passage. The passage should be lubricated with sorbolene cream or any water-based lubricant. Only a syringe with a Luer-slip should be used, not a Luer-lock tip (a syringe end molded to take a screw-on needle). Penetration is better performed by the patient to eliminate any pain. The patient should be encouraged to wait at least 15 minutes in order that peristalsis can reach the full length of the rectum, but many will find this impossible and this treatment should therefore be applied only when the facilities to evacuate are nearby.\n\nThe usual amount of lubricant applied is about 2 tsp (10 cc), which will produce a movement in 30 minutes or less. The movement will be produced in a compact body, rather than in the more copious liquid form produced by a wet enema; and since no water is used, none will be retained higher up in the colon, to be expelled at a later, and possibly inconvenient, time.\n\nA further advantage of this technique for sexual hygiene is that any slight remaining traces of fecal material will - due to the presence of the lubricant - tend to adhere to the wall of the rectum rather than to any foreign object which may subsequently be inserted.\n"}
{"id": "23259981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23259981", "title": "Estimated date of delivery", "text": "Estimated date of delivery\n\nThe estimated date of delivery (EDD), also known as expected date of confinement, and estimated due date or simply due date, is a term describing the estimated delivery date for a pregnant woman. Normal pregnancies last between 37 and 42 weeks.\n\nConfinement is a traditional term referring to the period of pregnancy when an upper-class, noble, or royal woman would withdraw from society in medieval and tudor times be confined to their rooms with midwives, ladies-in-waiting and female family members only to attend them. This was believed to calm the mother and reduce the risk of premature delivery. Except in threatened pregnancies (for example, in pre-eclampsia), \"lying-in\" or bedrest is no longer a part of antenatal care.\n\nDue date estimation basically follows two steps:\n\nAccording to American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the main methods to calculate gestational age are:\n\nChildbirth on average occurs at a gestational age of 280 days (40 weeks), which is therefore often used as a standard estimation for individual pregnancies. However, alternative durations as well as more individualized methods have also been suggested. There is in any case considerable variation among individual pregnancies.\n\nGiven that these gestation lengths are only estimates of an average, it is helpful to consider gestation time as a range of dates rather than as a single \"due date\". The median is merely a guideline for the day at which half of all births occur earlier, and half of all births occur later. Births rarely occur \"on\" a due date, but they are clustered \"around\" due dates. A study of singleton live births in the US came to the result that childbirth has a standard deviation of 14 days when gestational age is estimated by first trimester ultrasound, and 16 days when estimated directly by last menstrual period.\n\n\"Naegele's rule\" is a standard way of calculating the due date for a pregnancy when assuming a gestational age of 280 days at childbirth. The rule estimates the expected date of delivery (EDD) by adding a year, subtracting three months, and adding seven days to the origin of gestational age. The result is approximately 280 days (40 weeks) from the start of the last menstrual period. Another method is by adding 9 months and 7 days to the first day of the last menstrual period.\n\nNaegele's rule is named after Franz Karl Naegele (1778–1851), the German obstetrician who devised the rule. Naegele was born July 12, 1778, in Düsseldorf, Germany. In 1806, Naegele became ordinary professor and director of the lying-in hospital in Heidelberg. His \"Lehrbuch der Geburtshilfe\", published in 1830 for midwives, enjoyed a successful 14 editions.\n\n\"Example:\"<br>\nLMP = 8 May 2009\n\n280 days past the start of the last menstrual period is found by checking the day of the week of the LMP and adjusting the calculated date to land on the same day of the week. Using the example above, 8 May 2009 is a Friday. The calculated date (15 February) is a Monday; adjusting to the closest Friday produces 12 February, which is exactly 280 days past 8 May. The calculation method does not always result in 280 days because not all calendar months are the same length; it does not account for leap years.\n\nMobile apps essentially always give consistent estimations compared to each other and correct for leap year, while pregnancy wheels made of paper can differ from each other by 7 days and generally do not correct for leap year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16344646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16344646", "title": "Fee splitting", "text": "Fee splitting\n\nFee splitting is the practice of sharing fees with professional colleagues, such as physicians or lawyers, in return for being sent referrals\n\nThis is essentially the payment of a commission to the referrer with the express intention of ensuring that the referring doctor directs referrals of patients to the payee.\n\nIn most parts of the world, the practice is considered unethical and unacceptable, hence fee splitting is often covert. The reason it is believed not to be in the interests of patients is because it represents a conflict of interest which may adversely affect patient care and well-being, since patients will not necessarily be referred to the most appropriate doctor to provide their on-going care but will instead be referred to those doctors or hospitals with whom the referring doctor has a \"fee splitting\" or commission payment type of arrangement.\nIt is also called as 'CUT' (also spoken as Cee-You-Tee) practice in many parts of the world including India for its reference to a 'cut' from the patients bill.\n\nMany countries do not allow promotion of health services via mass media, advertisements and other direct promotions, and in a significant way, information on pricing and quality of care institutions and medicines reaches to patient through their primary care physician, many of whom indulge in a referral fee split unethical practice to refer a patient for business to a higher specialist, brand prescription and admissions.\n\nThe situation in the US is not entirely clear \n\nAccording to the World Medical Association,\n\nThe AMA Code provides that payment by or to a physician solely for the referral of a patient is unethical as is the acceptance by a physician of payment of any kind, and in any form, from any source such as a pharmaceutical company or pharmacist or a manufacturer of medical appliances and devices, for referring a patient to that source. Another section specifies that clinics, laboratories, hospitals or other health care facilities which compensate physicians for referral of patients are engaged in fee-splitting, which is unethical.\n\nAmong its \"Definitions of Unprofessional Conduct\", the \"West Hudson Psychiatric Society Virtual Newsletter\" (1997) lists \"Offering, giving or receiving a fee for the referral of a patient (fee splitting), or permitting any person other than an employee or associate to share in your fee, who has not provided an appropriate service directly under your supervision\".\n\nHowever, the practice, or something resembling it, tends to be tolerated - in \"Medicine, Money, and Morals: Physicians' Conflicts of Interest\" by Marc A. Rodwin, forms of fee splitting and commission paying for referrals remain common in the USA and are in effect tolerated by key overseeing bodies such as the American Medical Association and Joint Commission International, or JCI.\n\nAccording to their website, the Joint Commission (JCI) have no published view on the issue of fee splitting, and in fact the Joint Commission stopped trying to provide guidance on medical ethics to American hospitals many years ago, preferring to concentrate on less challenging areas of healthcare assessment, despite the vast importance of medical ethics to patient safety. It is not clear if JCI operate to a similar level of standards when working outside of the USA.\n\nThe popular group marketing website groupon and other daily deal businesses have received the green light from some U.S. state bar associations, most notably North Carolina's State Bar formal opinion. However, approved in some jurisdictions, Alabama and other state bar associations have chosen to dissent from the NC state bar ruling, and have formally ruled in opposition to allowing daily deal websites as an ethical form of group marketing. Some state bar associations have yet to formally choose an opinion.\n\nFee splitting and similar practices are considered unequivocally unacceptable for the medical profession in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe practice is considered unethical, and offenders can be disciplined and even \"struck off the medical register\" (that is, lose their license to practice medicine). This is not to say that it does not happen.\n\nFee splitting in the medical profession of various sorts has been alleged in Malta, Singapore, Thailand, and India.\n\n"}
{"id": "54932601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54932601", "title": "Femalia", "text": "Femalia\n\nFemalia is a book of 32 full-color photographs of human vulvas, edited by Joani Blank and first published by Down There Press in 1993. A reprint edition was published by Last Gasp in 2011. The photographs were taken by Tee Corinne, Michael Perry, Jill Posener, and Michael A. Rosen. The photographs are presented without commentary, except for Blank's brief introduction to the volume as a whole.\n\nThe word used as the book's title, \"\", was taken from the novel \"Vox\" by Nicholson Baker. The photographs by Corinne and Perry had been taken years before the book's original publication in 1993; those by Posener and Rosen were taken specifically for inclusion in the first edition of \"Femalia\".\n\n\"Femalia\" grew out of Blank's long-term work as a feminist sex educator. She felt that medical and pornographic images of the female genitals were inadequate to her purposes. In her introduction to the first edition, Blank lamented the absence of readily available photographic representations of the vulva other than heavily edited images in male-oriented pornography, and the resulting feeling on the part of a majority of women that \"in one way or another, their genitals are not quite ‘normal’\".\n\nFeminist authors have sharply contrasted the portrayals of vulvas in \"Femalia\" with those in typical male-oriented pornography and in biomedical sources. \"Femalia\"'s portrayals are characterized as accurate, honest, open, and truthful, as exhibiting \"stark reality\"; as promoting a positive view of the vulva; as emphasizing the diversity of the vulva in different women, as well as the diversity of opinions and perspectives about the vulva on the part of both men and women; and as emphasizing female autonomy. By contrast, portrayals of the vulva in pornography and in biomedical science are characterized as stylized and uniform, excluding women whose genitalia do not match their models. Pornographic portrayals are further characterized as commodified, and medical portrayals as sterile. Feminist sex educators have advocated perusal of the images in \"Femalia\" as an exercise to help women to regard their genitals in a more positive light.\n\nLibrarian Sanford Berman has cited \"Femalia\" as an example to illustrate his thesis that libraries engage in inappropriate self-censorship, often motivated by concerns about controversial sexual content, in deciding which books to stock. Berman comments, \"A detailed, artistic picture of a seashell adorns the cover. Were the contents strictly shell photos, the book might make it into at least some libraries. Shells, yes. Vulvas, no.\"\n\nIn a study of systematic differences in the depiction of female genitals in online pornography, anatomy textbooks, and feminist publications, \"Femalia\" was used as one of three sources of sample depictions in the feminist-publications category. This study found a statistically significant difference between online pornography and feminist publications in depicted protuberance of the labia minora, with greater mean protuberance shown in the feminist publications. It also found greater variation in measured genital proportions shown in the feminist publications than in the other two categories of sources.\n\n\"Femalia\" was used as one of two sources of sample depictions of female genitals (the other was \"Penthouse\") in a psychological study of the relationship between women's aesthetic perceptions of female genitals and their attitudes toward gynecological examinations. More specifically, the examinations in question were Pap smears, and the relevant attitudes were anxiety, embarrassment, and likelihood of making or keeping an appointment for a Pap smear.\n\nThe Royal Australian College of General Practitioners (RACGP) has published a guideline document, authored by Dr. Magdalena Simonis under authority of the RACGP, intended to inform healthcare professionals about female genital cosmetic surgery (FGCS), such as labiaplasty, and to advise them about management of patient requests for FGCS. In this document, Dr. Simonis identifies lack of appreciation of female genital diversity, not only on the part of the public but also on the part of healthcare professionals, as a contributing factor to the demand for FGCS. She advocates the use of \"Femalia\" as a tool for patient education about genital diversity, in part because it depicts female genitals without digital enhancement. Dr. Simonis has further referenced this educational use of \"Femalia\" in slide and poster presentations intended to promote better management of the demand for FGCS on the part of healthcare professionals.\n\nMedical anthropologist Eric Plemons has stated that:\nPlemons documents the use of \"Femalia\" as a resource to demonstrate the existence of female genital diversity, and to educate both clinicians and patients as to the range of normal vulval appearance. He attributes its widespread use by healthcare professionals to their belief that \"it is one of very few photographic collections of ‘normal’ vulvas that exists\".\n\n\"Femalia\" has been used as a way of assessing preferences for perineal and genital cosmetic appearance, to improve cosmesis in male-to-female transsexuals (transwomen) undergoing genital sex reassignment surgery (GSRS). Beginning in the year 2000, surgeon Neal Wilson began showing photographs from \"Femalia\" to his prospective GSRS patients and asking them to indicate which vulvas they found most aesthetically pleasing, as well as which ones they would choose for themselves. Dr. Wilson attempted to approximate through surgery the appearance of the photographs from \"Femalia\" selected by his prospective patients, even though he held that they set \"impossible standards\" because of the limitations of early 21st-century surgical technique. Dr. Wilson has republished, in an online journal article, the three photographs most often selected by his patients. He has also provided summary statistics concerning his patients′ choices of vulval photographs from \"Femalia\", as well as a short narrative summary of the specific anatomical features that he believed to be characteristic of the most popular photographs.\n\n"}
{"id": "58391294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58391294", "title": "Food labelling and advertising law (Chile)", "text": "Food labelling and advertising law (Chile)\n\nChile's food labelling and advertising law, formally titled \"Ley 20.606, sobre la composición de los alimentos y su publicidad\" (“Law 20.606, on the nutritional composition of foods and their advertising”) establishes a regulatory framework on food security and healthy food with the intention of guiding consumers towards behaviour patterns that promote public health. After the 2012 law was enacted, its accompanying regulations came into full force on June 27, 2016. Andrew Jacobs, writing for \"The New York Times\", has characterized this measure as \"the world’s most ambitious attempt to remake a country’s food culture\" and suggests it \"could be a model for how to turn the tide on a global obesity epidemic that researchers say contributes to four million premature deaths a year.\"\n\nIn Chile, the law — often referred to by less cumbersome names such as \"ley de etiquetado de alimentos\" (“food labelling law”), \"ley del Súper Ocho\" (“Super Eight law”), or simply \"ley de alimentos\" (“food law”) — specifically regulates the delivery of nutritional information on foods high in sodium, saturated fats, sugars or calories. The standard also prohibits the sale of such foods in educational institutions, and limits the advertising of these products to children under fourteen.\n\nAccording to a 2010 national health survey, more than 60 percent of Chile’s population suffers from excessive weight. The problem begins early in childhood, with more than 10 percent of children under six, more than 15 percent of preschoolers and more than 25 percent of first-grade children presenting with obesity. When the overweight and the obese children are considered as a group, more than 50 percent of them, according to the Chilean Ministry of Health, are found to suffer from malnutrition, which is considered the main public health problem in the country.\n\nThe law has eleven articles; its stipulations establish: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHealth ministry decree No. 13 (April 16, 2015), amended the government's processed foods regulation to adapt it to the provisions of Law 20.606 and specifying maximum calories, sodium, sugars and saturated fats in food; the values were set to diminish by progressive stages after the regulation's entry into force. The limits stipulated by law are:\n\nThe regulation also detailed the foods that are exempted from the labelling obligation, which includes foods without added sugars, honey or syrups; without added sodium and without saturated fats; those sold in bulk or portioned out, divided and prepared at the request of the public (even if they are packaged at the time of sale); infant formula; commercially prepared minced baby food, unless they contain added sugar; food prepared for medical use; food for weight control regimens; dietary supplements and certain foods for athletes; and table-top sugar substitutes.\n\nSeveral countries have expressed interest in the Chilean standards and have considered their content in developing their own countries' labelling regulations, including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras, Israel, Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, El Salvador and Uruguay.\n\nIn addition, international organizations — including the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), the Pan American Health Organization, the UN's Food and Agriculture Organization and World Health Organization, the Union of South American Nations and the OECD — have expressed support for the Chilean food labelling and advertising law and regulations and have facilitated bilateral cooperation, memoranda of understanding and the establishment of international networks. Codex Alimentarius has urged member countries to revise regulations on labelling, while the World Trade Organization has established international discussion panels on food labelling, at which Chile has been a prominent speaker.\n\nIn addition, during North American Free Trade Agreement negotiations, the governments of Mexico and Canada have advocated for nutritional warnings on foods, inspired by the Chilean experience, but the current United States government has supported efforts of the commercial food and beverage industry to prevent the adoption of laws similar to Chile's by demanding NAFTA clauses forbidding the enactment of such consumer safety laws in Canada, Mexico and the United States.” Lora Verheecke, a researcher at the Corporate Europe Observatory, a non-profit group tracking corporate lobbying, has declared that once such pro-industry and anti-consumer rules are enshrined into international trade agreements, it becomes extremely difficult to overturn them in the laws of trade-pact member states: “It kind of kills a law before it can be written, and once you put it into one trade agreement, it can become the precedent for all future deals with future countries.”\n"}
{"id": "49449257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49449257", "title": "Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G)", "text": "Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G)\n\nThe FACT-G (Version 4) is a patient-reported outcome measure used to assess health-related quality of life in patients undergoing cancer therapy. The FACT-G is the original questionnaire that led to the development of the larger Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT) collection of quality of life instruments. The survey assesses the impacts of cancer therapy in four domains: physical, social/family, emotional, and functional. The FACT-G is also offered with additional questions measuring cancer-specific factors that may affect quality of life, leading to the creation of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head and Neck (FACT-H&N), the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lung (FACT-L), and 18 others.\n\nThe Fact-G was developed by Dr. David Cella, now president and Chief Scientific Officer of FACIT.org and Chair of the Department of Medical Social Sciences at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine. It was developed to assess the quality of life in cancer patients undergoing clinical trials for cancer therapy. Dr. Cella argues for the value of quality of life measures in general because \"implicitly, the relief of a symptom is valued because of its associated benefit to patient function and well-being. Explicitly, it is essential to determine whether any supportive-care intervention is producing a benefit that outweighs its cost.\" Since development began in 1987, the initial 33-item Fact-G published in 1993 has undergone multiple revisions, with the latest version (Fact-G Version 4) \"designed to enhance clarity and precision of measurement\" through \"formatting simplification, item-reduction, and rewording,\" resulting in the 27-item scale used today. In addition to revisions and refinement, the FACT-G has been translated into over 60 languages.\n\nThe FACT-G Version 4 has 27 questions, each of which is answered using a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (Not at all) to 4 (Very much). Questions are phrased so that higher numbers indicate a better health state, leading to some items being reverse-scored. Questions measure the respondents' health state over the last 7 days in four subscales: Physical Well-Being (PWB, 7 questions), Social/Family Well-Being (SWB, 7 questions), Emotional Well-Being (EWB, 6 questions), and Functional Well-being (FWB, 7 questions). Disease-specific versions of the FACT-G contain these four core subscales, with additional questions appended to address disease-specific factors.\n\nScoring the FACT-G is performed through a simple sum of item scores. Each subscale is scored, and a total score for the FACT-G is obtained by adding each of the subscale scores. With a total possible score greater than 100, additional scoring methods have been used to simplify interpretation. Modifications of scoring include normalizing the total score on a scale of 0-100 through mathematical transformations, as well as the use of a Trial Outcome Index (TOI). The Trial Outcome Index is a simple sum of the Physical Well-Being and Functional Well-Being, and is intended as a summary index of functional status to be used as a clinical trails endpoint.\n\nThe FACT-G is one of the most widely used patient-reported outcomes measures in cancer research along with the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), according to a 2011 systematic review comparing the two instruments. The authors suggest that researchers interested in the financial impact and physical symptoms of cancer treatment use the EORTC QLQ-C30, while those interested in health-related quality of life or with limited sample sizes use the FACT-G. The review ultimately concludes that \"Numerous studies have provided strong support for convergent and discriminant validity of both the QLQ-C30 and FACT-G\" and provides an aid to \"...clinical researchers in deciding which of the two questionnaires is the most appropriate for their purposes, driven by the outcomes that are of most interest.\"\n\nProfessional organizations in the United States, United Kingdom, and Australia have embraced the FACT-G as a standard assessment of quality of life in cancer clinical trials. The American Society of Clinical Oncology requested that the Food and Drug Administration define the FACT-G as the gold standard assessment of health-related quality of life in a proposed amendment to the Food and Drug Administration's \"Guidance for Industry on Clinical Trail Endpoints for the Approval of Cancer Drugs and Biologics\" although, this amendment was not included in the May 2007 publication. The Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Group at the University of Oxford reported that the FACT-G is a promising patient-reported outcome measurement that is worth piloting in the National Health Service as a standard. Finally, The Cancer Institute NSW in Australia scored multiple quality of life instruments used in cancer care, and cited the FACT-G as \"most appropriate in the cancer setting\" when measuring health related quality of life in cancer patients.\n\nThe creation of the FACT-G ultimately led to the development of the FACIT family of questionnaires for use in specific circumstances and additional diseases. There are over 20 cancer-specific scales such as the FACT-B for breast cancer and FACT-C for colorectal cancer and 27 symptom indexes which are short, 6 or 7 item subscales which focus only on symptoms. 12 treatment-specific measures focus on the quality of life impacts that patients receiving enteral feeding or with neurotoxicity experience. Finally, 13 non-cancer specific measures focus on topics beyond the impacts of disease and treatment, such as COST, which assesses financial impacts while the Facit-Sp measures spiritual well-being.\n"}
{"id": "33222575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33222575", "title": "Harold Pollack", "text": "Harold Pollack\n\nHarold Pollack is an American professor at the University of Chicago who has been appointed to two Institute of Medicine committees. His research has focused on public health and health policy. At the University of Chicago, he has chaired the Center for Health Administration Studies. A special correspondent for the \"New Republic\" during 2009 and 2010, he writes frequently about public policy for a variety of national publications. Pollack is a frequent contributor to Healthinsurance.org, where he has conducted interviews with other prominent health policy bloggers, including Jonathan Cohn.\n\nPollack went to Princeton University for his undergraduate education. He received his masters and doctoral degrees in Public Policy from the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. After attending Harvard, he was a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation fellow at Yale University before teaching at the University of Michigan School of Public Health and then the University of Chicago.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46575859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46575859", "title": "Health Equity Impact Analysis", "text": "Health Equity Impact Analysis\n\nA Health Equity Impact Analysis is a decision support tool which walks users through the steps of identifying how a program, policy or similar initiative will impact population groups in different ways. HEIAs are meant to show, \"inter alia\", unintended potential impacts. The goal is to maximize positive impacts and reduce negative impacts that could potentially widen health disparities between population groups.\n"}
{"id": "11038718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11038718", "title": "Health administration", "text": "Health administration\n\nHealth administration or healthcare administration is the field relating to leadership, management, and administration of public health systems, health care systems, hospitals, and hospital networks.\n\nHealth systems management or health care systems management describes the leadership and general management of hospitals, hospital networks, and/or health care systems. In international use, the term refers to management at all levels. In the United States, management of a single institution (e.g. a hospital) is also referred to as \"medical and health services management\", \"healthcare management\", or \"health administration\".\n\nHealth systems management ensures that specific outcomes are attained, that departments within a health facility are running smoothly, that the right people are in the right jobs, that people know what is expected of them, that resources are used efficiently and that all departments are working towards a common goal.\n\nHospital administrators are individuals or groups of people who act as the central point of control within hospitals. These individuals may be previous or current clinicians, or individuals with other backgrounds. There are two types of administrators, generalists and specialists. Generalists are individuals who are responsible for managing or helping to manage an entire facility. Specialists are individuals who are responsible for the efficient operations of a specific department such as policy analysis, finance, accounting, budgeting, human resources, or marketing.\n\nIt was reported in September 2014, that the United States spends roughly $218 billion per year on hospital's administration costs, which is equivalent to 1.43 percent of the total U.S. economy. Hospital administration has grown as a percent of the U.S. economy from .9 percent in 2000 to 1.43 percent in 2012, according to \"Health Affairs\". In 11 different countries, hospitals allocate approximately 12 percent of their budget toward administrative costs. In the United States, hospitals spend 25 percent on administrative costs.\n\nNCHL competencies that require to engage with credibility, creativity, and motivation in complex and dynamic health care environments. \n\n\nHealth care management is usually studied through healthcare administration or healthcare management programs in a business school or, in some institutions, in a school of public health.\n\nAlthough many colleges and universities are offering a bachelor's degree in healthcare administration or human resources, a master's degree is considered the \"standard credential\" for most health administrators in the United States. Research and academic-based doctorate level degrees, such as the Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Health Administration and the Doctor of Health Administration (DHA) degree, prepare health care professionals to turn their clinical or administrative experiences into opportunities to develop new knowledge and practice, teach, shape public policy and/or lead complex organizations. There are multiple recognized degree types that are considered equivalent from the perspective of professional preparation.\n\nThe Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education (CAHME) is the accrediting body overseeing master's-level programs in the United States and Canada on behalf of the United States Department of Education. It accredits several degree program types, including Master of Hospital Administration (MHA), Master of Health Services Administration (MHSA), Master of Business Administration in Hospital Management (MBA-HM), Master of Health Administration (MHA), Master of Public Health (MPH, MSPH, MSHPM), Master of Science (MS-HSM, MS-HA), and Master of Public Administration (MPA).\n\nHealth care management study is a new discipline in Nepal. Pokhara University offers a Hospital Management course. National Open College launched a four-year Bachelor's level (BHCM) course in September 2000 with an enrolment of 40 students, and the next year it also started a one-year postgraduate diploma (PGDHCM) and a two-year master's course (MHCM) in health care management. Nobel College at Sinamangal has also been offering a Bachelor’s level (BHCM) course since 2006. MD Hospital administration (MDHA) and Master in Hospital Management (MHM) are being started from 2013. It is uncertain how many citizens of Nepal are gaining healthcare management qualifications in other countries. There is an absence of professional organization and regulation in the health care management profession in Nepal.\n\nThere are a variety of different professional associations related to health systems management, which can be subcategorized as either personal or institutional membership groups. Personal membership groups are joined by individuals, and typically have individual skills and career development as their focus. Larger personal membership groups include the Healthcare Financial Management Association, and the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society. Institutional membership groups are joined by organizations; whereas they typically focus on organizational effectiveness, and may also include data-sharing agreements and other medical related or administrative practice sharing vehicles for member organizations. Prominent examples include the American Hospital Association and the University Healthsystems Consortium.\n\nEarly hospital administrators were called patient directors or superintendents. At the time, many were nurses who had taken on administrative responsibilities. Over half of the members of the American Hospital Association were graduate nurses in 1916. Other superintendents were medical doctors, laymen and members of the clergy. \nIn the United States, the first degree granting program in the United States was established at Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. By 1927, the first two students received their degrees. The original idea is credited to Father Moulinier, associated with the Catholic Hospital Association. The first modern health systems management program was established in 1934 at the University of Chicago. At the time, programs were completed in two years – one year of formal graduate study and one year of practicing internship. In 1958, the Sloan program at Cornell University began offering a special program requiring two years of formal study, which remains the dominant structure in the United States and Canada today (see also \"Academic Preparation\").\n\nHealth systems management has been described as a \"hidden\" health profession because of the relatively low-profile role managers take in health systems, in comparison to direct-care professions such as nursing and medicine. However the visibility of the management profession within healthcare has been rising in recent years, due largely to the widespread problems developed countries are having in balancing cost, access, and quality in their hospitals and health systems.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34900600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34900600", "title": "Health effects of salt", "text": "Health effects of salt\n\nThe health effects of salt are the conditions associated with the consumption of either too much or too little salt. Salt is a mineral composed primarily of sodium chloride (NaCl) and is used in food for both preservation and flavor. Sodium ions are needed in small quantities by most living things, as are chloride ions. Salt is involved in regulating the water content (fluid balance) of the body. The sodium ion itself is used for electrical signaling in the nervous system.\n\nThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) states that excess sodium can increase blood pressure and the risk for heart disease and stroke in some individuals. Therefore, health authorities recommend limitations on dietary sodium. The United States Department of Health and Human Services recommends that individuals consume no more than 1500–2300 mg of sodium (3750–5750 mg of salt) per day depending on race, medical condition and age. The World Health Organization recommends that adults consume no more than 5 g of salt per day.\n\nAs an essential nutrient, sodium is involved in numerous cellular and organ functions. Salt intake that is too low, below 3 g per day, may also increase risk for cardiovascular disease and early death.\n\nHypernatremia, a blood sodium level above 145 mEq/L, causes thirst, and due to brain cell shrinkage may cause confusion, muscle twitching or spasms. With severe elevation, seizures and comas may occur. Death can be caused by ingestion of large amounts of salt at a time (about 1 g per kg of body weight). Deaths have also been caused by use of salt solutions as emetics, typically after suspected poisoning.\n\nHyponatremia, or blood sodium levels below 135 mEq/L, causes brain cells to swell; the symptoms can be subtle and may include altered personality, lethargy, and confusion. In severe cases, when blood sodium falls below 115 mEq/L, stupor, muscle twitching or spasms, seizures, coma, and death can result. Acute hyponatremia is usually caused by drinking too much water, with insufficient salt intake.\n\nAbout 95% of the world's populations have a mean intake of salt that is between 6 g and 12 g daily. Widespread advice that salt intake be restricted below this range is not supported by evidence from randomized controlled trials nor is it supported by evidence from prospective observational studies. In fact, intake of less than 5.8 g of salt per day typically results in activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, which leads to an increase in plasma lipids and increased mortality.\n\nAlthough many health organizations and recent reviews state that high consumption of salt increases the risk of several diseases in children and adults, the effect of high salt consumption on long term health is controversial. Some suggest that the effects of high salt consumption are insignificant.\n\nExcess sodium consumption can increase blood pressure. Most studies suggest a \"U\" shaped association between salt intake and health, with increased mortality associated with both excessively low and excessively high salt intake.\n\nHealth effects associated with excessive sodium consumption include:\n\nOne report stated that people excreting less salt (thus, presumably ingesting less) were at increased risk of dying from heart disease. However, a recent meta-analysis conducted by the Cochrane Hypertension group found this article was subject to methodological flaws, and urges great caution when interpreting their results.\n\nAnother meta-analysis investigated the association between sodium intake and health outcomes, including all-cause mortality and cardiovascular disease (CVD) events. Sodium intake level was a mean of <115 mmol (2645 mg), usual sodium intake was 115-215 mmol (2645–4945 mg), and a high sodium intake was >215 mmol (4945 mg), concluding: \"Both low sodium intakes and high sodium intakes are associated with increased mortality, consistent with a U-shaped association between sodium intake and health outcomes\".\n\nStudies have found some microplastic contamination in sea salt from the US, Europe and China. The health effects of this contamination are unknown because, as of 2017, no studies on the question had been performed.\n\nRecommended intakes of salt are usually expressed in terms of sodium intake as an Adequate Intake (AI) and a Tolerable upper intake level (Upper Limit or UL). Salt (as sodium chloride) contains 39.3 percent of sodium by weight.\n\nAs of 2009 the average sodium consumption in 33 countries was in the range of 2,700 to 4,900 mg/day. This ranged across many cultures, and together with animal studies, this suggests that sodium intake is tightly controlled by feedback loops in the body. This makes recommendations to reduce sodium consumption below 2,700 mg/day potentially futile. Upon review, an expert committee that was commissioned by the Institute of Medicine and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that there was no health outcome-based rationale for reducing daily sodium intake levels below 2,300 milligrams, as had been recommended by previous dietary guidelines; the report did not have a recommendation for an upper limit of daily sodium intake.\n\nAlthough sea salt is sometimes promoted as being healthier than table salt, both forms have the same sodium content.\n\nUK: The Food Standards Agency defines the level of salt in foods as follows: \"High is more than 1.5 g salt per 100 g (or 0.6 g sodium). Low is 0.3 g salt or less per 100 g (or 0.1 g sodium). If the amount of salt per 100 g is in between these figures, then that is a medium level of salt.\" In the UK, foods produced by some supermarkets and manufacturers have 'traffic light' colors on the front of the packet: red (high), amber (medium), or green (low).\n\nUSA: The FDA \"Food Labeling Guide\" stipulates whether a food can be labeled as \"free\" \"low,\" or \"reduced/less\" in respect of sodium. When other health claims are made about a food (e.g., low in fat, calories, etc.), a disclosure statement is required if the food exceeds 480 mg of sodium per 'serving'.\n\nConsensus Action on Salt and Health (CASH) established in the United Kingdom in 1996, actively campaigns to raise awareness of the alleged harmful health effects of salt. The 2008 focus includes raising awareness of high levels of salt hidden in sweet foods that are marketed towards children. In 2004, Britain's Food Standards Agency started a public health campaign called \"Salt – Watch it\", which recommends no more than 6g of salt per day; it features a character called Sid the Slug and was criticised by the Salt Manufacturers Association (SMA). The Advertising Standards Authority did not uphold the SMA complaint in its adjudication. In March 2007, the FSA launched the third phase of their campaign with the slogan \"Salt. Is your food full of it?\" fronted by comedian Jenny Eclair.\n\nThe University of Tasmania's Menzies Research Institute maintains a website to educate people about the problems of a salt-laden diet. In Australia, the \"Drop the Salt! Campaign\" aimed to reduce the consumption of salt by Australians to 6g per day over the course of five years ending in 2012.\n\nIn January 2010, New York City launched the National Salt Reduction Initiative (NSRI). It is the only coordinated, voluntary effort to reduce sodium in the United States, an effort supported by the Institute of Medicine as an interim goal in advance of federal action on sodium reduction.\n\nAs of 2013, over 90 state and local health authorities and health organizations have signed on as partners of the NSRI. Together, the NSRI partnership encourages food manufacturers and chain restaurants to voluntarily commit to NSRI sodium reduction targets for 2012 and 2014. The NSRI aims to reduce sodium in the food supply by 25 percent in five years and reduce population sodium intake by 20 percent in the same time, thereby reducing risk for heart attacks and strokes.\n\nTwenty-one companies met their 2012 NSRI commitment. Notable reductions include: 15 percent reduction of sodium in Heinz ketchup; 32 percent reduction of sodium in the Subway’s Subway Club sandwich; 33 percent reduction of sodium in Nabisco’s Honey Teddy Grahams; 18 percent reduction of sodium in Kraft Single American Slices; and 20 percent reduction of Ragu Old World Style Traditional Tomato Sauce.\n\nSeparate from the NSRI, a number of major food producers have pledged to reduce the sodium content of their food. Pepsi is developing a \"designer salt\" that's slightly more powdery than the salt it regularly uses. The company hopes this new form of salt will cut sodium levels by 25 percent in its Lay's potato chips.\nNestlé's prepared foods company, which produces frozen meals, announced that it will reduce sodium in its foods by 10 percent by 2015.\nGeneral Mills announced that it will reduce the sodium content of 40 percent of its foods by about 20 percent by 2015. A number of chain restaurants have made pledges to lower sodium over time. MenuStat, a free online database of past and current nutrition data from chain restaurants developed by the NYC Health Department, is available to monitor and evaluate these pledges.\n\nIn the United States, taxation of sodium has been proposed as a method of decreasing sodium intake and thereby improving health in countries where typical salt consumption is high. Taking an alternative view, the Salt Institute, a salt industry body based in North America, is active in promoting the use of salt, and questioning or opposing the recommended restrictions on salt intake.\n\nA low sodium diet reduces the intake of sodium by the careful selection of food. The use of a salt substitute can provide a taste offsetting the perceived blandness of low-salt food; potassium chloride is widely used for this purpose. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends daily potassium intake of not less than 3,510 mg. Excessive potassium intake may be detrimental to health, and it is advised that potassium chloride not be used by those taking certain prescription drugs. The use of seaweed granules in the manufacture of processed foods is being researched as an alternative to salt.\n\nA 2017 Cochrane systematic review of randomized controlled trials reported that lowered dietary salt intake lowered blood pressure in people with hypertension by about 3.5%, indicating that it might be a useful supplementary treatment for hypertension. In people with normal blood pressure, the decrease after lowering dietary salt intake was less than 1%. The effects in Asians and blacks with hypertension were greater than in whites, but more studies are needed to confirm conclusions. Effects of lowered salt intake on hormones and lipids were similar in normotensive and hypertensive individuals.\n\nStudies found that excessively low sodium intake, below about three grams of salt per day, is associated with increased mortality and higher risk for cardiovascular disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "36094374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36094374", "title": "Health information on Wikipedia", "text": "Health information on Wikipedia\n\nThe online encyclopedia Wikipedia has, since the late 2000s, served as a popular source for health information for both laypersons and, in many cases, health care practitioners. Health-related articles on Wikipedia are popularly accessed as results from search engines, which frequently deliver links to Wikipedia articles. Independent assessments have been made of the number and demographics of people who seek health information on Wikipedia, the scope of health information on Wikipedia, and the quality of the information on Wikipedia.\n\nThe English-language Wikipedia was estimated in 2014 to hold around 25,000 articles on health-related topics. Across Wikipedia encyclopedias in all languages there were 155,000 health articles using 950,000 citations to sources and which collectively received 4.8 billion pageviews in 2013. This amount of traffic makes Wikipedia one of the most consulted health resources in the world, or perhaps the most consulted resource.\n\nAs of the end of 2013, the English Wikipedia had 29,072 medical articles, while across all language versions of Wikipedia, there were 155,805 medical articles. As of March 2017, the English Wikipedia had 30,000 medical articles, while there were 164,000 medical articles in other languages. As of 2017, there were about 6,000 anatomy articles on the English Wikipedia; these are not classified as \"medical articles\" in Wikipedia's categorization scheme and thus are not included in the 30,000 figure above.\n\nA 2007 study examined a sample of Wikipedia pages about the most frequently performed surgical procedures in the United States, and found that 85.7% of them were appropriate for patients and that these articles had \"a remarkably high level of internal validity\". However, the same study also raised concerns about Wikipedia's completeness, noting that only 62.9% of the articles examined were free of \"critical omissions\".\nA 2008 study reported that drug information on Wikipedia \"has a more narrow scope, is less complete, and has more errors of omission\" than did such information on the traditionally edited online database Medscape Drug Reference.\n\nA 2011 assessment of 50 medical articles on Wikipedia found that 56% of the references cited on these pages could be considered reputable, and that each entry contained 29 reputable sources on average.\n\nA 2011 study examined Wikipedia pages about five statins, and concluded that these pages did not contain incorrect or misleading information, but that they were often missing information about drug interactions and contraindications to use.\n\nAnother 2011 study examining Wikipedia articles on the 20 most widely prescribed drugs found that seven of these articles did not have any references, and concluded that \"Wikipedia does not provide consistently accurate, complete, and referenced medication information.\"\n\nAn assessment of Wikipedia articles in 2012 on dietary supplements found that Wikipedia articles were \"frequently incomplete, of variable quality, and sometimes inconsistent with reputable sources of information on these products.\"\n\nA 2013 scoping review published in the \"Journal of Medical Internet Research\" summarized the existing evidence about the use of wikis, Wikipedia and other collaborative writing applications in health care and found that the available research publications were observational reports rather than the primary research studies which would be necessary to begin drawing conclusions.\n\nA 2014 study that examined 97 Wikipedia articles about complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) found that 4% of them had attained \"Good article\" status, and that CAM articles on Wikipedia tended to be significantly shorter than those about conventional therapies.\nIn May 2014, \"The Journal of the American Osteopathic Association\" published an article which concluded that \"Most Wikipedia articles for the 10 costliest conditions in the United States contain errors compared with standard peer-reviewed sources.\" Following this paper, many other media sources reported that readers should not trust Wikipedia for medical information. Wikipedia's contributors to its health content defended Wikipedia and criticized this study, as the research is considered severely flawed including basic methodological flaws like the conclusions are not supported by the data provided.\n\nA 2014 study found that when the FDA issues new safety warnings about drugs, in 41% of cases reviewed Wikipedia articles about those drugs were updated to give the new safety information within two weeks. Another 23% of Wikipedia drug articles were updated to give this information within an average of about 40 days, but 36% of articles are not updated with this information within a year.\n\nA 2014 comparison between selected drug information from pharmacology textbooks and comparable information on the English-language and German-language Wikipedias found that the drug information in Wikipedia covers most of what is essential for undergraduate pharmacology studies and that it is accurate.\n\nA 2015 study comparing the coverage of the autism-vaccine controversy on several websites found that Wikipedia's articles were broadly pro-vaccine. The study attributed this pro-vaccine stance to \"this highly controversial topic attracting committed editors who strictly enforce the requirements for academic references.\"\n\nA 2016 study found that drug information on Wikipedia was less accurate and complete than that on the medical reference site Micromedex.\n\nA 2017 study compared the accuracy of Wikipedia articles about the 33 most popular medications with medication guides to the accuracy of their medication guides. The study found that the Wikipedia articles were generally less accurate than were the corresponding medication guides.\n\nA 2013 review of nephrology content on Wikipedia found it to be \"a comprehensive and fairly reliable medical resource for nephrology patients that is written at a college reading level\".\n\nA 2014 study found that Wikipedia's article on Parkinson's disease had a Flesch reading ease score of 30.31, meaning that it was difficult to read.\n\nThe readability of Wikipedia's articles on epilepsy was evaluated and found to be low, indicating that they were difficult to read. Another study found that Wikipedia's information about neurological diseases was significantly more difficult to read than the information in the American Academy of Neurology's patient brochures, the Mayo Clinic's website, or MedlinePlus. Another 2015 study, this one authored by Samy Azer, reported that Wikipedia should not be used to learn about concepts related to pulmonology students. Another 2015 study by Azer found that Wikipedia entries about cardiovascular diseases were \"not aimed at a medical audience\" and were mainly inaccurate due to errors of omission.\n\nA 2016 study found that Wikipedia information about common internal medicine diagnoses was written at a higher grade level than any of the four other sites studied (NIH, WebMD, Mayo Clinic, and \"diagnosis-specific websites\"). In contrast, another study published the same year found that medical students reading about three unstudied diseases on AccessMedicine and Wikipedia experienced less mental effort than did readers of the same diseases on UpToDate.\n\nA 2017 study evaluating 134 Wikipedia articles on autoimmune diseases found that they were very difficult to read and required at least a university graduate reading level. The study's authors were concerned by Wikipedia's low readability, as people with autoimmune disorders often use Wikipedia to research their condition.\n\nA 2018 study evaluating 55 Wikipedia articles on neurosurgical topics found that they were significantly more difficult to read than the American Association of Neurological Surgeons's patient information articles, although both Wikipedia's articles and the AANS articles required a college reading level.\n\nWikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales has said that lack of health information increases preventable deaths in emerging markets and that health information from Wikipedia can improve community health. Wales presented the Wikipedia Zero project as a channel for delivering health information into places where people have difficulty accessing online information.\n\nAs a result of public interest in the 2014 Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa, Wikipedia became a popular source of information on Ebola. Doctors who were Wikipedia contributors said that Wikipedia's quality made it useful.\n\nPeople who promote alternative medicine have complained that Wikipedia negatively portrays holistic health treatments including energy medicine, Emotional Freedom Techniques, Thought Field Therapy and Tapas Acupressure Technique. In response, Wales has stated, \"If you can get your work published in respectable scientific journals – that is to say, if you can produce evidence through replicable scientific experiments, then Wikipedia will cover it appropriately.\" Similar concerns have been raised regarding its coverage of homeopathy.\n\nWikipedia policy for articles that \"could reasonably be perceived as relating to human health\" comes under the policy for which is science-based.\n\nThe majority of people in the United States use the internet as a source of health information. One 2013 study suggested that 22% of healthcare searches online direct users to Wikipedia.\n\nWikipedia was described in 2014 as \"the leading single source of healthcare information for patients and healthcare professionals\". A study of a particular group of veterinary students found that the majority of these students sought and found medical information on Wikipedia. Some doctors have described their use of Wikipedia as a \"guilty secret\".\n\nA 2015 study compared the popularity of Wikipedia's articles on ten of the most common neurological disorders over a 90-day period from April 2014 to July 2014; it found that there was no relationship between the incidence or prevalence of a neurological disorder and the number of page views it received. For example, Wikipedia's article on multiple sclerosis was far more popular than its articles on more common disorders like migraine, epilepsy, or stroke. The authors theorized that this might be due to the increasing prevalence of MRI scans, which has led to an increase in incidental findings of white matter lesions. Although most of these lesions have nothing to do with multiple sclerosis, they may lead patients, relatives, and even physicians to perform Internet searches on \"multiple sclerosis\", which may lead them to the Wikipedia article.\n\nWikipedia's health information has been described as \"transforming how our next doctors learn medicine\". Various commentators in health education have said that Wikipedia is popular among medical students.\n\nA 2013 study done at a single medical school showed that 97% of students used Wikipedia to study medicine, with the most common reasons being ease of access and ease of understanding. There was no relationship between a student's year in medical school and his or her use of Wikipedia, but students further along in medical school were less likely to use Wikipedia as their first resource, only resource, or most common resource; they were also more likely to perceive Wikipedia as unreliable.\n\nIn 2013, UCSF School of Medicine began to offer fourth-year medical students a month-long elective centered around improving Wikipedia's health-related articles. Between 2013 and 2015, 43 students took part in the course and chose a single health-related article to work on. A study of their contributions by UCSF faculty found that the students expanded their articles, added higher-quality sources, removed lower-quality sources, and improved readability. The study's authors argued that medical schools should encourage students to contribute to Wikipedia, both to improve the quality of its content and to enable students to become better health care educators.\n\nA 2015 study of five European medical schools found that students who used Wikipedia for general information were more likely to use it to look up medical information. 16% of students used Wikipedia often for general information, 60% sometimes, and 24% rarely. 12% of students used Wikipedia often for medical information, 55% sometimes, and 33% rarely. Almost all of the students (97%) found inaccurate information on Wikipedia at least once, but less than 20% of them corrected it.\n\nA 2017 study of online resource use by first-year medical students at Melbourne Medical School found that they used the school's online learning platform most often (daily) and used Google and Wikipedia slightly less often (approximately daily). The students considered the learning platform to be most useful, followed by Google and Wikipedia, which they considered slightly less useful than the learning platform but significantly more useful than Facebook or Google Scholar. They also considered the learning platform to be the most reliable and considered Google and Wikipedia to be significantly less reliable, although they frequently used both websites as a starting point for finding information.\n\nA 2018 study of resources used by medical students during their general surgery clerkship at the University of Florida College of Medicine found that review books were the most commonly used type of study resource, followed by the Internet. Wikipedia was the third-most commonly used resource and the most commonly used Internet resource. The study found no correlation between the type of resource used and students' performance on the NBME surgery subject exam.\n\nA 2009 study of Internet use by 35 junior doctors in the United Kingdom found that 80% of them used Google and 70% of them used Wikipedia to look up medical information at least once a week, while only 30% used PubMed. Google and Wikipedia were primarily used for background reading, while PubMed and other \"best evidence\" websites were used to answer specific questions for clinical decision-making.\n\nA 2015 survey of psychiatry residents at Harvard Medical School found that they used online resources twice as often as they used printed resources. The three most commonly used resources were UpToDate, PubMed, and Wikipedia. UpToDate was the most used resource and was considered to be the most trustworthy, while PubMed was the second most used resource and was highly rated as a source of personal learning. Wikipedia was the third most used resource and received the highest ranking for ease of use; however, it was considered the least trustworthy.\n\nA 2014 study of 259 health professionals in Spain found that while 53% of them used the Spanish Wikipedia to look up medical information during work, only 3% of them considered it reliable and only 16% recommended it to their patients. Only 16% had ever edited a Wikipedia article; the most common reasons for not doing were that they did not consider themselves an expert (51%), they preferred to blog or publish peer-reviewed articles (21%), and they were concerned that someone would undo any contributions they made (17%).\n\nWikipedia has been inappropriately cited as an authoritative source in many health science journals.\n\nIn 2009 a doctor and Wikipedia editor, James Heilman, incorporated public domain images of the Rorschach test into Wikipedia. Psychologists complained that the increased public exposure to these tests devalued their clinical utility, and that public health was harmed as a result.\n\nA 2014 interview study found that around half of the editors of health-related content on the English-language Wikipedia are health care professionals, while the other half includes some medical students. An author of this study wrote that this provides \"reassurance about the reliability of the website\". The study also found that the \"core editor community\", who actively monitor and edit most health-related articles on the English-language Wikipedia, numbered around 300 people. The study found that people who contribute on these topics do so for a variety of reasons, including a desire to better learn the subjects themselves, and a sense of both responsibility and enjoyment in improving others' access to health information.\n\nA 2016 study found that Wikipedia editors who contributed to articles on designer drugs were most likely to also contribute to articles on illegal drugs and pharmaceutical drugs, implying that they have a background in pharmacology. They were also more likely to contribute to articles on neurological disorders, psychiatric disorders, other diseases, and cell biology; they were least likely to edit articles about popular culture topics or history.\n\nJust as Google Flu Trends was able to correlate searches for flu to local outbreaks of flu, page views of Wikipedia articles on flu-related topics have been found to increase in populations experiencing the spread of flu, and of other diseases such as dengue fever and tuberculosis.\n\nIn 2009 the National Institutes of Health attempted a pilot project for integrating health information into Wikipedia. In 2011, it was reported that Cancer Research UK had started a program whereby some of its staff would edit Wikipedia's cancer-related articles.\n\nThe University of California, San Francisco has a program for encouraging students to contribute health content to Wikipedia.\n\nA collaboration between Cochrane and Wikipedia provides access to the Cochrane Library for the purposes of incorporating their review information into Wikipedia articles.\n\n"}
{"id": "50835353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50835353", "title": "Health systems strengthening", "text": "Health systems strengthening\n\nHealth systems strengthening (also health system strengthening, abbreviated HSS) is a term used in global health that roughly means to improve the health care system of a country. Within this general definition, it can mean increasing funding for health infrastructure, improving health policy, trying to achieve universal healthcare, or any number of other health measures.\n\nThere has been some effort to use a systems thinking approach to health systems strengthening.\n\nVarious health organizations have claimed to use health systems strengthening (while not necessarily agreeing on the definition). Some of these are:\n\n\nBoth the idea of health systems strengthening and the term itself have received attention.\n\nEven advocates of health systems strengthening admit that it can often seem like a \"distant, even abstract aim\".\n\nMarchal et al., writing in 2009, called the term \"vague\" and argued that \"most current HSS strategies are selective (i.e., they target a specific disease), and their effects may undermine progress towards the long-term goal of effective, high-quality, and inclusive health systems.\"\n\nPeter Berman, who was the lead health economist at the World Bank, has pointed out that \"Almost any support to health interventions can be considered HSS\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7531458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7531458", "title": "Healthism", "text": "Healthism\n\nHealthism, sometimes called public-healthism, is a neologism to describe a variety of ideological constructs concerning health and medicine. The term \"healthism\" was most likely first used by the political economist Robert Crawford, whose article \"Healthism and the medicalization of everyday life\" was published in 1980. In this article Crawford describes how the new political ideology, which emerged in the US during the 1970s, \"[situated] the problem of health and disease at the level of the individual.\" The term is also known for its use in the 1994 book \"The Death of Humane Medicine and the Rise of Coercive Healthism\" by Petr Skrabanek. Skrabanek's use of \"healthism\", and most subsequent uses, are pejorative in intent. However, there is also a growing movement in the 21st century which see healthism as a positive empowering phenomenon which is not inherently coercive. This is exemplified through its popular uptake in the form of preventive medicine, yoga, meditation, fitness regimes, diets and the emphasis on lifestyle changes in Western society.\n\n"}
{"id": "39657237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39657237", "title": "Homelessness and mental health", "text": "Homelessness and mental health\n\nIn a study in Western societies, homeless people have a higher prevalence of mental illness when compared to the general population. They also are more likely to be alcoholics and suffer from drug dependency. It is estimated that 20–25% of homeless people, compared with 6% of the non-homeless, have severe mental illness. Others estimate that up to one-third of the homeless suffer from mental illness. Studies have found that there is a correlation between homelessness and incarceration. Those with mental illness or substance abuse problems were found to be incarcerated at a higher frequency than the general population. Fischer and Breakey have identified the \"chronically mentally ill\" as one of the four main subtypes of homeless persons; the others being the \"street people\", \"chronic alcoholics\", and the \"situationally distressed\".\n\nThe first documented case of a psychiatrist addressing the issue of homelessness and mental health was in 1906 by Karl Wilmanns.\n\nIn the United States, there are broad patterns of reform within the history of psychiatric care for persons with mental illness. These patterns are currently categorized into three major cycles of reform. The first recognized cycle was the emergence of moral treatment and asylums, the second consists of the mental hygiene movement and the psychopathic (state) hospital, and most recent cycle includes deinstitutionalization and community mental health. In an article addressing the historical developments and reforms of treatment for the mentally ill, Joseph Morrissey and Howard Goldman acknowledge the current regression of public social welfare for mentally ill populations. They specifically state that the \"historical forces that led to the transinstitutionalization of the mentally ill from almshouses to the state mental hospitals in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries have now been reversed in the aftermath of recent deinstitutionalization policies\". Ultimately, Morrissey and Goldman argue that while each transition expanded the American mental health system into today's \"pluralistic patchwork of public and private\" structural efforts, each failed to make lasting effects on the societally debilitating nature of chronic mental illness, including the linked effects of poverty and homelessness.\n\nWithin the context of transforming schemas of moral treatment during the early nineteenth century, the humanitarian focus of public intervention was linked with the establishment of asylums or snake pits for treatment of the mentally ill. The ideology that emerged in Europe disseminated to America, in the form of a social reformation based on the belief that new cases of insanity could be treated by isolating the ill into \"small, pastoral asylums\" for humane treatment. These asylums were meant to combine medical attention, occupational therapy, socialization activities and religious support, all in a warm environment.\n\nIn America, Friends Asylum (1817) and the Hartford Retreat (1824) were among the first asylums within the private sector, yet public asylums were soon encouraged, with Dorothea Dix as one of its key lobbyists. The effectiveness of asylums was dependent on a collection of structural and external conditions, conditions that proponents began to recognize were unfeasible to maintain around the mid-nineteenth century. For example, with the proliferation of immigrants throughout industrialization, the original purpose of asylums as small facilities transformed into their actualized use as \"large, custodial institutions\" throughout the late 1840s. Overcrowding severely inhibited the therapeutic capacity, inciting a political reassessment period about alternatives to asylums around the 1870s. The legislative purpose of state asylums soon met the role society had funneled them toward; they primarily became institutions for community protection, with treatment secondary.\n\nAs debates regarding the deteriorating role of American asylums and psychiatry amplified around the turn of the century, new reformation arose. With the founding of the National Committee for Mental Hygiene, acute treatment centers like psychopathic hospitals, psychiatric dispensaries and child guidance clinics were created. Beginning with the State Care Act in New York, states began assuming full financial control for the mentally ill, in an effort to compensate for the deprivations of asylums. Between 1903 and 1950, the number of patients in state mental hospitals went from 150,000 to 512,000. Morrissey recognizes that despite persistent problem of chronic mental illness, these state mental hospitals were able to provide a minimal level of care.\n\nToward the end of World War II, the influx of soldiers diagnosed with \"war neurosis\" incited a new public interest in community care. In addition to this, the view that asylums and state hospitals exacerbated symptoms of mental illness by being \"inherently dehumanizing and antitherapeutic\" spread through the public consciousness. When psychiatric drugs like neuroleptics stabilized behavior and milieu therapy proved effective, state hospitals began discharging patients, with hope that federal programs and community support would counterbalance the effects of institutionalization. Furthermore, economic responsibility for the disabled began to shift, as religious and non-profit organization assumed the role of supplying basic needs. The modern results of deinstitutionalization show the dissonance between policy expectations and the actualized reality.\n\nIn response to the flaws of deinstitutionalization, a reform movement reframed the context of the chronically mentally ill within the lens of public health and social welfare problems. Policy makers intentionally circumvented state mental hospitals by allocating federal funds directly to local agencies. For example, the Community Mental Health Centers (CMHC) Act of 1963 became law, \"which funded the construction and staffing of hundreds of federal centers to provide a range of services including partial hospitalization, emergency care, consultation, and treatment.\" Despite efforts, newly founded community centers \"failed to meet the needs of acute and chronic patients discharged in increasing numbers from public hospitals\". With decreased state collaboration and federal funding for social welfare, community centers essentially proved unable \"to provide many essential programs and benefits\", resulting in a growth of homelessness and indigency, or lack of access to basic necessities. It is argued that an over reliance on community health has \"left thousands of former patients homeless or living in substandard housing, often without treatment, supervision or social support.\"\n\nThe mental health of homeless populations is significantly worse than the general population, with the prevalence of mental disorders up to four times higher in the former. It is also found that psychopathology and substance abuse often exist before the onset of homelessness, supporting the finding that mental disorders are a strong risk factor for homelessness. Ongoing issues with mental disorders such as affective and anxiety disorders, substance abuse and schizophrenia are elevated for the homeless. One explanation for homelessness states that \"mental illness or alcohol and drug abuse render individuals unable to maintain permanent housing.\" One study further states that 10-20 percent of homeless populations have a dual diagnoses, or the co-existence of substance abuse and of another severe mental disorder. For example, in Germany there is a link between alcohol dependence and schizophrenia with homeless populations.\n\nThere are patterns of biographical experience that are linked with subsequent mental health problems and pathways into homelessness. Martens states that reported childhood experiences, described as \"feeling unloved in childhood, adverse childhood experiences, and general unhappiness in childhood\" seem to become \"powerful risk factors\" for adult homelessness. For example, Martens emphasizes the salient dimension of familial and residential instability, as he describes the prevalence of foster-care or group home placement for homeless adolescents. He notes that \"58 percent of homeless adolescents had experienced some kind of out-of-home placement, running away, or early departure from home.\" Moreover, up to 50 percent of homeless adolescents report experience with physical abuse, and almost one-third report sexual abuse. In addition to family conflict and abuse, early exposure to factors like poverty, housing instability, and alcohol and drug use all increase one's vulnerability to homelessness. Once impoverished, the social dimension of homelessness manifests from \"long exposure to demoralizing relationships and unequal opportunities.\"\n\nYouth experiencing homelessness are more susceptible of developing Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Common psychological traumas experienced by homeless youth include, sexual victimization, neglect, experiences of violence, and abuse. \n\nDraine et al. emphasize the role of social disadvantage with manifestations of mental illness. He states that \"research on mental illness in relation to social problems such as crime, unemployment, and homelessness often ignores the broader social context in which mental illness is embedded.\"\n\nLee argues that societal conceptualizations of homelessness and poverty can be juxtaposed, leading to different manifestations of public stigma. In his work through national and local surveys, respondents tended to deemphasize individual deficits over \"structural forces and bad luck\" for homeless individuals. In contrast, the respondents tended to associate personal failures more to the impoverished than homeless individuals.\n\nNonetheless, homeless individuals are \"well aware of the negative traits imputed to them -- lazy, filthy, irresponsible dangerous -- based on the homeless label.\" In an effort to cope with the emotional threat of stigma, homeless individuals may rely on one another for \"non-judgmental socializing.\" However, his work continues to emphasize that the mentally ill homeless are often deprived of social networks like this.\n\nPeople who are homeless tend to be socially isolated, which contributes negatively to their mental health. Studies have correlated that those who are homeless and have a strong support group tend to be more physically and mentally healthy. Aside from the stigma received by the homeless population, another aspect that contributes to social isolation is the purposeful avoidance of social opportunity practiced by the homeless community out of shame of revealing their current homeless state. Social isolation ties directly to social stigma in that homeless socialization outside of the homeless community will affect how the homeless are perceived. This is why homeless individuals talking with those who are not homeless is encouraged since it can combat the stigma that is often associated with homelessness.\n\nOne dimension of the American homeless is the skewed proportion of minorities. In a sample taken from Los Angeles, 67.5 percent of the homeless men were African American. In contrast, the Netherlands sample had 42 percent Dutch, with 58 percent of the homeless population from other nationalities. Furthermore, Lee notes that minorities have a heightened risk of the \"repeated exit-and-entry pattern\"\n\nShinn and Gillespie (1994) argued that although substance abuse and mental illness is a contributing factor to homelessness, the primary cause is the lack of low-income housing. Elliot and Krivo emphasize the structural conditions that increase vulnerability to homelessness. Within their study, these factors are specifically categorized into \"unavailable low-cost housing, high poverty, poor economic conditions, and insufficient community and institutional support for the mentally ill.\" Through their correlational analysis, they reinforce the finding that areas with more spending on mental health care have \"notably lower levels of homelessness.\" Furthermore, their findings emphasize that among the analyzed correlates, \"per capita expenditures on mental health care, and the supply of low-rent housing are by far the strongest predictors of homelessness rates.\" Along with economic hardship, patterns of academic underachievement also undermine an individual's opportunity for reintegration into general society, which heightens their risk for homelessness.\n\nOn a psychological level, Lee notes that the \"stressful nature of hard times (high unemployment, a tight housing market, etc.) helps generate personal vulnerabilities and magnifies their consequences.\" For example, poverty is a key determinant of the relationship between debilitating mental illness and social maladjustment; it is associated with decreased self-efficacy and coping. Moreover, poverty is an important predictor of life outcomes, such as \"quality of life, social and occupational functioning, general health and psychiatric symptoms\", all relevant aspects of societal stability. Thus, systemic factors tend to compound mental instability for the homeless. Tackling homelessness involves focusing on the risk factors that contribute to homelessness as well as advocating for structural change.\n\nIt is argued that persons with mental illness are more likely to be arrested, simply from a higher risk of other associated factors with incarceration, such as substance abuse, unemployment, and lack of formal education. Furthermore, when correctional facilities lack adequate coordination with community resources upon release, the chances of recidivism increase for persons who are both homeless and suffering from a mental illness. Every state in the United States incarcerates more individuals with severe mental illness than it hospitalizes. Incarcerations are due to lack of treatments such as psychiatric hospital beds. Overall, according to Raphael and Stoll, over 60 percent of United States jail inmates report mental health problems. Estimates from the Survey of Inmates in State and Federal Correctional Facilities (2004) and the Survey of Inmates in Local Jails (2002) report that the prevalence for severe mental illness (the psychoses and bipolar/manic-depressive disorders) is 3.1-6.5 times the rate observed for the general population. In relation to homelessness, it is found that 17.3 percent of inmates with severe mental illness experienced a homeless state before their incarceration, compared to 6.5 percent of undiagnosed inmates. The authors argue that a significant portion of deinstitutionalized mentally ill were transitioned into correctional facilities, by specifically stating that \"transinstitutional effect estimates suggest that deinstitutionalization has played a relatively minor role in explaining the phenomenal growth in U.S. incarceration levels.\"\n\nThrough longitudinal comparisons of sheltered homeless families and impoverished domiciled families, there are a collection of social buffers that slow one's trajectory toward homelessness. A number of these factors include \"entitlement income, a housing subsidy, and contact with a social worker.\"\n\nModern efforts to reduce homelessness include \"housing-first models\", where individuals and families are placed in permanent homes with optional wrap-around services. Furthermore, this effort is less expensive than the cost of institutions that serve tangled needs of the homeless, such as emergency shelters, mental hospitals and jails. Overall, this alternative approach has shown positive outcomes. For example, one study reports an 88 percent housing retention rate for those in Housing First, compared to 47 percent using traditional programs.\n\nAdditionally, a review of permanent supportive housing and case management on health found that interventions using “housing-first models” can improve health outcomes among chronically homeless individuals, many of whom suffer from substance use disorders and severe mental illness. Improvements include positive changes in self-reported mental health status, substance use, and overall well-being. These models can also help reduce hospital admissions, length of stay in inpatient psychiatric units, and emergency room visits.\n\nStrides have also been made to dress the issue of social isolation within the homeless community.\n\nAt last count 3,000 of the 500,000 residents in Sonoma County were homeless. Of those 3,000 roughly 35% reported suffering from mental illness, and each year these numbers continue to rise. Massive cuts to funding and facility closures throughout the area have forced these individuals to find treatment at local emergency rooms and even the county jail. This proves to be very costly for the county, and a very temporary fix for those in the throes of a mental health crises. Mental illness is never cured after one hospital visit, but rather requires continual treatment and care far beyond a crisis. Studies have shown that long-term treatment can improve the quality of life for many individuals and can reduce the number of homeless in the community. Uninterrupted assistance greatly increases the chances of living independently and greatly reduces the chances of homelessness and incarceration .\nFear surrounds the introduction of mentally ill homeless housing and treatment centers into neighborhoods, as they are often associated with increased drug use and criminal activity. Studies show that this is not necessarily the case. One such study was conducted to evaluate the benefits of the Housing First model, which focuses on rapid rehousing in permanent accommodations without sobriety or treatment requirements but facilitates access to treatment resources in order to help individuals attain their mental health/sobriety goals after being housed. Mentally ill homeless individuals with criminal records were studied over a 2-year period, and after being placed in the Housing First program only 30% re-offended. Overall results of the study showed a large reduction in re-conviction, increased public safety, and a reduction in crime rates . A significant decline in drug use was also seen with the implementation of the Housing First model. A study was conducted that showed a 50% increase in housing retention and a 30% increase in methadone treatment retention in program participants . \nThe mentally ill make up a significant portion of the homeless population in Sonoma County, and without long term treatment options they are forced into a cycle of living that puts both themselves and the community at risk. Greatly improving their long-term treatment options can lead to permanent and stable living environments which can reduce the homeless population, improve crime rates, and increase overall public safety.\n\nFor some individuals, the pathways into homelessness may be upstream. E.g. issues such as housing, income level, or employment status. For others, the pathways may be more personal or individual. E.g. issues such as compromised mental health and well ‐ being, mental illness, and substance abuse. Many of these personal and upstream issues are interconnected.\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "6165734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6165734", "title": "Incidents at Six Flags parks", "text": "Incidents at Six Flags parks\n\nThe following is a summary of notable incidents at any of the amusement parks and water parks operated by Six Flags Entertainment Corporation. In some cases, these incidents occurred while the park was under different management or ownership.\n\nThis list is not intended to be a comprehensive list of every such event, but only those that have a significant impact on the parks or park operations, or are otherwise significantly noteworthy. The term \"incidents\" refers to major accidents, injuries, or deaths that occur at a park. While these incidents were required to be reported to regulatory authorities due to where they occurred, they usually fall into one of the following categories:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFrom 2004 to September 2007, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) inspected Six Flags parks five different times and found a total of four violations. On September 10, 2007, OSHA cited Great America with 38 safety violations, alleging \"multiple serious and repeat violations at the amusement park, ranging from defective emergency brakes on an industrial truck to a lack of labeling procedures for preventing inadvertent machine start-ups.\" OSHA fined the park US$117,700.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41863865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41863865", "title": "Infodemiology", "text": "Infodemiology\n\nInfodemiology (and the closely related term infoveillance) is a term coined by Canadian researcher Gunther Eysenbach. Eysenbach defines \"infodemiology\" (or information epidemiology) as a \"new research discipline and methodology [which deals with] the study of the determinants and distribution of health information [on the Internet]\", with the ultimate goal to improve public health\n\nEysenbach first used the term in the context of measuring and predicting the quality of health information on the web (i.e., measuring the \"supply\" side of information). \nHe later included into his definition methods and techniques which are designed to automatically measure and track health information \"demand\" (e.g., by analyzing search queries) as well as \"supply\" (e.g., by analyzing postings on webpages, in blogs, and news articles, for example through GPHIN) on the Internet with the overarching goal to inform public health policy and practice. In 2013, the Infovigil Project was launched in an effort bring the research community together to help realize this goal, and is funded by the Canadian Institutes of Health Research.\n\nEysenbach demonstrated his point by showing a correlation between flu-related searches on Google (demand data) and flu-incidence data. The method is shown to be better and more timely (i.e., can predict public health events earlier) than traditional syndromic surveillance methods such as reports by sentinel physicians.\n\nResearchers have applied an infodemiological approach to studying the spread of HIV/AIDS, SARS and influenza, vaccination uptake, antibiotics consumption, the incidence of multiple sclerosis, patterns of alcohol consumption, the efficacy of using the social web for personalization of health treatment, the contexts of status epilepticus patients, and the effectiveness of the Great American Smokeout anti-smoking awareness event. Applications outside the field of health care include urban planning and the study of economic trends and voter preferences.\n\n"}
{"id": "51696564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51696564", "title": "Italy towel", "text": "Italy towel\n\nThe Italy towel, also known as the Korean exfoliating mitt, is a mass-produced bath product used to scrub and peel the outermost layer of skin; it was invented in Busan by Kim Pil-gon in 1962. Since then, the Italy towel has become a household item in Korean homes and a staple item in Korean saunas. The Korean exfoliating mitt was named the Italy towel because the viscose fabric used to make it was imported from Italy at the time.\n"}
{"id": "31717014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31717014", "title": "Kenya Health Work Force Project", "text": "Kenya Health Work Force Project\n\nThe Kenya Health Work Force Project is a project to move health informatics in Kenya from a paper system to a computer-based database. They are being assisted by the Georgia Tech Research Institute and the Lillian Carter Center for International Nursing. It is being led by Martha Rogers.\n"}
{"id": "55868631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55868631", "title": "List of antibiotic-resistant bacteria", "text": "List of antibiotic-resistant bacteria\n\nA list of antibiotic resistant bacteria is provided below. These bacteria have shown antibiotic resistance (or antimicrobial resistance).\n\nNDM-1 is an enzyme that makes bacteria resistant to a broad range of beta-lactam antibiotics.\n\nNDM-1 (New Delhi Metallo-beta-lactamase-1) originated in India. In Indian hospitals hospital-acquired infections are common and with the new super-bugs on rise in India, this can make them dangerous. Mapping of sewage and water supply samples that were NDM-1-positive indicates widespread infection in New Delhi already back in 2011.\n\nNDM-1 was first detected in a \"Klebsiella pneumoniae\" isolate from a Swedish patient of Indian origin in 2008. It was later detected in bacteria in India, Pakistan, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada and Japan.\n\n\"Clostridium difficile\" is a nosocomial pathogen that causes diarrheal disease worldwide. Diarrhea caused by \"C. difficile\" can be life-threatening. Infections are most frequent in people who have had recent medical and/or antibiotic treatment. \"C. difficile\" infections commonly occur during hospitalization.\n\nAccording to a 2015 CDC report, \"C. difficile\" caused almost 500,000 infections in the United States over a year period. Associated with these infections were an estimated 15,000 deaths. The CDC estimates that \"C. difficile\" infection costs could amount to $3.8 billion over a 5-year span.\n\n\"C. difficile\" colitis is most strongly associated with fluoroquinolones, cephalosporins, carbapenems, and clindamycin.\n\nSome research suggests the overuse of antibiotics in the raising of livestock is contributing to outbreaks of bacterial infections such as \"C. difficile\".[16]\n\nAntibiotics, especially those with a broad activity spectrum (such as clindamycin) disrupt normal intestinal flora. This can lead to an overgrowth of \"C. difficile\", which flourishes under these conditions. Pseudomembranous colitis can follow, creating generalized inflammation of the colon and the development of \"pseudomembrane\", a viscous collection of inflammatory cells, fibrin, and necrotic cells.[4] Clindamycin-resistant \"C. difficile\" was reported as the causative agent of large outbreaks of diarrheal disease in hospitals in New York, Arizona, Florida and Massachusetts between 1989 and 1992. Geographically dispersed outbreaks of \"C. difficile\" strains resistant to fluoroquinolone antibiotics, such as ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin, were also reported in North America in 2005.\n\nMultidrug-resistant \"Enterococcus faecalis\" and \"Enterococcus faecium\" are associated with nosocomial infections. These strains include: penicillin-resistant \"Enterococcus\", vancomycin-resistant \"Enterococcus\", and linezolid-resistant \"Enterococcus\".\n\nTuberculosis (TB) resistant to antibiotics is called MDR TB (multidrug-resistant TB). Globally, MDR TB causes 150,000 deaths annually. The rise of the HIV/AIDS epidemic has contributed to this.\n\nMycobacterium tuberculosis is an obligate pathogen that has evolved to ensure its persistence in human populations. This is evident in the fact that Mycobacterium tuberculosis must cause a pulmonary disease in order to be successfully transmitted from one person to another. Tuberculosis better known as TB has one of the highest mortality rates among pathogens in the world. Mortality rates have not seen a significant decrease due to its growing resistance to certain antibiotics. Although there is years worth of research and many work hours that have been devoted to the creation of a vaccine, one still does not exist. TB has a very high level of virulence which is mainly due in part to the fact it is extremely transmissible. TB was considered one of the most prevalent diseases, and did not have a cure until the discovery of streptomycin by Selman Waksman in 1943. However, the bacteria soon developed resistance. Since then, drugs such as isoniazid and rifampin have been used. \"M. tuberculosis\" develops resistance to drugs by spontaneous mutations in its genomes. These types of mutations can lead to genotype and phenotype changes that can contribute to reproductive success therefore they can be passed on and evolve into resistant bacteria. Resistance to one drug is common, and this is why treatment is usually done with more than one drug. Extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR TB) is TB that is also resistant to the second line of drugs.\n\nResistance of \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\" to isoniazid, rifampin, and other common treatments has become an increasingly relevant clinical challenge. Evidence is lacking for whether these bacteria have plasmids. \"M. tuberculosis\" lack the opportunity to interact with other bacteria in order to share plasmids.\n\n\"Mycoplasma genitalium\" is a small pathogenic bacterium that lives on the ciliated epithelial cells of the urinary and genital tracts in humans. It is still controversial whether or not this bacterium is to be recognized as a sexually transmitted pathogen. Infection with \"Mycoplasma genitalium\" sometimes produces clinical symptoms, or a combination of symptoms, but sometimes can be asymptomatic. It causes inflammation in the urethra (urethritis) both in men and women, which is associated with mucopurulent discharge in the urinary tract, and burning while urinating.\n\nTreatment of \"Mycoplasma genitalium\" infections is becoming increasingly difficult due to rapidly developing multi-drug resistance, and diagnosis and treatment is further hampered by the fact that \"M. genitalium\" infections are not routinely detected. Azithromycin is the most common first-line treatment, but the commonly-used 1 gram single-dose azithromycin treatment can lead to the bacteria commonly developing resistance to azithromycin. An alternative five-day treatment with azithromycin showed no development of antimicrobial resistance. Efficacy of azithromycin against \"M. genitalium\" has decreased substantially, which is thought to occur through SNPs in the 23S rRNA gene. The same SNPs are thought to be responsible for resistance against josamycin which is prescribed in some countries. Moxifloxacin can be used as a second-line treatment in case azithromycin is not able to eradicate the infection. However, resistance against moxifloxacin has been observed since 2007, thought to be due to \"parC\" SNPs. Tetracyclines, including doxycycline, have a low clinical eradication rate for \"M. genitalium\" infections. A few cases have been described where doxycycline, azithromycin and moxifloxacin had all failed, but pristinamycin was still able to eradicate the infection.\n\n\"Staphylococcus aureus\" is one of the major resistant pathogens. Found on the mucous membranes and the human skin of around a third of the population, it is extremely adaptable to antibiotic pressure. It was one of the earlier bacteria in which penicillin resistance was found—in 1947, just four years after the drug started being mass-produced. Methicillin was then the antibiotic of choice, but has since been replaced by oxacillin because of significant kidney toxicity. Methicillin-resistant \"Staphylococcus aureus\" (MRSA) was first detected in Britain in 1961, and is now \"quite common\" in hospitals. MRSA was responsible for 37% of fatal cases of sepsis in the UK in 1999, up from 4% in 1991. Half of all \"S. aureus\" infections in the US are resistant to penicillin, methicillin, tetracycline and erythromycin.\n\n\"Streptococcus pyogenes\" (Group A \"Streptococcus\": GAS) infections can usually be treated with many different antibiotics. Strains of \"S. pyogenes\" resistant to macrolide antibiotics have emerged; however, all strains remain uniformly susceptible to penicillin.\n\nResistance of \"Streptococcus pneumoniae\" to penicillin and other beta-lactams is increasing worldwide. The major mechanism of resistance involves the introduction of mutations in genes encoding penicillin-binding proteins. Selective pressure is thought to play an important role, and use of beta-lactam antibiotics has been implicated as a risk factor for infection and colonization. \"S. pneumoniae\" is responsible for pneumonia, bacteremia, otitis media, meningitis, sinusitis, peritonitis and arthritis.\n\n\"Campylobacter\" causes diarrhea (often bloody), fever, and abdominal cramps. Serious complications such as temporary paralysis can also occur. Physicians rely on ciprofloxacin and azithromycin for treating patients with severe disease although \"Campylobacter\" is showing resistance to these antibiotics.\n\n\"Neisseria gonorrhoeae\" is a sexually transmitted pathogen that causes gonorrhea, a sexually transmitted disease that can result in discharge and inflammation at the urethra, cervix, pharynx, or rectum. It can cause pelvic pain, pain on urination, penile and vaginal discharge, as well as systemic symptoms. It can also cause severe reproductive complications.\n\nAs of 2013 hard-to-treat or untreatable infections of carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE), also known as carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae (CPE), were increasing among patients in medical facilities. CRE are resistant to nearly all available antibiotics. Almost half of hospital patients who get bloodstream CRE infections die from the infection.\n\nKlebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC)-producing bacteria are a group of emerging highly drug-resistant Gram-negative bacilli causing infections associated with significant morbidity and mortality whose incidence is rapidly increasing in a variety of clinical settings around the world. \"Klebsiella pneumoniae\" includes numerous mechanisms for antibiotic resistance, many of which are located on highly mobile genetic elements. Carbapenem antibiotics (heretofore often the treatment of last resort for resistant infections) are generally not effective against KPC-producing organisms.\n\nInfection with \"Escherichia coli\" and \"Salmonella\" can result from the consumption of contaminated food and polluted water. Both of these bacteria are well known for causing nosocomial (hospital-linked) infections, and often, these strains found in hospitals are antibiotic resistant because of adaptations to wide spread antibiotic use. When both bacteria are spread, serious health conditions arise. Many people are hospitalized each year after becoming infected, with some dying as a result. Since 1993, some strains of \"E. coli\" have become resistant to multiple types of fluoroquinolone antibiotics.\n\nAlthough mutation alone plays a huge role in the development of antibiotic resistance, a 2008 study found that high survival rates after exposure to antibiotics could not be accounted for by mutation alone. This study focused on the development of resistance in \"E. coli\" to three antibiotic drugs: ampicillin, tetracycline, and nalidixic acid. The researchers found that some antibiotic resistance in \"E. coli\" developed because of epigenetic inheritance rather than by direct inheritance of a mutated gene. This was further supported by data showing that reversion to antibiotic sensitivity was relatively common as well. This could only be explained by epigenetics. Epigenetics is a type of inheritance in which gene expression is altered rather than the genetic code itself. There are many modes by which this alteration of gene expression can occur, including methylation of DNA and histone modification; however, the important point is that both inheritance of random mutations and epigenetic markers can result in the expression of antibiotic resistance genes.\n\nResistance to polymyxins first appear in 2011. An easier way for this resistance to spread, a plasmid known as MCR-1 was discovered in 2015.\n\n\"Acinetobacter\" is a gram-negative bacteria that causes pneumonia or bloodstream infections in critically ill patients. Multidrug-resistant \"Acinetobacter\" have become very resistant to antibiotics.\n\nOn November 5, 2004, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported an increasing number of \"Acinetobacter baumannii\" bloodstream infections in patients at military medical facilities in which service members injured in the Iraq/Kuwait region during Operation Iraqi Freedom and in Afghanistan during Operation Enduring Freedom were treated. Most of these showed multidrug resistance (MRAB), with a few isolates resistant to all drugs tested.\n\n\"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" is a highly prevalent opportunistic pathogen. One of the most worrisome characteristics of \"P. aeruginosa\" is its low antibiotic susceptibility, which is attributable to a concerted action of multidrug efflux pumps with chromosomally encoded antibiotic resistance genes (e.g., \"mexAB-oprM\", \"mexXY\") and the low permeability of the bacterial cellular envelopes. \"P. aeruginosa\" has the ability to produce 4-hydroxy-2-alkylquinolines (HAQs) and it has been found that HAQs have prooxidant effects, and overexpressing modestly increased susceptibility to antibiotics. The study experimented with the \"P. aeruginosa\" biofilms and found that a disruption of relA and spoT genes produced an inactivation of the Stringent response (SR) in cells with nutrient limitation, which provides cells be more susceptible to antibiotics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4319477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4319477", "title": "List of cigarette smoke carcinogens", "text": "List of cigarette smoke carcinogens\n\nCommercial tobacco smoke is a mixture of more than 5,000 chemicals. According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the following are known human carcinogens found in cigarette smoke:\n"}
{"id": "43875835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43875835", "title": "Mental health in association football", "text": "Mental health in association football\n\nThe subject of mental health in association football has been described as a \"stigma\" in the sport, although other professional sports are also affected. Professional footballers suffer more from symptoms of depression and anxiety than the general public.\n\nFormer professional players Robert Enke and Gary Speed have committed suicide; both suffered from depression. Enke threw himself in front of a train. Five years after Enke's death his wife stated that she believed depression in sport was no longer a taboo subject. Speed hanged himself. In September 2018 his wife said that she a discovered a letter written by Speed as a teenager which hinted at his long-term depression.\n\nClarke Carlisle stated that he contemplated suicide after becoming injured early in his career, and in December 2014 attempted suicide due to the severe depression he was suffering from.\n\nSebastian Deisler was hospitalized after being unable to cope with the pressures of professional football, eventually retiring from the sport at the age of 27.\n\nEx-player Mickey Bennett set up an organization called Unique Sports Counselling to help footballers deal with mental health issues.\n\nIn February 2016 Steve Harper spoke out about his mental health problems while in between clubs. The PFA had to apologise after initially criticising his comments.\n\nIn May 2016, professional footballer Chris Mitchell committed suicide. In October 2018 his family spoke out about his struggles with mental health.\n\nIn February 2018 David Cox stated that he had been mocked by both players and fans for discussing his mental health problems.\n\nIn March 2018, the UK government announced plans to deal with mental health in professional sports. Later that month, Harry Smith released a statement stating that he was seeking help for mental health and gambling addiction problems.\n\nIn April 2018 The Secret Footballer, an anonymous former Premier League player, talked about his depression.\n\nIn June 2018, England international Danny Rose stated that he had been diagnosed with depression.\n\nIn September 2018, professional footballer Marvin Sordell suggested that clubs should have full-time counsellors to assist players with depression and other mental health issues. Later that month Anthony Knockaert also revealed his struggles with mental health issues, as did David Cotterill.\n\nIn October 2018, Michael Carrick announced that he had suffered from depression for 2 years following the defeat in the 2009 UEFA Champions League Final. Later that month Christian Nadé revealed that he had tried to commit suicide in 2014 following struggles with depression.\n\n"}
{"id": "55986440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55986440", "title": "Paragraphia", "text": "Paragraphia\n\nParagraphia is a condition which results in the use of unintended letters or phonemes, words or syllables when writing. This is typically an acquired disorder derived from brain damage and it results in a diminished ability to effectively use written expression.\n\nParagraphias can be classified as function of the type of writing errors: literal paragraphias, graphemic paragraphias and morphemic paragraphias. \n"}
{"id": "5263684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5263684", "title": "Paralytic illness of Franklin D. Roosevelt", "text": "Paralytic illness of Franklin D. Roosevelt\n\nThe paralytic illness of Franklin D. Roosevelt began in 1921 when the future President of the United States was 39 years old. His main symptoms were fever; symmetric, ascending paralysis; facial paralysis; bowel and bladder dysfunction; numbness and hyperesthesia; and a descending pattern of recovery. Roosevelt was left permanently paralyzed from the waist down. He was diagnosed with poliomyelitis at the time, but his symptoms are more consistent with Guillain–Barré syndrome (GBS) – an autoimmune neuropathy which Roosevelt's doctors failed to consider as a diagnostic possibility. In 1926, his belief in the benefits of hydrotherapy led him to found a rehabilitation center at Warm Springs, Georgia. He avoided being seen using his wheelchair in public, but his disability was well known and became a major part of his image. In 1938, he founded the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, leading to the development of polio vaccines.\n\nIn August 1921, 39-year-old Franklin D. Roosevelt, at the time a practicing lawyer in New York, joined his family at their vacation home at Campobello, a Canadian island off the coast of Maine. As former Assistant Secretary of the Navy, he had spent two weeks in mid-July in Washington, D.C., giving testimony to a Senate committee investigating a Navy scandal. On August 5, Roosevelt sailed up the New England coast with his friend and new employer, Van Lear Black, on Black's ocean-going yacht. Among those at Campobello when Roosevelt arrived were his wife Eleanor, their children, his political aide Louis Howe, Howe's wife, and their young son.\n\nOn August 10, after a day of strenuous activity, Roosevelt came down with an illness characterized by fever, ascending paralysis, facial paralysis, prolonged bowel and bladder dysfunction, and numbness and hypersensitivity of the skin. Most of the symptoms resolved themselves, but he was left permanently paralyzed from the waist down.\n\nRoosevelt came close to death from the illness. He faced many life-threatening medical problems including the possibility of respiratory failure, urinary tract infection, injury to the urethra or bladder, decubitus ulcers, clots in the leg veins, and malnutrition. Eleanor’s nursing care was responsible for Roosevelt’s survival.\n\nJuly 28: \nRoosevelt visited the Boy Scout Jamboree at Bear Mountain State Park.\n\nAugust 5–8: \nRoosevelt traveled to Campobello on board the yacht \"Sabolo\".\n\nAugust 9:\nRoosevelt fell into the cold waters of the Bay of Fundy. Later, arrived at Campobello.\n\nAugust 10:\nRoosevelt spent the day physically active. Afterward, he complained of chills, nausea, and pain in his lower back. He skipped dinner and went to bed. Chills lasted through the night. \n\nAugust 11:\nIn the morning, one of his legs felt weak. Roosevelt had fever.\nDr. Eben H. Bennet, a general practitioner in the nearby village of Lubec who had known the Roosevelts for years, visited Roosevelt and diagnosed a bad summer cold. By the evening, one leg was paralyzed, and the other had become weak. \n\nAugust 12:\nBoth legs were paralyzed. His temperature was 102 °F. Pain shot through his legs, feet and back.\nBennet suggested a consultation with Dr. William W. Keen, an eminent retired neurosurgeon vacationing nearby.\nRoosevelt's legs were numb. They then became painfully sensitive to touch. He could not pass urine. By evening, his hands were affected.\n\nAugust 13:\nRoosevelt was paralyzed from the chest down. On that day and the following, his hands, arms, and shoulders were weak. He had difficulty moving his bowels and required enemas.\nKeen made what Eleanor described as \"a most careful, thorough examination\".\n\nAugust 14:\nRoosevelt continued to be unable to pass urine for two weeks, and required catheterization. His fever continued for a total of six to seven days.\nKeen repeated his examination, a bending and prodding that Elliott later termed \"excruciating\" for his father.\nKeen diagnosed a clot of blood to the lower spinal cord, and prescribed massage of the leg muscles.\nEleanor and Howe began massaging Roosevelt's legs as instructed by Keen, bringing on agonizing pain.\n\nAugust 15:\nProstrate and mildly sedated, Roosevelt was occasionally delirious.\n\nAugust 19:\nFrederic Delano, Roosevelt's uncle, had received a letter from Louis Howe requesting to find a doctor to come see Roosevelt. Delano called his son-in-law, a physician, who recommended he speak to another physician, a Dr. Parker. Parker told Delano that the case sounded like infantile paralysis, and that the leading authorities on the disease were at the Harvard Infantile Paralysis Commission in Boston. Delano caught a train and arrived the next morning.\n\nAugust 20:\nDr. Samuel A. Levine was at his office when Delano telephoned Brigham Hospital on Saturday morning. Levine said the senior members of the Harvard Infantile Paralysis Commission, Dr. Lovett and Dr. Peabody, were out of town, but he would try to answer Delano's questions. After reviewing the messages Delano had received from Campobello, Levine thought Roosevelt was suffering from acute poliomyelitis. He urged that a lumbar puncture be done, with the goal of making a diagnosis, but mainly because Levine believed there could be acute benefit from the procedure. \nDelano phoned and wrote Eleanor the same day, advising her to stop massaging Roosevelt's legs, and to disregard Keen's advice: \"I think it would be very unwise to trust his diagnosis where the Inf. Paralysis can be determined by test of the spinal fluid.\"\nEleanor communicated with Keen, who \"very strenuously\" resisted the idea of poliomyelitis. Keen asked Lovett to visit Campobello.\n\nAugust 22:\nLovett met Levine for dinner. Lovett asked how to distinguish whether paralysis was caused by poliomyelitis or by a clot or lesion of the spinal cord.\n\nAugust 23:\nLovett left for Campobello.\n\nAugust 24:\nLovett saw Roosevelt and performed a \"more or less superficial\" examination since Roosevelt was highly sensitive to touch. The arms were weak; the bladder was paralyzed; the left thumb indicated atrophy. Roosevelt could not stand or walk, and Lovett documented \"scattered weakness, most marked in the hips\".\n\nAugust 25:\nRoosevelt's temperature was 100 °F. Both legs were paralyzed. His back muscles were weak. There was also weakness of the face and left hand. Pain in the legs and inability to urinate continued. \nAfter a brief conference with Keen, Lovett saw Roosevelt. Lovett informed him that the \"physical findings\" presented a \"perfectly clear\" diagnosis of poliomyelitis.\nLovett ordered an end to massage, which had no benefit and caused pain, and recommended a trained nurse to care for Roosevelt.\n\nSeptember 1:\nRoosevelt was still unable to urinate. His leg pain continued.\n\nSeptember 14:\nRoosevelt was transported to New York, by boat and train, a long and painful journey.\n\nSeptember 15:\nRoosevelt was admitted to Presbyterian Hospital in New York City for convalescence, under the care of Dr. George Draper, an expert on poliomyelitis and Roosevelt's personal physician. Lovett continued to consult from Boston.\nThere was pain in the legs, paralysis of the legs, muscle wasting in the lower lumbar area and the buttocks, weakness of the right triceps, and gross muscle twitching in both forearms.\n\nOctober 28:\nRoosevelt was transferred from Presbyterian Hospital to his house on East 65th Street. His chart still read \"not improving\".\n\nLater:\nRoosevelt exercised daily. His hamstrings tightened, and his legs were encased in plaster to straighten them by degrees.\nThere was gradual recovery, but he remained paralyzed from the waist down.\n\nAfter falling ill, Roosevelt was seen by four doctors. Eben Homer Bennet, the Roosevelt family doctor, diagnosed a heavy cold. William Keen, a retired neurosurgeon, thought Roosevelt had a blood clot. Robert Lovett, an expert on the orthopedic management of children paralyzed from poliomyelitis, diagnosed \"infantile paralysis\", as did George Draper, Roosevelt's personal physician.\n\nRoosevelt's physicians never mentioned Guillain–Barré syndrome (GBS) in their communications concerning Roosevelt's case, indicating that they were not aware of it as a diagnostic possibility. All reports before 1921 of what is now called GBS were by European physicians, in European journals. The result was that very few American physicians knew that GBS was a separate disease. For example, Lovett mistakenly believed that Landry’s ascending paralysis, now termed GBS, was one of the clinical presentations of paralytic polio. In 1921, an American physician would assume that if an individual developed a sudden, non-traumatic flaccid paralysis, it was due to paralytic polio. The concept of GBS as a separate disease was not widely accepted in the United States until after the Second World War.\n\nRoosevelt first traveled to Warm Springs, Georgia, on October 3, 1924. For many years to come Warm Springs would be where he would retreat in comfort for hydrotherapy. On April 29, 1926, he bought the center with the intention of making it into a rehabilitation center for polio patients. One of Roosevelt's primary goals was to get the American Orthopedic Association to endorse the resort, but he was rejected because there was no real progress in physical health.\n\nIn 1929 Roosevelt was elected Governor of New York and moved into the Governor's Mansion in Albany. Before he moved in, the mansion was made wheelchair-friendly with ramps and an elevator.\n\nRoosevelt won the Presidential election in 1932 in a landslide victory and became the first, and so far only, disabled person to be President of the United States. Before he moved into the White House, ramps were added to make it wheelchair-friendly. Any pictures of the President were taken at certain angles and at a distance.\n\nRoosevelt was totally and permanently paralyzed from the waist down, and unable to stand or walk without support. For the next few months, he confined himself to indoor pursuits, including resuming his lifelong hobby of stamp collecting. In December 1921, after he had recuperated for several months, a physiotherapist began working with him to determine the extent of the damage. He was able to perform small exercises on his own, moving one muscle and then another. He was fitted with heavy steel braces that locked at the knee and provided enough stability that he could stand with crutches. In 1922, at Springwood, he worked diligently to make his way across the room. He set himself the goal of getting down the long driveway, managing to do it once, but never trying again.\n\nIn October 1922, Roosevelt visited his law office at the Equitable Building, where a welcome-back luncheon had been arranged. The chauffeur assisting him failed to brace the tip of his left crutch and Roosevelt fell onto the highly polished lobby floor. Laughing, he asked two young men in the crowd of onlookers to help get him back on his feet. After the luncheon, he told friends it was a \"grand and glorious occasion\". He did not return to his office for two months.\n\nRoosevelt believed that warmth and exercise would help rebuild his legs. He bought a run-down 71-foot houseboat and, in February 1923, sailed to Florida with friends and a small crew. Eleanor found it dull and left, but Roosevelt sailed for weeks, fishing and spending time with a succession of friends who came to visit. He designed a pulley system that lowered him into the water to swim. In May 1923, Lovett documented no overall improvement over the preceding year, but Roosevelt would not accept his doctors' determination that further progress was unlikely. He tried a range of therapies and made two more voyages on his houseboat, but his efforts had no effect.\n\n\"Between 1925 and 1928, Franklin would spend more than half his time—116 of 208 weeks—away from home, struggling to find a way to regain his feet,\" wrote biographer Geoffrey Ward. \"Eleanor was with him just 4 of those 116 weeks, and his mother was with him for only 2. His children hardly saw him.\"\n\nRoosevelt lost the use of his legs and two inches of height, but the subsequent development of the rest of his body gave him a robust physique, and he enjoyed many years of excellent health. Jack Dempsey praised his upper-body musculature, and Roosevelt once landed a 237-pound shark after fighting it on his line for two hours.\n\nWith his physiotherapist at Warm Springs, Roosevelt laboriously taught himself to walk short distances while wearing iron braces on his hips and legs, by swiveling his torso. For this \"two-point walk\", he would grip the arm of a strong person with his left hand, and brace himself with a cane in his right.\n\nRoosevelt was the United States' first disabled president, so there has been discussion concerning how he handled his health. Disability advocate Hugh Gallagher posited that Roosevelt was desperate to appear able-bodied. When discussing Roosevelt's limited use of a wheelchair in public, Gallagher stated, \"This was not by accident. It was a strategy that served to minimize the extent of his handicap, to make it unnoticed when possible and palatable when it was noticed.\". Historian James Tobin argued that Roosevelt used his disability to his advantage. Tobin stated, \"But he could, instead, show himself to be something he had never been seen as before: a fighter and, and better yet, an underdog; not a man to pity, not a man to envy, but a man to cheer.\" Despite any controversy, Roosevelt has become an inspirational figure for disabled people around the world. The Roosevelt Memorial in Washington, D.C. includes a statue of Roosevelt in a wheelchair.\n\nRoosevelt was able to convince many people that he was getting better, which he believed was essential if he was to run for public office again. In private he used a wheelchair but was careful not to be seen in it in public, although he sometimes appeared on crutches. He usually appeared in public standing upright, while being supported on one side by an aide or one of his sons. For major speaking occasions, an especially solid lectern was placed on the stage so that he could support himself on it; as a result, in films of his speeches, Roosevelt can be observed using his head to make gestures because his hands were gripping the lectern. He might raise one hand to gesture, but his other hand held the podium.\n\nHis public appearances were choreographed to avoid the press covering his arrival and departure, which would have shown him getting into or out of a vehicle. When possible, his vehicle was driven into a building's parking garage for his arrivals and departures. On other occasions, the vehicle would be driven onto a ramp to avoid steps, which Roosevelt was unable to ascend. When that was not practical, the steps would be covered with a ramp with railings, with Roosevelt using his arms to pull himself upward. When traveling by train, Roosevelt often appeared on the rear platform of the presidential railroad car. When he boarded or disembarked, the private car was sometimes shunted to an area of the railroad yard away from the public for reasons of security and privacy. When Roosevelt's train used a ramp and the president was on a publicly known trip, he insisted on walking on the ramp no matter how difficult.\n\nJournalist John Gunther reported that in the 1930s he often met people in Europe, including world leaders, who were unaware of Roosevelt's paralysis. David Brinkley, who was a young White House reporter in World War II, stated that the Secret Service actively interfered with photographers who tried to take pictures of Roosevelt in a wheelchair or being moved about by others. The Secret Service commonly destroyed photographs they caught being taken in this manner; however, there were occasional exceptions. When Roosevelt addressed the Congress in person on March 1, 1945, about a month before his death, he made public reference to his disability for almost the first time in 20 years. \"I hope that you will pardon me for this unusual posture of sitting down,\" Roosevelt began, \"but I know you will realize that it makes it a lot easier for me not to have to carry about ten pounds of steel around on the bottom of my legs.\"\n\nOn January 3, 1938, Roosevelt founded the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, now known as the March of Dimes. Basil O'Connor, an attorney and close associate of Roosevelt, helped establish the foundation and was its president for more than three decades. The organization's annual fundraising campaign coincided with Roosevelt's birthday on January 30. The organization initially focused on the rehabilitation of victims of paralytic polio and supported the work of Jonas Salk and others that led to the development of polio vaccines. Today, the March of Dimes focuses on preventing premature births, congenital disabilities, and infant mortality.\n\nBecause he founded the March of Dimes, a dime was chosen to honor Roosevelt after his death. The Roosevelt dime was issued on January 30, 1946.\n\nRoosevelt's center at Warm Springs operates today as the Roosevelt Warm Springs Institute for Rehabilitation, a comprehensive rehabilitation facility operated by the state of Georgia. A center for post-polio treatment, it provides vocational rehabilitation, long-term acute care, and inpatient rehabilitation for amputees and people recovering from spinal cord injuries, brain damage, and stroke.\n\nA 2003 peer-reviewed study of Roosevelt's paralytic illness, using three diagnostic methods - pattern recognition, reconstructing the pathogenesis, and Bayesian analysis - favored a diagnosis of Guillain–Barré syndrome (GBS) over poliomyelitis. For the Bayesian analysis, the best estimate of the annual incidence of GBS was 1.3 per 100,000. For paralytic polio in Roosevelt's age group, an annual incidence of 1.0 per 100,000 was used. The paralytic polio rate was derived from the exceptionally severe polio epidemic that struck New York City in 1916, to tilt the odds in favor of polio. The prior probability of paralytic polio in Roosevelt’s age group in the United States in 1921 was likely much lower because paralytic polio was at one of its lowest ebbs in the Northeastern region of the country at that time. In July 1921, three cases were reported in New Jersey. By late August some 100 cases were reported in the state of New York. Based on the incidence rates for GBS and paralytic polio, and symptom probabilities from the medical literature, Roosevelt's symptoms were analyzed by Bayesian analysis to obtain posterior probabilities, as listed below.\n\nSix of eight symptoms favored GBS, with the posterior probability of GBS shown for each:\n\nTwo of eight symptoms favored polio, with the posterior probability of polio shown for each:\n\nUsing all eight symptoms in a Bayesian analysis, based on disease incidence rates and symptom probabilities from the medical literature, the overall probability that Roosevelt had GBS is over 99%.\n\nIt is possible Roosevelt was exposed to an infectious agent at the Boy Scout Jamboree in late July. The two-week interval before the onset of his neurological illness was in keeping with both the incubation period of poliomyelitis, and with exposure to an infectious agent leading to GBS. There are no reports that any scouts or personnel at the camp were ill around the time of Roosevelt’s visit. In 1912 and 1915, Roosevelt had illnesses compatible with \"Campylobacter jejuni\", a major causative agent of GBS.\n\nIt has been stated that Roosevelt may have been predisposed to paralytic polio by genetic inheritance. However, such a genetic predisposition has never been discovered. Several authors have stated that Roosevelt was more vulnerable to polio since he was raised on an isolated family estate and had little contact with other children until he entered Groton at age 14. However, Roosevelt was not a \"boy in a bubble\". He had many possible exposures to polioviruses before 1921. Most polio cases are asymptomatic or a mild illness. Yet those asymptomatic individuals can transmit the viral infection. When the prior probability of paralytic polio was artificially made 100-fold higher, to 99.4%, overall Bayesian analysis of Roosevelt's symptoms still greatly favored GBS (99.97% posterior probability). Roosevelt’s symptoms are typical of GBS, not of paralytic polio, so they overwhelm the initial prior probability.\n\nA 2014 book argued that a lumbar puncture was done, based on excerpts from an \"unpublished note\" by Dr. Samuel A. Levine of the Harvard Infantile Paralysis Commission. The book stated, \"Levine's private note indicates that Dr. Lovett did examine the cerebrospinal fluid and knew very well that a high level of white blood cells was consistent with poliomyelitis. . . . If Lovett had discovered a low white blood cell count, he would have doubted that poliomyelitis was the cause of Roosevelt's illness. Yet Lovett wrote George Draper that \"I thought [the diagnosis] was perfectly clear as far as the physical findings were concerned.\"\"\n\nA 2017 book finally published the note. Based on the full text, the note was not found to support the idea that a spinal tap was performed, because: \n1) The note, written many years after 1921, had many errors. \n2) Levine never saw Roosevelt. \n3) Levine did not mention who did the procedure, or the results. \n4) Lovett had made it clear he would not do the procedure. \n5) None of Roosevelt's physicians at Campobello were equipped to do the procedure. \n6) \"Physical findings\" means information gained from a physical examination of the patient. Lovett described many \"physical findings\": hyperesthesia, facial paralysis, etc. But neither he, any of Roosevelt's other physicians at Campobello, Roosevelt, Eleanor, nor any of Roosevelt's associates ever said that a spinal tap was done.\n\nThe 2017 book went on to say: \"Given the invasive nature of a spinal tap, and the difficulty that would have occurred doing the procedure on a patient in FDR’s condition, it seems highly unlikely that a direct observer would have failed to mention anything about it. . . . Even if a spinal tap had been performed, it would have been done at the earliest about 15 days after the onset of the neurological illness, around when Lovett first saw Roosevelt. . . . One should keep in mind that the classical distinction between paralytic polio and GBS, the concentrations of leukocytes and total protein in CSF, blurs after the first several days of the onset of paralysis in both diseases.\"\n\n\"In any event, there was no cure for either disease in 1921,\" wrote biographer Jonathan Alter. However, Levine mistakenly thought that the main benefit of a spinal tap, if done, would be to improve the outcome by lowering elevated CSF pressure. And even today, some authors mistakenly believe that Roosevelt's paralysis, assuming a polio diagnosis, could have been prevented with early intervention. However, there is no objective evidence that a spinal tap lessens the possibility of paralysis in polio. And it is unlikely Roosevelt's physicians would have tried human serum injections into the CSF, or that such injections would have helped. Lovett did not think the injections were useful, and there were alarming meningeal symptoms associated with them, probably secondary to the formation of antigen-antibody complexes. Concerning GBS, virtually all of the effective measures that are currently standard practice for the medical management of GBS were not developed until many decades after Roosevelt's 1921 illness, so Roosevelt's prognosis would not have improved even if GBS had been diagnosed.\n\n"}
{"id": "49986510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49986510", "title": "Paula method", "text": "Paula method\n\nThe Paula Method is a proposed alternative to Kegel exercises. The idea is that by strengthening your sphincter muscles (eye muscle: orbicularis oculi and mouth muscle: orbicularis oris), the contractions would also strengthen the sphincter muscles in the pelvic floor. Evidence to support its use is lacking.\n"}
{"id": "10669964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10669964", "title": "Perspective (pharmacoeconomic)", "text": "Perspective (pharmacoeconomic)\n\nPerspective in pharmacoeconomics refers to the economic vantage point of a pharmacoeconomic analysis, such as a cost-effectiveness analysis or cost-utility analysis. This affects the types of costs (resource expenditures) and benefits that are relevant to the analysis.\n\nFive general perspectives are often cited in pharmacoeconomics, including institutional, third party, patient, governmental and societal. The author must state the perspective and then ensure that costs and valuations remain consistent with it throughout the study,explaining briefly the applicable nomenclature. This should allow prospective reader to get a better understanding, and a firmer grasp of the subject matter.\n\nIf, for example, a pharmacoeconomic study takes the institutional perspective, medication cost would be relevant to resource expenditures involved in therapy delivery. Since the institution (e.g. hospital) incurs this expense, it would be included. Other relevant costs include inventory carrying cost, pharmacy time to compound or dispense, nursing time to administer, disposables (e.g. medication cups or intravenous tubing) and allocated hospital overhead costs\nValuation defines the currency reference that represents the resource expenditure associated with a given cost. The actual \"dollar amount\" to be attributed to the medication needs to be consistent with the perspective as well. Average wholesaler price (AWP) might not be considered an appropriate valuation of medication cost from an institutional perspective, if it does not represent the cost to the institution. Average acquisition cost would be more relevant.\n\nMore complex perspectives may require broader consideration of costs and more sophisticated valuations. For example, in the \"societal\" perspective, it is necessary for the author to consider costs that would not be relevant to a given institutional perspective. Examples include lost productivity and lost wages due to illness.\n"}
{"id": "2379996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2379996", "title": "Population health", "text": "Population health\n\nPopulation health has been defined as \"the health outcomes of a group of individuals, including the distribution of such outcomes within the group\". It is an approach to health that aims to improve the health of an entire human population. This concept does not refer to animal or plant populations. It has been described as consisting of three components. These are \"health outcomes, patterns of health determinants, and policies and interventions\". A priority considered important in achieving the aim of Population Health is to reduce health inequities or disparities among different population groups due to, among other factors, the social determinants of health, SDOH. The SDOH include all the factors (social, environmental, cultural and physical) that the different populations are born into, grow up and function with throughout their lifetimes which potentially have a measurable impact on the health of human populations. The Population Health concept represents a change in the focus from the individual-level, characteristic of most mainstream medicine. It also seeks to complement the classic efforts of public health agencies by addressing a broader range of factors shown to impact the health of different populations. The World Health Organization's Commission on Social Determinants of Health, reported in 2008, that the SDOH factors were responsible for the bulk of diseases and injuries and these were the major causes of health inequities in all countries. In the US, SDOH were estimated to account for 70% of avoidable mortality.\n\nFrom a population health perspective, health has been defined not simply as a state free from disease but as \"the capacity of people to adapt to, respond to, or control life's challenges and changes\". The World Health Organization (WHO) defined health in its broader sense in 1946 as \"a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.\"\n\nHealthy People 2020 is a web site sponsored by the US Department of Health and Human Services, representing the cumulative effort of 34 years of interest by the Surgeon General's office and others. It identifies 42 topics considered social determinants of health and approximately 1200 specific goals considered to improve population health. It provides links to the current research available for selected topics and identifies and supports the need for community involvement considered essential to address these problems realistically.\n\nRecently, human role has been encouraged by the influence of population growth there has been increasing interest from epidemiologists on the subject of economic inequality and its relation to the health of populations. There is a very robust correlation between socioeconomic status and health. This correlation suggests that it is not only the poor who tend to be sick when everyone else is healthy, heart disease, ulcers, type 2 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, certain types of cancer, and premature aging. Despite the reality of the SES Gradient, there is debate as to its cause. A number of researchers (A. Leigh, C. Jencks, A. Clarkwest—see also Russell Sage working papers) see a definite link between economic status and mortality due to the greater economic resources of the better-off, but they find little correlation due to social status differences.\n\nOther researchers such as Richard G. Wilkinson, J. Lynch, and G.A. Kaplan have found that socioeconomic status strongly affects health even when controlling for economic resources and access to health care. Most famous for linking social status with health are the Whitehall studies—a series of studies conducted on civil servants in London. The studies found that, despite the fact that all civil servants in England have the same access to health care, there was a strong correlation between social status and health. The studies found that this relationship stayed strong even when controlling for health-affecting habits such as exercise, smoking and drinking. Furthermore, it has been noted that no amount of medical attention will help decrease the likelihood of someone getting type 1 diabetes or rheumatoid arthritis—yet both are more common among populations with lower socioeconomic status. Lastly, it has been found that amongst the wealthiest quarter of countries on earth (a set stretching from Luxembourg to Slovakia) there is no relation between a country's wealth and general population health—suggesting that past a certain level, absolute levels of wealth have little impact on population health, but relative levels within a country do.\nThe concept of psychosocial stress attempts to explain how psychosocial phenomenon such as status and social stratification can lead to the many diseases associated with the SES gradient. Higher levels of economic inequality tend to intensify social hierarchies and generally degrades the quality of social relations—leading to greater levels of stress and stress related diseases. Richard Wilkinson found this to be true not only for the poorest members of society, but also for the wealthiest. Economic inequality is bad for everyone's health. \nInequality does not only affect the health of human populations. David H. Abbott at the Wisconsin National Primate Research Center found that among many primate species, less egalitarian social structures correlated with higher levels of stress hormones among socially subordinate individuals. Research by Robert Sapolsky of Stanford University provides similar findings.\n\nThere is well-documented variation in health outcomes and health care utilization & costs by geographic variation in the U.S., down to the level of Hospital Referral Regions (defined as a regional health care market, which may cross state boundaries, of which there are 306 in the U.S.). There is ongoing debate as to the relative contributions of race, gender, poverty, education level and place to these variations. The Office of Epidemiology of the Maternal and Child Health Bureau recommends using an analytic approach (Fixed Effects or hybrid Fixed Effects) to research on health disparities to reduce the confounding effects of neighborhood (geographic) variables on the outcomes.\n\nFamily planning programs (including contraceptives, sexuality education, and promotion of safe sex) play a major role in population health. Family planning is one of the most highly cost-effective interventions in medicine. Family planning saves lives and money by reducing unintended pregnancy and the transmission of sexually transmitted infections.\n\nFor example, the United States Agency for International Development lists as benefits of its international family planning program:\n\n\nOne method to improve population health is population health management (PHM), which has been defined as \"the technical field of endeavor which utilizes a variety of individual, organizational and cultural interventions to help improve the morbidity patterns (i.e., the illness and injury burden) and the health care use behavior of defined populations\". PHM is distinguished from disease management by including more chronic conditions and diseases, by use of \"a single point of contact and coordination\", and by \"predictive modeling across multiple clinical conditions\". PHM is considered broader than disease management in that it also includes \"intensive care management for individuals at the highest level of risk\" and \"personal health management... for those at lower levels of predicted health risk\". Many PHM-related articles are published in \"Population Health Management\", the official journal of .\n\nThe following road map has been suggested for helping healthcare organizations navigate the path toward implementing effective population health management:\n\nHealthcare reform is driving change to traditional hospital reimbursement models. Prior to the introduction of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), hospitals were reimbursed based on the volume of procedures through fee-for-service models. Under the PPACA, reimbursement models are shifting from volume to value. New reimbursement models are built around pay for performance, a value-based reimbursement approach, which places financial incentives around patient outcomes and has drastically changed the way US hospitals must conduct business to remain financially viable. In addition to focusing on improving patient experience of care and reducing costs, hospitals must also focus on improving the health of populations (IHI Triple Aim).\n\nAs participation in value-based reimbursement models such as accountable care organizations (ACOs) increases, these initiatives will help drive population health. Within the ACO model, hospitals have to meet specific quality benchmarks, focus on prevention, and carefully manage patients with chronic diseases. Providers get paid more for keeping their patients healthy and out of the hospital. Studies have shown that inpatient admission rates have dropped over the past ten years in communities that were early adopters of the ACO model and implemented population health measures to treat \"less sick\" patients in the outpatient setting. A study conducted in the Chicago area showed a decline in inpatient utilization rates across all age groups, which was an average of a 5% overall drop in inpatient admissions.\n\nHospitals are finding it financially advantageous to focus on population health management and keeping people in the community well. The goal of population health management is to improve patient outcomes and increase health capital. Other goals include preventing disease, closing care gaps, and cost savings for providers. In the last few years, more effort has been directed towards developing telehealth services, community-based clinics in areas with high proportion of residents using the emergency department as primary care, and patient care coordinator roles to coordinate healthcare services across the care continuum.\n\nHealth can be considered a capital good; health capital is part of human capital as defined by the Grossman model. Health can be considered both an investment good and consumption good. Factors such as obesity and smoking have negative effects on health capital, while education, wage rate, and age may also impact health capital. When people are healthier through preventative care, they have the potential to live a longer and healthier life, work more and participate in the economy, and produce more based on the work done. These factors all have the potential to increase earnings. Some states, like New York, have implemented statewide initiatives to address population health. In New York state there are 11 such programs. One example is the Mohawk Valley Population Health Improvement Program (http://www.mvphip.org/). These programs work to address the needs of the people in their region, as well as assist their local community based organizations and social services to gather data, address health disparities, and explore evidence-based interventions that will ultimately lead to better health for everyone. Following a similar approach, Cullati et al. developed a theoretical framework for the development and onset of vulnerability in later life based on the concept of \"reserves\". The advantages to use the concept of reserves in interdisciplinary studies, as compared with related concepts such as resources and capital, is to strengthen the importance of constitution and sustainability of reserves (the “use it or lose it” paradigm) and the presence of thresholds, below which functioning becomes challenging. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "21866643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21866643", "title": "Postorgasmic illness syndrome", "text": "Postorgasmic illness syndrome\n\nPostorgasmic illness syndrome (POIS) is a syndrome in which men have chronic physical and cognitive symptoms immediately following ejaculation in the absence of a local genital reaction. The symptoms last for up to a week. The cause and prevalence are unknown; it is considered a rare disease.\n\nThe distinguishing characteristics of POIS are:\n\nPOIS symptoms, which are called a \"POIS attack\", can include some combination of the following: cognitive dysfunction, aphasia, severe muscle pain throughout the body, severe fatigue, weakness, and flu-like or allergy-like symptoms, such as sneezing, itchy eyes, and nasal irritation. Additional symptoms include headache, dizziness, lightheadedness, sensory and motor problems, intense discomfort, irritability, anxiety, gastrointestinal disturbances, craving for relief, susceptibility to nervous system stresses (e.g. common cold), depressed mood, and difficulty communicating, remembering words, reading and retaining information, concentrating, and socializing. Affected individuals may also experience intense warmth or cold.\n\nThe symptoms begin shortly after or within a half hour of ejaculation.\n\nThe symptoms can last for several days, sometimes up to a week.\n\nIn some men, the onset of POIS is in puberty, while in others, the onset is in their twenties. POIS that is manifest from the first ejaculations in adolescence is called \"primary type\"; POIS that starts later in life is called \"secondary type\".\n\nMany POIS sufferers report lifelong premature ejaculation, with intravaginal ejaculation latency time (IELT) of less than one minute.\n\nPOIS has been called by a number of other names, including \"postejaculatory syndrome\", \"postorgasm illness syndrome\", \"post ejaculation sickness\", and \"post orgasmic sick syndrome\".\n\nDhat syndrome is a condition, first described in 1960 in India, with symptoms similar to POIS. Dhat syndrome is thought to be a culture-bound psychiatric condition and is treated with cognitive behavioral therapy along with anti-anxiety and antidepressant drugs.\n\nPost-coital tristesse (PCT) is a feeling of melancholy and anxiety after sexual intercourse that lasts anywhere from five minutes to two hours. PCT, which affects both men and women, occurs only after sexual intercourse and does not require an orgasm to occur, and in that its effects are primarily emotional rather than physiological. By contrast, POIS affects only men, consists primarily of physiological symptoms that are triggered by ejaculation and that can last, in some people, for up to a week. While PCT and POIS are distinct conditions, some doctors speculate that they could be related.\n\nAn array of more subtle and lingering symptoms after orgasm, which do not constitute POIS, may contribute to habituation between mates. They may show up as restlessness, irritability, increased sexual frustration, apathy, sluggishness, neediness, dissatisfaction with a mate, or weepiness over the days or weeks after intense sexual stimulation. Such phenomena may be part of human mating physiology itself.\n\nThe cause of POIS is unknown. Some doctors hypothesize that POIS is caused by an auto-immune reaction. Other doctors suspect a hormone imbalance as the cause. While other causes have been proposed as well, none of the proposed causes seem to fully explain the disease.\n\nAccording to one hypothesis, \"POIS is caused by Type-I and Type-IV allergy to the males' own semen\". Specifically, \n\nPOIS could also be caused by an auto-immune reaction not to semen itself, but to another substance that is released during ejaculation, such as to cytokines.\n\nThe allergy hypothesis has been disputed. According to one study, \"IgE-mediated semen allergy in men may not be the potential mechanism of POIS\". A case report considered that the skin test to autologous semen was negative.\n\nAccording to another hypothesis, POIS is caused by a hormone imbalance, such as low progesterone, low cortisol, low testosterone, elevated prolactin, hypothyroidism, or low DHEA.\n\nPOIS could be caused by a defect in neurosteroid precursor synthesis. In this case, the same treatment may not be effective for different sufferers. Different sufferers may have different missing precursors, ultimately leading to a deficiency of the same particular neurosteroid, causing similar symptoms.\n\nPOIS could also be caused by hyperglycemia or by chemical imbalances in the brain.\n\nSexual activity for the first time may set the stage for an associated asthma attack or may aggravate pre-existing asthma. Intense emotional stimuli during sexual intercourse can lead to autonomic imbalance with parasympathetic over reactivity, thereby causing release of mast cell mediators that can provoke postcoital asthma and / or rhinitis in these patients.\n\nIt is also possible that, in different individuals, the causes of POIS are different. POIS could represent \"a spectrum of syndromes of differing\" causes.\n\nNone of the currently proposed causes for POIS explain the connection between POIS and lifelong premature ejaculation.\n\nThere is no generally agreed upon diagnostic criteria for POIS. One group has developed five preliminary criteria for diagnosing POIS. These are:\n<poem>\n</poem>\n\nPOIS is prone to being erroneously ascribed to psychological factors such as hypochondriasis or somatic symptom disorder.\n\nThere is no standard method of treating or managing POIS. Patients need to be thoroughly examined in an attempt to find the causes of their POIS symptoms, which are often difficult to determine, and which vary across patients. Once a cause is hypothesized, an appropriate treatment can be attempted. At times, more than one treatment is attempted, until one that works is found.\n\nAffected individuals typically avoid sexual activity, especially ejaculation, or schedule it for times when they can rest and recover for several days afterwards. In case post-coital tristesse (PCT) is suspected, patients could be treated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors.\n\nIn one patient, the POIS symptoms were so severe, that he decided to undergo removal of the testicles, prostate, and seminal vesicles in order to relieve them. The POIS symptoms were cured by this.\n\nAnother patient, in whom POIS was suspected to be caused by cytokine release, was successfully treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) just prior to and for a day or two after ejaculation. The patient took diclofenac 75 mg 1 to 2 hours prior to sexual activity with orgasm, and continued twice daily for 24 to 48 hours.\n\nOne POIS patient with erectile dysfunction and premature ejaculation had much lower severity of symptoms on those occasions when he was able to maintain penile erection long enough to achieve vaginal penetration and ejaculate inside his partner. The patient took tadalafil to treat his erectile dysfunction and premature ejaculation. This increased the number of occasions on which he was able to ejaculate inside his partner, and decreased the number of occasions on which he experienced POIS symptoms. This patient is thought to have Dhat syndrome rather than true POIS.\n\nTwo patients, in whom POIS was suspected to be caused by auto-immune reaction to their own semen, were successfully treated by allergen immunotherapy with their own autologous semen. They were given multiple subcutaneous injections of their own semen for three years. Treatment with autologous semen \"might take 3 to 5 years before any clinically relevant symptom reduction would become manifest\". A case report used a technique known as \"Intralymphatic Immunotherapy\", the treatment has been successful in improving 60-90% of symptoms. The patient received only five injections of the autologous semen using this technique.\n\nTreatments are not always successful, especially when the cause of POIS in a particular patient has not been determined. In one patient, all of whose routine laboratory tests were normal, the following were attempted, all without success: ibuprofen, 400 mg on demand; tramadol 50 mg one hour pre-coitally; and escitalopram 10 mg daily at bedtime for 3 months.\n\nThe prevalence of POIS is unknown. POIS is listed as a rare disease by the American National Institutes of Health and the European Orphanet. It is thought to be underdiagnosed and underreported.\n\nIt is possible that a similar disease exists in women, though, as of 2016, there is only one documented female patient.\n"}
{"id": "379967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379967", "title": "Postpartum period", "text": "Postpartum period\n\nA postpartum (or postnatal) period begins immediately after the birth of a child as the mother's body, including hormone levels and uterus size, returns to a non-pregnant state. The terms puerperium or puerperal period, or immediate postpartum period are commonly used to refer to the first 6 weeks following childbirth. The World Health Organization (WHO) describes the postnatal period as the most critical and yet the most neglected phase in the lives of mothers and babies; most maternal and/or newborn deaths occur during the postnatal period. In scientific literature, the term is commonly abbreviated to P\"x, where x\" is a number; for example, \"day P5\" should be read as \"the fifth day after birth\". This is not to be confused with the medical nomenclature that uses G P to stand for number and outcomes of pregnancy (gravidity and parity).\n\nA woman giving birth in a hospital may leave as soon as she is medically stable, which can be as early as a few hours postpartum, though the average for a vaginal birth is one to two days. The average caesarean section postnatal stay is three to four days. During this time, the mother is monitored for bleeding, bowel and bladder function, and baby care. The infant's health is also monitored. Early postnatal hospital discharge is typically defined as discharge of the mother and newborn from the hospital within 48 hours of birth.\n\nThe postpartum period can be divided into three distinct stages; the initial or acute phase, 6–12 hours after childbirth; subacute postpartum period, which lasts 2–6 weeks, and the delayed postpartum period, which can last up to 6 months. In the subacute postpartum period, 87% to 94% of women report at least one health problem. Long term health problems (persisting after the delayed postpartum period) are reported by 31% of women.\n\nThe first 6 to 12 hours after childbirth is the initial or acute phase of the postpartum period. During this time the mother is typically monitored by nurses or midwives as complications can arise in this period.\n\nThe greatest health risk in the acute phase is postpartum bleeding. Following delivery the area where the placenta was attached to the uterine wall bleeds, and the uterus must contract to prevent blood loss. After contraction takes place the fundus (top) of the uterus can be palpated as a firm mass at the level of the navel. It is important that the uterus remains firm and the nurse or midwife will make frequent assessments of both the fundus and the amount of bleeding. Uterine massage is commonly used to help the uterus contract.\n\nFollowing delivery if the mother had an episiotomy or tearing at the opening of the vagina, it is stitched. At one time an episiotomy was routine, however more recent research shows that a surgical incision may be more extensive than a natural tear, and is more likely to contribute to later incontinence and pain during sex than a natural tear would have. A healthcare professional can recommend comfort measures to help to ease perineal pain\n\nWithin about 10 seconds the infant takes its first breath and the caregiver places the baby on the mother's chest. The infant's condition is evaluated using the Apgar scale. The \nApgar score is determined by evaluating the newborn baby on five criteria which are summarized using words chosen to form a backronym (Appearance, Pulse, Grimace, Activity, Respiration). Until recently babies were routinely removed from their mothers following birth, however beginning around 2000, some authorities began to suggest that early skin-to-skin contact (placing the naked baby on the mother's chest) is of benefit to both mother and infant. As of 2014, early skin-to-skin contact, also called kangaroo care, is endorsed by all major organizations that are responsible for the well-being of infants. Thus, to help establish bonding and successful breastfeeding, the caregiver carries out immediate mother and infant assessments as the infant lies on the mother's chest and removes the infant for further observations only after they have had their first breastfeed. The World Health Organization (WHO) also encourages skin-to-skin contact for the first 24 hours after birth to help regulate the baby's temperature.\n\nThe subacute postpartum starts after the acute postpatrum period concludes and can last for 2–6 weeks.\n\nIn the first few days following childbirth, the risk of DVT is relatively high as hypercoagulability increases during pregnancy and is maximal in the postpartum period, particularly for women with C-section with reduced mobility. Anti-coagulants may be prescribed or physical methods such as compression are commonly indicated to decrease the risk of DVT.\n\nThe increased vascularity and edema of the woman's vagina gradually resolves in about three weeks. The cervix gradually narrows and lengths over a few weeks. Postpartum infections can lead to sepsis and if untreated, death. Postpartum urinary incontinence is experienced by about 33% of all women; women who deliver vaginally are about twice as likely to have urinary incontinence as women who give birth via a cesarean. Urinary incontinence in this period increases the risk of long term incontinence.\n\nDischarge from the uterus, called lochia, will gradually decrease and turn from bright red, to brownish, to yellow and cease at around five or six weeks. Women are advised in this period to wear adult diapers or nappies, disposable maternity briefs, maternity pads or towels, or sanitary napkins. The use of tampons or menstrual cups are contraindicated as they may introduce bacteria and increase the risk of infection. An increase in lochia between 7–14 days postpartum may indicate delayed postpartum hemorrhage.\n\nHemorrhoids and constipation in this period are common, and stool softeners are routinely given.\n\nIn the subacute postpartum period, 87% to 94% of women report at least one health problem.\n\nAt 2–4 days postpartum, a woman's milk will generally come in. Historically, women who were not breastfeeding were given drugs to suppress lactation, but this is no longer medically indicated. In this period, difficulties with breastfeeding may arise. Maternal sleep is often disturbed as night waking is normal in the newborn, and newborns need to be fed every two hours, including during the night. The lactation consultant and health visitor may be of assistance at this time.\n\nDuring the subacute postpartum period, psychological disorders may emerge. Among these are postpartum depression, posttraumatic stress disorder, and in rare cases, puerperal psychosis. Postpartum mental illness can affect both mothers and fathers, and is not uncommon. Early detection and adequate treatment is required. Approximately 25% – 85% of postpartum women will experience the \"blues\" for a few days. Between 7% and 17% may experience clinical depression, with a higher risk among those women with a history of clinical depression. Prevalence of PTSD following normal childbirth (excluding stillbirth or major complications) is estimated to be between 2.8 and 5.6% at 6 weeks postpartum.\n\nThe delayed postpartum period starts after the subacute postpartum period and lasts up to 6 months. During this time, muscles and connective tissue returns to a pre-pregnancy state. Recovery from childbirth complications in this period, such as urinary and fecal incontinence, painful intercourse, and pelvic prolapse, are typically very slow and in some cases may not resolve. Symptoms of PTSD often subside in this period, dropping from 2.8 and 5.6% at 6 weeks postpartum to 1.5% at 6 months postpartum.\n\nApproximately three months after giving birth (typically between 2 and 5 months), estrogen levels drop and large amounts of hair loss is common, particularly in the temple area (postpartum alopecia). Hair typically grows back normally and treatment is not indicated. Other conditions that may arise in this period include postpartum thyroiditis.\n\nDuring this period, infant sleep during the night gradually increases and maternal sleep generally improves.\n\nLong term health problems (persisting after the delayed postpartum period) are reported by 31% of women.\n\nPostpartum confinement refers to a system for recovery following childbirth. It begins immediately after the birth, and lasts for a culturally variable length: typically for one month or 30 days, up to 40 days, two months or 100 days. This postnatal recuperation can include \"traditional health beliefs, taboos, rituals, and proscriptions.\" The practice used to be known as \"lying-in\", which, as the term suggests, centres around bed rest. (Maternity hospitals used to use this phrase, as in the General Lying-in Hospital.) Postpartum confinement customs are well-documented in China, where it is known as \"Sitting the month\", and similar customs manifest all over the world. A modern version of this rest period has evolved, to give maximum support to the new mother, especially if she is recovering from a difficult labour and delivery.\n\nIn other cultures like in South Korea, a great level of importance is placed on postnatal care. Sanhujori is the term for traditional postnatal care in Korea and is a practice followed by the majority of women for the purpose of proper recovery after giving birth. Deeply rooted in Korean culture, sanhujori has similarly evolved with today’s society from being heavily reliant on the mothers’ family members to include services that encompass its principles, which is apparent with the over 500 sanhujori centers in operation around Korea.    \n\n\n"}
{"id": "20993429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20993429", "title": "Psychiatric interview", "text": "Psychiatric interview\n\nThe psychiatric interview refers to the set of tools that a mental health worker (most times a psychiatrist or a psychologist but at times social workers or nurses) uses to complete a psychiatric assessment.\n\nThe goals of the psychiatric interview are:\n\nThe data collected through the psychiatric interview is mostly subjective, based on the patient's report, and many times can not be corroborated by objective measurements. As such, one the interview's goals is to collect data that is both valid and reliable. \n\nValidity refers to how the data compares to an ideal absolute truth that the interviewer needs to access and uncover. Challenges that might affect the interview validity include can be categorized as patient related factors and interviewer related factors. Patient's related factors include:\nInterviewer related factors include:\n\nReliability refers to how datasets collected by different interviewers or the same interview at different times compare with one another. Ideal reliability is when a dataset will be stable irrespective of changes in specifics of the data collection. \n\nDifferent interview techniques have been shown to result in variations in the validity and reliability of the collected data. Open-ended question (\"Tell me about your sleep.\") have been shown to have better validity but less reliability than closed-ended questions(\"Do you have sleeping difficulties?\")\n\nPsychiatric assessment\n"}
{"id": "6823521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6823521", "title": "Quickening", "text": "Quickening\n\nIn pregnancy terms, quickening is the moment in pregnancy when the pregnant woman starts to feel or perceive fetal movements in the uterus.\n\nThe first natural sensation of quickening may feel like a light tapping, or the fluttering of a butterfly. These sensations eventually become stronger and more regular as the pregnancy progresses. Sometimes, the first movements are mis-attributed to gas or hunger pangs.\n\nA woman's uterine muscles, rather than her abdominal muscles, are first to sense fetal motion. Therefore, a woman's body weight usually does not have a substantial effect on when movements are initially perceived. Women who have already given birth have more relaxed uterine muscles that are consequently more sensitive to fetal motion, and for them fetal motion can sometimes be felt as early as 14 weeks.\n\nUsually, quickening occurs naturally at about the middle of a pregnancy. A woman pregnant for the first time (i.e., a primigravida woman) typically feels fetal movements at about 18–20 weeks, whereas a woman who has been pregnant more than once (i.e., a multipara woman) will typically feel movements around 15–17 weeks.\n\nThe word \"quick\" originally meant \"alive\". Historically, quickening has sometimes been considered to be the beginning of the possession of \"individual life\" by the fetus. British legal scholar William Blackstone explained the subject of quickening in the eighteenth century, relative to feticide and abortion:\n\nNevertheless, quickening was only one of several standards that were used historically to determine when the right to life attaches to a fetus. According to the \"ancient law\" mentioned by Blackstone, another standard was formation of the fetus, which occurs weeks before quickening. Henry de Bracton explained the ancient law, about five hundred years before Blackstone:\n\nIn the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, a woman convicted of a capital crime could claim a delay in her execution if she were pregnant; a woman who did so was said to \"plead the belly\". In Ireland on 16 March 1831 Baron Pennefather in Limerick stated that pregnancy was not alone sufficient for a delay but there had to be quickening.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9819863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9819863", "title": "Race and health", "text": "Race and health\n\nRace and health refers to the relationship between individual health and one's race and ethnicity. Differences in health status, health outcomes, life expectancy, and many other indicators of health in different racial and ethnic groups are well documented, and referred to as racial health disparities. Some individuals in certain racial groups receive less care, have less access to resources, and live shorter lives in general. \n\nRace is a complex concept, and the two major competing theories of race use biological definitions and social construction to define racial difference. A \"race\" is also viewed as physically distinguishable populations that share a common ancestry. Although this relationship can vary depending on the definitions used, race is generally used in the context of health research as a fluid concept to group populations of people according to various factors that include but are not limited to ancestry, social identity, visible phenotype, and genetic makeup. \n\nDeterminants of health include environmental, social, and genetic factors, as well as the person's individual characteristics and behaviors. Race and medicine are related additionally by how environmental factors and physiological factors respond to each other. Additionally, how genetic needs coerce with environmental standings.\n\nHealth disparities refer to gaps in the quality of health and health care across racial and ethnic groups. The US Health Resources and Services Administration defines health disparities as \"population-specific differences in the presence of disease, health outcomes, or access to health care\". Health is measured through variables such as life expectancy and incidence of diseases.\n\nHow researchers view race is often linked to how we address racial disparities because the national administrator of health uses these research findings to implement policies.\n\nFor more information, see the Health equity page's section on \"Ethnic and racial disparities\".\n\nThere are various paradigms used to discuss race, including biological and social views. Definitions have changed throughout history to yield a modern understanding of race that is complex and fluid. Moreover, there is no one definition that stands, as there are many competing and interlocking ways to look at race. The terms race, genetic population, ethnicity, geographic population, and ancestry are used interchangeably in everyday discourse involving race.\n\nBiological definitions of race encompass essentialist and anti-essentialist views. The scientific community does not universally accept a single definition of race. Essentialism is a mode of thought that uses scientific data to argue that racial groups are genetically distinct populations. Essentialists describe \"races as groups of people who share certain innate, inherited biological traits, aka use of biological evidence to demonstrate racial differences\". As its counterpart, anti-essentialism uses biological evidence to demonstrate that \"race groupings do not reflect patterns of human biological variation, countering essentialist claims to the contrary\".\n\nSocial definitions are commonly constructionist. Racial groups are \"constructed\" from differing historical, political, and economic contexts, rather than corresponding to inherited, biological variations. Proponents of the constructionist view claim that biological definitions have been used to justify racism in the past and still have the potential to be used to encourage racist thinking in the future.\n\nSocial views also better explain the ambiguity of racial definitions. An individual may self-identify as one race based on one set of determinants (for example, phenotype, culture, ancestry) while society may ascribe the person otherwise based on external forces and discrete racial standards. Dominant racial conceptions influence how individuals label both themselves and others within society. Modern human populations are becoming more difficult to define within traditional racial boundaries due to racial admixture. Most scientific studies, applications, and government documents ask individuals to self-identify race from a limited assortment of common racial categories. The conflict between self-identification and societal ascription further complicates biomedical research and public health policies. However complex its sociological roots, race has real biological ramifications; the intersection of race, science, and society permeates everyday life and influences human health via genetics, access to medical care, diagnosis, and treatment.\n\nThere are a myriad of factors that affect health disparities between racial groups. Among these factors are genetic differences within racial populations, cultural mores, and social and environmental factors. For instance, in some populations where perceptions of race are linked with socioeconomic disparities and differences, the access to care can be considerably lesser. Dually, bias in healthcare systems themselves can perpetuate non-biologically founded higher instances of disease. A study conducted by the National Health Service checks program in the United Kingdom, which aims to increase diagnosis across demographics, noted that \"the reported lower screening in specific black and minority ethnic communities... may increase inequalities in health.\" In this specific case, the lack of attention to certain demographics can be seen as a cause of increased instances of disease from this lack of proper, equal preventative care. One must consider these external factors when evaluating statistics on the prevalence of disease in populations, even though genetic components can play a role in predispositions to contracting some illnesses. These linkages should be more closely evaluated than by ethnicity. Overall, health disparities, which include variations in life expectancy and prevalence of disease, due to the differences in health conditions across various ethnic populations that can be attributed to inequalities in living environment and access to healthcare may also play a role.\n\nThere are many single gene genetic disorders that differ in frequency between different populations due to the region, though many assume it to be solely based on race. Examples include:\n\n\nMany diseases differ in frequency between different populations. However, complex diseases are affected by multiple factors, both genetic and environmental. There is controversy over the extent to which some of these conditions are influenced by genes, and ongoing research aims to identify which genetic loci, if any, are linked to these diseases. \"Risk is the probability that an event will occur. In epidemiology, it is most often used to express the probability that a particular outcome will occur following a particular exposure.\" Different populations are considered \"high-risk\" or \"low-risk\" groups for various diseases due to the probability of that particular population being more exposed to certain risk factors. Beyond genetic factors, history and culture, as well as current environmental and social conditions, influence a certain populations' risk for specific diseases.\n\nGroups may differ in how a disease progresses. Black men who were diagnosed with HIV generally fared worse than their white and Hispanic counterparts. The percentage of men studied with very low CD4+ T-cell count, defined as fewer than 50 cells per microliter, at AIDS diagnosis was 24.1% for white men, 27.8% for Hispanic men, and 34.4% for Black men. Black men were also significantly less likely to be alive three years after diagnosis (80.6%) than Hispanic or white men, who had 85.2% and 84.5% survival rates, respectively. However, the reasons for these differences are not clear, and should not be understood as an essential difference between races, but rather as effects of social and environmental factors.\n\nGenetics have been proven to be a strong predictor for common diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular disease (CVD), diabetes, autoimmune disorders, and psychiatric illnesses, and geneticists have been able to determine that \"human genetic variation is geographically structured\". The different geographic regions correlate with different races, which is logical when looking at the \"Out of Africa\" theory and understanding how changes in genetics of a population acquire over time.\n\nExamples of diseases which are more common in certain racial groups are sickle-cell disease in African and Mediterranean populations, and cystic fibrosis and hemochromatosis in northern European populations. This information can be made available to people by their physicians, and is useful in prevention or early detection of these diseases. For instance, a baby with sickle cell disease should be more closely monitored throughout their life than a baby without it.\n\nWhile genetics certainly play a role in determining how susceptible a person is to specific diseases, environmental factors and lifestyle play a large role as well. For this reason, it is impossible to discern exactly what causes a person to acquire a disease, but it's clear that a mixture of all 3 factors are at play. Each person's health is unique, as they have different genetic compositions and life histories.\n\nThe science of 'ethnic health', or research into ethnicity and health, and the development of services which are culturally competent to meet the specific health care needs of minority ethnic groups, is still in its infancy. In the United States, the Office of Minority Health provides useful links and supports research and development relating to the needs of America's ethnic minorities. In the United Kingdom, the National Health Service established a specialist collection on Ethnicity & Health. This resource was supported by the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the UK NHS Evidence initiative NHS Evidence. Similarly, there are growing numbers of resource and research centers which are seeking to provide this service for other national settings, such as Multicultural Mental Health Australia.\n\n\"Race-based medicine\" is the term for medicines that are targeted at specific ethnic clusters which are shown to have a propensity for a certain disorder. The first example of this in the U.S. was when BiDil, a medication for congestive heart failure, was licensed specifically for use in American patients that self-identify as black. Previous studies had shown that African American patients with congestive heart failure generally respond less effectively to traditional treatments than white patients with similar conditions.\n\nAfter two trials, BiDil was licensed exclusively for use in African American patients. Critics have argued that this particular licensing was unwarranted, since the trials did not in fact show that the drug was more effective in African Americans than in other groups, but merely that it was more effective in African Americans than other similar drugs. It was also only tested in African American males, but not in any other racial groups or among women. This peculiar trial and licensing procedure has prompted suggestions that the licensing was in fact used as a race-based advertising scheme.\n\nCritics are concerned that the trend of research on race-specific pharmaceutical treatments will result in inequitable access to pharmaceutical innovation and smaller minority groups may be ignored. This has led to a call for regulatory approaches to be put in place to ensure scientific validity of racial disparity in pharmacological treatment.\n\nAn alternative to \"race-based medicine\" is personalized medicine that involves identifying genetic, genomic (i.e., genomic sequencing), and clinical information—as opposed to using race as a proxy for these data—to better predict a patient's predisposition to certain diseases.\n\nA positive correlation between minorities and a socio economic status of being low income in industrialized and rural regions of the U.S. depict how low income communities tend to include more individuals that have a lower educational background, most importantly in health. Income status, diet, and education all construct a higher burden for low income minorities, to be conscious about their health. Research conducted by medical departments at universities in San diego, Miami, Pennsylvania, and North Carolina suggested that minorities in regions where lower socioeconomic status is common, there was a direct relationship with unhealthy diets and greater distance of supermarkets. Therefore, in areas where supermarkets are less accessible (food deserts) to impoverished areas, the more likely these groups are to purchase inexpensive fast food or just follow an unhealthy diet. As a result, because food deserts are more prevalent in low income communities, minorities that reside in these areas are more prone obesity, which can lead to diseases such as chronic kidney disease, hypertension, or diabetes.\n\nFurthermore, this can also occur when minorities living in rural areas undergoing urbanization, are introduced to fast food. A study done in Thailand focused on urbanized metropolitan areas, the students who participated in this study as were diagnosed as “non-obese” in their early life according to their BMI, however were increasingly at risk of developing Type 2 Diabetes, or obesity as adults, as opposed to young adults who lived in more rural areas during their early life. Therefore, early exposure to urbanized regions can encourage unhealthy eating due to widespread presence of inexpensive fast food. Different racial populations that originate from more rural areas and then immigrate to the urbanized metropolitan areas can develop a fixation for a more westernized diet; this change in lifestyle typically occurs due to loss of traditional values when adapting to a new environment. For example, a 2009 study named CYKIDS was based on children from Cyprus, a country east of the mediterranean sea, who were evaluated by the KIDMED index to test their adherence to a mediterranean diet after changing from rural residence to an urban residence. It was found that children in urban areas swapped their traditional dietary patterns for a diet favoring fast food.\n\nThe fact that every human has a unique genetic code is the key to techniques such as genetic fingerprinting. Versions of a trait, known as alleles, occur at different frequencies in different human populations; populations that are more geographically and ancestrally remote tend to differ more.\n\nA phenotype is the \"outward, physical manifestation\" of an organism.\" For humans, phenotypic differences are most readily seen via skin color, eye color, hair color, or height; however, any observable structure, function, or behavior can be considered part of a phenotype. A genotype is the \"internally coded, inheritable information\" carried by all living organisms. The human genome is encoded in DNA\n\nFor any trait of interest, observed differences among individuals \"may be due to differences in the genes\" coding for a trait or \"the result of variation in environmental condition\". This variability is due to gene-environment interactions that influence genetic expression patterns and trait heritability.\n\nFor humans, there is \"more genetic variation among individual people than between larger racial groups\". In general, an average of 80% of genetic variation exists within local populations, around 10% is between local populations within the same continent, and approximately 8% of variation occurs between large groups living on different continents. Studies have found evidence of genetic differences between populations, but the distribution of genetic variants within and among human populations is impossible to describe succinctly because of the difficulty of defining a \"population\", the clinal nature of variation, and heterogeneity across the genome. Thus, the racialization of science and medicine can lead to controversy when the term population and race are used interchangeably.\n\nGenes may be under strong selection in response to local diseases. For example, people who are duffy negative tend to have higher resistance to malaria. Most Africans are duffy negative and most non-Africans are duffy positive. A number of genetic diseases more prevalent in malaria-afflicted areas may provide some genetic resistance to malaria including sickle cell disease, thalassaemias, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, and possibly others.\n\nMany theories about the origin of the cystic fibrosis have suggested that it provides a heterozygote advantage by giving resistance to diseases earlier common in Europe.\n\nIn earlier research, a common theory was the \"common disease-common variant\" model. It argues that for common illnesses, the genetic contribution comes from the additive or multiplicative effects of gene variants that each one is common in the population. Each such gene variant is argued to cause only a small risk of disease and no single variant is enough to cause the disease. An individual must have many of these common gene variants in order for the risk of disease to be substantial.\n\nMore recent research indicates that the \"common disease-rare variant\" may be a better explanation for many common diseases. In this model, rare but higher-risk gene variants cause common diseases. This model may be relevant for diseases that reduces fertility. In contrast, for common genes associated with common disease to persist they must either have little effect during the reproductive period of life (like Alzheimer's disease) or provide some advantage in the original environment (like genes causing autoimmune diseases also providing resistance against infections). In either case varying frequencies of genes variants in different populations may be an explanation for health disparities. Genetic variants associated with Alzheimer's disease, deep venous thrombosis, Crohn disease, and type 2 diabetes appear to adhere to \"common disease-common variant\" model.\n\nGene flow and admixture can also have an effect on relationships between race and race-linked disorders. Multiple sclerosis, for example, is typically associated with people of European descent, but due to admixture African Americans have elevated levels of the disorder relative to Africans.\n\nSome diseases and physiological variables vary depending upon their admixture ratios. Examples include measures of insulin functioning and obesity.\n\nThe same gene variant, or group of gene variants, may produce different effects in different populations depending on differences in the gene variants, or groups of gene variants, they interact with. One example is the rate of progression to AIDS and death in HIV–infected patients. In Caucasians and Hispanics, HHC haplotypes were associated with disease retardation, particularly a delayed progression to death, while for African Americans, possession of HHC haplotypes was associated with disease acceleration. In contrast, while the disease-retarding effects of the CCR2-641 allele were found in African Americans, they were not found in Caucasians.\n\nThere is a controversy regarding race as a method for classifying humans. Different sources argue it is purely social construct or a biological reality reflecting average genetic group differences. New interest in human biological variation has resulted in a resurgence of the use of race in biomedicine.\n\nThe main impetus for this development is the possibility of improving the prevention and treatment of certain diseases by predicting hard-to-ascertain factors, such as genetically conditioned health factors, based on more easily ascertained characteristics such as phenotype and racial self-identification. Since medical judgment often involves decision making under uncertain conditions, many doctors consider it useful to take race into account when treating disease because diseases and treatment responses tend to cluster by geographic ancestry. The discovery that more diseases than previously thought correlate with racial identification have further sparked the interest in using race as a proxy for bio-geographical ancestry and genetic buildup.\n\nRace in medicine is used as an approximation for more specific genetic and environmental risk factors. Race is thus partly a surrogate for environmental factors such as differences in socioeconomic status that are known to affect health. It is also an imperfect surrogate for ancestral geographic regions and differences in gene frequencies between different ancestral populations and thus differences in genes that can affect health. This can give an approximation of probability for disease or for preferred treatment, although the approximation is less than perfect.\n\nTaking the example of sickle-cell disease, in an emergency room, knowing the geographic origin of a patient may help a doctor doing an initial diagnosis if a patient presents with symptoms compatible with this disease. This is unreliable evidence with the disease being present in many different groups as noted above with the trait also present in some Mediterranean European populations. Definitive diagnosis comes from examining the blood of the patient. In the US, screening for sickle cell anemia is done on all newborns regardless of race.\n\nThe continued use of racial categories has been criticized. Apart from the general controversy regarding race, some argue that the continued use of racial categories in health care and as risk factors could result in increased stereotyping and discrimination in society and health services. Some of those who are critical of race as a biological concept see race as socially meaningful group that is important to study epidemiologically in order to reduce disparities. For example, some racial groups are less likely than others to receive adequate treatment for osteoporosis, even after risk factors have been assessed. Since the 19th century, blacks have been thought to have thicker bones than whites have and to lose bone mass more slowly with age. In a recent study, African Americans were shown to be substantially less likely to receive prescription osteoporosis medications than Caucasians. Men were also significantly less likely to be treated compared with women. This discrepancy may be due to physicians' knowledge that, on average, African Americans are at lower risk for osteoporosis than Caucasians. It may be possible that these physicians generalize this data to high-risk African-Americans, leading them to fail to appropriately assess and manage these individuals' osteoporosis. On the other hand, some of those who are critical of race as a biological concept see race as socially meaningful group that is important to study epidemiologically in order to reduce disparities.\n\nDavid Williams (1994) argued, after an examination of articles in the journal \"Health Services Research\" during the 1966–90 period, that how race was determined and defined was seldom described. At a minimum, researchers should describe if race was assessed by self-report, proxy report, extraction from records, or direct observation. Race was also often used questionable, such as an indicator of socioeconomic status. Racial genetic explanations may be overemphasized, ignoring the interaction with and the role of the environment.\n\nThere is general agreement that a goal of health-related genetics should be to move past the weak surrogate relationships of racial health disparity and get to the root causes of health and disease. This includes research which strives to analyze human genetic variation in smaller groups than races across the world.\n\nOne such method is called ethnogenetic layering. It works by focusing on geographically identified microethnic groups. For example, in the Mississippi Delta region ethnogenetic layering might include such microethnic groups as the Cajun (as a subset of European Americans), the Creole and Black groups [with African origins in Senegambia, Central Africa and Bight of Benin] (as a subset of African Americans), and Choctaw, Houmas, Chickasaw, Coushatta, Caddo, Atakapa, Karankawa and Chitimacha peoples (as subsets of Native Americans).\n\nBetter still may be individual genetic assessment of relevant genes. As genotyping and sequencing have become more accessible and affordable, avenues for determining individual genetic makeup have opened dramatically. Even when such methods become commonly available, race will continue to be important when looking at groups instead of individuals such as in epidemiologic research.\n\nSome doctors and scientists such as geneticist Neil Risch argue that using self-identified race as a proxy for ancestry is necessary to be able to get a sufficiently broad sample of different ancestral populations, and in turn to be able to provide health care that is tailored to the needs of minority groups.\n\nOne area in which population categories can be important considerations in genetics research is in controlling for confounding between population genetic substructure, environmental exposures, and health outcomes. Association studies can produce spurious results if cases and controls have differing allele frequencies for genes that are not related to the disease being studied, although the magnitude of its problem in genetic association studies is subject to debate. Various techniques detect and account for population substructure, but these methods can be difficult to apply in practice.\n\nPopulation genetic substructure also can aid genetic association studies. For example, populations that represent recent mixtures of separated ancestral groups can exhibit longer-range linkage disequilibrium between susceptibility alleles and genetic markers than is the case for other populations. Genetic studies can use this disequilibrium to search for disease alleles with fewer markers than would be needed otherwise. Association studies also can take advantage of the contrasting experiences of racial or ethnic groups, including migrant groups, to search for interactions between particular alleles and environmental factors that might influence health.\n\nThe Human Genome Diversity Project has collected genetic samples from 52 indigenous populations.\n\nIn a report by the Institute of Medicine called Unequal Treatment, three major source categories are put forth as potential explanations for disparities in health care: patient-level variables, healthcare system-level factors, and care process-level variables.\n\nThere are many individual factors that could explain the established differences in health care between different racial and ethnic groups. First, attitudes and behaviors of minority patients are different. They are more likely to refuse recommended services, adhere poorly to treatment regimens, and delay seeking care, yet despite this, these behaviors and attitudes are unlikely to explain the differences in health care. In addition to behaviors and attitudes, biological based racial differences have been documented, but these also seem unlikely to explain the majority of observed disparities in care.\n\nHealth system-level factors include any aspects of health systems that can have different effects on patient outcomes. Some of these factors include different access to services, access to insurance or other means to pay for services, access to adequate language and interpretation services, and geographic availability of different services. Many studies assert that these factors explain portions of the existing disparities in health of racial and ethnic minorities in the United States when compared to their white counterparts.\n\nThree major mechanisms are suggested by the Institute of Medicine that may contribute to healthcare disparities from the provider's side: bias (or prejudice) against racial and ethnic minorities; greater clinical uncertainty when interacting with minority patients; and beliefs held by the provider about the behavior or health of minorities. Research in this area is new and ongoing.\n\n\nUnited States:\n\nGeneral:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27306438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27306438", "title": "Retained placenta", "text": "Retained placenta\n\nRetained placenta is a condition in which all or part of the placenta or membranes remain in the uterus during the third stage of labour. Retained placenta can be broadly divided into:\n\nA retained placenta is commonly a cause of postpartum haemorrhage, both primary and secondary.\n\nRetained placenta is generally defined as a placenta that has not undergone placental expulsion within 30 minutes of the baby’s birth where the third stage of labor has been managed actively.\n\nRisks of retained placenta include hemorrhage and infection. After the placenta is delivered, the uterus should contract down to close off all the blood vessels inside the uterus. If the placenta only partially separates, the uterus cannot contract properly, so the blood vessels inside will continue to bleed. A retained placenta thereby leads to hemorrhage.\n\nDrugs, such as inraumbilical or intravenous oxytocin, are often used in the management of placental retention. It is useful ensuring the bladder is empty. However, ergometrine should not be given as it causes tonic uterine contractions which may delay placental expulsion. Controlled cord traction has been recommended as a second alternative after more than 30 minutes have passed after stimulation of uterine contractions, provided the uterus is contracted. Manual extraction may be required if cord traction also fails, or if heavy ongoing bleeding occurs. Very rarely a curettage is necessary to ensure that no remnants of the placenta remain (in rare conditions with very adherent placenta such as a \"placenta accreta\").\n\nHowever, in birth centers and attended home birth environments, it is common for licensed care providers to wait for the placenta's birth up to 2 hours in some instances.\n\nRetention of fetal membranes (afterbirth) is observed more frequently in cattle than in other animals. In a normal condition, a cow’s placenta is expelled within a 12-hour period after calving.\n"}
{"id": "3791975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3791975", "title": "Social role valorization", "text": "Social role valorization\n\nIn psychology, education and social work practice, social role valorization (SRV) is the name given to an analysis of human relationships and human services, formulated in 1983 by Wolf Wolfensberger, as the successor to his earlier formulation of the principle of normalization which is attributed to Nirje, Wolfensberger, and Bank-Mikkelsen worldwide (Lemay, 1995; Wolfensberger, 1972). The theory is based on the idea that society tends to identify groups of people as fundamentally 'different', and of less value than everyone else. It catalogs the methods of this 'devaluation' and analyzes its effects. It may be used by those seeking to counteract these methods and effects. A recent compilation of normalization and social role valorization was by Flynn and LeMay (1999); their work remains important today in Europe, New Zealand and Australia among other countries.\n\nAlthough normalization and the initial versions of SRV were described as an 'Ideology', the most recent formulation explicitly denies that SRV is about what \"should\" be done, and reinforces that SRV is intended to be a tool for analysis of the process and effects of Societal Devaluation. Wolfensberger's most recent (1999) definition of SRV is: \"the application of what science can tell us about the enablement, establishment, enhancement, maintenance, and/or defence of valued social roles for people\" (Susan Thomas and Wolf Wolfensberger in Flynn and Lemay 1999, p. 125). Susan Thomas, long time professional educator with Wolfensberger, continues to teach through the Institute at Syracuse University as of 2012. University students and training institute colleagues can be found worldwide with many internationally seeking collaborative projects with the Wolfensberger (e.g., now Rannveig Traustadottir, now Gender and Disability Chair at the University of Iceland).\n\nSocial role valorization (SRV) is a relationship theory of empirical knowledge for the design and rendering of formal and informal services and relationships to people with any need or condition, especially those who are devalued or are at risk. Social role valorization is intended to address the social and psychological wounds that are inflicted on vulnerable people because they are devalued, that so often come to define their lives and that in some instances wreak lifelong havoc on those who are close to them.\n\nSRV does not in itself propose a 'goal'. However a person who has a goal of improving the lives of devalued people may choose to use insights gained from SRV to cause change. They may do so by attempting to create or support socially valued roles for people in their society, because if a person holds valued social roles, a person is highly likely to receive from society those good things in life that are available or at least the opportunities for obtaining them. In other words, all sorts of good things that other people are able to convey are almost automatically apt to be accorded to a person who holds societally valued roles, at least within the resources and norms of his/her society.\n\nSocial role valorization identifies social devaluation as a critical human experience that has long-term effects on the individual. SRV is designed to raise consciousness about the fate of socially devalued persons. SRV holds that the human being is vulnerable to the regard of others for both the heights of edification and the depths of degradation.\n\nAn understanding of social role valorization can lead to ideas about how to improve the lives of people who are devalued by society. These can be seen to have two themes – firstly, removing devaluing features (for instance people being segregated from society in a building along with others perceived to belong to the same group), and secondly taking action that leads to people being valued. On one the approaches of SRV involves socially valued persons allying themselves with socially devalued persons. This alliance will unify people, broaden acceptance of differences, and encourage coexistence.\n\nSRV is a realistic if not pessimistic sense of human behaviour, holding that human beings are imperfect and capable of great evils even if they are occasionally saintly, heroic or kind.\n\nSocial role valorization is designed to address the social and psychological wounds that get inflicted on vulnerable people because they are devalued, that so often come to define their lives, and that in some instances wreak lifelong havoc on them and those who are close and committed to them.\n\nSRV is a description of how societally differentiated people are devalued, assigned low-value roles, and treated poorly, often to the extent of risk to their own lives. This poor treatment is given to members of any group that is given low value by powerful forces in society.\n\nSRV considers only those things that can be known from a scientific perspective. In itself it does not subscribe to a particular ideology – it does not say what should be done and it does not say what is morally correct.\n\nHowever, SRV does understand that human interaction is impossible without a moral code and so SRV can be used to suggest what is desirable given the spoken or unspoken moral code of a particular society or individual. Consequently, it is necessary to understand what sort of moral code and societal expectations might be around the implementation of any application of SRV. A consideration of the concepts of humanity and morality place SRV in an appropriate context.\n\nAny particular human society will have a set of written and unwritten rules about who is a member of that society and about how members of that society should act, and what treatment is due to non-members of that society. These rules are often set down in codes of law and in religious texts. Every society has such a moral code.\n\nSupport for SRV can be found throughout the human sciences. Biology, evolutionary biology, sociology, economics, psychology, and anthropology all lend strands to SRV. Even history and geography have ideas to contribute. Although SRV is not in itself a science, it is based on empirically produced disciplines.\n\nPsychology and philosophy tell us that there is considerable doubt about the common sense idea that we have total free will; what we do is often societally or physically caused by unconscious mechanisms.\n\nScience tells us that people do not often act as completely free-thinking individuals, but in fact occupy particular social strata and roles that organize and simplify their social communication. Particular people may be forced into a negative role which they do not desire.\n\nScience tells us that individuals and groups will place positive and negative values onto other individuals and groups. This assignation of value may lead to a process of devaluation.\n\nComplex societal forces mediate the exercise of power and social control in a society. These forces are often not well understood by individuals in that society.\n\nIndividuals in a society are very aware of similarities and differences between members of that society. This is societal differentiation.\n\nSuch difference groups may include people with the following differences from the valued norm:\n\nPsychology shows us that perception and interpretation are complex subjects, highly reliant on beliefs and prejudices. Human perception and interpretation is complicated and often not in accord with what 'common sense' tells us that it is.\n\nLearning and particularly imitation are the natural modes of behavior formation and are important in developing useful as well as damaging performances.\n\nImage and image transfer are important subjects when considering how people interpret each other and their own surroundings.\n\nPerformance, reputation and grouping determine how people are seen and interpreted.\n\nSo, we may summarise: people who differ in any way from societal expectations or desirability, where this difference is negatively valued, will be badly treated by that society.\n\nPowerful groups in society will:\n\n\nSRV suggests that role messages are largely conveyed by image, whether of the individual or of their surroundings (including accompanying people). A person's potential roles may be limited or assigned by the company they keep, the surroundings in which they live, or the activities they engage in.\n\nSRV suggests that Role Occupancy is dependent on apparent competency in that role. So the availability of roles may be limited or assigned by the person's ability (or, more importantly, the lack of ability) to perform the necessary role requirements for the effective performance of that role.\n\nPeople cast into such negative roles will be denied the good things in life:\n\nThe good things in life:\n\nFurther, such groups will be damaged in the following ways:\n\n'Wounds' or bad things which happen to devalued persons:\n\n\nAdditional mental and behavioral response patterns that are evidence of disturbed interactions with the world, and that are engendered by certain wounds and wound clusters, are:\n\n\nThe coping mechanism is to avoid negative roles and outcomes:\n\nIn order to ensure that positive roles are available to persons who have been devalued by society, it is necessary to consider actions at multiple levels:\n\n\nSRV suggests that by these means, people who have been devalued by society may be rescued (or may rescue themselves) from the effects of devaluation, and may manage to live their lives occupying Valued Roles and become seen as valued by society. Other theories regarding \"mentally handicapped\" individuals include consciousness raising and implications for normalization from the women's movement, related self-advocacy movements in special education and rehabilitation, and now the new movement to community inclusion as represented at the United Nation's Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (2006).\n\nThis criticism appears unjust in that Wolfensberger is an early proponent of the rights of people with mental retardation to marry, while other professionals placed the same individuals in institutional abuse and confinement. His doctoral students hold leadership positions in gender and disability, and he is associated with liberals in his own academic department who support actions in that context to address entrenched societal discrimination.\nIt can be suggested that all constructed attempts to re-valorize the roles and raise the social status of marginalised individuals and groups are hollow as they are artificial, but of course, government is responsible to provide minimum wage laws, to increase worker benefits, to maintain entitlements, to provide quality housing and beneficial and affordable health care. \nIn other words, the person providing the re-valorization efforts such as a social worker or supported employment worker is paid to do his or her job, and is not helping the marginalised person out of genuine interpersonal motivation such as friendship, attraction or emotional attachment, and people are well aware of this monetary role in professions in human services. Therefore, any re-valorized role is viewed by those outside the relationship as non-genuine, unstable, though new evidence and theory (e.g., theories of social acceptance, versus deviance) suggests that beneficence and social acceptance are active and result in positive life outcomes. Thus, paid roles (sometimes preferred in modern life) would tend to negate the security-giving benefits that valued, familial and friendship roles would normally provide.\n\nSome criticism of social role valorization is said by its advocates to be because of misconceptions about it. Such misconceptions include:\n\nThe theory of social role valorization is best understood as referring primarily to extreme devaluation (such that few people care much about what happens to an individual or group, or even actively look for their eradication) not more subtle (but still damaging) devaluation such as occurs between different social classes or between genders.\n\nSocial role valorization (SRV), similar to normalization, is a foundational theory with roots in intellectual and developmental disabilities, often termed learning disabilities in Europe. It is a revolutionary concept which took roots in the deinstitutionalization and community integration movements of the 1970s and 1980s which aligned themselves with its broad concepts and goals more so than with the specifics of the theory, goals and formulations itself. SRV and normalization adherents, in contrast, are committed first to the specific theories and have tended to be reluctant to engage in academic theoretical discussions with related theorists (e.g., independent and supportive living; support and empowerment paradigms; user-and-family directed services; self-determination and choice theories). In addition, other giants in community development such as Gunnar Dybwad, advisors to Presidents in the US, Brandeis University professor, friend of the Center on Human Policy, and former Arc-US director, often are missed in contrasting theory formulations.\n\nSRV is supportive of the development of community paradigms (e.g., Schwartz, McKnight, O'Brien, Taylor, Racino, Wehman, Roberts, Towell, Lakin, Bruininks, Braddock, Hemp, Rogan, Anthony, Carling, Seekins, Condeluci & Gretz-Lasky) which were necessary to replace the institutional paradigms of the pre-expose era, however, with community paradigms taking over 20 years to become the mainstream academic publications. Today, new goals of integration, a basic principle of normalization, involve the integration of family studies to include families with a disability family member, integration of financing (e.g., housing and homes), long-term services and supports development (e.g., personal assistance, support aides for homes and families), and modernization to areas such as green and sustainability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56639170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56639170", "title": "Squamous-cell carcinoma of the vagina", "text": "Squamous-cell carcinoma of the vagina\n\nSquamous-cell carcinoma of the vagina is a potentially invasive type of cancer that forms in the tissues of the vagina. Though uncommon, squamous-cell cancer of the vagina (SCCV) is the most common type of vaginal cancer. It is further subdivided inot the following subtypes: keratinizing, nonkeratinizing, basaloid, and warty. It forms in squamous cells, the thin, flat cells lining the vagina. Squamous cell vaginal cancer spreads slowly and usually stays near the vagina, but may spread to the lungs, liver, or bone. This is the most common type of vaginal cancer. SCCV accounts for approximately 85% of vaginal cancer cases and initially spreads superficially within the vaginal wall. It can later invade other vaginal tissues. The carcinoma can metastasize to the lungs, and less frequently in liver, bone, or other sites. SCC of the vagina is associated with a high rate of infection with oncogenic strains of human papillomavirus (HPV) and has many risk factors in common with cervical cancer.\n\nSCCV may not cause early signs or symptoms and may be found during a routine pelvic exam and Pap test. Signs and symptoms may be caused by other types of vaginal cancer or by other conditions:\n\n\nDiagnosis includes a complete assessment of medical history and physical examination. A pelvic exam is typically performed. Other diagnostic procedures used are the pap test, colposcopy and biopsy. Other procedures are used to aid in diagnosis: chest x-ray, CT scan (CAT scan), MRI (magnetic resonance imaging), PET scan (positron emission tomography scan), and cystoscopy.\n\nThose most affected are:\n\nTreatment depends upon the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "5325318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5325318", "title": "Systemic disease", "text": "Systemic disease\n\nA systemic disease is one that affects a number of organs and tissues, or affects the body as a whole.\n\n\nGetting a regular eye exam may play a role in identifying the signs of some systemic diseases. \"The eye is composed of many different types of tissue. This unique feature makes the eye susceptible to a wide variety of diseases as well as provides insights into many body systems. Almost any part of the eye can give important clues to the diagnosis of systemic diseases. Signs of a systemic disease may be evident on the outer surface of the eye (eyelids, conjunctiva and cornea), middle of the eye and at the back of the eye (retina).\"\n\nSince 500 B.C., some researchers have believed that the physical condition of the fingernails and toenails can indicate various systemic diseases. Careful examination of the fingernails and toenails may provide clues to underlying systemic diseases , since some diseases have been found to cause disruptions in the nail growth process. The nail plate is the hard keratin cover of the nail. The nail plate is generated by the nail matrix located just under the cuticle. As the nail grows, the area closest to becoming exposed to the outside world (distal) produces the deeper layers of the nail plate, while the part of the nail matrix deeper inside the finger (proximal) makes the superficial layers. Any disruption in this growth process can lead to an alteration in the shape and texture.\n\nFor example, pitting looks like depressions in the hard part of the nail. Pitting is to be associated with psoriasis, affecting 10% - 50% of patients with that disorder. Pitting also may be caused by a variety of systemic diseases, including reactive arthritis and other connective tissue disorders, sarcoidosis, pemphigus, alopecia areata, and incontinentia pigmenti. Because pitting is caused by defective layering of the superficial nail plate by the proximal nail matrix, any localized dermatitis (e.g., atopic dermatitis or chemical dermatitis) that disrupts orderly growth in that area also can cause pitting.\n"}
{"id": "51562654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51562654", "title": "Timeline of tuberculosis", "text": "Timeline of tuberculosis\n\nThis is a timeline of tuberculosis, describing especially major discoveries, advances in treatment and major organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "51099085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51099085", "title": "To Save Humanity", "text": "To Save Humanity\n\nTo Save Humanity is a 2015 collection of 96 essays on global health from a collection of authors who range from heads of states, movie stars, scientists at leading universities, activists, and Nobel Prize winners. Each contributor was asked the same question: \"What is the single most important thing for the future of global health over the next fifty years?\" The collection was edited by Julio Frenk and Steven J. Hoffman.\n\nThe Global Strategy Lab called the collection \"unparalleled\" and \"a primer on the major issues of our time and a blueprint for post-2015 health and development,\" and featured it in their annual conference.\n\nThe Health Impact Fund also featured the collection at their conference.\n\nThe Lancet described the book as \"testimony to the complexity of global health politics,\" and called it \"a reminder that the breadth of individual and institutional engagement with global health cannot be fully captured by one set of global goals.\"\n\nVox has republished several of the articles for free online as part of a series entitled \"One Change to Save the World.\"\n"}
{"id": "53434415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53434415", "title": "Vaginal steaming", "text": "Vaginal steaming\n\nVaginal steaming, sometimes shortened to V-steaming, and also known as yoni steaming, is an alternative health treatment whereby a woman squats or sits over steaming water containing herbs such as mugwort, rosemary, wormwood, and basil. It has been practiced in Africa (Mozambique, South Africa), Asia (Indonesia, Thailand), and Central America (among the Q'eqchi' people).\n\nIt has become a fad for women in the Western world. It is described in spas as an ancient Korean treatment for reproductive organ ailments and is claimed to have other benefits. There is no empirical evidence supporting any of these claims.\n\nAccording to a study on vaginal practices by the World Health Organization published in 2011, one of the ways in which women practice vaginal care is by \"Vaginal steaming or smoking: the 'steaming' or 'smoking' of the vagina, by sitting above a source of heat (fire, coals, hot rocks) on which water, herbs, or oils are placed to create steam or smoke\". For that study, over 4,000 women in Tete (Mozambique), KwaZulu-Natal (South Africa), Yogyakarta (Indonesia), and Chonburi (Thailand) were asked about their vaginal care. When it came to vaginal steaming/smoking, very different results were obtained, and very different reasons were given: in Chonburi, 67% of women reported having performed vaginal steaming or smoking, \"which they associated with maintaining wellness and feminine identity\", especially after having given birth (85.5%). In Tete, only 10% of women practiced steaming or smoking, \"mostly intended to enhance male sexual pleasure by causing vaginal tightening (64.1% of users) and drying (22.9%)\". In the two African locations, 37–38% of women said they practiced it to enhance \"male sexual pleasure\"; in the two Asian ones, 0% gave that answer. Conversely, of the Asian women 26% reported their \"feminine identity\" was a reason, compared to 0% of the African women.\n\nSide effect and potential dangers include: allergic reactions, second-degree burns if the steam is too close, and vaginal infections.\n\nVaginal steaming is marketed with pseudoscientific notions of \"balancing\" female hormones and \"revitalizing\" the uterus or vagina.\n\nIt is also claimed to: reduce the discomfort, bloating and tiredness associated with menstruation, regulate irregular menstrual cycles, treat yeast infections, decrease the menstrual blood flow, increase fertility, relieve symptoms of menopause, treat endometriosis, speed up the after-birth healing process. There is no evidence for any of those claims. \n\nIt is also marketed as \"cleaning\" the vagina, which it does not do, and which is not necessary.\n\nThe marketing and perception of vaginal steaming falls within a mix of ideologies including post-feminist, new age, and inherently sexist notions in which the female body is on the one hand a dirty, defective thing, yet one that a woman can \"optimize\" to become \"goddess-like\".\n"}
{"id": "33583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33583", "title": "World Health Organization", "text": "World Health Organization\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) is a specialized agency of the United Nations that is concerned with international public health. It was established on 7 April 1948, and is headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland. The WHO is a member of the United Nations Development Group. Its predecessor, the Health Organization, was an agency of the League of Nations.\n\nThe constitution of the World Health Organization had been signed by 61 countries on 22 July 1946, with the first meeting of the World Health Assembly finishing on 22 July 1946. It incorporated the and the League of Nations Health Organization. Since its establishment, it has played a leading role in the eradication of smallpox. Its current priorities include communicable diseases, in particular HIV/AIDS, Ebola, malaria and tuberculosis; the mitigation of the effects of non-communicable diseases such as sexual and reproductive health, development, and aging; nutrition, food security and healthy eating; occupational health; substance abuse; and driving the development of reporting, publications, and networking.\n\nThe WHO is responsible for the World Health Report, the worldwide World Health Survey, and World Health Day. The current Director-General of the WHO is Tedros Adhanom, who started his five-year term on 1 July 2017.\n\nThe International Sanitary Conferences, originally held on 23 June 1851, were the first predecessors of the WHO. A series of 14 conferences that lasted from 1851 to 1938, the International Sanitary Conferences worked to combat many diseases, chief among them cholera, yellow fever, and the bubonic plague. The conferences were largely ineffective until the seventh, in 1892; when an International Sanitary Convention that dealt with cholera was passed. Five years later, a convention for the plague was signed. In part as a result of the successes of the Conferences, the Pan-American Sanitary Bureau, and the were soon founded in 1902 and 1907, respectively. When the League of Nations was formed in 1920, they established the Health Organization of the League of Nations. After World War II, the United Nations absorbed all the other health organizations, to form the WHO.\n\nDuring the 1945 United Nations Conference on International Organization, Szeming Sze, a delegate from China, conferred with Norwegian and Brazilian delegates on creating an international health organization under the auspices of the new United Nations. After failing to get a resolution passed on the subject, Alger Hiss, the Secretary General of the conference, recommended using a declaration to establish such an organization. Sze and other delegates lobbied and a declaration passed calling for an international conference on health. The use of the word \"world\", rather than \"international\", emphasized the truly global nature of what the organization was seeking to achieve. The constitution of the World Health Organization was signed by all 51 countries of the United Nations, and by 10 other countries, on 22 July 1946. It thus became the first specialized agency of the United Nations to which every member subscribed. Its constitution formally came into force on the first World Health Day on 7 April 1948, when it was ratified by the 26th member state. The first meeting of the World Health Assembly finished on 24 July 1948, having secured a budget of (then ) for the 1949 year. Andrija Stampar was the Assembly's first president, and G. Brock Chisholm was appointed Director-General of WHO, having served as Executive Secretary during the planning stages. Its first priorities were to control the spread of malaria, tuberculosis and sexually transmitted infections, and to improve maternal and child health, nutrition and environmental hygiene. Its first legislative act was concerning the compilation of accurate statistics on the spread and morbidity of disease. The logo of the World Health Organization features the Rod of Asclepius as a symbol for healing.\n\nIn 1947 the WHO established an epidemiological information service via telex, and by 1950 a mass tuberculosis inoculation drive using the BCG vaccine was under way. In 1955, the malaria eradication programme was launched, although it was later altered in objective. 1965 saw the first report on diabetes mellitus and the creation of the International Agency for Research on Cancer.\n\nIn 1958, Viktor Zhdanov, Deputy Minister of Health for the USSR, called on the World Health Assembly to undertake a global initiative to eradicate smallpox, resulting in Resolution WHA11.54. At this point, 2 million people were dying from smallpox every year.\n\nIn 1966, the WHO moved its headquarters from the Ariana wing at the Palace of Nations to a newly constructed HQ elsewhere in Geneva.\n\nIn 1967, the World Health Organization intensified the global smallpox eradication by contributing $2.4 million annually to the effort and adopted a new disease surveillance method. The initial problem the WHO team faced was inadequate reporting of smallpox cases. WHO established a network of consultants who assisted countries in setting up surveillance and containment activities. The WHO also helped contain the last European outbreak in Yugoslavia in 1972. After over two decades of fighting smallpox, the WHO declared in 1979 that the disease had been eradicated – the first disease in history to be eliminated by human effort. Also in 1967, the WHO launched the Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases and the World Health Assembly voted to enact a resolution on Disability Prevention and Rehabilitation, with a focus on community-driven care.\n\nIn 1974, the Expanded Programme on Immunization and the control programme of onchocerciasis was started, an important partnership between the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and the World Bank.\n\nIn 1977, the first list of essential medicines was drawn up, and a year later the ambitious goal of \"Health For All\" was declared.\n\nIn 1986, the WHO began its global programme on HIV/AIDS. Two years later preventing discrimination against sufferers was attended to and in 1996 UNAIDS was formed.\n\nIn 1988, the Global Polio Eradication Initiative was established.\n\nIn 1998, WHO's Director-General highlighted gains in child survival, reduced infant mortality, increased life expectancy and reduced rates of \"scourges\" such as smallpox and polio on the fiftieth anniversary of WHO's founding. He, did, however, accept that more had to be done to assist maternal health and that progress in this area had been slow.\n\nIn 2000, the Stop TB Partnership was created along with the UN's formulation of the Millennium Development Goals. In 2001 the measles initiative was formed, and credited with reducing global deaths from the disease by 68% by 2007. In 2002, The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria was drawn up to improve the resources available. In 2006, the organization endorsed the world's first official HIV/AIDS Toolkit for Zimbabwe, which formed the basis for a global prevention, treatment and support plan to fight the AIDS pandemic.\n\nThe WHO's Constitution states that its objective \"is the attainment by all people of the highest possible level of health\".\n\nThe WHO fulfills this objective through its functions as defined in its Constitution: (a) To act as the directing and coordinating authority on international health work; (b) To establish and maintain effective collaboration with the United Nations, specialized agencies, governmental health administrations, professional groups and such other organizations as may be deemed appropriate; (c) To assist Governments, upon request, in strengthening health services; (d) To furnish appropriate technical assistance and, in emergencies, necessary aid upon the request or acceptance of Governments; (e) To provide or assist in providing, upon the request of the United Nations, health services and facilities to special groups, such as the peoples of trust territories; (f) To establish and maintain such administrative and technical services as may be required, including epidemiological and statistical services; (g) to stimulate and advance work to eradicate epidemic, endemic and other diseases; (h) To promote, in co-operation with other specialized agencies where necessary, the prevention of accidental injuries; (i) To promote, in co-operation with other specialized agencies where necessary, the improvement of nutrition, housing, sanitation, recreation, economic or working conditions and other aspects of environmental hygiene; (j) To promote co-operation among scientific and professional groups which contribute to the advancement of health; (k) To propose conventions, agreements and regulations, and make recommendations with respect to international health matters and to perform.\n\n, the WHO has defined its role in public health as follows:\n\nThe 2012–2013 WHO budget identified 5 areas among which funding was distributed. Two of those five areas related to communicable diseases: the first, to reduce the \"health, social and economic burden\" of communicable diseases in general; the second to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in particular.\n\nAs of 2015, the WHO has worked within the UNAIDS network and strived to involve sections of society other than health to help deal with the economic and social effects of HIV/AIDS. In line with UNAIDS, WHO has set itself the interim task between 2009 and 2015 of reducing the number of those aged 15–24 years who are infected by 50%; reducing new HIV infections in children by 90%; and reducing HIV-related deaths by 25%.\n\nDuring the 1970s, WHO had dropped its commitment to a global malaria eradication campaign as too ambitious, it retained a strong commitment to malaria control. WHO's Global Malaria Programme works to keep track of malaria cases, and future problems in malaria control schemes. As of 2012, the WHO was to report as to whether RTS,S/AS01, were a viable malaria vaccine. For the time being, insecticide-treated mosquito nets and insecticide sprays are used to prevent the spread of malaria, as are antimalarial drugs – particularly to vulnerable people such as pregnant women and young children.\n\nBetween 1990 and 2010, WHO's help has contributed to a 40% decline in the number of deaths from tuberculosis, and since 2005, over 46 million people have been treated and an estimated 7 million lives saved through practices advocated by WHO. These include engaging national governments and their financing, early diagnosis, standardising treatment, monitoring of the spread and effect of tuberculosis and stabilising the drug supply. It has also recognized the vulnerability of victims of HIV/AIDS to tuberculosis.\n\nIn 1988, WHO launched the Global Polio Eradication Initiative to eradicate polio. It has also been successful in helping to reduce cases by 99% since which partnered WHO with Rotary International, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), and smaller organizations. , it has been working to immunize young children and prevent the re-emergence of cases in countries declared \"polio-free\". In 2017, a study was conducted where why Polio Vaccines may not be enough to eradicate the Virus & conduct new technology. Polio is now on the verge of extinction, thanks to a Global Vaccination Drive. the World Health Organization (WHO) stated the eradication programme has saved millions from deadly disease. \n\nAnother of the thirteen WHO priority areas is aimed at the prevention and reduction of \"disease, disability and premature deaths from chronic noncommunicable diseases, mental disorders, violence and injuries, and visual impairment\". The Division of Noncommunicable Diseases for Promoting Health through the Life-course Sexual and Reproductive Health has published the magazine, \"Entre Nous\", across Europe since 1983.\n\nThe WHO estimates that 12.6 million people died as a result of living or working in an unhealthy environment in 2012 – this accounts for nearly 1 in 4 of total global deaths. Environmental risk factors, such as air, water and soil pollution, chemical exposures, climate change, and ultraviolet radiation, contribute to more than 100 diseases and injuries. This can result in a number of pollution-related diseases.\n\n\nWHO works to \"reduce morbidity and mortality and improve health during key stages of life, including pregnancy, childbirth, the neonatal period, childhood and adolescence, and improve sexual and reproductive health and promote active and healthy aging for all individuals\".\n\nIt also tries to prevent or reduce risk factors for \"health conditions associated with use of tobacco, alcohol, drugs and other psychoactive substances, unhealthy diets and physical inactivity and unsafe sex\".\n\nThe WHO works to improve nutrition, food safety and food security and to ensure this has a positive effect on public health and sustainable development.\n\nThe WHO promotes road safety as a means to reduce traffic-related injuries.\n\nThe WHO has also worked on global initiatives in surgery, including emergency and essential surgical care, trauma care, and safe surgery. The WHO Surgical Safety Checklist is in current use worldwide in the effort to improve patient safety.\n\nThe World Health Organization's primary objective in natural and man-made emergencies is to coordinate with member states and other stakeholders to \"reduce avoidable loss of life and the burden of disease and disability.\"\n\nOn 5 May 2014, WHO announced that the spread of polio was a world health emergency – outbreaks of the disease in Asia, Africa, and the Middle East were considered \"extraordinary\".\n\nOn 8 August 2014, WHO declared that the spread of Ebola was a public health emergency; an outbreak which was believed to have started in Guinea had spread to other nearby countries such as Liberia and Sierra Leone. The situation in West Africa was considered very serious.\n\nWHO addresses government health policy with two aims: firstly, \"to address the underlying social and economic determinants of health through policies and programmes that enhance health equity and integrate pro-poor, gender-responsive, and human rights-based approaches\" and secondly \"to promote a healthier environment, intensify primary prevention and influence public policies in all sectors so as to address the root causes of environmental threats to health\".\n\nThe organization develops and promotes the use of evidence-based tools, norms and standards to support member states to inform health policy options. It oversees the implementation of the International Health Regulations, and publishes a series of medical classifications; of these, three are over-reaching \"reference classifications\": the International Statistical Classification of Diseases (ICD), the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) and the International Classification of Health Interventions (ICHI). Other international policy frameworks produced by WHO include the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes (adopted in 1981), Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (adopted in 2003) and the Global Code of Practice on the International Recruitment of Health Personnel (adopted in 2010).\n\nIn terms of health services, WHO looks to improve \"governance, financing, staffing and management\" and the availability and quality of evidence and research to guide policy. It also strives to \"ensure improved access, quality and use of medical products and technologies\". WHO – working with donor agencies and national governments – can improve their use of and their reporting about their use of research evidence.\n\nThe remaining two of WHO's thirteen identified policy areas relate to the role of WHO itself:\n\nThe WHO along with the World Bank constitute the core team responsible for administering the International Health Partnership (IHP+). The IHP+ is a group of partner governments, development agencies, civil society and others committed to improving the health of citizens in developing countries. Partners work together to put international principles for aid effectiveness and development co-operation into practice in the health sector.\n\nThe organization relies on contributions from renowned scientists and professionals to inform its work, such as the WHO Expert Committee on Biological Standardization, the WHO Expert Committee on Leprosy, and the WHO Study Group on Interprofessional Education & Collaborative Practice.\n\nWHO runs the Alliance for Health Policy and Systems Research, targeted at improving health policy and systems.\n\nWHO also aims to improve access to health research and literature in developing countries such as through the HINARI network.\n\nWHO collaborates with the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, UNITAID, and the United States President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief to spearhead and fund the development of HIV programs. \n\nWHO created the Civil Society Reference Group on HIV, which brings together other networks that are involved in policy making and the dissemination of guidelines.\n\nWHO, a sector of the United Nations, partners with UNAIDS to contribute to the development of HIV responses in different areas of the world.\n\nWHO facilitates technical partnerships through the Technical Advisory Committee on HIV, which they created to develop WHO guidelines and policies.\n\nEach year, the organization marks World Health Day and other observances focusing on a specific health promotion topic. World Health Day falls on 7 April each year, timed to match the anniversary of WHO's founding. Recent themes have been vector-borne diseases (2014), healthy ageing (2012) and drug resistance (2011).\n\nThe other official global public health campaigns marked by WHO are World Tuberculosis Day, World Immunization Week, World Malaria Day, World No Tobacco Day, World Blood Donor Day, World Hepatitis Day, and World AIDS Day.\n\nAs part of the United Nations, the World Health Organization supports work towards the Millennium Development Goals. Of the eight Millennium Development Goals, three – reducing child mortality by two-thirds, to reduce maternal deaths by three-quarters, and to halt and begin to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS – relate directly to WHO's scope; the other five inter-relate and affect world health.\n\nThe World Health Organization works to provide the needed health and well-being evidence through a variety of data collection platforms, including the World Health Survey covering almost 400,000 respondents from 70 countries, and the \"Study on Global Aging and Adult Health\" (SAGE) covering over 50,000 persons over 50 years old in 23 countries. The Country Health Intelligence Portal (CHIP), has also been developed to provide an access point to information about the health services that are available in different countries. The information gathered in this portal is used by the countries to set priorities for future strategies or plans, implement, monitor, and evaluate it.\n\nThe WHO has published various tools for measuring and monitoring the capacity of national health systems and health workforces. The Global Health Observatory (GHO) has been the WHO's main portal which provides access to data and analyses for key health themes by monitoring health situations around the globe.\n\nThe \"WHO Assessment Instrument for Mental Health Systems\" (WHO-AIMS), the \"WHO Quality of Life Instrument\" (WHOQOL), and the \"Service Availability and Readiness Assessment\" (SARA) provide guidance for data collection. Collaborative efforts between WHO and other agencies, such as through the Health Metrics Network, also aim to provide sufficient high-quality information to assist governmental decision making. WHO promotes the development of capacities in member states to use and produce research that addresses their national needs, including through the Evidence-Informed Policy Network (EVIPNet). The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO/AMRO) became the first region to develop and pass a policy on research for health approved in September 2009.\n\nOn 10 December 2013, a new WHO database, known as MiNDbank, went online. The database was launched on Human Rights Day, and is part of WHO's QualityRights initiative, which aims to end human rights violations against people with mental health conditions. The new database presents a great deal of information about mental health, substance abuse, disability, human rights, and the different policies, strategies, laws, and service standards being implemented in different countries. It also contains important international documents and information. The database allows visitors to access the health information of WHO member states and other partners. Users can review policies, laws, and strategies and search for the best practices and success stories in the field of mental health.\n\nThe WHO regularly publishes a \"World Health Report\", its leading publication, including an expert assessment of a specific global health topic. Other publications of WHO include the \"Bulletin of the World Health Organization\", the \"Eastern Mediterranean Health Journal\" (overseen by EMRO), the \"Human Resources for Health\" (published in collaboration with BioMed Central), and the \"Pan American Journal of Public Health\" (overseen by PAHO/AMRO).\n\nIn 2016, the World Health Organization drafted a global health sector strategy on HIV. In the draft, the World Health Organization outlines its commitment to ending the AIDS epidemic by the year 2030 with interim targets for the year 2020. In order to make achievements towards these targets, the draft lists actions that countries and the WHO can take, such as a commitment to universal health coverage, medical accessibility, prevention and eradication of disease, and efforts to educate the public. Some notable points made in the draft include addressing gender inequity where females are nearly twice as likely as men to get infected with HIV and tailoring resources to mobilized regions where the health system may be compromised due to natural disasters, etc. Among the points made, it seems clear that although the prevalence of HIV transmission is declining, there is still a need for resources, health education, and global efforts to end this epidemic. \n\nThe World Health Organization is a member of the United Nations Development Group.\n\n, the WHO has 194 member states: all of them Member States of the United Nations except for the Cook Islands and Niue. (A state becomes a full member of WHO by ratifying the treaty known as the Constitution of the World Health Organization.) , it also had two associate members, Puerto Rico and Tokelau. Several other countries have been granted observer status. Palestine is an observer as a \"national liberation movement\" recognized by the League of Arab States under United Nations Resolution 3118. The Holy See also attends as an observer, as does the Order of Malta. In 2010, Taiwan was invited under the name of \"Republic of China\".\n\nWHO Member States appoint delegations to the World Health Assembly, WHO's supreme decision-making body. All UN Member States are eligible for WHO membership, and, according to the WHO website, \"other countries may be admitted as members when their application has been approved by a simple majority vote of the World Health Assembly\". Liechtenstein is currently the only UN member not in the WHO membership.\n\nIn addition, the UN observer organizations International Committee of the Red Cross and International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies have entered into \"official relations\" with WHO and are invited as observers. In the World Health Assembly they are seated alongside the other NGOs.\n\nThe World Health Assembly (WHA) is the legislative and supreme body of WHO. Based in Geneva, it typically meets yearly in May. It appoints the Director-General every five years and votes on matters of policy and finance of WHO, including the proposed budget. It also reviews reports of the Executive Board and decides whether there are areas of work requiring further examination. The Assembly elects 34 members, technically qualified in the field of health, to the Executive Board for three-year terms. The main functions of the Board are to carry out the decisions and policies of the Assembly, to advise it and to facilitate its work. The current chairman of the executive board is Dr. Assad Hafeez.\n\nThe regional divisions of WHO were created between 1949 and 1952, and are based on article 44 of the WHO's constitution, which allowed the WHO to \"establish a [single] regional organization to meet the special needs of [each defined] area\". Many decisions are made at regional level, including important discussions over WHO's budget, and in deciding the members of the next assembly, which are designated by the regions.\n\nEach region has a Regional Committee, which generally meets once a year, normally in the autumn. Representatives attend from each member or associative member in each region, including those states that are not fully recognized. For example, Palestine attends meetings of the Eastern Mediterranean Regional office. Each region also has a regional office. Each Regional Office is headed by a Regional Director, who is elected by the Regional Committee. The Board must approve such appointments, although as of 2004, it had never over-ruled the preference of a regional committee. The exact role of the board in the process has been a subject of debate, but the practical effect has always been small. Since 1999, Regional Directors serve for a once-renewable five-year term, and typically take their position on 1 February.\n\nEach Regional Committee of the WHO consists of all the Health Department heads, in all the governments of the countries that constitute the Region. Aside from electing the Regional Director, the Regional Committee is also in charge of setting the guidelines for the implementation, within the region, of the health and other policies adopted by the World Health Assembly. The Regional Committee also serves as a progress review board for the actions of WHO within the Region.\n\nThe Regional Director is effectively the head of WHO for his or her Region. The RD manages and/or supervises a staff of health and other experts at the regional offices and in specialized centres. The RD is also the direct supervising authority—concomitantly with the WHO Director-General—of all the heads of WHO country offices, known as WHO Representatives, within the Region.\n\nThe head of the organization is the Director-General, elected by the World Health Assembly. The term lasts for 5 years, and Director-Generals are typically appointed in May, when the Assembly meets. The current Director-General is Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, who was appointed on 1 July 2017.\n\nThe WHO employs 8,500 people in 147 countries. In support of the principle of a tobacco-free work environment, the WHO does not recruit cigarette smokers. The organization has previously instigated the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control in 2003.\n\nThe WHO operates \"Goodwill Ambassadors\"; members of the arts, sports, or other fields of public life aimed at drawing attention to WHO's initiatives and projects. There are currently five Goodwill Ambassadors (Jet Li, Nancy Brinker, Peng Liyuan, Yohei Sasakawa and the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra) and a further ambassador associated with a partnership project (Craig David).\n\nThe World Health Organization operates 150 country offices in six different regions. It also operates several liaison offices, including those with the European Union, United Nations and a single office covering the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. It also operates the International Agency for Research on Cancer in Lyon, France, and the WHO Centre for Health Development in Kobe, Japan. Additional offices include those in Pristina; the West Bank and Gaza; the US-Mexico Border Field Office in El Paso; the Office of the Caribbean Program Coordination in Barbados; and the Northern Micronesia office. There will generally be one WHO country office in the capital, occasionally accompanied by satellite-offices in the provinces or sub-regions of the country in question.\n\nThe country office is headed by a WHO Representative (WR). , the only WHO Representative outside Europe to be a national of that country was for the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (\"Libya\"); all other staff were international. WHO Representatives in the Region termed the Americas are referred to as PAHO/WHO Representatives. In Europe, WHO Representatives also serve as Head of Country Office, and are nationals with the exception of Serbia; there are also Heads of Country Office in Albania, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkey, and Uzbekistan. The WR is member of the UN system country team which is coordinated by the UN System Resident Coordinator.\n\nThe country office consists of the WR, and several health and other experts, both foreign and local, as well as the necessary support staff. The main functions of WHO country offices include being the primary adviser of that country's government in matters of health and pharmaceutical policies.\n\nThe WHO is financed by contributions from member states and outside donors. , the largest annual assessed contributions from member states came from the United States ($110 million), Japan ($58 million), Germany ($37 million), United Kingdom ($31 million) and France ($31 million). The combined 2012–2013 budget has proposed a total expenditure of $3,959 million, of which $944 million (24%) will come from assessed contributions. This represented a significant fall in outlay compared to the previous 2009–2010 budget, adjusting to take account of previous underspends. Assessed contributions were kept the same. Voluntary contributions will account for $3,015 million (76%), of which $800 million is regarded as highly or moderately flexible funding, with the remainder tied to particular programmes or objectives.\n\nIn recent years, the WHO's work has involved increasing collaboration with external bodies. , a total of 473 non-governmental organizations (NGO) had some form of partnership with WHO. There were 189 partnerships with international NGOs in formal \"official relations\" – the rest being considered informal in character. Partners include the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Rockefeller Foundation.\n\nIn 1959, the WHO signed Agreement WHA 12–40 with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). A selective reading of this document (clause 3) can result in the understanding that the IAEA is able to prevent the WHO from conducting research or work on some areas, as seen hereafter. The agreement states here that the WHO recognizes the IAEA as having responsibility for peaceful nuclear energy without prejudice to the roles of the WHO of promoting health. However, the following paragraph adds that \n\n\"whenever either organization proposes to initiate a programme or activity on a subject in which the other organization has or may have a substantial interest, the first party shall consult the other with a view to adjusting the matter by mutual agreement\". \n\nThe nature of this statement has led some pressure groups and activists (including Women in Europe for a Common Future) to claim that the WHO is restricted in its ability to investigate the effects on human health of radiation caused by the use of nuclear power and the continuing effects of nuclear disasters in Chernobyl and Fukushima. They believe WHO must regain what they see as \"independence\". However as pointed out by Foreman in clause 2 it states.\n\n“2. In particular, and in accordance with the Constitution of the World Health Organization and the Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency and its agreement with the United Nations together with the exchange of letters related thereto, and taking into account the respective co-ordinating responsibilities of both organizations, it is recognized by the World Health Organization that the International Atomic Energy Agency has the primary responsibility for encouraging, assisting and co- ordinating research and development and practical application of atomic energy for peaceful uses throughout the world without prejudice to the right of the World Health Organization to concern itself with promoting, developing, assisting and co-ordinating international health work, including research, in all its aspects.”\n\nClearly suggesting that the WHO is free to do as it sees fit on nuclear, radiation and other matters which relate to health.\n\nIn 2003, the WHO denounced the Roman Curia's health department's opposition to the use of condoms, saying: \"These incorrect statements about condoms and HIV are dangerous when we are facing a global pandemic which has already killed more than 20 million people, and currently affects at least 42 million.\" , the Catholic Church remains opposed to increasing the use of contraception to combat HIV/AIDS. At the time, the World Health Assembly President, Guyana's Health Minister Leslie Ramsammy, has condemned Pope Benedict's opposition to contraception, saying he was trying to \"create confusion\" and \"impede\" proven strategies in the battle against the disease.\n\nThe aggressive support of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for intermittent preventive therapy of malaria triggered a memo from the former WHO malaria chief Akira Kochi.\n\nSome of the research undertaken or supported by WHO to determine how people's lifestyles and environments are influencing whether they live in better or worse health can be controversial, as illustrated by a 2003 joint WHO/FAO report on nutrition and the prevention of chronic non-communicable disease, which recommended that sugar should form no more than 10% of a healthy diet. The report led to lobbying by the sugar industry against the recommendation, to which the WHO/FAO responded by including in the report this statement: \"The Consultation recognized that a population goal for free sugars of less than 10% of total energy is controversial\". It also stood by its recommendation based upon its own analysis of scientific studies. In 2014, WHO reduced recommended sugar levels by half and said that sugar should make up no more than 5% of a healthy diet.\n\nIn 2007, the WHO organized work on pandemic influenza vaccine development through clinical trials in collaboration with many experts and health officials. A pandemic involving the H1N1 influenza virus was declared by the then Director-General Margaret Chan in April 2009. Margret Chan declared in 2010 that the H1N1 has moved into the post-pandemic period.\n\nBy the post-pandemic period critics claimed the WHO had exaggerated the danger, spreading \"fear and confusion\" rather than \"immediate information\". Industry experts countered that the 2009 pandemic had led to \"unprecedented collaboration between global health authorities, scientists and manufacturers, resulting in the most comprehensive pandemic response ever undertaken, with a number of vaccines approved for use three months after the pandemic declaration. This response was only possible because of the extensive preparations undertaken during the last decade\".\n\nFollowing the 2014 Ebola outbreak in West Africa, the organization was heavily criticized for its bureaucracy, insufficient financing, regional structure, and staffing profile.\n\nAn internal WHO report on the Ebola response pointed to underfunding and the lack of \"core capacity\" in health systems in developing countries as the primary weaknesses of the existing system. At the annual World Health Assembly in 2015, Director-General Margaret Chan announced a $100 million Contingency Fund for rapid response to future emergencies, of which it had received $26.9 million by April 2016 (for 2017 disbursement). WHO has budgeted an additional $494 million for its Health Emergencies Programme in 2016–17, for which it had received $140 million by April 2016.\n\nThe program was aimed at rebuilding WHO capacity for direct action, which critics said had been lost due to budget cuts in the previous decade that had left the organization in an advisory role dependent on member states for on-the-ground activities. In comparison, billions of dollars have been spent by developed countries on the 2013–2016 Ebola epidemic and 2015–16 Zika epidemic.\n\nThe WHO has a Framework Convention on Tobacco implementation database which is one of the only mechanisms to help enforce compliance with the FCTC. However, there have been reports of numerous discrepancies between it and national implementation reports on which it was built. As researchers Hoffman and Rizvi report \"As of July 4, 2012, 361 (32·7%) of 1104 countries' responses were misreported: 33 (3·0%) were clear errors (eg, database indicated “yes” when report indicated “no”), 270 (24·5%) were missing despite countries having submitted responses, and 58 (5·3%) were, in our opinion, misinterpreted by WHO staff\".\n\nThe World Health Organization sub-department, the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), has been criticized for the way it analyses the tendency of certain substances and activities to cause cancer and for having a politically motivated bias when it selects studies for its analysis. Ed Yong, a British science journalist, has criticized the agency and its \"confusing\" category system for misleading the public. Marcel Kuntz, a French director of research at the French National Centre for Scientific Research, criticized the agency for its classification of potentially carcinogenic substances. He claimed that this classification did not take into account the extent of exposure: for example, red meat is qualified as probably carcinogenic, but the quantity of consumed red meat at which it could become dangerous is not specified.\n\nControversies have erupted multiple times when the IARC has classified many things as Class 2a (probable carcinogens), including cell phone signals, glyphosate, drinking hot beverages, and working as a barber.\n\nPolitical pressure from China has led to Taiwan being barred from membership of the WHO and other UN-affiliated organizations, and in both 2017 and 2018 the WHO refused to allow Taiwanese delegates to attend the WHO annual assembly. On multiple occasions Taiwanese journalists have been denied access to report on the assembly.\n\nIn May 2018, 172 members of the United States House of Representatives wrote to the Director General of the World Health Organization to argue for Taiwan's inclusion as an observer at the WHA.\n\nAccording to The Associated Press, the WHO routinely spends about $200 million a year on travel expenses, more than it spends to tackle mental health problems, HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria combined. In 2016, Margaret Chan, Director-General of WHO from November 2006 to June 2017, stayed in a $1000 per night hotel room while visiting West Africa.\n\nOn 21 October 2017, the Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus appointed former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe as a WHO Goodwill Ambassador to help promote the fight against non-communicable diseases. The appointment address praised Mugabe for his commitment to public health in Zimbabwe.\n\nThe appointment attracted widespread condemnation and criticism in WHO member states and international organizations due to Robert Mugabe's poor record on human rights and presiding over a decline in Zimbabwe's public health. Due to the outcry, the following day the appointment was revoked.\n\nThe seat of the organization is in Geneva, Switzerland. It was designed by Swiss architect Jean Tschumi and inaugurated in 1966. In 2017, the organization launched an international competition to redesign and extend its headquarters.\n\n"}
