{"id": "1335047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1335047", "title": "Aerial perspective", "text": "Aerial perspective\n\nAerial perspective or atmospheric perspective refers to the effect the atmosphere has on the appearance of an object as it is viewed from a distance. As the distance between an object and a viewer increases, the contrast between the object and its background decreases, and the contrast of any markings or details within the object also decreases. The colours of the object also become less saturated and shift towards the background colour, which is usually blue, but under some conditions may be some other colour (for example, at sunrise or sunset distant colours may shift towards red).\n\nAerial perspective was used in paintings from the Netherlands in the 15th century, and explanations of its effects were with varying degrees of accuracy written by polymaths such as Leon Battista Alberti and Leonardo da Vinci. The latter used aerial perspective in many of his paintings such as the Mona Lisa and The Last Supper. Atmospheric perspective was used in Pompeian Second Style paintings, one of the Pompeian Styles, dating as early as 30 BCE. A notable example is the Gardenscape from the Villa of Livia in Primaporta, Italy.\n\nThe major component affecting the appearance of objects during daylight is scattering of light, called skylight, into the line of sight of the viewer. Scattering occurs from molecules of the air and also from larger particles in the atmosphere such as water vapour and smoke (see haze). Scattering adds the sky light as a veiling luminance onto the light from the object, reducing its contrast with the background sky light. Skylight usually contains more light of short wavelength than other wavelengths (this is why the sky usually appears blue), which is why distant objects appear bluish (see Rayleigh scattering for detailed explanation). A minor component is scattering of light out of the line of sight of the viewer. Under daylight, this either augments the contrast loss (e.g., for white objects) or opposes it (for dark objects). At night there is effectively no skylight (unless the moon is very bright), so scattering out of the line of sight becomes the major component affecting the appearance of self-luminous objects. Such objects have their contrasts reduced with the dark background, and their colours are shifted towards red.\n\nThe ability of a person with normal visual acuity to see fine details is determined by his or her contrast sensitivity. Contrast sensitivity is the reciprocal of the smallest contrast for which a person can see a sine-wave grating. A person's contrast sensitivity function is contrast sensitivity as a function of spatial frequency. Normally, peak contrast sensitivity is at about 4 cycles per degree of visual angle. At higher spatial frequencies, comprising finer and finer lines, contrast sensitivity decreases, until at about 40 cycles per degree even the brightest of bright lines and the darkest of dark lines cannot be seen.\n\nThe high spatial frequencies in an image give it its fine details. Reducing the contrast of an image reduces the visibility of these high spatial frequencies because contrast sensitivity for them is already poor. This is how a reduction of contrast can reduce the clarity of an image—by removing its fine details.\n\nIt is important to emphasize that reducing the contrast is not the same as blurring an image. Blurring is accomplished by reducing the contrast only of the high spatial frequencies. Aerial perspective reduces the contrast of all spatial frequencies.\n\nIn art, especially painting, \"aerial perspective\" refers to the technique of creating an illusion of depth by depicting distant objects as paler, less detailed, and usually bluer than near objects.\n\n"}
{"id": "15022410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15022410", "title": "Africa Beyond", "text": "Africa Beyond\n\nAfrica Beyond is a project celebrating African arts and culture in the UK, supported by Arts Council England, the British Broadcasting Corporation, the British Museum, the Southbank Centre, iniva (Institute for International Visual Arts) and other partners.\n\nAfrica Beyond was founded in March 2006, based in London. It was created as a legacy of Africa 05, a major celebration of African arts, held throughout 2005. It organises artist residencies linking Africa and the UK, runs public events such as the Word from Africa festival (first hosted at the British Museum in May 2007), and works with arts venues to improve their links with African audiences and artists.\n\nThe BBC hosted the Africa Beyond website, which features articles on African music, film, theatre, dance, literature and visual arts, with a special focus on artists and stories relevant to audiences in the UK. The website is no longer updated.\n\n"}
{"id": "18723302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18723302", "title": "Altermodern", "text": "Altermodern\n\nAltermodern, a portmanteau word defined by Nicolas Bourriaud, is an attempt at contextualizing art made in today's global context as a reaction against standardisation and commercialism. It is also the title of the Tate Britain's fourth Triennial exhibition curated by Bourriaud.\n\nIn his keynote speech to the 2005 Art Association of Australia & New Zealand Conference, Nicolas Bourriaud explained:\nArtists are looking for a new modernity that would be based on translation: What matters today is to translate the cultural values of cultural groups and to connect them to the world network. This “reloading process” of modernism according to the twenty-first-century issues could be called altermodernism, a movement connected to the creolisation of cultures and the fight for autonomy, but also the possibility of producing singularities in a more and more standardized world.\nAltermodern can essentially be read as an artist working in a hypermodern world or with supermodern ideas or themes.\n\nThe Tate exhibition includes a series of four one-day events (called \"Prologues\"), aiming to \"introduce and provoke debate\" around the Triennial’s themes. Each Prologue includes lectures, performances, film and a manifesto text and attempts to define what the curator sees as the four main facets of Altermodern\n\n"}
{"id": "246497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246497", "title": "American folk music", "text": "American folk music\n\nThe term American folk music encompasses numerous music genres, variously known as \"traditional music\", \"traditional folk music\", \"contemporary folk music\", or \"roots music\". Many traditional songs have been sung within the same family or folk group for generations, and sometimes trace back to such origins as Great Britain, Europe, or Africa. Musician Mike Seeger once famously commented that the definition of American folk music is \"...all the music that fits between the cracks.\"\n\nRoots music is a broad category of music including bluegrass, gospel, old time music, jug bands, Appalachian folk, blues, Cajun and Native American music. The music is considered American either because it is native to the United States or because it developed there, out of foreign origins, to such a degree that it struck musicologists as something distinctly new. It is considered \"roots music\" because it served as the basis of music later developed in the United States, including rock and roll, rhythm and blues, and jazz.\n\nMost songs of the Colonial Fletch and Revolutionary period originated in England, Scotland and Ireland and were brought over by early settlers. \"Barbara Allen\" remains a popular traditional ballad originating in England and Scotland, which immigrants introduced to the United States. The murder ballad \"Pretty Polly\" is an American version of an earlier British song, \"The Gosport Tragedy\".\n\nAfrican American folk music in the area has roots in slavery and emancipation. \"Sacred music, both a Capella and instrumentally accompanied, is at the heart of the tradition. Early spirituals framed Christian beliefs within native practices and were heavily influenced by the music and rhythms of Africa.\" Spirituals are prominent, and often use a call and response pattern. \"Gospel developed after the Civil War (1861-65). It relied on biblical text for much of its direction, and the use of metaphors and imagery was common. Gospel is a \"joyful noise,\" sometimes accompanied by instrumentation and almost always punctuated by hand clapping, toe tapping, and body movement.\"\n\nSea shanties functioned to lighten the burden of routine tasks and provide a rhythm that helped workers perform as a team.\n\nCowboys songs are typically ballads that cowboys sang in the West and Southwest. The familiar Streets of Laredo\" (or \"Cowboys Lament\") derives from an Irish folk song of the late 18th century called \"The Unfortunate Rake\", which in turn appears to have descended from the even earlier \"The Bard of Armagh\". While \"Streets of Laredo\" uses the same melody as \"The Unfortunate Rake\", \"St. James Infirmary Blues\" adapts the story to a different tune. This illustrates how folk songs can change in the retelling and appear in a variety of versions.\n\nThe \"Ballad of John Henry (folklore)\" is about an African-American folk hero said to have worked as a \"steel-driving man\".\n\nMany roots musicians do not consider themselves folk musicians. The main difference between the American folk music revival and American \"roots music\" is that roots music seems to cover a broader range, including blues and country.\n\nRoots music developed its most expressive and varied forms in the first three decades of the 20th century. The Great Depression and the Dust Bowl were extremely important in disseminating these musical styles to the rest of the country, as Delta blues masters, itinerant honky tonk singers, Cajun musicians spread to cities like Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York. The growth of the recording industry in the same period was also important; higher potential profits from music placed pressure on artists, songwriters, and label executives to replicate previous hit songs. This meant that musical fads, such as Hawaiian slack-key guitar, never died out completely, since a broad range of rhythms, instruments, and vocal stylings were incorporated into disparate popular genres.\n\nBy the 1950s, forms of roots music had led to pop-oriented forms. Folk musicians like the Kingston Trio, blues-derived rock and roll and rockabilly, pop-gospel, doo wop and R&B (later secularized further as soul music) and the Nashville sound in country music all modernized and expanded the musical palette of the country.\n\nThe roots approach to music emphasizes the diversity of American musical traditions, the genealogy of creative lineages and communities, and the innovative contributions of musicians working in these traditions today. In recent years roots music has been the focus of popular media programs such as Garrison Keillor's public radio program, \"A Prairie Home Companion\" and the feature film by the same name.\n\nAmerican traditional music is also called roots music. Roots music is a broad category of music including bluegrass, country music, gospel, old time music, jug bands, Appalachian folk, blues, Cajun and Native American music. The music is considered American either because it is native to the United States or because it developed there, out of foreign origins, to such a degree that it struck musicologists as something distinctly new. It is considered \"roots music\" because it served as the basis of music later developed in the United States, including rock and roll, contemporary folk music, rhythm and blues, and jazz.\n\nAppalachian music is the traditional music of the region of Appalachia in the Eastern United States. It derives from various European and African influences—including English ballads, Irish and Scottish traditional music (especially fiddle music), hymns, and African-American blues. First recorded in the 1920s, Appalachian musicians were a key influence on the early development of Old-time music, country music, and bluegrass, and were an important part of the American folk music revival.\n\nInstruments typically used to perform Appalachian music include the banjo, American fiddle, fretted dulcimer, and guitar.\n\nEarly recorded Appalachian musicians include Fiddlin' John Carson, Henry Whitter, Bascom Lamar Lunsford, the Carter Family, Clarence Ashley, Frank Proffitt, and Dock Boggs, all of whom were initially recorded in the 1920s and 1930s. Several Appalachian musicians obtained renown during the folk revival of the 1950s and 1960s, including Jean Ritchie, Roscoe Holcomb, Ola Belle Reed, Lily May Ledford, and Doc Watson.\n\nThe Carter Family was a traditional American folk music group that recorded between 1927 and 1956. Their music had a profound impact on bluegrass, country, Southern Gospel, pop and rock musicians. They were the first vocal group to become country music stars; a beginning of the divergence of country music from traditional folk music. Their recordings of such songs as \"Wabash Cannonball\" (1932), \"Will the Circle Be Unbroken\" (1935), \"Wildwood Flower\" (1928), and \"Keep on the Sunny Side\" (1928) made them country standards.\n\nCountry and bluegrass artists such as Loretta Lynn, Roy Acuff, Dolly Parton, Earl Scruggs, Chet Atkins, and Don Reno were heavily influenced by traditional Appalachian music. Artists such as Bob Dylan, Jerry Garcia, and Bruce Springsteen have performed Appalachian songs or rewritten versions of Appalachian songs.\n\nCajun music, an emblematic music of Louisiana, is rooted in the ballads of the French-speaking Acadians of Canada. Cajun music is often mentioned in tandem with the Creole-based, Cajun-influenced zydeco form, both of Acadiana origin. These French Louisiana sounds have influenced American popular music for many decades, especially country music, and have influenced pop culture through mass media, such as television commercials.\n\nBefore recorded history American Indians in this area used songs and instrumentation; music and dance remain the core of ceremonial and social activities. \"Stomp dance\" remains at its core, a \"call and response\" form; instrumentation is provided by rattles or shackles worn on the legs of women. \"Other southeastern nations have their own complexes of sacred and social songs, including those for animal dances and friendship dances, and songs that accompany stickball games.\n\nCentral to the music of the southern Plains Indians is the drum, which has been called the heartbeat of Plains Indian music. Most of that genre traces back to the hunting and warfare that was a strong part of plains culture. During the reservation period, they frequently used music to relieve boredom and despair. Neighbors gathered, exchanged and created songs and dances. This is a part of the roots of the modern intertribal powwow. Another common instrument is the courting flute.\n\nShape-note or sacred harp singing developed in the early nineteenth century as a way for itinerant singing instructors to teach church songs in rural communities. They taught using song books that represented musical notation of tones by geometric shapes that associated a shape with a pitch. Sacred harp singing became popular in many Oklahoma rural communities, regardless of ethnicity.\n\nLater, the blues tradition developed, with roots in and parallels to sacred music. By the early 20th century, jazz developed, born from a \"blend of ragtime, gospel, and blues\" \"Anglo-Scots-Irish music traditions gained a place in Oklahoma after the Land Run of 1889. Because of its size and portability, the fiddle was the core of early Oklahoma Anglo music, but other instruments such as the guitar, mandolin, banjo, and steel guitar were added later. Various Oklahoma music traditions trace their roots to the British Isles, including cowboy ballads, western swing, and contemporary country and western.\" \"Mexican immigrants began to reach Oklahoma in the 1870s, bringing beautiful canciones and corridos love songs, waltzes, and ballads along with them. Like American Indian communities, each rite of passage in Hispanic communities is accompanied by traditional music.\n\nThe acoustic guitar, string bass, and violin provide the basic instrumentation for Mexican music, with maracas, flute, horns, or sometimes accordion filling out the sound.\" Other Europeans (such as Bohemians and Germans) settled in the late nineteenth century. Their social activities centered on community halls, \"where local musicians played polkas and waltzes on the accordion, piano, and brass instruments.\"\n\nLater Asians contributed to the musical mix. \"Ancient music and dance traditions from the temples and courts of China, India, and Indonesia are preserved in Asian communities throughout the state, and popular song genres are continually layered on to these classical music forms\"\n\nTejano and New Mexico music, heard throughout the American Southwest and South Texas, is rooted in the musics of the Native American and Hispanic/Latino communities of the regions. Tejano music is also heavily influenced by Regional Mexican and Country music, while New Mexico music is much more influenced by Hispano folk and Western music. Both styles have influenced one another over the years, and incorporated American popular music styles.\n\nGenres here range as widely as the definition of folk music itself; working definitions are based on the style and themes of the music regardless of its source. Many are a part of the American Folk Music Revival, including works by Pete Seeger, Woody Guthrie, The Weavers, Burl Ives, and others. A more commercially oriented pop music version of folk emerged in the 1960s, including performers such as The Kingston Trio, The Limeliters, The Brothers Four, Peter, Paul and Mary, Joan Baez, The Highwaymen, Judy Collins, The New Christy Minstrels, and Gordon Lightfoot, as well as counterculture and folk rock performers including Bob Dylan, The Byrds, Arlo Guthrie, and Buffy Sainte-Marie. Folk composer and musician Robert Schmertz composed and wrote pieces related to historical events in Western Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 2004, NPR published the book titled \"The NPR Curious Listener's Guide to American Folk Music\", Linda Ronstadt wrote the foreword.\n\nIn 2007, James P. Leary published \"Polkabilly: How the Goose Island Ramblers Redefined American Folk Music\", which proposes a redefinition of traditional American folk music and identifies a new genre of music from the Upper Midwest known as \"Polkabilly\", which blends ethnic music, old-time country music, and polka. The book was awarded the American Folklore Society’s Chicago Folklore Prize for the best book in the field of folklore scholarship.\n\nNotable American folk/roots musicians include:\nGroups:\n\n\"Hootenanny\", a weekly musical variety show broadcast on the ABC network in the U.S. in 1963-1964, primarily featured folk musicians.\n\nThe soundtrack of the 2000 film \"O Brother, Where Art Thou?\" is exclusively roots music, performed by Alison Krauss, The Fairfield Four, Emmylou Harris, Norman Blake and others.\n\nIn 2001, PBS broadcast a 4-part documentary series, \"American Roots Music,\" that explored the historical roots of American roots music through footage and performances by the creators of the movement.\n\nThe 2003 film \"A Mighty Wind\" is a tribute to (and parody of) the folk-pop musicians of the early 1960s.\n\nA six-hour public television series, \"The Music of America: History Through Musical Traditions,\" appeared in 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1881", "title": "Art Deco", "text": "Art Deco\n\nArt Deco, sometimes referred to as Deco, is a style of visual arts, architecture and design that first appeared in France just before World War I. Art Deco influenced the design of buildings, furniture, jewelry, fashion, cars, movie theatres, trains, ocean liners, and everyday objects such as radios and vacuum cleaners. It took its name, short for \"Arts Décoratifs\", from the Exposition internationale des arts décoratifs et industriels modernes (International Exhibition of Modern Decorative and Industrial Arts) held in Paris in 1925. It combined modernist styles with fine craftsmanship and rich materials. During its heyday, Art Deco represented luxury, glamour, exuberance, and faith in social and technological progress.\n\nArt Deco was a pastiche of many different styles, sometimes contradictory, united by a desire to be modern. From its outset, Art Deco was influenced by the bold geometric forms of Cubism; the bright colors of Fauvism and of the Ballets Russes; the updated craftsmanship of the furniture of the eras of Louis Philippe I and Louis XVI; and the exotic styles of China and Japan, India, Persia, ancient Egypt and Maya art. It featured rare and expensive materials, such as ebony and ivory, and exquisite craftsmanship. The Chrysler Building and other skyscrapers of New York built during the 1920s and 1930s are monuments of the Art Deco style.\n\nIn the 1930s, during the Great Depression, the Art Deco style became more subdued. New materials arrived, including chrome plating, stainless steel, and plastic. A sleeker form of the style, called Streamline Moderne, appeared in the 1930s; it featured curving forms and smooth, polished surfaces. Art Deco is one of the first truly international styles, but its dominance ended with the beginning of World War II and the rise of the strictly functional and unadorned styles of modernism and the International Style of architecture that followed.\n\nArt Deco took its name, short for \"Arts Décoratifs\", from the Exposition Internationale des Arts Décoratifs et Industriels Modernes held in Paris in 1925, though the diverse styles that characterize Art Deco had already appeared in Paris and Brussels before World War I.\n\nThe term \"arts décoratifs\" was first used in France in 1858; published in the Bulletin de la Société française de photographie.\n\nIn 1868, \"Le Figaro\" newspaper used the term \"objets d'art décoratifs\" with respect to objects for stage scenery created for the Théâtre de l'Opéra.\n\nIn 1875, furniture designers, textile, jewelry and glass designers, and other craftsmen were officially given the status of artists by the French government. In response to this, the \"École royale gratuite de dessin\" (Royal Free School of Design) founded in 1766 under King Louis XVI to train artists and artisans in crafts relating to the fine arts, was renamed the National School of Decorative Arts (\"l'École nationale des arts décoratifs\"). It took its present name of ENSAD (\"École nationale supérieure des arts décoratifs\") in 1927.\n\nDuring the 1925 Exposition the architect Le Corbusier wrote a series of articles about the exhibition for his magazine \"L'Esprit Nouveau\" under the title, \"1925 EXPO. ARTS. DÉCO.\" which were combined into a book, \"L'art décoratif d'aujourd'hui\" (Decorative Art Today). The book was a spirited attack on the excesses of the colorful and lavish objects at the Exposition; and on the idea that practical objects such as furniture should have any decoration at all; his conclusion was that \"Modern decoration has no decoration\".\n\nThe actual phrase \"Art déco\" did not appear in print until 1966, when it featured in the title of the first modern exhibit on the subject, called \"Les Années 25 : Art déco, Bauhaus, Stijl, Esprit nouveau\", which covered the variety of major styles in the 1920s and 1930s. The term Art déco was then used in a 1966 newspaper article by Hillary Gelson in the Times (London, 12 November), describing the different styles at the exhibit.\n\nArt Deco gained currency as a broadly applied stylistic label in 1968 when historian Bevis Hillier published the first major academic book on the style: \"Art Deco of the 20s and 30s\". Hillier noted that the term was already being used by art dealers and cites \"The Times\" (2 November 1966) and an essay named \"Les Arts Déco\" in \"Elle\" magazine (November 1967) as examples of prior usage. In 1971, Hillier organized an exhibition at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, which he details in his book about it, \"The World of Art Deco\".\n\nThe emergence of Art Deco was closely connected with the rise in status of decorative artists, who until late in the 19th century had been considered simply as artisans. The term \"arts décoratifs\" had been invented in 1875, giving the designers of furniture, textiles, and other decoration official status. The Société des artistes décorateurs (Society of decorative artists), or SAD, was founded in 1901, and decorative artists were given the same rights of authorship as painters and sculptors. A similar movement developed in Italy. The first international exhibition devoted entirely to the decorative arts, the \"Esposizione international d'Arte decorative moderna\", was held in Turin in 1902. Several new magazines devoted to decorative arts were founded in Paris, including \"Arts et décoration\" and \"L'Art décoratif moderne\". Decorative arts sections were introduced into the annual salons of the Sociéte des artistes français, and later in the\" Salon d'automne\". French nationalism also played a part in the resurgence of decorative arts; French designers felt challenged by the increasing exports of less expensive German furnishings. In 1911, the SAD proposed the holding of a major new international exposition of decorative arts in 1912. No copies of old styles were to be permitted; only modern works. The exhibit was postponed until 1914, then, because of the war, postponed until 1925, when it gave its name to the whole family of styles known as Déco.\n\nParisian department stores and fashion designers also played an important part in the rise of Art Déco. Established firms including the luggage maker Louis Vuitton, silverware firm Christofle, glass designer René Lalique, and the jewelers Louis Cartier and Boucheron, who all began designing products in more modern styles. Beginning in 1900, department stores had recruited decorative artists to work in their design studios. The decoration of the 1912 Salon d'Automne had been entrusted to the department store Printemps. During the same year Printemps created its own workshop called \"Primavera\". By 1920 Primavera employed more than three hundred artists. The styles ranged from the updated versions of Louis XIV, Louis XVI and especially Louis Philippe furniture made by Louis Süe and the Primavera workshop to more modern forms from the workshop of the Au Louvre department store. Other designers, including Émile-Jacques Ruhlmann and Paul Foliot refused to use mass production, and insisted that each piece be made individually by hand. The early art deco style featured luxurious and exotic materials such as ebony, and ivory and silk, very bright colors and stylized motifs, particularly baskets and bouquets of flowers of all colors, giving a modernist look.\n\nThe Théâtre des Champs-Élysées (1910–1913), by Auguste Perret was the first landmark Art Deco building completed in Paris. Previously reinforced concrete had been used only for industrial and apartment buildings, Perret had built the first modern reinforced concrete apartment building in Paris on rue Benjamin Franklin in 1903-04. Henri Sauvage, another important future Art Deco architect, built another in 1904 at 7 rue Trétaigne (1904). From 1908 to 1910, the 21-year old Le Corbusier worked as a draftsman in Perret's office, learning the techniques of concrete construction. Perret's building had clean rectangular form, geometric decoration and straight lines, the future trademarks of Art Deco. The decor of the theater was also revolutionary; the facade was decorated with high reliefs by Antoine Bourdelle, a dome by Maurice Denis, paintings by Édouard Vuillard, and an Art Deco curtain Ker-Xavier Roussel. The theater became famous as the venue for many of the first performances of the Ballets Russes. Perret and Sauvage became the leading Art Deco architects in Paris in the 1920s.\n\nAt its birth between 1910 and 1914, Art Deco was an explosion of colors, featuring bright and often clashing hues, frequently in floral designs, presented in furniture upholstery, carpets, screens, wallpaper and fabrics. Many colorful works, including chairs and a table by Maurice Dufrene and a bright Gobelin carpet by Paul Follot were presented at the 1912 Salon des artistes décorateurs. In 1912–1913 designer Adrien Karbowsky made a floral chair with a parrot design for the hunting lodge of art collector Jacques Doucet. The furniture designers Louis Süe and André Mare made their first appearance at the 1912 exhibit, under the name of the \"Atelier Française,\" combining colorful fabrics with exotic and expensive materials, including ebony and ivory. After World War I they became one of the most prominent French interior design firms, producing the furniture for the first-class salons and cabins of the French transatlantic ocean liners.\n\nThe vivid colors of Art Deco came from many sources, including the exotic set designs by Leon Bakst for the Ballets Russes, which caused a sensation in Paris just before World War I. Some of the colors were inspired by the earlier Fauvism movement led by Henri Matisse; others by the Orphism of painters such as Sonia Delaunay; others by the movement known as the Nabis, and in the work of symbolist painter Odilon Redon, who designed fireplace screens and other decorative objects. Bright colors were a feature of the work of fashion designer Paul Poiret, whose work influenced both Art Deco fashion and interior design.\n\nThe art style known as Cubism appeared in France between 1907 and 1912, influencing the development of Art Deco. The Cubists, themselves under the influence of Paul Cézanne, were interested in the simplification of forms to their geometric essentials: the cylinder, the sphere, the cone.\n\nIn 1912, the artists of the Section d'Or exhibited works considerably more accessible to the general public than the analytical Cubism of Picasso and Braque. The Cubist vocabulary was poised to attract fashion, furniture and interior designers.\n\nIn the 1912 writings of André Vera. \"Le Nouveau style\", published in the journal \"L'Art décoratif\", he expressed the rejection of Art Nouveau forms (asymmetric, polychrome and picturesque) and called for \"simplicité volontaire, symétrie manifeste, l'ordre et l'harmonie\", themes that would eventually become common within Art Deco; though with time the Deco style was often extremely colorful and anything but simple.\n\nIn the \"Art Décoratif\" section of the 1912 Salon d'Automne, an architectural installation was exhibited known as the \"La Maison Cubiste\". The facade was designed by Raymond Duchamp-Villon. The decor of the house was by the firm of Louis Süe and André Mare, who had formed a company called the \"Atlelier Français\" in 1912. \"La Maison Cubiste\" was a furnished installation with a facade, a staircase, wrought iron banisters, a bedroom, a living room—the \"Salon Bourgeois\", where paintings by Albert Gleizes, Jean Metzinger, Marie Laurencin, Marcel Duchamp, Fernand Léger and Roger de La Fresnaye were hung. Thousands of spectators at the salon passed through the full-scale model.\nThe facade of the house, designed by Duchamp-Villon, was not very radical by modern standards; the lintels and pediments had prismatic shapes, but otherwise the facade resembled an ordinary house of the period. The rooms were furnished by Mare with neo-Louis XVI and Louis-Philippe style chairs and sofas that were updated with more angular features to make them go with the Cubist paintings. The critic Emile Sedeyn described Mare's work in the magazine \"Art et Décoration\": \"He does not embarrass himself with simplicity, for he multiplies flowers wherever they can be put. The effect he seeks is obviously one of picturesqueness and gaiety. He achieves it.\" The Cubist element was provided by the paintings. Despite its tameness, the installation was attacked by some critics as extremely radical, which helped make for its success. This architectural installation was subsequently exhibited at the 1913 Armory Show, New York, Chicago and Boston. Thanks largely to the exhibition, the term \"Cubist\" began to be applied to anything modern, from women's haircuts to clothing to theater performances.\n\nThe Cubist style continued within Art Deco, even as Deco branched out in many other directions. In 1927, Cubists Joseph Csaky, Jacques Lipchitz, Louis Marcoussis, Henri Laurens, the sculptor Gustave Miklos, and others collaborated in the decoration of a Studio House, rue Saint-James, Neuilly-sur-Seine, designed by the architect Paul Ruaud and owned by the French fashion designer Jacques Doucet, also a collector of Post-Impressionist art by Henri Matisse and Cubist paintings (including \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\", which he bought directly from Picasso's studio). Laurens designed the fountain, Csaky designed Doucet's staircase, Lipchitz made the fireplace mantel, and Marcoussis made a Cubist rug.\n\nBesides the Cubist artists, Doucet brought in other Deco interior designers to help in decorating the house, including Pierre Legrain, who was in charge of organizing the decoration, and Paul Iribe, Marcel Coard, André Groult, Eileen Gray and Rose Adler to provide furniture. The decor included massive pieces made of macassar ebony, inspired by African art, and furniture covered with Morocco leather, crocodile skin and snakeskin, and patterns taken from African designs.\n\nArt Deco was not a single style, but a collection of different and sometimes contradictory styles. In architecture, Art Deco was the successor to and reaction against Art Nouveau, a style which flourished in Europe between 1895 and 1900, and also gradually replaced the Beaux-Arts and neoclassical that were predominant in European and American architecture. In 1905 Eugène Grasset wrote and published \"Méthode de Composition Ornementale, Éléments Rectilignes,\" in which he systematically explored the decorative (ornamental) aspects of geometric elements, forms, motifs and their variations, in contrast with (and as a departure from) the undulating Art Nouveau style of Hector Guimard, so popular in Paris a few years earlier. Grasset stressed the principle that various simple geometric shapes like triangles and squares are the basis of all compositional arrangements. The reinforced concrete buildings of Auguste Perret and Henri Sauvage, and particularly the Theatre des Champs-Elysees, offered a new form of construction and decoration which was copied worldwide.\n\nIn decoration, many different styles were borrowed and used by Art Deco. They included pre-modern art from around the world and observable at the Musée du Louvre, Musée de l'Homme and the Musée national des Arts d'Afrique et d'Océanie. There was also popular interest in archeology due to excavations at Pompeii, Troy, and the tomb of the 18th dynasty Pharaoh Tutankhamun. Artists and designers integrated motifs from ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia, Greece, Rome, Asia, Mesoamerica and Oceania with Machine Age elements.\n\nOther styles borrowed included Russian Constructivism and Italian Futurism, as well as Orphism, Functionalism, and Modernism in general. Art Deco also used the clashing colors and designs of Fauvism, notably in the work of Henri Matisse and André Derain, inspired the designs of art deco textiles, wallpaper, and painted ceramics. It took ideas from the high fashion vocabulary of the period, which featured geometric designs, chevrons, zigzags, and stylized bouquets of flowers. It was influenced by discoveries in Egyptology, and growing interest in the Orient and in African art. From 1925 onwards, it was often inspired by a passion for new machines, such as airships, automobiles and ocean liners, and by 1930 this influence resulted in the style called streamline moderne.\n\nArt Deco was associated with both luxury and modernity; it combined very expensive materials and exquisite craftsmanship put into modernistic forms. Nothing was cheap about Art Deco: pieces of furniture included ivory and silver inlays, and pieces of Art Deco jewelry combined diamonds with platinum, jade, and other precious materials. The style was used to decorate the first-class salons of ocean liners, deluxe trains, and skyscrapers. It was used around the world to decorate the great movie palaces of the late 1920s and 1930s. Later, after the Great Depression, the style changed and became more sober.\n\nA good example of the luxury style of Art Deco is the boudoir of the fashion designer Jeanne Lanvin, designed by Armand-Albert Rateau (1882-1938) made between 1922-25. It was located in her house at 16 rue Barbet de Jouy, in Paris, which was demolished in 1965. The room was reconstructed in the Museum of Decorative Arts in Paris. The walls are covered with molded \"lambris\" below sculpted bas-reliefs in stucco. The alcove is framed with columns of marble on with bases and a plinth of sculpted wood. The floor is of white and black marble, and in the cabinets decorative objects are displayed against a background of blue silk. Her bathroom had a tub and washstand made of sienna marble, with a wall of carved stucco and bronze fittings.\n\nBy 1928 the style had become more comfortable, with deep leather club chairs. The study designed by the Paris firm of Alavoine for an American businessman in 1928-30, now in the Brooklyn Museum, had a unique American feature. Since it was constructed during Prohibition, when serving alcohol was prohibited, it included a secret bar hidden behind the panels.\n\nBy the 1930s, the style had been somewhat simplified, but it was still extravagant. In 1932 the decorator Paul Ruoud made the Glass Salon for Suzanne Talbot. It featured a serpentine armchair and two tubular armchairs by Eileen Gray, a floor of mat silvered glass slabs, a panel of abstract patterns in silver and black lacquer, and an assortment of animal skins.\n\nThe event that marked the zenith of the style and gave it its name was the International Exhibition of Modern Decorative and Industrial Arts which took place in Paris from April to October in 1925. This was officially sponsored by the French government, and covered a site in Paris of 55 acres, running from the Grand Palais on the right bank to Les Invalides on the left bank, and along the banks of the Seine. The Grand Palais, the largest hall in the city, was filled with exhibits of decorative arts from the participating countries. There were 15,000 exhibitors from twenty different countries, including England, Italy, Spain, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Belgium, Japan, and the new Soviet Union, though Germany was not invited because of tensions after the war and the United States, misunderstanding the purpose of the exhibit, declined to participate. It was visited by sixteen million people during its seven-month run. The rules of the exhibition required that all work be modern; no historical styles were allowed. The main purpose of the Exhibit was to promote the French manufacturers of luxury furniture, porcelain, glass, metal work, textiles and other decorative products. To further promote the products, all the major Paris department stores and major designers had their own pavilions. The Exposition had a secondary purpose in promoting products from French colonies in Africa and Asia, including ivory and exotic woods.\n\nThe Hôtel du Riche Collectionneur was a popular attraction at the Exposition; it displayed the new furniture designs of Emile-Jacques Ruhlmann, as well as Art Deco fabrics, carpets, and a painting by Jean Dupas. The interior design followed the same principles of symmetry and geometric forms which set it apart from Art Nouveau, and bright colors, fine craftsmanship rare and expensive materials which set it apart from the strict functionality of the Modernist style. While most of the pavilions were lavishly decorated and filled with hand-made luxury furniture, two pavilions, those of the Soviet Union and Pavilion du Nouveau Esprit, built by the magazine of that name run by Le Corbusier, were built in an austere style with plain white walls and no decoration; they were among the earliest examples of modernist architecture.\n\nAmerican skyscrapers marked the summit of the Art Deco style; they became the tallest and most recognizable modern buildings in the world. They were designed to show the prestige of their builders through their height, their shape, their color, and their dramatic illumination at night. The first New York skyscraper, the Woolworth Building, in a neoclassical style, was completed in 1913, and the American Telephone and Telegraph Building (1924) had ionic and doric columns and a classical Doric hypostyle with a frieze. The American Radiator Building by Raymond Hood (1924) combined Gothic and Deco modern elements in the design of the building. Black brick on the frontage of the building (symbolizing coal) was selected to give an idea of solidity and to give the building a solid mass. Other parts of the facade were covered in gold bricks (symbolizing fire), and the entry was decorated with marble and black mirrors. Another early Art Deco skyscraper was Detroit's Guardian Building, which opened in 1929. Designed by modernist Wirt C. Rowland, the building was the first to employ stainless steel as a decorative element, and the extensive use of colored designs in place of traditional ornaments.\n\nThe New York skyline was radically changed by the Chrysler Building in Manhattan (completed in 1930), designed by William Van Alen. It was a giant seventy-seven floor tall advertisement for Chrysler automobiles. The top was crowned by a stainless steel spire, and was ornamented by deco \"gargoyles\" in the form of stainless steel radiator cap decorations. The base of the tower, thirty-three stories above the street, was decorated with colorful art deco friezes, and the lobby was decorated with art deco symbols and images expressing modernity.\n\nThe Chrysler Building was followed by the Empire State Building by William F. Lamb (1931) and the RCA Building (now the Comcast Building) in Rockefeller Center, by Raymond Hood (1933) which together completely changed the skyline of New York. The tops of the buildings were decorated with Art Deco crowns and spires covered with stainless steel, and, in the case of the Chrysler building, with Art Deco gargoyles modeled after radiator ornaments, while the entrances and lobbies were lavishly decorated with Art Deco sculpture, ceramics, and design. Similar buildings, though not quite as tall, soon appeared in Chicago and other large American cities. The Chrysler Building was soon surpassed in height by the Empire State Building, in a slightly less lavish Deco style. Rockefeller Center added a new design element: several tall building grouped around an open plaza, with a fountain in the center.\n\nIn 1925 two different competing schools coexisted within Art Deco: the traditionalists, who had founded the Society of Decorative Artists; included the furniture designer Emile-Jacques Ruhlmann, Jean Dunard, the sculptor Antoine Bourdelle, and designer Paul Poiret; they combined modern forms with traditional craftsmanship and expensive materials. On the other side were the modernists, who increasingly rejected the past and wanted a style based upon advances in new technologies, simplicity, a lack of decoration, inexpensive materials, and mass production. The modernists founded their own organization, The French Union of Modern Artists, in 1929. Its members included architects Pierre Chareau, Francis Jourdain, Robert Mallet-Stevens, Corbusier, and, in the Soviet Union, Konstantin Melnikov; the Irish designer Eileen Gray, and French designer Sonia Delaunay, the jewelers Jean Fouquet and Jean Puiforcat. They fiercely attacked the traditional art deco style, which they said was created only for the wealthy, and insisted that well-constructed buildings should be available to everyone, and that form should follow function. The beauty of an object or building resided in whether it was perfectly fit to fulfill its function. Modern industrial methods meant that furniture and buildings could be mass-produced, not made by hand.\n\nThe Art Deco interior designer Paul Follot defended Art Deco in this way: \"We know that man is never content with the indispensable and that the superfluous is always needed...If not, we would have to get rid of music, flowers, and perfumes..!\" However, Le Corbusier was a brilliant publicist for modernist architecture; he stated that a house was simply \"a machine to live in\", and tirelessly promoted the idea that Art Deco was the past and modernism was the future. Le Corbusier's ideas were gradually adopted by architecture schools, and the aesthetics of Art Deco were abandoned. The same features that made Art Deco popular in the beginning, its craftsmanship, rich materials and ornament, led to its decline. The Great Depression that began in the United States in 1929, and reached Europe shortly afterwards, greatly reduced the number of wealthy clients who could pay for the furnishings and art objects. In the Depression economic climate, few companies were ready to build new skyscrapers. Even the Ruhlmann firm resorted to producing pieces of furniture in series, rather than individual hand-made items. The last buildings built in Paris in the new style were the Museum of Public Works by Auguste Perret (now the French Economic, Social and Environmental Council) and the Palais de Chaillot by Louis-Hippolyte Boileau, Jacques Carlu and Léon Azéma, and the Palais de Tokyo of the 1937 Paris International Exposition; they looked out at the grandiose pavilion of Nazi Germany, designed by Albert Speer, which faced the equally grandiose socialist-realist pavilion of Stalin's Soviet Union.\n\nAfter World War II the dominant architectural style became the International Style pioneered by Le Corbusier, and Mies Van der Rohe. A handful of Art Deco hotels were built in Miami Beach after World War II, but elsewhere the style largely vanished, except in industrial design, where it continued to be used in automobile styling and products such as jukeboxes. In the 1960s, it experienced a modest academic revival, thanks in part to the writings of architectural historians such as Bevis Hillier. In the 1970s efforts were made in the United States and Europe to preserve the best examples of Art Deco architecture, and many buildings were restored and repurposed. Postmodern architecture, which first appeared in the 1980s, like Art Deco, often includes purely decorative features. Deco continues to inspire designers, and is often used in contemporary fashion, jewelry, and toiletries.\n\nThere was no section set aside for painting at the 1925 Exposition. Art deco painting was by definition decorative, designed to decorate a room or work of architecture, so few painters worked exclusively in the style, but two painters are closely associated with Art Deco. Jean Dupas painted Art Deco murals for the Bordeaux Pavilion at the 1925 Decorative Arts Exposition in Paris, and also painted the picture over the fireplace in the Maison de la Collectioneur exhibit at the 1925 Exposition, which featured furniture by Ruhlmann and other prominent Art Deco designers. His murals were also prominent in the decor of the French ocean liner SS \"Normandie\". His work was purely decorative, designed as a background or accompaniment to other elements of the decor.\n\nThe other painter closely associated with the style is Tamara de Lempicka. Born in Poland, she emigrated to Paris after the Russian Revolution. She studied under Maurice Denis and André Lhote, and borrowed many elements from their styles. She painted portraits in a realistic, dynamic and colorful Art Deco style.\n\nIn the 1930s a dramatic new form of Art Deco painting appeared in the United States. During the Great Depression, the Federal Art Project of the Works Progress Administration was created to give work to unemployed artists. Many were given the task of decorating government buildings, hospitals and schools. There was no specific art deco style used in the murals; artists engaged to paint murals in government buildings came from many different schools, from American regionalism to social realism; they included Reginald Marsh, Rockwell Kent and the Mexican painter Diego Rivera. The murals were Art Deco because they were all decorative and related to the activities in the building or city where they were painted: Reginald Marsh and Rockwell Kent both decorated U.S. postal buildings, and showed postal employees at work while Diego Rivera depicted automobile factory workers for the Detroit Institute of Arts. Diego Rivera's mural \"Man at the Crossroads\" (1933) for Rockefeller Center featured an unauthorized portrait of Lenin. When Rivera refused to remove Lenin, the painting was destroyed and a new mural was painted by the Spanish artist Josep Maria Sert.\nMost of the sculpture of the Art Deco period was, as the name suggests, purely decorative; it was designed not for museums, but to ornament office buildings, government buildings, public squares and private salons. It was almost always representational, usually of heroic or allegorical figures related to the purpose of the building; the themes were usually chosen by the patron, and abstract sculpture for decoration was extremely rare. It was frequently attached to facade of buildings, particularly over the entrances and lobbies.\n\nAllegorical sculptures of the dance and music by Antoine Bourdelle were the essential decorative feature of the earliest Art Deco landmark in Paris, the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées in Paris, in 1912. The sculptor Aristide Maillol reinvented the classical ideal for his statue of the River (1939), now at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. In the 1930s, a whole team of sculptors made sculpture for the 1937 Exposition Internationale des Arts et Techniques dans la Vie Moderne at Chaillot. The buildings of the Exposition were covered with low-relief sculpture, statues. Alfred Janniot made the relief sculptures on the facade of the Palais de Tokyo. The Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris, and the esplanade in front of the Palais de Chaillot, facing the Eiffel Tower, was crowded with new statuary by Charles Malfray, Henry Arnold, and many others.\n\nIn the United States, many European sculptors trained at the École des Beaux Arts in Paris, came to work; they included Gutzon Borglum, sculptor of Mount Rushmore Lincoln Memorial. Other American sculptors, including Harriet Whitney Frishmuth, had studied with Auguste Rodin in Paris. The 1929 stock market crash largely destroyed the market for monumental sculpture, but one grand project remained; the new Rockefeller Center. The American sculptors Lee Lawrie and Paul Manship designed heroic allegorical figures for facade and plaza. In San Francisco, Ralph Stackpole provided sculpture for the facade of the new San Francisco Stock Exchange building.\n\nOne of the best known and certainly the largest Art Deco sculpture is the \"Christ the Redeemer\" by the French sculptor Paul Landowski, completed between 1922 and 1931, located on a mountain top overlooking Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. François Pompon was a pioneer of modern stylized animalier sculpture. He was not fully recognized for his artistic accomplishments until the age of 67 at the Salon d'Automne of 1922 with the work \"Ours blanc\", also known as \"The White Bear\", now in the Musée d'Orsay in Paris.\n\nMany early Art Deco sculptures were small, designed to decorate salons. One genre of this sculpture was called the Chryselephantine statuette, named for a style of ancient Greek temple statues made of gold and ivory. One of the best-known Art Deco salon sculptors was the Romanian-born Demétre Chiparus, who produced colorful small sculptures of dancers. Other notable salon sculptors included Ferdinand Preiss, Josef Lorenzl, Alexander Kelety, Dorothea Charol and Gustav Schmidtcassel.\n\nParallel with these more neoclassical sculptors, more avant-garde and abstract sculptors were at work in Paris and New York. The most prominent were Constantin Brâncuși, Joseph Csaky, Alexander Archipenko, Henri Laurens, Jacques Lipchitz, Gustave Miklos, Jean Lambert-Rucki, Jan et Joël Martel, Chana Orloff and Pablo Gargallo.\n\nThe Art Deco style appeared early in the graphic arts, in the years just before World War I. It appeared in Paris in the posters and the costume designs of Leon Bakst for the Ballets Russes, and in the catalogs of the fashion designers Paul Poiret. The illustrations of Georges Barbier, and Georges Lepape and the images in the fashion magazine \"La Gazette du bon ton\" perfectly captured the elegance and sensuality of the style. In the 1920s, the look changed; the fashions stressed were more casual, sportive and daring, with the woman models usually smoking cigarettes. American fashion magazines such as \"Vogue\", \"Vanity Fair\" and \"Harper's Bazaar\" quickly picked up the new style and popularized it in the United States. It also influenced the work of American book illustrators such as Rockwell Kent. In Germany, the most famous poster artist of the period was Ludwig Hohlwein, who created colorful and dramatic posters for music festivals, beers, and, late in his career, for the Nazi Party.\n\nDuring the Art Nouveau period, posters usually advertised theatrical products or cabarets. In the 1920s, travel posters, made for steamship lines and airlines, became extremely popular. The style changed notably in the 1920s, to focus attention on the product being advertised. The images became simpler, precise, more linear, more dynamic, and were often placed against a single color background. In France popular Art Deco designers included, Charles Loupot and Paul Colin, who became famous for his posters of American singer and dancer Josephine Baker. Jean Carlu designed posters for Charlie Chaplin movies, soaps, and theaters; in the late 1930s he emigrated to the United States, where, during the World War, he designed posters to encourage war production. The designer Charles Gesmar became famous making posters for the singer Mistinguett and for Air France. Among the best known French Art Deco poster designers was Cassandre, who made the celebrated poster of the ocean liner SS \"Normandie\" in 1935.\n\nIn the 1930s a new genre of posters appeared in the United States during the Great Depression. The Federal Art Project hired American artists to create posters to promote tourism and cultural events.\n\nThe architectural style of art deco made its debut in Paris in 1903-04, with the construction of two apartment buildings in Paris, one by Auguste Perret on rue Trétaigne and the other on rue Benjamin Franklin by Henri Sauvage. The two young architects used reinforced concrete for the first time in Paris residential buildings; the new buildings had clean lines, rectangular forms, and no decoration on the facades; they marked a clean break with the art nouveau style. Between 1910 and 1913, Perret used his experience in concrete apartment buildings to construct the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées, 15 avenue Montaigne. Between 1925 and 1928 he constructed the new art deco facade of the La Samaritaine department store in Paris.\n\nAfter the First World War, art deco buildings of steel and reinforced concrete began to appear in large cities across Europe and the United States. In the United States the style was most commonly used for office buildings, government buildings, movie theaters, and railroad stations. It sometimes was combined with other styles; Los Angeles City Hall combined Art Deco with a roof based on the ancient Greek Mausoleum at Halicarnassus, while the Los Angeles railroad station combined Deco with Spanish mission architecture. Art Deco elements also appeared in engineering projects, including the towers of the Golden Gate Bridge and the intake towers of Hoover Dam. In the 1920s and 1930s it became a truly international style, with examples including the Palacio de Bellas Artes (Palace of Fine Arts) in Mexico City by , the Mayakovskaya Metro Station in Moscow and the National Diet Building in Tokyo by Watanabe Fukuzo.\n\nThe Art Deco style was not limited to buildings on land; the ocean liner SS \"Normandie\", whose first voyage was in 1935, featured Art Deco design, including a dining room whose ceiling and decoration were made of glass by Lalique.\n\nThe grand showcases of Art deco interior design were the lobbies of government buildings, theaters, and particularly office buildings. Interiors were extremely colorful and dynamic, combining sculpture, murals, and ornate geometric design in marble, glass, ceramics and stainless steel. An early example was the Fisher Building in Detroit, by Joseph Nathaniel French; the lobby was highly decorated with sculpture and ceramics. The Guardian Building (originally the Union Trust Building) in Detroit, by Wirt Rowland (1929), decorated with red and black marble and brightly colored ceramics, highlighted by highly polished steel elevator doors and counters. The sculptural decoration installed in the walls illustrated the virtues of industry and saving; the building was immediately termed the \"Cathedral of Commerce\". The Medical and Dental Building called 450 Sutter Street in San Francisco by Timothy Pflueger was inspired by Mayan architecture, in a highly stylized form; it used pyramid shapes, and the interior walls were covered highly stylized rows of hieroglyphs.\n\nIn France, the best example of an Art Deco interior during period was the Palais de la Porte Dorée (1931) by Albert Laprade, Léon Jaussely and Léon Bazin. The building (now the National Museum of Immigration, with an aquarium in the basement) was built for the Paris Colonial Exposition of 1931, to celebrate the people and products of French colonies. The exterior facade was entirely covered with sculpture, and the lobby created an Art Deco harmony with a wood parquet floor in a geometric pattern, a mural depicting the people of French colonies; and a harmonious composition of vertical doors and horizontal balconies.\n\nMany of the best surviving examples of Art Deco are movie theaters built in the 1920s and 1930s. The Art Deco period coincided with the conversion of silent films to sound, and movie companies built enormous theaters in major cities to capture the huge audience that came to see movies. Movie palaces in the 1920s often combined exotic themes with art deco style; Grauman's Egyptian Theater in Hollywood (1922) was inspired by ancient Egyptian tombs and pyramids, while the Fox Theater in Bakersfield, California attached a tower in California Mission style to an Art Deco hall. The largest of all is Radio City Music Hall in New York City, which opened in 1932. Originally designed as a stage theater, it quickly transformed into a movie theater, which could seat 6,015 persons The interior design by Donald Deskey used glass, aluminum, chrome, and leather to create a colorful escape from reality The Paramount Theater in Oakland, California, by Timothy Pflueger, had a colorful ceramic facade a lobby four stories high, and separate Art Deco smoking rooms for gentlemen and ladies. Similar grand palaces appeared in Europe. The Grand Rex in Paris (1932), with its imposing tower, was the largest movie theater in Europe. The Gaumont State Cinema in London (1937) had a tower modeled after the Empire State building, covered with cream-colored ceramic tiles and an interior in an Art Deco-Italian Renaissance style. The Paramount Theater in Shanghai, China (1933) was originally built as a dance hall called \"The gate of 100 pleasures\"; it was converted to a movie theater after the Communist Revolution in 1949, and now is a ballroom and disco. In the 1930s Italian architects built a small movie palace, the Cinema Impero, in Asmara in what is now Eritrea. Today, many of the movie theaters have been subdivided into multiplexes, but others have been restored and are used as cultural centers in their communities.\n\nIn the late 1930s, a new variety of Art Deco architecture became common; it was called Streamline Moderne or simply Streamline, or, in France, the Style Paqueboat, or Ocean Liner style. Buildings in the style were had rounded corners, long horizontal lines; they were built of reinforced concrete, and were almost always white; and sometimes had nautical features, such as railings that resembled those on a ship. The rounded corner was not entirely new; it had appeared in Berlin in 1923 in the Mossehaus by Erich Mendelsohn, and later in the Hoover Building, an industrial complex in the London suburb of Perivale. In the United States, it became most closely associated with transport; Streamline moderne was rare in office buildings, but was often used for bus stations and airport terminals, such as terminal at La Guardia airport in New York City that handled the first transatlantic flights, via the PanAm clipper flying boats; and in roadside architecture, such as gas stations and diners. In the late 1930s a series of diners, modeled after streamlined railroad cars, were produced and installed in towns in New England; at least two examples still remain and are now registered historic buildings.\n\nDecoration in the Art Deco period went through several distinct phases. Between 1910 and 1920, as Art Nouveau was exhausted, design styles saw a return to tradition, particularly in the work of Paul Iribe. In 1912 André Vera published an essay in the magazine \"L'Art Décoratif\" calling for a return to the craftsmanship and materials of earlier centuries, and using a new repertoire of forms taken from nature, particularly baskets and garlands of fruit and flowers. A second tendency of Art Deco, also from 1910 to 1920, was inspired by the bright colors of the artistic movement known as the Fauves and by the colorful costumes and sets of the Ballets Russes. This style was often expressed with exotic materials such as sharkskin, mother of pearl, ivory, tinted leather, lacquered and painted wood, and decorative inlays on furniture that emphasized its geometry. This period of the style reached its high point in the 1925 Paris Exposition of Decorative Arts. In the late 1920s and the 1930s, the decorative style changed, inspired by new materials and technologies. It became sleeker and less ornamental. Furniture, like architecture, began to have rounded edges and to take on a polished, streamlined look, taken from the streamline modern style. New materials, such as chrome-plated steel, aluminum and bakelite, an early form of plastic, began to appear in furniture and decoration.\n\nThroughout the Art Deco period, and particularly in the 1930s, the motifs of the decor expressed the function of the building. Theaters were decorated with sculpture which illustrated music, dance, and excitement; power companies showed sunrises, the Chrysler building showed stylized hood ornaments; The friezes of Palais de la Porte Dorée at the 1931 Paris Colonial Exposition showed the faces of the different nationalities of French colonies. The Streamline style made it appear that the building itself was in motion. The WPA murals of the 1930s featured ordinary people; factory workers, postal workers, families and farmers, in place of classical heroes.\n\nFrench furniture from 1910 until the early 1920s was largely an updating of French traditional furniture styles, and the art nouveau designs of Louis Majorelle, Charles Plumet and other manufacturers. French furniture manufacturers felt threatened by the growing popularity of German manufacturers and styles, particularly the Biedermeier style, which was simple and clean-lined. The French designer Frantz Jourdain, the President of the Paris Salon d'Automne, invited designers from Munich to participate in the 1910 Salon. French designers saw the new German style, and decided to meet the German challenge. The French designers decided to present new French styles in the Salon of 1912. The rules of the Salon indicated that only modern styles would be permitted. All of the major French furniture designers took part in Salon: Paul Follot, Paul Iribe, Maurice Dufrene, André Groult, André Mare and Louis Suë took part, presenting new works that updated the traditional French styles of Louis XVI and Louis Philippe with more angular corners inspired by Cubism and brighter colors inspired by Fauvism and the Nabis.\n\nThe painter André Mare and furniture designer Louis Suë both participated the 1912 Salon. After the war the two men joined together to form their own company, formally called the \"Compagnie des Arts Française\", but usually known simply as Suë and Mare. Unlike the prominent art nouveau designers like Louis Majorelle, who personally designed every piece, they assembled a team of skilled craftsmen and produced complete interior designs, including furniture, glassware, carpets, ceramics, wallpaper and lighting. Their work featured bright colors and furniture and fine woods, such ebony encrusted with mother of pearl, abalone and silvered metal to create bouquets of flowers. They designed everything from the interiors of ocean liners to perfume bottles for the label of Jean Patou.The firm prospered in the early 1920s, but the two men were better craftsmen than businessmen. The firm was sold in 1928, and both men left.\n\nThe most prominent furniture designer at the 1925 Decorative Arts Exposition was Émile-Jacques Ruhlmann, from Alsace. He first exhibited his works at the 1913 Autumn Salon, then had his own pavilion, the \"House of the Rich Collector\", at the 1925 Exposition. He used only most rare and expensive materials, including ebony, mahogany, rosewood, ambon and other exotic woods, decorated with inlays of ivory, tortoise shell, mother of pearl, Little pompoms of silk decorated the handles of drawers of the cabinets. His furniture was based upon 18th-century models, but simplified and reshaped. In all of his work, the interior structure of the furniture was completely concealed. The framework usually of oak, was completely covered with an overlay of thin strips of wood, then covered by a second layer of strips of rare and expensive woods. This was then covered with a veneer and polished, so that the piece looked as if it had been cut out of a single block of wood. Contrast to the dark wood was provided by inlays of ivory, and ivory key plates and handles. According to Ruhlmann, armchairs had to be designed differently according to the functions of the rooms where they appeared; living room armchairs were designed to be welcoming, office chairs comfortable, and salon chairs voluptuous. Only a small number of pieces of each design of furniture was made, and the average price of one of his beds or cabinets was greater than the price of an average house.\n\nJules Leleu was a traditional furniture designer who moved smoothly into Art Deco in the 1920s; he designed the furniture for the dining room of the Élysée Palace, and for the first-class cabins of the steamship \"Normandie\". his style was characterized by the use of ebony, Macassar wood, walnut, with decoration of plaques of ivory and mother of pearl. He introduced the style of lacquered art deco furniture at the end of in the late 1920s, and in the late 1930s introduced furniture made of metal with panels of smoked glass. In Italy, the designer Gio Ponti was famous for his streamlined designs.\n\nThe costly and exotic furniture of Ruhlmann and other traditionalists infuriated modernists, including the architect Le Corbusier, causing him to write a famous series of articles denouncing the \"arts décoratif\" style. He attacked furniture made only for the rich, and called upon designers to create furniture made with inexpensive materials and modern style, which ordinary people could afford. He designed his own chairs, created to be inexpensive and mass-produced.\n\nIn the 1930s, furniture designs adapted to the form, with smoother surfaces and curved forms. The masters of the late style included Donald Deskey was one of the most influential designers; he created the interior of the Radio City Music Hall. He used a mixture of traditional and very modern materials, including aluminum, chrome, and bakelite, an early form of plastic. The Waterfall style was popular the 1930s and 1940s, the most prevalent Art Deco form of furniture at the time. Pieces were typically of plywood finished with blond veneer and with rounded edges, resembling a waterfall.\n\nStreamline was a variety of Art Deco which emerged during the mid-1930s. It was influenced by modern aerodynamic principles developed for aviation and ballistics to reduce aerodynamic drag at high velocities. The bullet shapes were applied by designers to cars, trains, ships, and even objects not intended to move, such as refrigerators, gas pumps, and buildings. One of the first production vehicles in this style was the Chrysler Airflow of 1933. It was unsuccessful commercially, but the beauty and functionality of its design set a precedent; meant modernity. It continued to be used in car design well after World War II.\n\nNew industrial materials began to influence design of cars and household objects. These included aluminum, chrome, and bakelite, an early form of plastic. Bakelite could be easily molded into different forms, and soon was used in telephones, radios and other appliances.\n\nOcean liners also adopted a style of Art Deco, known in French as the \"Style Paquebot\", or \"Ocean Liner Style\". The most famous example was the SS \"Normandie\", which made its first transatlantic trip in 1935. It was designed particularly to bring wealthy Americans to Paris to shop. The cabins and salons featured the latest Art Deco furnishings and decoration. The Grand Salon of the ship, which was the restaurant for first-class passengers, was bigger than the Hall of Mirrors of the Palace of Versailles. It was illuminated by electric lights within twelve pillars of Lalique crystal; thirty-six matching pillars lined the walls. This was one of the earliest examples of illumination being directly integrated into architecture. The style of ships was soon adapted to buildings. A notable example is found on the San Francisco waterfront, where the Maritime Museum building, built as a public bath in 1937, resembles a ferryboat, with ship railings and rounded corners. The Star Ferry Terminal in Hong Kong also used a variation of the style.\n\nArt Deco influenced fashion with a combination of geometric shapes, avant-garde style and luxury in clothing such as works of Paul Poiret, Charles Worth and Jean Patou. In the 1920s, designers were inspired by the stage sets of the Ballets Russes, fabric designs and costumes from Léon Bakst and creations by the Wiener Werkstätte.\n\nIn the 1920s and 1930s, designers including René Lalique and Cartier tried reduce the traditional dominance of diamonds by introducing more colorful gemstones, such as small emeralds, rubies and sapphires. They also placed greater emphasis on very elaborate and elegant settings, featuring less-expensive materials such as enamel, glass, horn and ivory. Diamonds themselves were cut in less traditional forms; the 1925 Exposition saw a large number of diamonds cut in the form of tiny rods or matchsticks. The settings for diamonds also changed; More and more often jewelers used platinum instead of gold, since it was strong and flexible, and could set clusters of stones. Jewelers also began to use more dark materials, such as enamels and black onyx, which provided a higher contrast with diamonds.\n\nJewelry became much more colorful and varied in style. Cartier and the firm of Boucheron combined diamonds with colorful other gemstones cut into the form of leaves, fruit or flowers, to make brooches, rings, earrings, clips and pendants. Far Eastern themes also became popular; plaques of jade and coral were combined with platinum and diamonds, and vanity cases, cigarette cases and powder boxes were decorated with Japanese and Chinese landscapes made with mother of pearl, enamel and lacquer.\n\nRapidly changing fashions in clothing brought new styles of jewelry. Sleeveless dresses of the 1920s meant that arms needed decoration, and designers quickly created bracelets of gold, silver and platinum encrusted with lapis-lazuli, onyx, coral, and other colorful stones; Other bracelets were intended for the upper arms, and several bracelets were often worn at the same time. The short haircuts of women in the twenties called for elaborate deco earring designs. As women began to smoke in public, designers created very ornate cigarette cases and ivory cigarette holders. The invention of the wrist-watch before World War I inspired jewelers to create extraordinary decorated watches, encrusted with diamonds and plated with enamel, gold and silver. Pendant watches, hanging from a ribbon, also became fashionable.\n\nThe established jewelry houses of Paris in the period, Cartier, Chaumet, Georges Fouquet, Mauboussin, and Van Cleef & Arpels all created jewelry and objects in the new fashion. The firm of Chaumet made highly geometric cigarette boxes, cigarette lighters, pillboxes and notebooks, made of hard stones decorated with jade, lapis lazuli, diamonds and sapphires. They were joined by many young new designers, each with his own idea of deco. Raymond Templier designed pieces with highly intricate geometric patterns, including silver earrings that looked like skyscrapers. Gerard Sandoz was only 18 when he started to design jewelry in 1921; he designed many celebrated pieces based on the smooth and polished look of modern machinery. The glass designer René Lalique also entered the field, creating pendants of fruit, flowers, frogs, fairies or mermaids made of sculpted glass in bright colors, hanging on cords of silk with tassels. The jeweler Paul Brandt contrasted rectangular and triangular patterns, and embedded pearls in lines on onyx plaques. Jean Despres made necklaces of contrasting colors by bringing together silver and black lacquer, or gold with lapis lazuli. Many of his designs looked like highly polished pieces of machines. Jean Dunand was also inspired by modern machinery, combined with bright reds and blacks contrasting with polished metal.\n\nLike the Art Nouveau period before it, Art Deco was an exceptional period for fine glass and other decorative objects, designed to fit their architectural surroundings. The most famous producer of glass objects was René Lalique, whose works, from vases to hood ornaments for automobiles, became symbols of the period. He had made ventures into glass before World War I, designing bottles for the perfumes of François Coty, but he did not begin serious production of art glass until after World War I. In 1918, at the age of 58, he bought a large glass works in Combs-la-Ville and began to manufacture both artistic and practical glass objects. He treated glass as a form of sculpture, and created statuettes, vases, bowls, lamps and ornaments. He used demi-crystal rather than lead crystal, which was softer and easier to form, though not as lustrous. He sometimes used colored glass, but more often used opalescent glass, where part or the whole of the outer surface was stained with a wash. Lalique provided the decorative glass panels, lights and illuminated glass ceilings for the ocean liners SS \"Ile de France\" in 1927 and the SS \"Normandie\" in 1935, and for some of the first-class sleeping cars of the French railroads. At the 1925 Exposition of Decorative Arts, he had his own pavilion, designed a dining room with a table settling and matching glass ceiling for the Sèvres Pavilion, and designed a glass fountain for the courtyard of the Cours des Métier, a slender glass column which spouted water from the sides and was illuminated at night.\n\nOther notable Art Deco glass manufacturers included Marius-Ernest Sabino, who specialized in figurines, vases, bowls, and glass sculptures of fish, nudes, and animals. For these he often used an opalescent glass which could change from white to blue to amber, depending upon the light. His vases and bowls featured molded friezes of animals, nudes or busts of women with fruit or flowers. His work was less subtle but more colorful than that of Lalique.\n\nOther notable Deco glass designers included Edmond Etling, who also used bright opalescent colors, often with geometric patterns and sculpted nudes; Albert Simonet, and Aristide Colotte and Maurice Marinot, who was known for his deeply etched sculptural bottles and vases. The firm of Daum from the city of Nancy, which had been famous for its Art Nouveau glass, produced a line of Deco vases and glass sculpture, solid, geometric and chunky in form. More delicate multicolored works were made by Gabriel Argy-Rousseau, who produced delicately colored vases with sculpted butterflies and nymphs, and Francois Decorchemont, whose vases were streaked and marbled.\n\nThe Great Depression ruined a large part of the decorative glass industry, which depended upon wealthy clients. Some artists turned to designing stained glass windows for churches. In 1937, the Steuben glass company began the practice of commissioning famous artists to produce glassware. Louis Majorelle, famous for his Art Nouveau furniture, designed a remarkable Art Deco stained glass window portraying steel workers for the offices of the Aciéries de Longwy, a steel mill in Longwy, France.\n\nArt Deco artists produced a wide variety of practical objects in the Art Deco style, made of industrial materials from traditional wrought iron to chrome-plated steel. The American artist Norman Bel Geddes designed a cocktail set resembling a skyscraper made of chrome-plated steel. Raymond Subes designed an elegant metal grille for the entrance of the Palais de la Porte Dorée, the centerpiece of the 1931 Paris Colonial Exposition. The French sculptor Jean Dunand produced magnificent doors on the theme \"The Hunt\", covered with gold leaf and paint on plaster (1935).\n\nArt Deco visuals and imagery was used in animated films including, , Night Hood, All's Fair at the Fair, Merry Mannequins, Page Miss Glory, Fantasia and Sleeping Beauty.\n\nArt Deco architecture began in Europe, but by 1939 there were examples in large cities on every continent and in almost every country. This is a selection of prominent buildings on each continent. (For a comprehensive of existing buildings by country, see List of Art Deco architecture.)\n\nMost Art Deco buildings in Africa were built during European colonial rule, and often designed by Italian and French architects.\n\nA large number of the Art Deco buildings in Asia were designed by European architects, but in the Philippines local architect Juan Nakpil was preeminent. Many Art Deco landmarks in Asia were demolished during the great economic expansion of Asia the late 20th century, but some notable enclaves of the architecture still remain, particularly in Shanghai and Mumbai.\n\nMelbourne and Sydney Australia have several notable Art Deco buildings, including the Manchester Unity Building and the former Russell Street Police Headquarters in Melbourne, the Castlemaine Art Museum in Castlemaine, central Victoria and the Grace Building, AWA Tower and ANZAC War Memorial in Sydney.\n\nSeveral towns in New Zealand, including Napier and Hastings were rebuilt in Art Deco style after the 1931 Hawke's Bay earthquake, and many of the buildings have been protected and restored. Napier has been nominated for UNESCO World Heritage Site status, the first cultural site in New Zealand to be nominated. Wellington has retained a sizeable number of Art Deco buildings.\n\nIn Canada, surviving Art Deco structures are mainly in the major cities; Montreal, Toronto, Hamilton, Ontario, and Vancouver. They range from public buildings like Vancouver City Hall to commercial buildings (College Park) to public works (R. C. Harris Water Treatment Plant).\nFile:Edificios La Nacional I y II.JPG | La Nacional Buildings Mexico City, Mexico (1932)\nIn Mexico, the most imposing Art Deco example is interior of the Palacio de Bellas Artes (Palace of Fine Arts), finished in 1934 with its elaborate decor and murals. Examples of Art Deco residential architecture can be found in the Condesa neighborhood, many designed by Francisco J. Serrano.\n\nIn the United States, Art Deco buildings are found from coast to coast, in all the major cities. It was most widely used for office buildings, train stations, airport terminals, and movie theaters; residential buildings are rare. In the 1930s, the more austere streamline style became popular. Many buildings were demolished between 1945 and the late 1960s, but then efforts began to protect the best examples. The City of Miami Beach established the Miami Beach Architectural District to preserve the colorful collection of Art Deco buildings found there.\n\nArt Deco buildings can be found throughout Central America. A particularly rich \ncollection is found in Cuba, built largely for the large number of tourists who came to the island from the United States. One such building is the López Serrano built between 1929 and 1932 in the Vedado section of Havana.\n\nThe architectural style first appeared in Paris with the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées (1910–13) by Auguste Perret but then spread rapidly around Europe, until examples could be found in nearly every large city, from London to Moscow. In Germany two variations of Art Deco flourished in the 1920s and 30s: The Neue Sachlichkeit style and Expressionist architecture. Notable examples include Erich Mendelsohn's Mossehaus and Schaubühne theater in Berlin, Fritz Höger's Chilehaus in Hamburg and his Kirche am Hohenzollernplatz in Berlin, the Anzeiger Tower in Hannover and the Borsig Tower in Berlin.\n\nOne of the largest Art Deco buildings in Western Europe is the Basilica of the Sacred Heart in Koekelberg, Brussels. In 1925, architect Albert van Huffel won the Grand Prize for Architecture with his scale model of the basilica at the Exposition Internationale des Arts Décoratifs et Industriels Modernes in Paris.\n\nSpain and Portugal have some striking examples of Art Deco buildings, particularly movie theaters. Examples in Portugal are the Capitólio Theater (1931) and the Éden Cine-Theater (1937) in Lisbon, the Rivoli Theater (1937) and the Coliseu (1941) in Porto and the Rosa Damasceno Theater (1937) in Santarém. An example in Spain is the Cine Rialto in Valencia (1939).\n\nDuring the 1930s, Art Deco had a noticeable effect on house design in the United Kingdom, as well as the design of various public buildings. Straight, white-rendered house frontages rising to flat roofs, sharply geometric door surrounds and tall windows, as well as convex-curved metal corner windows, were all characteristic of that period.\n\nThe London Underground is famous for many examples of Art Deco architecture, and there are a number of buildings in the style situated along the Golden Mile in Brentford. Also in West London is the Hoover Building, which was originally built for The Hoover Company and was converted into a superstore in the early 1990s.\n\nThe Indian Institute of Architects, founded in Bombay in 1929, played a prominent role in propagating the Art Deco movement. In November 1937, this institute organized the ‘Ideal Home Exhibition’ held in the Town Hall in Bombay which spanned over 12 days and attracted about one hundred thousand visitors. As a result, it was declared a success by the 'Journal of the Indian Institute of Architects'. The exhibits displayed the ‘ideal’, or better described as the most ‘modern’ arrangements for various parts of the house, paying close detail to avoid architectural blunders and present the most efficient and well-thought-out models. The exhibition focused on various elements of a home ranging from furniture, elements of interior decoration as well as radios and refrigerators using new and scientifically relevant materials and methods.\nGuided by their desire to emulate the west, the Indian architects were fascinated by the industrial modernity that Art Deco offered. The western elites were the first to experiment with the technologically advanced facets of Art Deco, and architects began the process of transformation by the early 1930s.\n\nBombay’s expanding port commerce in the 1930s resulted in the growth of educated middle class population. It also saw an increase of people migrating to Bombay in search of job opportunities. This led to the pressing need for new developments through Land Reclamation Schemes and construction of new public and residential buildings. Parallelly, the changing political climate in the country and the aspirational quality of the Art Deco aesthetics led to a whole-hearted acceptance of the building style in the city’s development. Most of the buildings from this period can be seen spread throughout the city neighbourhoods in areas such as Churchgate, Colaba, Fort, Mohammed Ali Road, Cumbala Hill, Dadar, Matunga, Bandra and Chembur.\n\nThe Art Deco in South America is present especially at the countries that received a great wave of immigration on the first half of the 20th century, with notable works at their richest cities, like São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro in Brazil and Buenos Aires in Argentina.The Kavanagh building in Buenos Aires (1934), by Sánchez, Lagos and de la Torre, was the tallest reinforced concrete structure when it was completed, and a notable example of late Art Deco style.\n\nIn many cities, efforts have been made to protect the remaining Art Deco buildings. In many U.S. cities, historic art deco movie theaters have been preserved and turned into cultural centers. Even more modest art deco buildings have been preserved as part of America's architectural heritage; an art deco cafe and gas station along Route 66 in Shamrock, Texas is an historic monument. The Miami Beach Architectural District protects several hundred old buildings, and requires that new buildings comply with the style. In Havana, Cuba, a large number of Art Deco buildings have badly deteriorated. Efforts are underway to bring the buildings back to their original color and appearance.\n\nIn the 21st century, modern variants of Art Deco, called Neo Art Deco (or Neo-Art Deco), have appeared in some American cities, inspired by the classic Art Deco buildings of the 1920s and 1930s. Examples include the NBC Tower in Chicago, inspired by 30 Rockefeller Plaza in New York City; and Smith Center for the Performing Arts in Las Vegas, Nevada, which includes art deco features from Hoover Dam, fifty miles away.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13601902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13601902", "title": "Arts and letters", "text": "Arts and letters\n\nArts and letters is a traditional term for the fine arts and literature considered together. The category defined as \"arts and letters\" may also include the performing arts, visual arts, or liberal arts.\n\nBy the late 19th century the term was used to name a few arts-related institutions in the United States. A subscription-based Theatre of Arts and Letters opened in New York in 1892, but closed within a year. The American Academy of Arts and Letters was founded in 1904.\n\nThe term has also figured in higher education. For example, by 1889 students at Swarthmore College were sorted into two categories of study: \"Arts and Letters\" or \"Science and Engineering.\" Since 2010, course requirements at the University of Pennsylvania College of Arts and Sciences have included a \"sector\" (category) called \"Arts and Letters.\" The college defines the sector as including \"visual arts, literature and music, together with the criticism surrounding them.\"\n"}
{"id": "26033947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26033947", "title": "Australian feminist art timeline", "text": "Australian feminist art timeline\n\nAustralian feminist art timeline lists exhibitions, artists, artworks and milestones that have contributed to discussion and development of feminist art in Australia. The timeline focuses on the impact of feminism on Australian contemporary art. It was initiated by Daine Singer for \"The View From Here: 19 Perspectives on Feminism\", an exhibition and publishing project held at West Space as part of the 2010 Next Wave Festival.\n\n1967 Exhibition: Vivienne Binns, Watters Gallery, Sydney. The exhibition of paintings and sculptures showing symbolic representations of genitalia was considered outrageous at the time.\n\n1967 Artwork: Vivienne Binns, \"Vag dens\", synthetic polymer paint and enamel on composition board. Collection of the National Gallery of Australia, Canberra.\n\n1967 Performance: Yoko Ono and Juno Gemes, \"The Scream\", Ono covered seated Gemes in bandages from ankle to crown while Ono performed a crescendo of screams. This performance was sabotaged by male owners of the Club. <International Times> Jay Landesman Kingly Street Gallery and Perfumed Garden, London, UK.\n\n1967 Performance: Juno Gemes and Lawrence Bourke, \"The Carnivorous Nature of Love\", performance with female store mannequin, belly filled with offal. The Model was disemboweled to a recitation of Spencerian Sonnet. Joan Littlewood's Stratford East Theatre, East London, UK. 24 Hours of Performance Art Event.\n\n1967 Performance: Juno Gemes, Charles Marovitz, David Curtis, Women dancers, \"The Plight of Erogenous UFO\" Multi Media Venue, 100 Tottenham Court Road, London, UK. Weekly multimedia serial performed over a six-week period. Elements included performance, film projection, dry ice music by \"The Soft Machine\", colour projection by Mark Boyle, elements varied each performance.\n\n1967 Artwork: Bottoms, Director: Yoko Ono, Assistants Robin Rudnick, Juno Gemes, Cinematographer Tim Rudnick. 300 participants filmed and sound recorded during a three-month period\n\n1968 Performance: The Human Performance Art Group, \"The Body Eats a Peach\" Pact Theatre 10 Cunningham Street, Sydney, NSW; La Mama, Melbourne, VIC; Tribe, Brisbane, QLD. Multi Media Performance Group: Laurel Fox, Gillian Jones, Julia Salle, Juno Gemes, Michael Glasheen, Stephen Jones, Brian Thompson, Mick Glasheen, Jack Myers, Tom Barber, Ken Beatty, Jack Jacobson, Garry Shead, Peter Kingston, Andrish St Clare, Clem Gorman, James Ricketson, Albie Thoms, Ubu Films, Roger Fogg Foley-mixed media, performance choreographed, paint, furniture installation, geodesic wood structure, kinetic light installation, steel and wire sculpture, film, sound collage.\n\n1969 Uluru Desert Research Room, Juno Gemes, Michael Glasheen, The Yellow House, Sydney, NSW. Preparation and research for six months in Central Australian Desert, consultation and filming with Pitdjandara, Loritcha, Arrenete Elders and families on stories embedded in Uluru. Women artist/participants in The Yellow House: Little Nell, Antionette Starowitz and Juno Gemes,\n1970 Germaine Greer publishes \"The Female Eunuch\"\n\n1974 Women's Art Movement (Feminist art movement) formed in Sydney by Babara Hall and others\n\n1974 Exhibition: \"A Room of One's Own: Three Women Artists\" Ewing Gallery, University of Melbourne, co-curated by Kiffy Rubbo, Lynne Cooke and Janine Burke\nArtists: Lesley Dumbrell, Julie Irving, Ann Newmarch\n\n1974 Exhibition: \"Women Photographers\", Pram Factory, Carlton, VIC, included work by Ponch Hawkes\n\n1974 Exhibition: \"Women in the Community\", Bondi Pavilion, Bondi, NSW, organised by the Sydney Women's Art Movement\n\n1975 International Women's Year\n\n1975 Women's Art Register established in Melbourne. The founders were painters Erica McGilchrist and Lesley Dumbrell and directors of Ewing Gallery and George Paton Galleries, University of Melbourne Kiffy Rubbo and Meredith Rogers.\n\n1975 American feminist writer Lucy R. Lippard conducts Australian lecture tour\n\n1975 First Festival of Women's Culture, Bondi Pavilion, Bondi, NSW\n\n1975 Exhibition: \"Art and the Creative Woman\", Royal South Australian Society of Arts Gallery, Adelaide, SA, organised by the Royal South Australian Society of Arts (RSASA) with entries from fellows of the society and other women artists from across Australia.\n\n1975 Exhibition: \"Australian Women Artists: 1840–1940\", Ewing Gallery and George Paton Galleries, University of Melbourne; Art Gallery of NSW; Newcastle Region Art Gallery; Art Gallery of South Australia, curated by Janine Burke.\n\n1975 Exhibition: \"Ethnic Handicrafts Exhibition\", Australia Hotel and Uniting Church, Fitzroy, VIC, organised by social workers, exhibited over 500 handicrafts by migrant women living in Australia\n\n1975 Exhibition: \"Fantasy and Reality\", Wentworth Building, Sydney University, Sydney, NSW, organised by the Sydney Women's Art Movement, included work by Jude Adams, Jenny Barber, Frances Budden, Marie McMahon, Mandy Martin and Toni Robertson\n\n1975 Exhibition: \"Five Women Artists\", Queensland Art Gallery, Brisbane, Qld, exhibited work by Anne Alison-Greene, Bessie Gibson, Vida Lahey, Daphne Mayo and Margaret Olley\n\n1975 Exhibition: \"It's Great to be an Australian Woman\", Women's House, Brisbane, QLD, organised by the Women's Community Aid Association.\n\n1975 Exhibition: \"Queensland Women Artists' Mixed Media Show\", Hogarth Galleries, Sydney, NSW, exhibited sculptures, painting and prints from 36 Australian artists including Jude Adams, Jenny Barber, Frances Budden, Pamela Harris, Ann Newmarch and Toni Robertson\n\n1975 Exhibition: \"Six Australian Women Photographers\", Australian Centre for Photography, Sydney, NSW; National Gallery of Victoria, Melbourne, VIC\n\n1975 Exhibition: \"Three Women Photographers\", Ewing and George Paton Gallery, Melbourne, VIC, Micky Allan, Virginia Coventry and Sue Ford\n\n1975 Exhibition: \"Women in Art\", Western Australian Institute of Technology, Perth, WA, organised as part of International Women's Year\n\n1975 Artwork: Ann Newmarch \"Vietnam Madonna\"\n\n1975 \"Refractory Girl: a women's studies journal\" published a special issue on 'women in the visual arts'\n\n1975 \"Hecate: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Women's Liberation\" established, edited by Carole Ferrier (1975–present)\n\n1975 Women's Studies Resource Centre established, Adelaide, South Australia\n\n1976 Women's Art Forum established in Melbourne as an offshoot of the Women's Art Register to concentrate more on discussion evenings, artists talks and professional development sessions rather than managing the Register's slide collection\n\n1976 Launch of Melbourne-based art journal \"LIP A Journal of Women in the Visual Arts\" (1975–1983).\n\n1976 Women's Art Movement established, Adelaide, South Australia\n\n1976 Jude Adams taught the first Australian feminist art course,'Women and Art: The Artist as She', at the Workers Educational Association and then at Alexander Mackie College of Advanced Education, Sydney, NSW\n\n1976 Ann Stephen taught,'Women and Art', at Preston Institute of Technology, Preston, VIC\n\n1976 Dag Printing formed, screenprinting collective, Wendy Black, Angela Gee and Evelyn Vynhal\n\n1978 Artwork: Ann Newmarch, \"Women hold up half the sky!\" 1978\n\n1978 Exhibition: \"The Women's Show\", Experimental Art Foundation, Adelaide\n\n1978–80 Performance: Lyndal Jones, \"The At Home Series\", performances in the series held at La Mama Theatre, Melbourne, George Paton Gallery, University of Melbourne, RMIT, Melbourne, 110 Chambers Street, New York\n\n1979 Germaine Greer publishes \"The Obstacle Race: The Fortunes of Women Painters and Their Work\"\n\n1979 Anarchist Feminist Poster Collective formed by Sally O’Wheel and Megan Schlunke, Adelaide, VIC, other contributors included Karen Elliot, Marie Morrissey, Barbary O'Brien\n\n1979 Blatant Image formed, Sydney, NSW, photographic subgroup of the Sydney Women's Art Movement, included Sandy Edwards, Helen Grace, Victoria Middleton and Lynn Silvermann\n\n1979 Mathilda Graphics formed, Sydney, NSW, women's creative and commercial collective offering services in photography, illustration, typesetting, etc.\n\n1979 Women's Warehouse Screenprinting Collective formed, Sydney, NSW, contributors included Jan Fieldsend, Marla Guppy and Anne Sheridan (Beard)\n\n1979 Registry of Women Artists founded, Canberra, ACT, members included Carol Ambrus and Cathy Walters\n\n1979 Exhibition: \"The D'Oyley Show\", Australian Domestic Needleworkers' Group, Watters Gallery, Sydney\n\n1979–1980 Artwork: Lyn Finch, Cherie Bradshaw and Michael Calaghan \"Prostitution is the rental of the body, Marriage is the sale\", screenprinted poster\n\n1980 Artwork: Davida Allen painted her sexual fantasy pictures of actor Sam Neill. While the paintings followed in the tradition of the Burt Reynolds nude centrefold in Cosmopolitan in 1972, in 1980s Australia the artist raised eyebrows for depicting a man as a sex object.\n\n1980 Performance: Bonita Ely, \"Bread Line\", Anzart, Christchurch, New Zealand\n\n1980 Performance: Bonita Ely, \"Murray River Punch\", George Paton and Ewing Gallery, Melbourne University. \"Women at Work\", a festival of women's performance art.\n\n1980 Performance: Jill Orr, \"Split- Fragile Relationships\", George Paton and Ewing Gallery, Melbourne University. \"Women at Work\", a festival of women's performance art.\n\n1980 \"Women at Work : a week of women's performance\", June 1980. George Paton and Ewing Gallery, Melbourne University. Artists included Jill Orr and Bonita Ely.\n\n1982 Betty Churcher appointed Dean of the School of Art and Design at Melbourne's Phillip Institute of Technology, she is the first female head of an Australian tertiary institution.\n\n1982 Christine Westwood and Sue Hill, \"Women in Theatre Project\" – a year-long initiative at Belvoir Street Theatre to create opportunity for women directors, play writers, designers and visual artists and creatives in Australia. New plays were written and performed, the project was documented by Juno Gemes, Sandy Edwards, Maree Cunningham. Goodburra Projects was formed creating three documentaries including: \"Representing Aboriginal Women in Film and Theatre\" an interview with Justine Saunders interviewed by Juno Gemes produced by Goodburra Doco Collective.\n\n1982 Rosalie Gascoigne is the first female artist to represent Australia at the Venice Biennale\n\n1982 \"NSW Women and Arts Festival\", October 1982, included more than 1,000 events throughout New South Wales and initiated a national research project about women in the arts. A Women’s Arts Fellowship was awarded to an outstanding female artist/arts worker by the NSW Government for the next few years.\n\n1983 Janine Burke's \"Joy Hester\" published.\n\n1984 Artwork: Julie Rrap, \"Persona and Shadows\" (series), 1984, photographic collage\n\n1985 Project: Coordinated by Carolyn Lewens and five photographers from Lewen's TAFE women's photography course, \"Prahran Neighbourhood House women's photography project\", 1985, photographic panels documenting the activities of women at the Neighbourhood House under certain themes including child-care, after school activities, home environments and porttraits.\n\n1986 Publication: Australian Women Photographers 1840–1960, Barbara Hall and Jenni Mather\n\n1986 The Women's Mural \"Bomboniere to Barbed Wire\" located on Smith Street was painted by artists Megan Evans and Eve Glenn. The mural is 50 metres long and 12 metres high and features cacophony of local women’s images celebrating the cultural diversity of the Northcote area. \"The artwork served as a reminder to many of what the area was about: community, creativity and women working together to create a great place to live.\"\n\n1987 Betty Churcher appointed Director of the Art Gallery of Western Australia, she is the first female director of a state art gallery.\n\n1987 Exhibition: \"Feminist Narratives\", George Paton Gallery, curated by Juliana Engberg. Artists: Pat Brassington, Debra Dawes, Leah MacKinnon, Andrea Paton, Ann Wulf.\n\n1988 Exhibition: Judy Chicago (American) \"The Dinner Party\" (1979), Royal Exhibition Building, Melbourne. Celebratory dinner hosted by the Women's Art Register in honour of Judy Chicago at the Royal Exhibition Building\n\n1988 Artwork: \"The First Supper\" by Susan Dorothea White.\n\n1989 Artwork: \"Something More\" by Tracey Moffatt.\n\n1990 Betty Churcher appointed director of the National Gallery of Australia (1990–1997), she is the first female director of the gallery.\n\n1991 Exhibition: \"Frames of Reference: Aspects of Feminism and Art\", Artspace, Sydney, curated by Sally Couacaud. Artists: Kathy Temin, Susan Norrie, Vivienne Binns, Rebecca Cummins, Anne MacDonald Featuring the artwork of Dolly Nampijinpa Daniels and several other collaborators.\n\n1991 Event: \"At least it’s gone to a good home: Women collecting and producing art at the University of Sydney 1971–1991\", Tin Sheds Gallery, University of Sydney (13 September-5 October). Curators: Susan Best, Brownyn Hanna, Therese Kenyon and Joan Kerr. Part of \"Dissonance: Feminism and the Arts\".\n\n1991 Manifesto: VNS Matrix (Virginia Barratt, Francesca da Rimini, Juliane Pierce, Josephine Starrs), \"Cyberfeminist Manifesto for the 21st Century\", Adelaide.\nThe manifesto was distributed on street posters around Adelaide. VNS Matrix was an artist collective founded in Adelaide and active 1991–1997. VNS Matrix is pronounced 'Venus Matrix'.\n\n1992 Exhibition: \"Feminisms: An Exhibition of 27 Women Artists\", PICA, Perth, curated by Nikki Miller.\n\n1992 Caroline Chisholm's likeness on the Australian 5 dollar note replaced by portrait of Queen Elizabeth II.\n\n1994 Exhibition: \"The Women's Show\", Sutton Gallery, Melbourne\n\n1994 WandA (Women and Arts) established in Brisbane by founding members Edwina Bartleme, Brona Keenan, Tracey Benson, Rosz Craig\n\n1995 Exhibition \"WWWO : Wollongong Worlds Women Online\", first national Australian online women's group exhibition, featuring the first or early digital works from 30 women including Francis Dyson and Mez Breeze. Curators Melinda Rackham, Louise Manner, Ali Smith, Sandy Indlekofer-O’Sullivan.\n\n1995 \"National Women's Art Exhibition\", simultaneous exhibitions in over 147 galleries, museums and libraries.\n\n1995 Exhibition: \"VNS Matrix: ALL NEW GEN\", (VNS Matrix: Virginia Barratt, Francesca da Rimini, Juliane Pierce, Josephine Starrs), ACCA, Melbourne. Part of the National Women's Art Exhibition.\n\n1995 Exhibition: \"In the Company of Women: 100 years of Australian women's art from the Cruthers Collection\", PICA, Perth, curated by Sarah Miller. Part of the National Women's Art Exhibition.\n\n1995 Exhibition: \"Bur-ran-gur ang (court out): Women and the law\", Lawrence Wilson Art Gallery, Perth, curated by Annette Pedersen. Part of the National Women's Art Exhibition.\n\n1995 Exhibition: \"Out of the Void: Mad and Bad Women\", Queensland Art Gallery, Brisbane, touring Queensland. Part of the National Women's Art Exhibition.\n\n1995 Exhibition: \"Girls Girls Girls\", Annandale Galleries, Sydney, also Orange Regional Gallery. Women's show to mark the 20th Anniversary of the United Nations, Year of the Woman.\n\n1995 \"Beyond the Picket Fence: Australian women's art in the National Library of Australia\", Part of the National Women's Art Exhibition, National Library of Australia\n\n1996 Lynne Cooke, first female artistic director of the Biennale of Sydney\n\n1996 Manifesto: VNS Matrix (Virginia Barratt, Francesca da Rimini, Juliane Pierce, Josephine Starrs) \"Bitch Mutant Manifesto\", Adelaide.\n\n1996 Exhibition: \"Women Hold Up Half the Sky: the Orientation of Art in the Post-War Pacific\", Monash University Gallery, Melbourne, curated by Roger Butler. Artists: Micky Allan, Vivienne Binns, Kate Daw, eX de Medici, Diena Georgetti, Joan Grounds, Helga Groves, Indulkana Community, Emily Kame Kngwarreye, Narell Jubelin, Maningrida Arts, Banduk Marika, Ann Newmarch, Margaret Preston, Thancoupie, Kelly Thompson, Utopia Batik, Toni Warburton, Judy Watson, Robin White\n\n1996 Exhibition: \"Inside the Visible\", Boston: ICA/ MIT: Kanaal Art Foundation, and Touring to Whitechapel, London, and PICA, Perth, Australia, curated by Catherine de Zegher (USA)\n\n1997 Ann Newmarch first living female artist to be given a Retrospective exhibition at the Art Gallery of South Australia \"The Personal is Political\" in 1997.\n\n1997 Exhibition: \"Difficult Territory: a postfeminist project\", Artspace Sydney, curated by Kristen Elsby\n\n1999 Guerrilla Girls brought to Melbourne by RedPlanet for screenprinting workshops and lectures.\n\n1999 Australian feminist art historians Joan Kerr & Jo Holder publish \"Past present : the national women's art anthology\"\n\n2003 Germaine Greer publishes \"The Beautiful Boy\".\n\n2004 Artwork: Mary Lou Pavlovic \"Liar!\" Public Art, Melbourne\n\n2004 Death of Gabrielle Pizzi, widely admired dealer in contemporary aboriginal art.\n\n2004 Death of Joan Kerr (1938–2004), Australian art historian\n\n2004 Exhibition: \"Genetics\" Women's Art Register members exhibition, Horti Hall, Melbourne.\n\n2006 Exhibition: \"Feminist Actions\", Spacement, Melbourne, curated by Veronica Tello.\nArtists: Andrew Atchison, Pia de Bruyn, Sue Dodd, Sarah Lynch, Alex Martinis Roe, Ali Sanderson, Jessie Scott\n\n2007 Exhibition: \"Bird Girls\", Margaret Lawrence Gallery, VCA, curated by Kate Daw and Vikki McInnes.\nArtists: Fiona Abicare, Jessie Angwin, Cate Consandine, Danielle Freakley, Kate Just, Simone Slee, Andrea Tu\n\n2007 Forum: \"Feminism Never Happened\", Gertrude Contemporary Art Spaces, Melbourne.\nPanelists included: Julie Rrap, Alex Martinus Roe, Ann Marsh, Lily Hibberd, Felicity Coleman, Lyndall Walker, Emily Cormack\n\n2007-8 Exhibition: \"Julie Rrap: Body Double\", MCA, Sydney, curated by Victoria Lynn\n\n2007-8 Exhibition: \"Girl Parade\", ACP, Sydney, curated by Bec Dean. Artists: Anoush Abrar (Iran) & Aimée Hoving (Netherlands), Bianca Barling (SA), Anthea Behm (NSW), Brown Council (NSW), Kelli Connell (USA), Pilar Mata Duppont & Tarryn Gill (WA), Karina Grundy (SA), EJ Major (UK), Belinda Mason (NSW), Tatjana Plitt (VIC), Narinda Reeders (VIC), Tomoko Sawada (JAPAN) and Justene Williams (NSW).\n\n2008 Exhibition: \"Utopia: The Genius of Emily Kame Kngwarreye\" developed by the National Museum of Australia and shown at the National Museum of Art in Osaka, Japan.\n\n2008 Exhibition: \"Lauren Berkowitz/ Starlie Geikie\", Neon Parc, Melbourne, curated by Rebecca Coates.\n\n2008 Exhibition: \"A Time Like This\", VCA Margaret Lawrence Gallery, Melbourne. Curated by Samantha Comte, Jirra Lulla Harvey, Kate Rhodes and Meredith Turnbull. Artists: Louisa Bufardeci, Bindi Cole, Lorraine Connelly-Northey, Eliza Hutchison, Wietske Maas, Kate Smith, Salote Tawale, Annie Wu.\n\n2008 Exhibition: Emily Floyd, \"Temple of the Female Eunuch\", Anna Schwartz Gallery, Melbourne.\n\n2008 Exhibition: \"Girls, Girls, Girls\", Carlton Hotel, Melbourne, curated by Lyndal Walker and Nat Thomas.\n\n2008 Australian feminist academic Elizabeth Grosz publishes \"Chaos, Territory, Art: Deleuze and the Framing of the Earth\".\n\n2008 Essay: \"On Rage\" by Germaine Greer (academic, social commentator and collector of Aboriginal art).\n\n2008 Nicole Kidman names her child after arts patron Sunday Reed (1905–1981).\n\n2008 CoUNTess blog launched. Blog compiles and reviews gender equality in the Australian art world.\n\n2008 Despoina Media Coven (DMC) a feminist group based in Hobart founded by Nancy Mauro-Flude. Formed initially as a curatorial premise, a mail list for discussion and a hackspace aimed at removing the strict barriers between software users and developers to enable the ‘uninitiated’ artist into using free software; a largely male user base. It advocates home-brewed methods for collective gain (think of self-organized digital art literacy circles). Associates are not fixed but expand and contract in response to each project.\n\n2010 Exhibition: \"A Different Temporality: Aspects of Australian Feminist Art Practice 1975–1985\", Monash University, Melbourne\n\n2010 Exhibition: \"Feminism Never Happened\", IMA, Brisbane. Artists: Del Kathryn Barton, Pat Brassington, Kirsty Bruce, Jacqueline Fraser, Anastasia Klose, Fiona Lowry, Fiona Pardington, Yvonne Todd, and Jemima Wyman\n\n2010 Exhibition: \"The View From Here: 19 Perspectives on Feminism\", West Space, Melbourne, 14 May 2010 – 29 May 2010. Curated by Clare Rae and Victoria Bennett. Artists: Jessie Angwin, Kiera Brew Kurec, Brown Council, Madeleine Donovan, Mariam Haji, Hannah Raisin, Jessie Scott, Hayley Forward and Jessica Olivieri with the Parachutes for Ladies. Writers: Emilie Zoey Baker, Laura Castagnini, Tamsin Green, Anna Greer, Rachel Fuller, Jo Latham, Dunja Rmandic, Daine Singer, Nella Themelios.\n\n2010 Death of Eva Breuer, at the time one of the major dealers of secondary market Australian paintings. Breuer was one of the few dealers stocking works by notable, lesser known twentieth century female Australian artists: Bessie Davidson, Margaret Cilento, Janet Cumbrae Stewart, Margo Lewers, Jean Bellette, Dorrit Black, Lina Bryans, Nora Heysen, Mirka Mora, Florence Rodway, Jane Sutherland.\n\n2010 Event: \"The Feminist Salon Group, The Envelope Residency\", The West Wing, West Space Project Site, Melbourne, 24 May 2010 – 29 May 2010. Coordinated by Caroline Phillips and Sarah Lynch. A week-long residency with artists and writers who engaged with a text by Luce Irigaray. the Activities included performance, film, visual art, sound, reading, discussion and a lecture by Dr. Louise Burchill. Participants: Sharon Billinge, Dr. Louise Burchill, Victoria Duckett, Catherine Evans, Janice Gobey, Kate Hodgetts, Kate Just, Anastasia Klose, Angie de Latour, Sarah Lynch, Valentina Palonen, Caroline Phillips, Hannah Raisin, Caroline Thew, Inez de Vega and Jane Whitfid.\n\n2010 Exhibition: \"Holding Pattern\", George Paton Gallery, Melbourne. Artist: Caroline Phillips.\n\n2010 Exhibition: \"Twined: Weaving and Abstraction\", Cross Art Projects, Sydney. Artists:Robyn Djunginy and Karen Mills. Curated by Fiona McDonald.\n\n2011 Exhibition: \"Twining: Weaving and Abstraction, Dawes / Djunginy / Mills / MacDonald\", 24hr Art, Northern Territory Centre for Contemporary Art, Darwin. Artists: Debra Dawes, Robyn Djunginy, Fiona MacDonald and Karen Mills. Co-Curators: Jo Holder and Fiona MacDonald with Karen Mills.\n\n2011 Exhibition: Kate Just, \"Venus Was Her Name\", Kunsthalle Krems, Austria, 16/10/2011 – 04/03/2012. VENUS WAS HER NAME was a solo exhibition at the Kunsthalle in Krems, Austria from 2011–12, which was later presented in 2013 Daine Singer gallery in Melbourne.\n\n2012 Exhibition: \"No Added Sugar\", Casula Powerhouse Arts Centre, NSW Artists: Asiya Sian Davidson, Crooked Rib Art, Fatima Killeen, Idil Abdullahi, Marwa Charmand, Mehwish Iqbal, Resala Alazzawi and Zeina Iaali, and creative writing by Eugenia Flynn.\n\n2012 Exhibition: \"Contemporary Australia: Women\", Queensland Art Gallery: Gallery of Modern Art, Brisbane, 21 April – 22 July 2012. Artists: Amata painters: senior artists, Tjampawa Katie Kawiny; Wawiriya Burton; Ruby Tjangawa Williamson; Iluwanti Ken; Tjungkara Ken; Paniny Mick, Rebecca Baumann, Lauren Brincat, Brown Council, Kirsty Bruce, Bindi Cole, Agatha Gothe-Snape, Marie Hagerty, Fiona Hall, Natalya Hughes, Ruth Hutchinson, Deborah Kelly, Justine Khamara, Anastasia Klose, Gabriella Mangano and Silvana Mangano, Jennifer Mills, Kate Mitchell, Rose Nolan Jess Olivieri and Hayley Forward with Parachutes for Ladies, Therese Ritchie, Sandra Selig, Noël Skrzypczak, Sally Smart, Soda_Jerk, Wakartu Cory Surprise, Hiromi Tango, Monika Tichacek, Jenny Watson, Judy Watson, Louise Weaver, Justene Williams, Gosia Wlodarczak and Judith Wright. Curated by Julie Ewington.\n\n2012 Event: Guerrilla Girls public lecture and workshop at the Victorian College of the Arts in Melbourne. Part of a wider discursive project about humour in feminist art curated by Laura Castagnini and Vikki McInnes through the NAVA Curatorial Mentorship Initiative.\n\n2012 Exhibition: Feminage – The logic of Feminist Collage, The Cross Art Projects, Sydney.\nArtists: Karla Dickens, Elizabeth Gower, Emily Hunt, Mehwish Iqbal, Deborah Kelly, Fiona MacDonald, Paula do Prado, Sangeeta Sandrasegar, Sally Smart, Tai Snaith, Nancy Spero, Jemima Wyman. Curator: Jo Holder with assistant curator Sofia Freeman\n\n2012 Exhibition: \"The Baker's Dozen\", curated by Lorna Grear, UTS Gallery, The University of Technology, Sydney\n\n2012 Exhibition: \"SEXES\", Performance Space, Carriageworks, Sydney. Artists: Christian Thompson, Cigdem Aydemir, Eric Bridgeman, Jessica Olivieri and the Parachutes for Ladies, John Meade, Julie Rrap, LEVEL, Liam Benson, Luke Parker & Sangeeta Sandrasegar, Marley Dawson, Natalya Hughes, Paul Knight, Philip Brophy, The Kingpins, Tarryn Gill & Pilar Mata Dupont, Tracey Moffatt & Gary Hillberg, Trevor Fry. Curated by Bec Dean, Deborah Kelly and Jeff Khan. Exhibition accompanied by multi-disciplinary program of dance, performance, lectures, film and parties, and extensive catalogue.\n\n2012 Event: \"A Dinner Party: setting the table\". Curated by Victoria Duckett and Caroline Phillips. A collaborative feminist residency at West Space, Melbourne including workshops, film programs, forums and exhibition of feminist art archive. Participants included Kate Just, Jon Dale, Danni Zuvela, Marcia Jane, Virginia Fraser, Kate MacNeill, Stephanie Alexander, Lyndal Walker, Victoria Bennett, Anne Marsh, Catherine Deveney, Laura Castagnini and Inez de Vega.\n\n2013 Event: \"The f Word – Regional Feminist Art Forum\", La Trobe Visual Art Centre, Bendigo. Curated by Caroline Phillips. Panel including Juliette Peers, Filomena Coppola and Virginia Fraser, and workshop facilitated by Inez de Vega. Accompanied by extensive catalogue including \"The f Word\" forums, workshops and two exhibitions.\n\n2013 Exhibition: \"BACKFLIP: Feminism and Humour in Contemporary Art\", Margaret Lawrence Gallery, Victorian College of the Arts, Melbourne. Artists: Catherine Bell, Melanie Bonajo, Brown Council, Catherine or Kate, Patty Chang, Guerrilla Girls, Hotham Street Ladies, Alice Lang, Louise Lawler, Adelle Mills, Tracey Moffatt, Nat & Ali, Frances (Budden) Phoenix, Pushpamala N, Hannah Raisin, Pipilotti Rist, Mika Rottenberg, Christian Thompson and Paul Yore. Curated by Laura Castagnini. Exhibition accompanied by extensive publication, a program of panel discussions and performances, and the on site VCA Video Lounge; an archive of funny feminist videos made by former students during their time at the VCA School of Art.\n\n\"2013\" Exhibition: Ponch Hawkes, \"Our Mums and Us\" and \"These Women Have Just Run 26 Miles\" at Monash Gallery of Art, curated by Stephen Zagala\n\n2013 \"Contemporary Art and Feminism (CAF) \" launched, 30 October, Sydney College of the Arts. An independent platform for art, scholarship and activism, instigated by Catriona Moore, Jacqueline Millner, and Jo Holder.\n\n2013 Exhibition: Kate Just, \"Venus Was Her Name\", Daine Singer gallery, Melbourne, 4 March – 20 April 2013.\n\n2013 Performance: Casey Jenkins, \"Casting Off My Womb\", in exhibition \"Cunts... And Other Conversations\", Darwin Visual Arts Association, 18 October – 9 November 2013,\n\n2013 Exhibition: \"JANIS I\", ALASKA Projects, Sydney. This exhibition marked the launch of Kelly Doley's JANIS, a project focusing on female art practice, promoting curatorial, writing and art projects. Exhibition included work by artists: Sarah Contos, Kelly Doley, Hannah Furmage, Zoe Robertson, Marian Tubbs and Justene Williams. Alongside the exhibition a publication featured the writing of Diana Smith and Amanda Rowell.\n\n2013 Panel: \"JANIS I: Feminism in Contemporary Art: If Not Why Not?\", Artspace, Sydney, March 23, 2013. In 'If Not, Why Not?' an intergenerational selection of artists, curators and academics come together to talk about the misconceptions, meaning and relevance of feminism in contemporary art today. Speakers include Julie Rrap (artist), Catriona Moore (Academic ArtHistTh and author of Dissonance: Feminism and the Arts 1970–1990), Natalya Hughes (artist), Anna Davis (curator MCA), Jess Olivieri (Parachutes for Ladies). Chaired by Kelly Doley (Brown Council).\n\n2013 Exhibition: \"JANIS II\", The Commercial and MCLEMOI Gallery, Sydney. Co-curated by Kelly Doley and Amanda Rowell included a diverse range of painting, sculpture and performance from emerging and mid-career artists as well as two deceased artists. JANIS II artists included Bonita Bub, Jenny Christmann, Sarah Goffman, Gail Haistings and Sarah Rodigari. According to art critic Andrew Frost the exhibition produced a palpable wave through the Sydney art world.\n\n2014 Exhibition: Katherine Hattam, \"Consciousness Raising\", Daine Singer Gallery, Melbourne. Catalogue with texts by Ellen Koshland, Victoria Hattam, Jenny Little, Harriet Morgan, Hannah Piterman, Ann Snitow, Kate Reeves, Suzanne Spunner, Margaret Bowland and Hilary McPhee.\n\n2014 Conference: Curating Feminism A Contemporary Art and Feminism event co-hosted by Sydney College of the Arts, Art Gallery New South Wales and MCA. Exhibition, masterclasses, conference and Wikithon, Keynotes: Michael Birchall: Activism & Art: for the de-proletarianized petty bourgeoisie; Dr Maura Reilly: Curatorial Activism: Towards an Ethics of Curating.\nCo-ordinating Curator: Jacqueline Millner\n\n2014 Event: \"Technopia Tours Feminist Art Bus\". Presented by Kim Donaldson and Caroline Phillips. A collaborative event between \"Technopia Tours\" and \"The f Word\", a workshop on wheels in Melbourne, Australia, celebrating IWD 2014. Speakers and performers included Laura Castagnini, Ebony Gulliver, Susan Hewitt, Kate Just, Dot Kett, Lyndal Jones, Vicki Kinai, Penelope Lee, Justine Makdessi, Elvis Richardson, Kate Robertson, Nat Thomas, Kalinda Vary and Inez de Vega. Accompanied by extensive catalogue including \"The f Word\" forums, workshops and two exhibitions.\n\n2014 Exhibition: \"The f Word, Sale\". Gippsland Art Gallery, Sale. July 19 – September 7, 2014. Artists: Catherine Bell, Penny Byrne, Filomena Coppola, Kate Just, Jill Orr, Clare Rae and Elvis Richardson. Curated by Caroline Phillips. Accompanied by extensive catalogue including \"The f Word\" forums, workshops and two exhibitions.\n\n2014 Exhibition: \"The f Word, Ararat\". Ararat Regional Art Gallery, Ararat. August 28 – October 12, 2014. Artists: Kate Beynon,\nKaren Buczynski-Lee, Destiny Deacon, Laurene Dietrich, Eliza-Jane Gilchrist, Janice Gobey, Georgia MacGuire, Robyn Massey, Caroline Phillips, Louise Saxton, Inez de Vega and Lyndal Walker. Curated by Caroline Phillips. Accompanied by extensive catalogue including \"The f Word\" forums, workshops and two exhibitions.\n\n2014 Exhibition: \"Topologies of Sexual Difference\". In conjunction with the Luce Irigaray Circle Conference, Melbourne, Australia, Wednesday 10 to Friday 12 December 2014. George Paton Gallery, Melbourne. Hosted by The Victorian College of the Arts, University of Melbourne and The Communication, Politics and Culture Research Centre at RMIT. Co-ordinated by Dr.Louise Burchill and Caroline Phillips. Artists: Cherelyn Brearley, Janet Burchill, Virginia Fraser, Helen Johnson, Marina Kassianidou, Utako Shindo Kanai, Danni McCarthy, Joanne Makas, Alex Martinis Roe, Caroline Phillips, Kerrie Poliness, Elizabeth Presa, Julieanna Preston, Grace Pundyk, Tania Smith, Jacqueline Taylor, Terry Taylor, Alison Thomson.\n\n2014 Exhibition: \"Re-raising Consciousness\", TCB Art Inc, Melbourne. Curated by Katherine Hattam, Fayen D'Evie and Harriet Morgan\n\n2014 \"Photography Meets Feminism: Australian women photographers 1970s–80s\"\nA Monash Gallery of Art travelling exhibition, also showing at the Newcastle Art Gallery, Bundoora Homestead Art Centre, Grafton Regional Gallery.\n\n2015 \"Future Feminist Archive Symposium\". Presented by Contemporary Art and Feminism & the Art Gallery of NSW Research Library Archives. This symposium brought together artists, archivists, filmmakers, curators and art historians to discuss ways to recover lost Feminist archives and to imagine the new. Keynote lecture by Julie Ewington and presentations by Soda_Jerk, Jess Olivieri, Judy Watson and Joyce Watson, Margot Nash, Martha Ansara, Jeni Thornley, Natalie Krikowa and others.\n\n2015 Exhibition: \"Future Feminist Archive Exhibition\", SCA Galleries, Sydney College of the Arts, Rozelle. Exhibition includes ‘Daughter Mothers’ (Judy Watson, Sue Pedley, Toni Warburton, Alison Clouston); ‘Artist Archive’ (Jane Polkinghorne and Anne Kay); Feminist Film Archives from the 1970s; and the Parramatta Female Factory Memory Precinct Project.\n\n2015 Live Performance: \"Being Dead (Don Quixote)\", . Kerith Manderson-Galvin's production and performance re-worked the Cervantes classic from a queer, feminist showgirl perspective. January 2015.\n\n2015 Exhibition: \"Notes Towards a Future Feminist Archive\", Affiliated Text, Sydney, curated by Bronia Iwanczak and Lynne Barwick. Artists: Ann Finnegan, Anna Gibbs, Anne Kay, Barbara Campbell, Bec Dean, Bianca Hester, Biljana Jancic, Bronwyn Platten, Carla Cescon, Caroline Phillips, Catherine Bell, Chantal Grech, Cherine Fahd, Christine Dean, Clare Milledge, Cleo Gardiner, Deborah Kelly, Debra Phillips, Deej Fabyc, Elizabeth Day, Elizabeth Pulie, Eugenia Raskopoulos, Fiona MacDonald, Gillian Lavery, Heidi Abraham, Helen Grace, India Zegan, Jacky Redgate, Jacqueline Drinkall, Jane Polkinghorne, Jenny Brown, Josephine Starrs, Josie Cavallaro, Julianne Pierce, Julie Rrap, Kathryn Ryan, Lena Obergfell, Lisa Andrew, Lisa Jones, Loma Bridge, Michele Elliot, Nell, Nicole Ellis, Nola Farman, Pam Brown, Philipa Veitch, Raquel Ormella, Sally Clarke, Sara Givins, Sue Callanan, Susan Charlton, Susan Joy Krieg, Suzan Woodruff, Tina Havelock Stevens, Vesna Trobec, Virginia Barratt and Zanny Begg.\n\n2015 Exhibition: \"Relatedness\", Melbourne's Living Museum of the West, Maribrynong. Artists: Catherine Johnstone and Caroline Phillips. April 4 to April 19, 2015.\n\n2015 Exhibition: \"Come In Lovers, We're Doing Witchcraft\", Metanoia Theatre, Brunswick Mechanics Institute. Expen$$$ive Super Group comprising Kerith Manderson-Galvin, Emilia Athanasiadis and Casey Jenkins (a.k.a. Teen-Supreme Brynne, Fancy-Bitch Brynne and Shameless Brynne), production and performance of three music-free video clips exploring the performance of femininity. May 5 to May 8, 2015.\n\n2015 Festival: \"AS IF: 40 Years and Beyond -Celebrating the Women's Art Register\", Multi-venue curated festival of feminist visual art events across Melbourne, celebrating the 40th anniversary of the Women's Art Register. Festival Producer, Sally Northfield. 11 August-7 November 2015.\nExhibitions Included:\n\n\"AS IF: Stuck up\", Richmond Library Gallery, 11 Aug – 30 Oct 2015, Curated by Miso (Stanislava Pinchuk).\"\n\n\"AS IF: small print\",Mailbox Art Space 30 September- 31 October 2015, Curated by Danielle Hakim and Emily Castle. Artists Violetta Del Conte Race, Kelly Doley, Agatha Gothe Snape, Katherine Hattam, Olivia Hittmann, Anastasia Klose, Ruth O'Leary, Jaime Powell with Cheralyn Lim and Elvis Richardson alongside a selection of artists held in the Women's Art Register collection.\n\n\"AS IF: When and now\", Queen Victoria Women's Centre, 30 September- 30 October, Curated by Gail Stiffe and Rosemary Mangiamele. Members exhibition.\n\n\"AS IF: Artmaking in Tandem: Embracing Distance\", City Library Gallery, 2 – 29 October. A collaboration between artistic women who are newly settled in Melbourne and artist Rosa Tato.\n\n\"AS IF: Echoes from the Women’s Art Register\", West Space, 1 October – 7 November, Curated projection program by Juliette Peers and Caroline Phillips, co-curated by Melbourne-based emerging artists Emily Castle, Danielle Hakim, Stephanie Leigh and Kalinda Vary.\n\n\"AS IF: Echoing Workshop – Slide Night\" at the Graham Cornish room, level 2, Union House, University of Melbourne. Tuesday, October 13, 6pm-8.30pm. Facilitators\nDanica Chappell, Ross Coulter, Danielle Hakim, Clare Rae. Speakers/Artists, Ross Coulter, Eleanor Butt, Anne Marsh, Elizabeth Gower, Danielle Hakim, Clare Rae and Jill Orr.\n\n\"AS IF: Echoing Workshop- Echoes from London\", West Space, Saturday 7 November, 5-6pm performance by Holly Ingleton, curated and facilitated by Laura Castagnini.\n\n\"AS IF: Echoing Workshop – Art+Feminism Wikipedia Edit-a-thon\", Saturday 31 October, from 11am at the State Library of Victoria facilitated by Juliette Peers and Caroline Phillips.\n\n\"AS IF: WAR Sliders\" City Library Gallery 2 – 29 October projection featuring one work from each of the 918 artists in the Women's Art Register Collection.\n\n\"AS IF: Public Art Walks\", guided by artists to women's public art in the city of Melbourne\nWalk 1 with Penelope Lee, Sunday 4 October, 11am-1pm\nWalk 2 with Gina Kalabishis, Sunday 11th Oct, 11am-1pm\nWalk 3 with Rosa Tato (led by Penelope Lee), Sunday 18 October, 11am-1pm\nWalk 4 with Maree Clarke,25 October 11am-1pm'\n\n2015 Forum and workshops: \"f generation: feminism, art, progressions\". Mudfest/University of Melbourne Student Union Arts Festival, Melbourne. August 22, 2015. Co-ordinated by Veronica Caven Aldous, Juliette Peers and Caroline Phillips. Artists and Panellists: Veronica Caven Aldous, Allison Ballantyne, Sasha Chong, Lucy Curtis, Tonie Field, Elizabeth Gower, Juliette Peers and Trashbags.\n\n2015 Exhibition: \"f generation: feminism, art, progressions\". George Paton Gallery, Melbourne. October 7–16, 2014. Curated by Veronica Caven Aldous, Juliette Peers and Caroline Phillips. Artists: Veronica Caven Aldous, Penny Algar, Micky Allan, Art/Mums Collective (Clare Rae, Clare Needham, Nina Ross, Tai Snaith, Jessie Scott, Hannah Tai, Claudia Phares),Lynne Barwick, Dianne Beevers, Anne Bennett, Kate Beynon, Julia Boros, Karen Buczynski-Lee, Sandy Caldow, Paulina Campos, Valerie Carew (CAN), Tracey-Mae Chambers (CAN), Liz Coates, Filomena Coppola, Cunt/Tampon/ary Art Collective (CAN), Laurene Dietrich, Kim Donaldson, Jaye Early, Katherine Edwards, Catherine Evans, Amanda Fewell, Tal Fitzpatrick, Juno Gemes and Aku Kadogo, Elizabeth Gertsakis, Janice Gobey, hannah goldstein, Siobhán Hannigan, Anna Helme, Simone Hine, Hotham Street Ladies, Elin Howe, Casey Jenkins, Rosa Jones (IRE), Kate Just, Deborah Kelly, Therese Kenyan, Jessica Kritzer, Katya Grokhovsky, KTH Stockholm (SWE), Irena Kuzminsky and Jan Nelson, Jennifer Lade, Stephanie Leigh, Danielle McCarthy, Joanne Makas, Carol Mark (CAN), Anne Marsh, Bon Mott, Lynn Mowson, nattysolo.com, Michelle Neal, Sally Northfield, Pam Patterson (CAN), Juliette Peers, Caroline Phillips, Jane Polkinghorne, Paula do Prado, Julieanna Preston (NZ), Rebekah Pryor, Grace Pundyk, Leena Raudvee (CAN), Jenna Reid (CAN), Maria Richardson, Kate Robertson, Meredith Rogers, Lynx Sainte-Marie (CAN), Jocelynne Scutt (UK), Tania Smith, Gail Stiffe, Nina Siska, Sunday School (Kelly Doley and Diana Smith), Tasha Smith (NZ), Jacqueline Taylor (UK), Alison Thomson, Siân Torrington (NZ), Jane Trengove and Susan Long, Maxienne Tritton-Young, Victorian Women’s Trust, WIA Projects (CAN), Linda Wilkin, Women’s Art Register, Su Yang (CHI), India Zegan, Ann Zomer and Lucy Parker.\n\n2015 \"FavourEconomy: Volume 1, 2015–2016\" commenced generating favours coinciding with the 2015–2016 financial year. \"FavourEconomy\" audio archive consists of recordings shared by women who work in the arts. \"FavourEconomy\" operates as a platform where women* can share their knowledge and experience as a favour. The word favour is used to promote a culture of collegial and supportive communication and information sharing – creating value of a different kind. \"FavourEconomy\" is led by Claire Field, Alex Pedley and Bronwyn Treacy.\n\n2016 \"FavourEconomy: Volume 1. 2015–2016\" launched at Frontyard Projects Sydney on June 30, 2016\".\" The inaugural volume of the project was published on the \"FavourEconomy\" website the following day July 1, 2016. \"FavourEconomy Volume 1. 2015–2016\" was led by Claire Field Alex Pedley & Bronwyn Treacy. \"FavourEconomy Volume 1. 2015 2016\" contributors: Nicole Barakat, Heather Burness, Kate Brown, Julieanne Campbell, Cindy Yuen-Zhe Chen, Anzara Clark, Dagmar Cook, Selena de Carvalho, Linda Dement, Briony Downes, Julia Drouhin, Michele Elliot, Claire Field, Caren Florance, Michaela Gleave, Helen Jones, Danica Knezevic, Janis Lander, Birgitta Magnusson-Reid, Valda Marshall, Nancy Mauro-Flude, Gail May, Mish Meijers, Emily Millichip, Laimah Osman, Brigita Ozolins, Alex Pedley, Gaele Sobott, Pip Stafford, Lyndal Thorne, Pam Thorne, Bronwyn Treacy, Sarah Vandepeer, Tricky Walsh, Yvette Watt & Tian Zhang.\n\n2016 \"FavourEconomy: Volume 2. 2016–2017\" commenced generating favours coinciding with the 2016–2017 financial year.\n\n2017 Exhibition: \"Hidden Agenda,\" Trocadero Art Space, 22 February – March 11, 2017. Curated by Casey Jenkins of Craft Cartel. An exploration of hidden and suppressed gender worlds, featuring 30+ female & gender-queer visual artists, activists & performers from 4 continents performing both live & by proxy.\n\n2017 \"Ladies Cocktail Night, October 7, 2017\" FLASH exhibition to raise money for a women's community shelter being established in the South East suburbs of Sydney. \"Curated by Aisha Kovacs. Guest speakers and a performance by Pradeepti Sen. Artists exhibiting include: Serina Bajin, Kit, Naomi, Vashti, Krystal and more.\"\n\n2017 \"FavourEconomy: Volume 2. 2016–2017\" launched at Airspace Projects Sydney, coinciding with an exhibition of both Volumes 1 & 2 as an immersive sound installation. FavourEconomy: Volume 2, 2016–2017 was led by Claire Field & Bronwyn Treacy. \"FavourEconomy Volume 2. 2016 - 2017\" contributors: Eva Heiky Olga Abbinga, Elizabeth Barsham, Carolyn Cardinet, Michelle Cawthorn, Stella Chen, Charmaine Cole, Rebecca Conroy, Lottie Consalvo, Yvette Coppersmith, Penny Coss, Elisabeth Cummings, Amanda Davies, Paula do Prado, Julie Dowling, Hayley Megan French, Ann Fuata, Rebecca Gallo, Shanequa Gay, Jane Giblin, Janice Gobey, Katya Grokhovsky, Jo Holder, Alana Hunt, Wina Jie, Lea Kannar-Lichtenberger, Nicole Kelly, Anna Magdalena Laerkesen, Anita Larkin, Carla Liesch, Sue Manchoulas, Catriona Moore, Dahne Julian Molony, Laimah Osman, Caroline Phillips, Kate Power, Laura Purcell, Penny Ryan, Nuha Saad, Mia Salsjo, Esther Shohet, Sian Torrington, Cora-Allan Wickliffe, Linda Wilken, Ana Young & Tianli Zu.\n\n2017 \"FavourEconomy: Volume 3. 2017–2018\" commenced generating favours coinciding with the 2017–2018 financial year.\n\n2017 \"FavourEconomy:Stations\" exhibition at George Paton Gallery, curated by project co-founders Claire Field and Bronwyn Treacy, with Alex Pedley managing audience engagement and public programs. \"FavourEconomy:Stations\" presented the audio recordings from Volume 1 & 2 of the project (over 80 audio favours) played on random through multiple headsets placed on 24 chairs. Each chair (seat work) was conceived by a \"FavourEconomy\" contributor as a symbolic representation of themselves, their art practice, or simply a chair they would like the audience to sit on whilst listening to the \"FavourEconomy\" archive. Seat works by: Carolyn Cardinet, Stella Chen, Charmaine Cole, Elizabeth Barsham, Amanda Davies, Linda Dement, Julie Dowling, Claire Field, Janice Gobey, Katya Grokhovsky, Alana Hunt, Wina Jie, Lea Kannar-Lichtenberger, Sue Manchoulas, Nancy Mauro-Flude, Mish Meijers, Dahne Julian Molony, Alex Pedley, Caroline Phillips, Nuha Saad, Bronwyn Treacy, Cora-Allan Wickliffe, Linda Wilken, Ana Young and Tian Zhang. Coinciding with the \"FavourEconomy:Stations\" exhibition. Linda Dement and Nancy Mauro-Flude performed \"Awry Signals: A Eulogy for the Stellar [Girls]\" and Katya Grokhovsky live streamed her performance \"Practicing art while female\" from New York.\n\n2017 \"Against the Odds; Women in Art Forum\" hosted by the Women's Art Register. A gathering of diverse and cross-generational local women artists to explore issues of place, community, gender and practice within contemporary art. Themes for discussion included the challenges of establishing a career as a woman artist, and changing Australian demographics and evolving cultural communities as drivers of art practice and experience. The program included panel discussions, question time and a feminist souk. Special guests included The Social Studio, Melbourne Artists for Asylum Seekers, Sisterworks, Triple F Collective, Kim Donaldson, Nat Thomas, CoUNTess, Kate Just, Dianne Beevers] and Elizabeth Gertsakis.\n\n2018 \"Conspicuous Presence,\" curated by the Women's Art Register for Trocadero Artspace Guest Curator Program. Gallery 1 - an exhibition of five women artists of colour Sofi Basseghi, Georgia MacGuire, Ema Shin, Khi-Lee Thorpe, Su Yang. Gallery 2 - archival display from the Women's Art Register. Public program including artist talks and an Art+Feminism Wikipedia Edit-a-thon. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6838285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6838285", "title": "Backcoating", "text": "Backcoating\n\nBackcoating is the lamination of two sheets of paper back to back to create a superior paper for folding origami models. \n"}
{"id": "2293331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293331", "title": "Bond paper", "text": "Bond paper\n\nBond paper is a high quality durable writing paper similar to bank paper but having a weight greater than 50 g/m. The most common weights are 60 g/m (16 lb), 75 g/m (20 lb) and 90 g/m (24 lb). The name comes from its having originally been made for documents such as government bonds. It is now used for letterheads and other stationery and as paper for electronic printers. Widely employed for graphic work involving pencil, pen and felt-tip marker, bond paper can sometimes contain rag fibre pulp, which produces a stronger, though rougher, sheet of paper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33913682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33913682", "title": "Bottle cutting", "text": "Bottle cutting\n\nBottle cutting is an activity in which a person cuts a bottle using one of a variety of techniques, to create a new product. Techniques can include sawing or using hot wire. Around the late 1950s and early 1960s, some restaurants began making glasses by cutting wine bottles. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, bottle cutting kits started to appear on the market. By 1972, the technique had \"caught on like wildfire\" and was later described as a fad of the previous decade in 1983. The final step in bottle cutting is polishing, because no matter how carefully one cuts a bottle, the edges will be rough.\n\n"}
{"id": "27714014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27714014", "title": "Chadam", "text": "Chadam\n\nChadam is an animated web series by artist Alex Pardee based on characters he created for a number of The Used's album artwork and distributed by The WB and Eye Suck Ink. \"Chadam\" is produced by Jason \"Jace\" Hall of HDFILMS Inc. The short series premiered June 15, 2010 on TheWB.com. The WB and its children's network, Kids WB! is closed, but the website is still open. \"Chadam\" appeared on the cover of \"Lies for the Liars\". The episodes are nearly 4 to 5 minutes long. iTunes has the episodes in a collection called \"Chadam, the Complete Series\". iTunes episodes are nearly the 13 minute mark because two short episodes are built into one, for example, \"Cut from Cardboard\" and \"Ripley, Believe It or Not\" are put together as \"The Awakening\".\n\nHall pushed the boundaries of traditional filmmaking by using a computer game engine, Unreal Engine 3, in order to meet the challenge of animating Pardee's surreal work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "197003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197003", "title": "Chris Ofili", "text": "Chris Ofili\n\nChristopher Ofili, known as Chris Ofili (born 10 October 1968), is a Nigerian British Turner Prize-winning painter who is best known for his paintings incorporating elephant dung. He was one of the Young British Artists. Since 2005, Ofili has been living and working in Trinidad and Tobago, where he currently resides in Port of Spain. He also lives and works in London and Brooklyn.\n\nOfili was born in Manchester to May and Michael Ofili. When he was eleven, his father left the family and moved back to Nigeria. Ofili was for some years educated at St. Pius X High School for Boys, and then at Xaverian College in Victoria Park, Manchester. Ofili completed a foundation course in art at Tameside College in Ashton-under-Lyne in Greater Manchester and then studied in London, at the Chelsea School of Art from 1988 to 1991 and at the Royal College of Art from 1991 to 1993. In the fall of 1992, he got a one-year exchange scholarship to Universität der Künste Berlin.\n\nOfili visited Trinidad for the first time in 2000, when he was invited by an international art trust to attend a painting workshop in Port of Spain. He permanently moved to Trinidad in 2005. He lives with his wife Roba, former singer with trip-hop band Attica Blues, whom he married in 2002. He maintains a studio on Lady Chancellor Road, about ten minutes from downtown Port of Spain, in Trinidad.\n\nOfili's early work was heavily influenced by Jean-Michel Basquiat, Georg Baselitz, Philip Guston, and George Condo. Peter Doig was doing graduate work at the Chelsea College of Arts when Ofili was an undergraduate, and they soon became friends. In 2014, art critic Roberta Smith held that Ofili has much in common with painters like Mickalene Thomas, Kerry James Marshall, Robert Colescott and Ellen Gallagher, and with more distant precedents such as Bob Thompson, Beauford Delaney and William H. Johnson.\n\nOfili was established through exhibitions by Charles Saatchi at his gallery in north London and the travelling exhibition \"Sensation\" (1997), becoming recognised as one of the few British artists of African / Caribbean descent to break through as a member of the Young British Artists group. Ofili has also had numerous solo shows since the early 1990s, including at the Serpentine Gallery. In 1998, Ofili won the Turner Prize, and in 2003 he was selected to represent Britain at the Venice Biennale of that year, where his work for the British Pavilion was done in collaboration with the architect David Adjaye.\n\nIn 1992 he won a scholarship that allowed him to travel to Zimbabwe. Ofili studied cave paintings there, which had some effect on his style.\n\nBetween 1995 and 2005, Ofili focused on a series of watercolors, each about 9½ by 6½ inches and produced in a single sitting. They predominantly feature heads of men and women, as well as some studies of flowers and birds. Ofili's paintings also make reference to blaxploitation films and gangsta rap, seeking to question racial and sexual stereotypes in a humorous way. In a series of faces that Ofili called \"Harems\", each arrangement consists of one man with as many as four women on each side of him.\n\nOfili's work is often built up in layers of paint, resin, glitter, dung (mainly elephant) and other materials to create a collage. Though Ofili's detractors often state that he \"splatters\" elephant dung on his pictures, this is inaccurate: he sometimes applies it directly to the canvas in the form of dried spherical lumps, and sometimes, in the same form, uses it as varnished foot-like supports on which the paintings stand.\n\nOfili has been founder and prime mover behind the short-lived \"Freeness Project\". This project involved the coming together of artists, producers and musicians of minority ethnic groups (Asian and African) in an attempt to expose the music that may be unheard in other spaces. Freeness allowed the creativity of unsigned contemporary British ethnic minority artists to be heard. The result of months of tours to 10 cities in the UK resulted in \"Freeness Volume 1\" - a compilation of works that were shown during the tour.\n\nAfter relocating to Trinidad in 2005, Ofili began a series of blue paintings inspired by the \"Jab Jab\" or \"blue devils\" who participate in the Trinidad and Tobago Carnival, and the Expressionist group of German and Russian artists, \"Der Blaue Reiter.\" These paintings often employed the use of a silver, acrylic background with layers of dark oil pigment on top. Later iterations of these works were shown at Ofili's solo show \"Chris Ofili: Day and Night\" at The New Museum of New York which were installed in a very dimly lit room, causing viewers to adjust their eyes to the darkness in order to see the paintings.\n\nOfili was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2017 New Year Honours for services to art.\n\nOfili's work was featured in a museum in the 1995 exhibition \"Brilliant! New Art from London\" at the Walker Art Center. Significant solo exhibitions include the Arts Club of Chicago (2010), Kestnergesellschaft, Hanover (2006), the Studio Museum in Harlem, New York (2005), and Southampton City Art Gallery (1998). In 2010, Tate Britain presented the most extensive exhibition of his work to date. In 2014, The New Museum in New York presented the first, major solo show of Ofili's work in the U.S. titled \"Chris Ofili: Night and Day\".\n\nOne of his paintings, \"The Holy Virgin Mary\", a depiction of the Virgin Mary, was at issue in a lawsuit between the mayor of New York City, Rudy Giuliani, and the Brooklyn Museum of Art when it was exhibited there in 1999 as a part of the \"Sensation\" exhibit. The painting depicted a Black Madonna surrounded by images from blaxploitation movies and close-ups of female genitalia cut from pornographic magazines, and elephant dung. These were formed into shapes reminiscent of the cherubim and seraphim commonly depicted in images of the Immaculate Conception and the Assumption of Mary. Following the scandal surrounding this painting, Bernard Goldberg ranked Ofili No. 86 in \"100 People Who Are Screwing Up America\". Red Grooms showed his support of the artist by purchasing one of Ofili's paintings in 1999, even after Giuliani famously exclaimed, \"There’s nothing in the First Amendment that supports horrible and disgusting projects!” The painting was owned by David Walsh and was on display at the Museum of Old and New Art in Hobart, Tasmania. Steven A. Cohen then owned it for three years and donated the painting to the Museum of Modern Art.\n\n\"The Upper Room\" is an installation of 13 paintings of rhesus macaque monkeys by Ofili in a specially designed room. It was bought by the Tate Gallery in 2005 and caused controversy as Ofili was on the board of the Tate Trustees at the time of the purchase. In 2006 the Charity Commission censured the Tate for this purchase.\n\nHis \"Orgena\", a glittery portrait of a black woman created by the artist for his Turner Prize-winning exhibit at the Tate in 1998 was sold to an American collector for a record GBP 1.8 million, over its GBP 1 million high estimate, at Christie's London in 2010. In 2015, art collector David Walsh sold Ofili’s 8-foot-tall \"The Holy Virgin Mary\" for 2.9 million pounds at Christie’s.\n\n"}
{"id": "11020713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11020713", "title": "Classical Realism", "text": "Classical Realism\n\nClassical Realism refers to an artistic movement in late-20th and early 21st century in which drawing and painting place a high value upon skill and beauty, combining elements of 19th-century neoclassicism and realism.\n\nThe term \"Classical Realism\" first appeared as a description of literary style, as in an 1882 criticism of Milton's poetry. Its usage relating to the visual arts dates back to at least 1905 in a reference to Masaccio's paintings. It originated as the title of a contemporary but traditional artistic movement with Richard Lack (1928–2009), who was a pupil of Boston artist R. H. Ives Gammell (1893–1981) during the early 1950s. Ives Gammell had studied with William McGregor Paxton (1869–1941) and Paxton had studied with 19th-century French artist, Jean-Léon Gérôme (1824–1904). In 1967 Lack established Atelier Lack, a studio-school of fine art patterned after the ateliers of 19th-century Paris and the teaching of the Boston impressionists. By 1980 he had trained a significant group of young painters. In 1982, they organized a traveling exhibition of their work and that of other artists within the artistic tradition represented by Gammell, Lack and their students. Lack was asked by Vern Swanson, director of the Springville Museum of Art, Springville, Utah, (the exhibition's originating venue), to coin a term that would differentiate the realism of the heirs of the Boston tradition from that of other representational artists. Although he was reluctant to label this work, Lack chose the expression \"Classical Realism.\" It was first used in the title of that exhibition: \"Classical Realism: The Other Twentieth Century\". The term, \"Classical Realism\", was originally intended to describe work that combined the fine drawing and design of the European academic tradition as exemplified by Gérôme with the observed color values of the American Boston tradition as exemplified by Paxton.\n\nIn 1985 Atelier Lack began publishing the \"Classical Realism Quarterly\", featuring articles written by Richard Lack and his students to educate and inform the public about traditional representational painting. In 1988 Lack and several associates founded The American Society of Classical Realism, a society organized to preserve and promote fine representational art. The ASCR functioned until 2005 and published the influential \"Classical Realism Journal\" and \"Classical Realism Newsletter.\"\n\nIn a separate vein, another major contributor to the revival of traditional drawing and painting knowledge is the painter and art instructor Ted Seth Jacobs (born 1927), who taught students at the Art Students League and the New York Academy of Art in New York City. Their lineage is rooted in the Académie Julian, the Golden Age of Illustration in New York, and the School of Paris. In 1987 Ted Seth Jacobs created his own art school, L'Ecole Albert Defois in Les Cerqueux sous Passavant, France (49). Many of Jacobs' students such as Anthony Ryder and Jacob Collins became influential teachers and acquired their own student following.\n\nClassical Realism is characterized by love for the visible world and the great traditions of Western art, including Classicism, Realism and Impressionism. The movement's aesthetic is Classical in that it exhibits a preference for order, beauty, harmony and completeness; it is Realist because its primary subject matter comes from the representation of nature based on the artist's observation. Artists in this genre strive to draw and paint from the direct observation of nature, and eschew the use of photography or other mechanical aids. In this regard, Classical Realism differs from the art movements of Photorealism and Hyperrealism. Stylistically, classical realists employ methods used by both Impressionist and Academic artists.\n\nClassical Realist painters have attempted to restore curricula of training that develop a sensitive, artistic eye and methods of representing nature that pre-date Modern Art. They seek to create paintings that are personal, expressive, beautiful, and skillful. Their subject matter includes all of the traditional categories within Western Art: figurative, landscape, portraiture, indoor and outdoor genre and still life paintings.\n\nA central idea of Classical Realism is the belief that the Modern Art movements of the 20th century opposed the tenets and production of traditional art and caused a general loss of the skills and methods needed to produce it. Modernism was antagonistic to art as it was conceived by the Greeks, resurrected in the Renaissance, and carried on by the academies of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Classical Realist artists attempt to revive the idea of art production as it was traditionally understood: mastery of a craft in order to make objects that gratify and ennoble those who see them. This craftsmanship is then applied to drawing, painting or sculpting contemporary subjects which the artist observes in the modern world.\n\nLike the 19th-century academic models from which it derives inspiration, the movement has drawn criticism for the premium placed upon technical performance, a tendency toward contrived and idealized depictions of the figure, and rhetorical overstatement when applied to epic narrative. Maureen Mullarkey of the \"New York Sun\" referred to the school as \"a contemporary style with retro appeal—like Chrysler's PT Cruiser\".\n\nThe Classical Realist movement is currently sustained through art schools based on the Atelier Method. Many present-day academies and ateliers follow the Charles Bargue drawing course. Richard Lack is generally regarded as the founder of the contemporary atelier movement. His school, Atelier Lack, was founded in 1969 and became a model for similar schools. These modern ateliers are founded with the goal of revitalizing art education by reintroducing rigorous training in traditional drawing and painting techniques, employing teaching methodologies that were used in the École des Beaux-Arts. These schools pass on a method of instruction which melds formal academic art training with the influence of the French Impressionists.\n\nUnder the atelier model, art students study in the studio of an established master to learn how to draw and paint with realistic accuracy and an emphasis on rendering form convincingly. The foundation of these programs rests on an intensive study of the human figure, renderings of plaster casts of classical sculpture, and the emulation of their instructors. The goal is to make students adept at observation, theory, and craft while absorbing classical ideals of beauty.\n\nAtelier schools founded in this tradition include (in chronological order of founding): \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "353663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353663", "title": "Climax (narrative)", "text": "Climax (narrative)\n\nThe climax (from the Greek word \"κλῖμαξ\", meaning \"staircase\" and \"ladder\") or turning point of a narrative work is its point of highest tension and drama, or it is the time when the action starts during which the solution is given. The climax of a story is a literary element.\n\nThe punch line of a joke is an analogy for the climax of a fictional narrative, though the absence of any falling action is an essential difference, which may reflect the nature of humor as opposed to the nature of drama.\n\nIn non-fictional narrative genres, even though the author does not have the same freedom to control the action and \"plot\" as in works of fiction, the selection of subject matter, degree of detail, and emphasis permit an author to create similar structures, i.e., to construct a dramatization.\n\nIn the play \"Hippolytus\", by the famous Greek playwright, Euripides, the climax arrives when Phaedra hears Hippolytus react badly because of her love for him. That is the moment that Aphrodite's curse is finally fulfilled, and it is the turning point of the play.\n\nAn anticlimax is a situation in a plot in which something which would appear to be difficult to solve is solved through something trivial. For example, destroying a heavily guarded facility would require advanced technology, teamwork, and weaponry for a climax, but for an anticlimax, it may just require pushing a red button which reads, \"Emergency Self-Destruct\", or simply filling out an eviction notice and destroying the building. A famous example is the ending of \"The War of the Worlds\", where amidst the chaos of the extraterrestrial takeover of planet Earth, the aliens are defeated by the most unexpected organism: the common cold virus. Another example could involve the protagonist faced with insurmountable odds and ultimately being killed without accomplishing his goal, despite what appears to be a turning point for the character.\n\n"}
{"id": "48462950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48462950", "title": "Color-blocking", "text": "Color-blocking\n\nColor-blocking is thought of as the exploration of taking colors that are opposites on the color wheel and pairing them together to make interesting and complementary color combinations. It is commonly associated in fashion as a trend that originated from the artwork of Dutch painter, Piet Mondrian. However, other experts argue whether his artwork is the true origin of color-blocking.\n\nIt’s widely believed by most historians that Piet Mondrian, a turn of the century artist, whose paintings were a collection of stark lines and flat squares, inspired this current color-blocking trend. Mondrian valued simplicity and therefore experimented with how far he could simplify his work, maximizing simplicity while still maintaining recognizable, although abstract, geometric shapes. Mondrian later named this style of painting Neo-Plasticism. In Piet Mondrian's Neoplasticism movement, his art directly inspired the fashion world, as well as home décor and baked goods. Although Mondrian is said to be the key figure of the modern art movement, there are others that believe the credit for this trend lies with Georges Seurat and Claude Monet. However sources report that it is Piet Mondrian who inspired other designers such as Yves Saint Laurent to create the famous Mondrian Dresses. Before Mondrian's aesthetic overtook the fashion world, pop art's materialization in the 50s opened America's eyes to a more vibrant but structured world. Pop Art incorporated the same clean lines and solid colors that Piet Mondrian's work encompassed. Proponents of the Georges Seurat and Monet origin theory claim that this novel acceptance lead to the color-blocking revolution. Mondrian's Neo-Plasticism aesthetic evolved through the decades, coming to include aspects such as synthetic color and a strong imposed structure in the 1960s. The color-blocking trend took off in the 60s as fashion designers like Yves Saint Laurent adopted this revolutionary aesthetic. It wasn't long before this new trend was reaching as far as London; the youth of London began wearing ensembles that would come to be known as mod fashion. Mod fashion much resembled the artistic style of Piet Mondrian; mismatched, solid color separates that were composed of blocks in different hues.\n\nAs for today color-blocking is more frequently seen in the home as a latest thing in interior design. Although some argue that color-blocking is a thing in the past, high fashion figures and enthusiasts believe that this retro trend continues to thrive as a result of the hipster generation, whom revive the trend and turn it into something seen as fashion-forward.\n\nIn the fashion world, the process of color-blocking refers to wearing blocks of colors. Color-blocking is different than how people usually dress because the colors in the outfit are considered louder, or colors that clash. Fashion figures explain color-blocking as wearing multiple articles of solid-colored clothing in a single outfit. Traditional color-blocking consists of putting together two or three different, but complementary colors together in one outfit. It is also considered color-blocking even if the colors are not direct opposites on the color wheel. For example, yellow and orange are right next to each other, but adding purple (a color on the opposite of the wheel) creates a color-blocked outfit.\n\nFashion icons, designers, and figures have developed rules that go along with the art of color-blocking. Basic rules for color-blocking are centered on the colour theory. The colour theory states that there are unwritten rules in color-blocking such as not wearing too many colors together at once, and balancing an outfit with a neutral such as grey.\n\nSince color-blocking is an abstract form of art, it is easy to create illusions for accentuating body shapes, making people look taller and thinner. Color-blocking provides versatility to clothing that other trends and styles don't provide.\n\nColor-blocking has recently spilled over into home décor and interior design. This trend takes the same idea in home design that is does in fashion: the colors are paired with no concern of matching. In the home color-blocking is used mainly in room décor and walls. Décor clashing with each other, or in more mild cases the opposite colors complement each other to provide an interesting and refreshing atmosphere in a room.\n\n"}
{"id": "1013749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1013749", "title": "Comprachicos", "text": "Comprachicos\n\nComprachicos (also Comprapequeños and Cheylas) is a compound Spanish neologism meaning \"child-buyers\", which was coined by Victor Hugo in his novel \"The Man Who Laughs\". It refers to various groups in folklore who were said to change the physical appearance of human beings by manipulating growing children, in a similar way to the horticultural method of bonsai – that is, deliberate mutilation. The most common methods said to be used in this practice included stunting children's growth by physical restraint, muzzling their faces to deform them, slitting their eyes, dislocating their joints, and malforming their bones. The resulting dwarfed and deformed adults made their living as mountebanks or were sold to lords and ladies to be used as pages or court fools.\n\nVictor Hugo's novel \"The Man Who Laughs\" is the story of a young aristocrat kidnapped and disfigured by his captors to display a permanent malicious grin. At the opening of the book, Hugo provides a description of the Comprachicos:\n\nThe Comprachicos worked on man as the Chinese work on trees. A sort of fantastic stunted thing left their hands; it was ridiculous and wonderful. They could touch up a little being with such skill that its father could not have recognized it. Sometimes they left the spine straight and remade the face. Children destined for tumblers had their joints dislocated in a masterly manner; thus gymnasts were made. Not only did the Comprachicos take away his face from the child; they also took away his memory. At least, they took away all they could of it; the child had no consciousness of the mutilation to which he had been subjected. Of burnings by sulphur and incisions by the iron he remembered nothing. The Comprachicos deadened the little patient by means of a stupefying powder which was thought to be magical and which suppressed all pain.\n\nAccording to research by John Boynton Kaiser in the Journal of the American Institute of Criminal Law and Criminology, \"Victor\nHugo has given us a pretty faithful picture of many characteristic details of social England of the 17th century; but the word Comprachicos is used to describe a people whose characteristics are an unhistorical conglomeration of much that was once actual but then obsolete in the history of human society.\" Much that seems unimaginable today may have authentic roots in common practices of the seventeenth century.\n\nOne of the common creations of the Comprachicos was supposed to be artificial dwarfs, formed \"by anointing babies' spines with the grease of bats, moles and dormice\" and using drugs such as \"dwarf elder, knotgrass, and daisy juice\". The conception was known to Shakespeare, as Beatrice K. Otto pointed out, quoting \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\":Get you gone, dwarf;<br>You minimus, of hindering knot-grass made;\n\nOther means of creating this result were conjectured to include physical stunting by breaking or dislocating bones, and forcible constraint, whereby growth was inhibited for a long enough period to create permanent deformation. Because of the demand for dwarfs and other novelties in the courts of kings at this time, this could have been a profitable occupation.\n\nThe term \"comprachico\" is very uncommonly used in modern English except in reference or allusion to the antiquated folklore , but similar stories do exist in the English speaking world. For instance, a tale circulating since at least the 1980s tells of a Japanese bride who disappears during her honeymoon in Europe; years later her husband discovers she has been abducted, mutilated, and forced to work in a freak show.\n\n\"Comprachico\" has been adopted as a pejorative term used for individuals and entities who manipulate the minds and attitudes of children in a way that will permanently distort their beliefs or worldview. Twentieth-century philosopher Ayn Rand referred to educators of the time as \"the Comprachicos of the mind\" in her article \"The Comprachicos\". Her criticism was targeted especially toward educational progressivists, but also grade-school and high-school educators who, in her view, used psychologically harmful methods of education.\n\nIn the 2010 album \"Immersion\" by Australian Drum and Bass band Pendulum, one of the songs was named \"Comprachicos\", where the lyrics had references to manipulation and restraint.\n\nThe 2011 DC comic Batman and Robin #26 contained a villain whose father disfigured him after reading about the \"Comprachicos\" in Hugo's novel.\n\nJames Ellroy refers to them and Victor Hugo's novel in \"The Black Dahlia\" which forms a major motivation for the murder of Elizabeth Short.\n\n"}
{"id": "49870344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49870344", "title": "Creative computing", "text": "Creative computing\n\nCreative computing covers the interdisciplinary area at the cross-over of the creative arts and computing. Issues of creativity include knowledge discovery, for example. \n\nThe \"International Journal of Creative Computing\" describes creative computing as follows:\n\nCreative computing is interdisciplinary in nature and topics relating to it include applications, development method, evaluation, modeling, philosophy, principles, support environment, and theory.\n\nThe term \"creative computing\" is used both in the United Kingdom and the United States (e.g., at Harvard University and MIT).\n\nA number of university degree programmes in Creative Computing exist, for example at:\n\n\nThe \"International Journal of Creative Computing\" is a quarterly peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Inderscience Publishers, covering creativity in computing and the other way around. The editor-in-chief is Hongji Yang (Bath Spa University).\n\nThe journal was established in 2013 and is abstracted and indexed in CSA, ProQuest, and DBLP databases.\n\n"}
{"id": "610989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=610989", "title": "Diorama", "text": "Diorama\n\nThe word diorama can either refer to a 19th-century mobile theatre device, or, in modern usage, a three-dimensional full-size or miniature model, sometimes enclosed in a glass showcase for a museum. Dioramas are often built by hobbyists as part of related hobbies such as military vehicle modeling, miniature figure modeling, or aircraft modeling.\n\nThe word \"diorama\" originated in 1823 as a type of picture-viewing device, from the French in 1822. The word literally means \"through that which is seen\", from the Greek di- \"through\" + orama \"that which is seen, a sight\". The diorama was invented by Louis Daguerre and Charles Marie Bouton, first exhibited in Paris in July 1822 and in London on September 29, 1823. The meaning \"small-scale replica of a scene, etc.\" is from 1902.\n\nDaguerre's and Bouton's diorama consisted of a piece of material painted on both sides. When illuminated from the front, the scene would be shown in one state and by switching to illumination from behind another phase or aspect would be seen. Scenes in daylight changed to moonlight, a train travelling on a track would crash, or an earthquake would be shown in before and after pictures.\n\nThe current, popular understanding of the term \"diorama\" denotes a partially three-dimensional, full-size replica or scale model of a landscape typically showing historical events, nature scenes or cityscapes, for purposes of education or entertainment.\n\nOne of the first uses of dioramas in a museum was in Stockholm, Sweden, where the Biological Museum opened in 1893. It had several dioramas, over three floors. They were also implemented by the National Museum Grigore Antipa from Bucharest Romania and constituted a source of inspiration for many important museums in the world (such as the Museum of Natural History of New York and the Great Oceanographic Museum in Berlin) [reference below]. \n\nMiniature dioramas are typically much smaller, and use scale models and landscaping to create historical or fictional scenes. Such a scale model-based diorama is used, for example, in Chicago's Museum of Science and Industry to display railroading. This diorama employs a common model railroading scale of 1:87 (HO scale). Hobbyist dioramas often use scales such as 1:35 or 1:48.\n\nAn early, and exceptionally large example was created between 1830 and 1838 by a British Army officer. William Siborne, and represents the Battle of Waterloo at about 7.45 pm, on 18 June, 1815. The diorama measures and used around 70,000 model soldiers in its construction. It is now part of the collection of the National Army Museum in London.\n\nSheperd Paine, a prominent hobbyist, popularized the modern miniature diorama beginning in the 1970s.\n\nModern museum dioramas may be seen in most major natural history museums. Typically, these displays use a tilted plane to represent what would otherwise be a level surface, incorporate a painted background of distant objects, and often employ false perspective, carefully modifying the scale of objects placed on the plane to reinforce the illusion through depth perception in which objects of identical real-world size placed farther from the observer appear smaller than those closer. Often the distant painted background or sky will be painted upon a continuous curved surface so that the viewer is not distracted by corners, seams, or edges. All of these techniques are means of presenting a realistic view of a large scene in a compact space. A photograph or single-eye view of such a diorama can be especially convincing since in this case there is no distraction by the binocular perception of depth.\n\nMiniature dioramas may be used to represent scenes from historic events. A typical example of this type are the dioramas to be seen at Norway's Resistance Museum in Oslo, Norway.\n\nLandscapes built around model railways can also be considered dioramas, even though they often have to compromise scale accuracy for better operating characteristics.\n\nHobbyists also build dioramas of historical or quasi-historical events using a variety of materials, including plastic models of military vehicles, ships or other equipment, along with scale figures and landscaping.\n\nIn the 19th and beginning 20th century, building dioramas of sailing ships had been a popular handcraft of mariners. Building a diorama instead of a normal model had the advantage that in the diorama, the model was protected inside the framework and could easily be stowed below the bunk or behind the sea chest. Nowadays, such antique sailing ship dioramas are valuable collectors' items.\n\nOne of the largest dioramas ever created was a model of the entire State of California built for the Panama-Pacific International Exposition of 1915 and that for a long time was installed in San Francisco's Ferry Building.\n\nDioramas are widely used in the American educational system, mostly in elementary and middle schools. They are often made to represent historical events, ecological biomes, cultural scenes, or to visually depict literature. They are usually made from a shoebox and contain a trompe-l'œil in the background contrasted with two or three-dimensional models in the foreground.\n\nThe Diorama was a popular entertainment that originated in Paris in 1822. An alternative to the also popular \"Panorama\" (panoramic painting), the Diorama was a theatrical experience viewed by an audience in a highly specialized theatre. As many as 350 patrons would file in to view a landscape painting that would change its appearance both subtly and dramatically. Most would stand, though limited seating was provided. The show lasted 10 to 15 minutes, after which time the entire audience (on a massive turntable) would rotate to view a second painting. Later models of the Diorama theater even held a third painting.\n\nThe size of the proscenium was wide by high (7.3 meters x 6.4 meters). Each scene was hand-painted on linen, which was made transparent in selected areas. A series of these multi-layered, linen panels were arranged in a deep, truncated tunnel, then illuminated by sunlight re-directed via skylights, screens, shutters, and colored blinds. Depending on the direction and intensity of the skillfully manipulated light, the scene would appear to change. The effect was so subtle and finely rendered that both critics and the public were astounded, believing they were looking at a natural scene.\n\nThe inventors and proprietors of the Diorama were Charles-Marie Bouton (1781– 1853), a Troubador painter who also worked at the Panorama under Pierre Prévost, and Louis Jacques Mandé Daguerre (1787–1851), formerly a decorator, manufacturer of mirrors, painter of Panoramas, and designer and painter of theatrical stage illusions. Daguerre would later co-invent the daguerreotype, the first widely used method of photography.\n\nA second Diorama building in Regent's Park in London was opened by an association of Englishmen (having a contract to purchase Daguerre's tableaux) in 1823, a year after the debut of Daguerre's Paris original. The building which exhibited the diorama was designed by Augustus Charles Pugin, father of the notable English architect and designer Augustus Welby Northmore Pugin. The show was a popular sensation, and spawned immediate imitations. British artists like Clarkson Stanfield and David Roberts produced ever-more elaborate (moving) dioramas through the 1830s; sound effects and even living performers were added. Some \"typical diorama effects included moonlit nights, winter snow turning into a summer meadow, rainbows after a storm, illuminated fountains,\" waterfalls, thunder and lightning, and ringing bells. A diorama painted by Daguerre is currently housed in the church of the French town Bry-sur-Marne, where he lived and died.\n\n\nExhibition venues : Paris (Pa.1822-28) : London (Lo.1823-32) : Liverpool (Li.1827-32) : Manchester (Ma.1825-27) : Dublin (Du.1826-28) : Edinburgh (Ed.1828-36)\n\n\nUntil 1968, Britain boasted a large collection of dioramas. These collections were originally housed in the Royal United Services Institute Museum, (formerly the Banqueting House), in Whitehall. However, when the museum closed, the various exhibits and their 15 known dioramas were distributed to smaller museums throughout England, some ending up in Canada and elsewhere. These dioramas were the brainchild of the wealthy furrier Otto Gottstein (1892–1951) of Leipzig, a Jewish immigrant from Hitler's Germany, who was an avid collector and designer of flat model figures called flats. In 1930, Gottstein's influence is first seen at the Leipzig International Exhibition, along with the dioramas of Hahnemann of Kiel, Biebel of Berlin and Muller of Erfurt, all displaying their own figures, and those commissioned from such as Ludwig Frank in large diorama form. In 1933, Gottstein left Germany, and in 1935 founded the British Model Soldier Society. Gottstein persuaded designer and painter friends in both Germany and France to help in the construction of dioramas depicting notable events in English history. But due to the war, many of the figures arrived in England incomplete. The task of turning Gottstein's ideas into reality fell to his English friends and those friends who had managed to escape from the Continent. Dennis (Denny) C. Stokes, a talented painter and diorama maker in his own right, was responsible for the painting of the backgrounds of all the dioramas, creating a unity seen throughout the whole series. Denny Stokes was given the overall supervision of the fifteen dioramas.\n\n\nKrunert, Schirmer, Frank, Frauendorf, Maier, Franz Rieche, and Oesterrich were also involved in the manufacture and design of figures for the various dioramas. Krunert (a Viennese), like Gottstein an exile in London, was given the job of engraving for \"‘The Battle of Quebec’\". Unfortunately, the \"‘death of Wolfe’\" was found to be inaccurate and had to be re-designed. The names of the vast majority of painters employed by Gottstein are mostly unknown, most lived and worked on the continent, among them Gustave Kenmow, Leopold Rieche, L. Dunekate, M. Alexandre, A. Ochel, Honey Ray, and, perhaps Gottstein's top painter, Vladimir Douchkine (a Russian émigré who lived in Paris). Douchkine was responsible for painting two figures of the Duke of Marlborough on horseback for \"‘The Blenheim Diorama’\", one of which was used, the other, Gottstein being the true collector, was never released.\n\nDenny Stokes painted all the backgrounds of all the dioramas, Herbert Norris, the Historical Costume Designer, whom Dr. J. F. Lovel-Barnes introduced to Gottstein, was responsible for the costume design of the Ancient Britons, the Normans and Saxons, some of the figures of \"‘The Field of the Cloth of Gold’\" and the Elizabethan figures for \"‘Queen Elizabeth at Tilbury’\". Dr. J.F. Lovel-Barnes was himself responsible for the \"‘Battle of Blenheim’\" diorama, selecting the figures, and arrangement of the scene. Due to World War II, when flat figures became unavailable, Gottstein completed his ideas by using Greenwood and Ball's 20 mm figures. In time, a fifteenth diorama was added, using these 20 mm figures, this diorama representing the \"‘D-Day landings’\". When all the dioramas were completed, they were displayed along one wall in the Royal United Services Institute Museum. When the museum was closed the fifteen dioramas were distributed to various museums and institutions. The greatest number are to be found at the Glenbow Museum, (130-9th Avenue, S. E. Calgary, Alberta, Canada): RE: \"'The Landing of the Romans under Julius Caesar in 55 BC', 'The Battle Of Crecy', 'The Battle of Blenheim', 'The Old Guard at Waterloo', 'The Charge of the Light Brigade at Balaclava'.\"\nThe state of these dioramas is one of debate; John Garratt (\"The World of Model Soldiers\") claimed in 1968, that the dioramas \"appear to have been partially broken up and individual figures have been sold to collectors\". According to the Glenbow Institute (Barry Agnew, Curator) \"the figures are still in reasonable condition, but the plaster groundwork has suffered considerable deterioration\". Unfortunately, there are no photographs available of the dioramas. \"‘The Battle of Hastings’\" diorama was to be found in the Old Town Museum, Hastings, and is still in reasonable condition. It shows the Norman cavalry charging up Senlac Hill towards the Saxon lines. \n'‘The Storming of Acre’\" is in the Museum of Artillery at the Rotunda, Woolwich. John Garratt, in the \"Encyclopedia of Model Soldiers\", states that \"‘The Field of the Cloth of Gold’\" was in the possession of the Royal Military School of Music, Kneller Hall; however, according to the Curator, the diorama had not been in his possession since 1980, nor is it listed in their Accession Book, so the whereabouts of this diorama is unknown.\n\nSan Francisco, California artist Frank Wong (born 22 September 1932) created miniature dioramas that depict the San Francisco Chinatown of his youth during the 1930s and 1940s. \nIn 2004, Wong donated seven miniatures of scenes of Chinatown, titled \"The Chinatown Miniatures Collection\", to Chinese Historical Society of America (CHSA). The dioramas are on permanent display in CHSA's Main Gallery:\n\n\nSan Francisco filmmaker James Chan is producing and directing a documentary about Wong and the \"changing landscape of Chinatown\" in San Francisco. The documentary is tentatively titled, \"Frank Wong's Chinatown\".\n\nPainters of the Romantic era like John Martin and Francis Danby were influenced to create large and highly dramatic pictures by the sensational dioramas and panoramas of their day. In one case, the connection between life and diorama art became intensely circular. On 1 February 1829, John Martin's brother Jonathan, known as \"Mad Martin,\" set fire to the roof of York Minster. Clarkson Stanfield created a diorama re-enactment of the event, which premiered on 20 April of the same year; it employed a \"safe fire\" via chemical reaction as a special effect. On 27 May, the \"safe\" fire proved to be less safe than planned: it set a real fire in the painted cloths of the imitation fire, which burned down the theater and all of its dioramas.\n\nNonetheless, dioramas remained popular in England, Scotland, and Ireland through most of the 19th century, lasting until 1880.\n\nA small scale version of the diorama called the Polyrama Panoptique could display images in the home and was marketed from the 1820s.\n\nNatural history dioramas seek to imitate nature and, since their conception in the late 19th century, aim to \"nurture a reverence for nature [with its] beauty and grandeur\". They have also been described as a means to visually preserve nature as different environments change due to human involvement. They were extremely popular during the first half of the 20th century, both in the USA and UK, later on giving way to television, film, and new perspectives on science.\nLike historical dioramas, natural history dioramas are a mix of two- and three-dimensional elements. What sets natural history dioramas apart from other categories is the use of taxidermy in addition to the foreground replicas and painted background. The use of taxidermy means that natural history dioramas derive not only from Daguerre's work, but also from that of taxidermists, who were used to preparing specimens for either science or spectacle. It was only with the dioramas' precursors (and, later on, dioramas) that both these objectives merged. Popular diorama precursors were produced by Charles Willson Peale, an artist with an interest in taxidermy, during the early 19th century. To present his specimens, Peale \"painted skies and landscapes on the back of cases displaying his taxidermy specimens\". By the late 19th century, the British Museum held an exhibition featuring taxidermy birds set on models of plants.\n\nThe first habitat diorama created for a museum was constructed by taxidermist Carl Akeley for the Milwaukee Public Museum in 1889, where it is still held. Akeley set taxidermy muskrats in a three-dimensional re-creation of their wetland habitat with a realistic painted background. With the support of curator Frank M. Chapman, Akeley designed the popular habitat dioramas featured at the American Museum of Natural History. Combining art with science, these exhibitions were intended to educate the public about the growing need for habitat conservation. The modern AMNH Exhibitions Lab is charged with the creation of all dioramas and otherwise immersive environments in the museum.\n\nA predecessor of Akeley, naturalist and taxidermist Martha Maxwell, created a famous habitat diorama for the first World's Fair in 1876. The complex diorama featured taxidermied animals in realistic action poses, running water, and live prairie dogs. It is speculated this display was the first of its kind [outside of a museum]. Maxwell's pioneering diorama work is said to have influenced major figures in taxidermy history who entered the field later, such as Akeley and William Temple Hornaday. \n\nSoon, the concern for accuracy came. Groups of scientists, taxidermists, and artists would go on expeditions to ensure accurate backgrounds and collect specimens, though some would be donated by game hunters. Natural history dioramas reached the peak of their grandeur with the opening of the Akeley Hall of African Mammals in 1936, which featured large animals, such as elephants, surrounded by even larger scenery. Nowadays, various institutions lay different claims to notable dioramas. The Milwaukee Public Museum still displays the world's first diorama, created by Akeley; the American Museum of Natural History, in New York, has what might be the world's largest diorama: a life-size replica of a blue whale; the Powell-Cotton Museum, in Kent, UK, is known for having the world's oldest, unchanged, room-sized diorama, built in 1896.\n\nNatural history dioramas consist of 3 parts:\n\n\nPreparations for the background begin on the field, where an artist takes photographs and sketches references pieces. Once back at the museum, the artist has to depict the scenery with as much realism as possible. The challenge lies in the fact that the wall used is curved: this allows the background to surround the display without seams joining different panels. At times the wall also curves upward to meet the light above and form a sky. By having a curved wall, whatever the artist paints will be distorted by perspective; it is the artist's job to paint in such a way that minimises this distortion.\n\nThe foreground is created to mimic the ground, plants and other accessories to scenery. The ground, hills, rocks, and large trees are created with wood, wire mesh, and plaster. Smaller trees are either used in their entirety or replicated using casts. Grasses and shrubs can be preserved in solution or dried to then be added to the diorama. Ground debris, such as leaf litter, is collected on site and soaked in wallpaper paste for preservation and presentation in the diorama. Water is simulated using glass or plexiglass with ripples carved on the surface. For a diorama to be successful, the foreground and background must merge, so both artists have to work together.\n\nTaxidermy specimens are usually the centrepiece of dioramas. Since they must entertain, as well as educate, specimens are set in lifelike poses, so as to convey a narrative of an animal's life. Smaller animals are usually made with rubber moulds and painted. Larger animals are prepared by first making a clay sculpture of the animal. This sculpture is made over the actual, posed skeleton of the animal, with reference to moulds and measurements taken on the field. A papier-mâché mannequin is prepared from the clay sculpture and the animal's tanned skin is sewn onto the mannequin. Glass eyes substitute the real ones.\n\nIf an animal is large enough, the scaffolding that holds the specimen needs to be incorporated into the foreground design and construction.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26619607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26619607", "title": "Early Theatre", "text": "Early Theatre\n\nEarly Theatre is a peer-reviewed academic journal specialising in the study of medieval and early modern theatre and drama, particularly in England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales. The journal originally evolved out of the \"REED Newsletter\", which was published biannually by the Records of Early English Drama, and the first issue was published in 1998. It is edited by Helen Ostovich.\n"}
{"id": "372656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372656", "title": "Eavesdropping", "text": "Eavesdropping\n\nEavesdropping is the act of secretly or stealthily listening to the private conversation or communications of others without their consent. The practice is widely regarded as unethical, and in many jurisdictions is illegal.\n\nThe verb \"eavesdrop\" is a back-formation from the noun \"eavesdropper\" (\"a person who eavesdrops\"), which was formed from the related noun \"eavesdrop\" (\"the dripping of water from the eaves of a house; the ground on which such water falls\").\n\nAn eavesdropper was someone who would hang from the eave of a building so as to hear what is said within. The PBS documentaries, \"Inside the Court of Henry VIII\" (April 8, 2015) and \"Secrets of Henry VIII’s Palace\" (June 30, 2013) include segments that display and discuss \"eavedrops\", carved wooden figures Henry VIII had built into the eaves (overhanging edges of the beams in the ceiling) of Hampton Court to discourage unwanted gossip or dissension from the King's wishes and rule, to foment paranoia and fear, and demonstrate that everything said there was being overheard; literally, that the walls had ears.\n\nEavesdropping vectors include telephone lines, cellular networks, email, and other methods of private instant messaging. VoIP communications software is also vulnerable to electronic eavesdropping via infections such as trojans.\n\nNetwork eavesdropping is a network layer attack that focuses on capturing small \"packets\" from the network transmitted by other computers and reading the data content in search of any type of information. This type of network attack is generally one of the most effective as a lack of encryption services are used. It is also linked to the collection of metadata. Those who perform this type of attack are generally black hat hackers; however, government agencies, such as the National Security Agency, have also been connected.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24386914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24386914", "title": "Hardstone carving", "text": "Hardstone carving\n\nHardstone carving is a general term in art history and archaeology for the artistic carving of predominantly semi-precious stones (but also of gemstones), such as jade, rock crystal (clear quartz), agate, onyx, jasper, serpentine, or carnelian, and for an object made in this way. Normally the objects are small, and the category overlaps with both jewellery and sculpture. Hardstone carving is sometimes referred to by the Italian term \"pietre dure\"; however, \"pietra dura\" (with an \"a\") is the common term used for stone inlay work, which causes some confusion.\n\nFrom the Neolithic period until about the 19th century such objects were among the most highly prized in a wide variety of cultures, often attributed special powers or religious significance, but today coverage in non-specialist art history tends to be relegated to a catch-all decorative arts or \"minor arts\" category. The types of objects carved have included those with ritual or religious purposes, engraved gems as signet rings and other kinds of seal, handles, belt hooks and similar items, vessels and purely decorative objects.\n\nHardstone carving falls under the general category of glyptic art, which covers small carvings and sculpture in all categories of stone. The definition in this context of \"hardstone\" is unscientific and not very rigid, but excludes \"soft\" stones such as soapstone (steatite) and minerals such as alabaster, both widely used for carving, as well as typical stones for building and monumental sculpture, such as marble and other types of limestone, and sandstone. These are typically not capable of a fine finish in very small carvings, and would wear in prolonged use. In other contexts, such as architecture, \"hard stone\" and \"soft stone\" have different meanings, referring to actual measured hardness using the Mohs scale of mineral hardness and other measures. Some rocks used in architecture and monumental sculpture, such as granite, are at least as hard as the gemstones, and others such as malachite are relatively soft but counted as hardstones because of their rarity and fine colour.\n\nEssentially, any stone that is often used in jewellery is likely to count as a hardstone. Hard organic minerals such as amber and jet are included, as well as the mineraloid obsidian. Hardstones normally have to be drilled rather than worked with edged tools to achieve a fine finish. Geologically speaking, most of the gemstones traditionally carved in the West are varieties of quartz, including: chalcedony, agate, amethyst, sard, onyx, carnelian, heliotrope, jasper, and quartz in its uncoloured and transparent form, known as rock crystal. The various materials called jade have been dominant in East Asian and Mesoamerican carving. Stones typically used for buildings and large sculpture are not often used for small objects such as vessels, although this does occur. For example, in the Uruk period of Sumerian culture (4th millennium BCE) heavy vases, cups and ewers of sandstone and limestone have been found, but were not for common use, as the people of Uruk had well-developed pottery.\n\nThe art is very ancient, going back to the Indus Valley Civilization and beyond, and major traditions include cylinder seals and other small carvings in the Ancient Near East, which were also made in softer stones. Inlays of semi-precious stones were often used for decoration or highlights in sculptures of other materials, for example statues often had eyes inlaid with white shell and blue lapis lazuli or another stone.\n\nChinese jade carving begins with the carving of ritual objects, including blades for \"ji\" and dagger-axes clearly never intended for use, and the \"Six Ritual Jades\" including the \"bi\" and \"cong\", which according to much later literature represented heaven and earth respectively. These are found from the Neolithic Liangzhu culture (3400-2250 BCE) onwards, and blades from the 2nd millennium BCE Shang Dynasty on. Traditional Chinese culture attaches strong powers to jade; the jade burial suits in which aristocrats of the Han Dynasty (206 BCE–220 CE) were buried were intended to preserve the body from decay.\nThe Chinese and other cultures often attributed specific properties for detecting and neutralizing poison to gemstones, a belief still alive in the European Renaissance, as shown by the works of Georgius Agricola, the \"father of mineralogy\". The English word \"jade\" derives (via the Spanish \"piedra de ijada\") from the Aztec belief that the mineral cured ailments of the kidneys and sides. The Han period also saw the beginning of the tradition of fine decorative jade carving which has lasted until modern times, though the fine carving of other hardstones did not develop until the 17th century, and then appears to have been produced in different workshops and styles from those for jade. In general whiteish nephrite jade was the most highly regarded in China until about 1800, when the deeper and brighter green of the best jadeite became more highly favoured. There are related Asian traditions of Korean jade carving, in Southeast Asia and, to a much lesser extent, Japan.\n\nSmallish Sassanian carvings are known, mostly for seals or jewellery; the central medallion of the \"Cup of Chosroes\" (gallery) is one of the largest. Egyptian carving of rock crystal into vessels appears in the late 10th century, and virtually disappears after about 1040. In 1062 the Cairo palace of the Fatimid Caliphate was looted by his mercenaries, and the examples found in European treasuries, like the one illustrated, may have been acquired as the booty was dispersed. The rock crystal used in Egypt was apparently traded from East Africa.\n\nUntil recently it was thought that jade carving was introduced to the central Asian Islamic world in the Timurid period, but it is becoming clearer that archers' thumb rings, knife hilts, and various other objects had been carved for centuries, even millennia before, though in limited numbers. Islamic jades and other carvings reached a particular peak in the Mughal Empire, where apart from portable carvings inlaid panels of carved stones were included in buildings such as the Taj Mahal. The great wealth of the Mughal court allowed precious stones like rubies and emeralds to be inset freely in objects. The court workshops of the Ottoman Empire also produced lavish and elaborate objects, in similar styles but without reaching the artistic peaks of Mughal carving.\n\nFrom the early civilizations of the near East descended the carving of vessels and small statues in Ancient Greece, Ancient Rome and subsequent Western art, and also Sassanian Persia; however it is not very significant in the art of ancient Egypt, outside jewellery, as alabaster was a more common material. The jade signet ring of Tutankhamun has been called a \"unique specimen\" of Egyptian jade. Hardstone carving more often refers to vessels and figures than smaller engraved gems for seal rings or made as objéts d'art, which were the main artistic expression of hardstone carving in the Greek classical and Hellenistic periods, and are regarded separately. From the Hellenistic period elaborate vessels in semi-precious stone begin to appear, mostly carved, some in cameo. The Cup of the Ptolemies and Farnese Cup both appear to have been made in Alexandria in Ptolemaic Egypt, as does a simpler fluted sardonyx cup in Washington which, like the Cup of the Ptolemies, was adapted to be a Christian chalice, and given elaborate gold and jewelled mounts by Abbot Suger for his Abbey of St Denis about 1140.\n\nFrom the Late Antique plainer shapes for vessels appear, concentrating on showing the natural patterns of figured stones - survivals of these are hard to date, and mostly have survived in church treasuries with medieval mounts in goldsmith work. The best collection of Byzantine liturgical vessels is in the Treasury of San Marco, Venice, some of them booty from the Fourth Crusade. Byzantine artists maintained a tradition throughout the Middle Ages, often working in clear rock crystal. There are a few large pieces from Carolingian art, including the Lothair Crystal, and then a continuing tradition of rock crystal work, often used undecorated in reliquaries and other pieces in the same way as modern glass, for which they are often mistaken by modern viewers. By the end of the Middle Ages a wider variety of stones and objects are seen, used for both religious objects and secular ones.\nThe Opificio delle pietre dure (\"Hardstone workshop\") founded by the Medici in Florence in 1588 soon became the leading workshop in Europe, and developed the pietra dura style of multi-coloured inlays, which use coloured marbles as well as gemstones. They also produced vessels and small sculptures from a single piece of stone, often mounted with gold, which was also a speciality of Milanese workshops. Other rulers followed their example, including Peter the Great, whose Peterhof Lapidary Works, founded in 1721, began the passion among Russian royalty and aristocrats for hardstones. Engraved gem production had already revived, centred on Venice but with artists in many countries, and gems of very high quality continued to be produced until the mid-19th century. The Mannerist court taste of the 16th century delighted in extravagant vessels for serving fruit or sweetmeats, or display as table centrepieces or on sideboards, with hardstones augmented with mounts and bases in precious metal, enamel and jewels. One collection that has remained mostly together is the \"Dauphin's Treasure\" of Louis, Dauphin of France (1661–1711), which passed to his son Philip V of Spain; over 120 objects are now displayed together in the Museo del Prado, many of which were already over a century old in the Dauphin's lifetime.\n\nIn contrast to the vast malachite vases that rather typify Russian carving (picture below), the last notable modern producer was Fabergé in pre-Revolutionary Russia. Before he produced the famous Imperial Easter Eggs he made his reputation with small hardstone figures of animals and people, typically only 25–75mm long or wide, and small vases with a few flowers—the vase and \"water\" in rock crystal and the flowers in various hardstones and enamel.\n\nBeyond the Old World, hardstone carving was important in various Pre-Columbian cultures, including jade in Mesoamerica and obsidian in Mesoamerica. Because its colour had associations with water and vegetation, jade was also a symbol of life to many cultures; the Maya placed jade beads in the mouths of the dead. Lacking iron, jade was the hardest material the Pre-Columbians were able to work with, apart from emery.\n\nA particular type of object running through the long history of Mesoamerican cultures from the Olmec to the Maya and Aztec is the face \"mask\" in semi-precious stone (they do not seem to have been for actually wearing), either carved from a single piece or of pieces inlaid on a backing of another material. Curators refer to \"Olmec-style\" face masks as despite being Olmec in style, to date no example has been recovered in a controlled archaeological Olmec context. However they have been recovered from sites of other cultures, including one deliberately deposited in the ceremonial precinct of Tenochtitlan (Mexico City), which would presumably have been about 2,000 years old when the Aztecs buried it, suggesting these were valued and collected as Roman antiquities were in Europe. The Aztecs' own masks are more typically of turquoise inlay, the Mayans' of jade inlay (see gallery).\n\nAnother supposed type of Pre-Columbian hardstone carving is the rock crystal skull; however experts are now satisfied that all known large (life-size) examples are 19th-century forgeries, though some miniature ones may be genuinely Pre-Columbian.\n\nThe Māori people of New Zealand, developed the carving of \"pounamu\" (jade) for weapons, tools and ornaments to a high standard.\n\nMost hardstones, including jade and quartz varieties, have a crystalline structure that does not allow detailed carving by edged tools without great wastage and a poor finish. Working them has always been very time-consuming, which together with the cost of rare materials often traded from very far away, has accounted for the great expense of these objects. After sawing and perhaps chiselling to reach the approximate shape, stones were mostly cut by using abrasive powder from harder stones in conjunction with a hand-drill, probably often set in a lathe, and by grinding-wheels. Emery has been mined for abrasive powder on Naxos since antiquity, and was known in Pre-Columbian Mesoamerica. Some early types of seal were cut by hand, rather than a drill, which does not allow fine detail. There is no evidence that magnifying lenses were used by cutters in antiquity. The Chinese sometimes tipped their straight drills with less-valued diamonds.\n\nA medieval guide to gem-carving techniques survives from Theophilus Presbyter. Byzantine cutters used a flat-edged wheel on a drill for intaglio work, while Carolingian ones used round-tipped drills; it is unclear how they learned this technique. Mughal carvers also used drills. Inlay sections could be sawed by bow saws. In intaglio gems at least, the recessed cut surface is usually very well preserved, and microscopic examination is revealing of the technique used. The colour of several gemstones can be enhanced by a number of artificial methods, using heat, sugar and dyes. Many of these can be shown to have been used since antiquity - since the 7th millennium BC in the case of heating.\n\nAs a highly prestigious artform using expensive materials, many different techniques for imitating hardstone carvings have been developed, some of which have themselves created significant artistic traditions. Celadon ware, with a jade coloured glaze, was important in China and Korea, and in early periods used for shapes typical of jade objects. Roman cameo glass was invented to imitate cameo gems, with the advantage that consistent layers were possible even in objects in the round. The small group of 11th(?)-century Hedwig glasses are inspired by Fatimid rock-crystal vessels. In the Italian Renaissance agate glass was perfected to imitate agate vessels with multicoloured figuration. Ceramics have often been decorated to imitate gemstones, and wood, plaster and other materials painted to imitate stones. Scagliola developed in Italy to imitate pietra dura inlays on plaster; less elaborate forms are called marbleizing. Medieval illuminated manuscripts often imitated both inlaid stone and engraved gems, and after printing took over paper marbling continued as a manual craft for decorating end-papers and covers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24368119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24368119", "title": "Hybrid arts", "text": "Hybrid arts\n\nHybrid arts is a contemporary art movement in which artists work with frontier areas of science and emerging technologies. Artists work with fields such as biology, robotics, physical sciences, experimental interface technologies (such as speech, gesture, face recognition), artificial intelligence, and information visualization. They address the research in many ways such as undertaking new research agendas, visualizing results in new ways, or critiquing the social implications of the research. The worldwide community has developed new kinds of art festivals, information sources, organizations, and university programs to explore these new arts.\nHybrid arts is also the name of a non profit Arts education company in the United Kingdom. Set up in 2003 after a four-year development period to create a new species of training and arts engagement provider in the cultural industries...see Hybrid:arts\n\nMany artists are responding to the central role scientific and technological research plays in contemporary culture. They are going beyond merely using technological tools and gadgets (e.g. computers) in their work to engage deeply with the processes of research. They are creating revolutionary art at the frontiers of scientific research. They see art as an independent zone of research that pursues areas of science and research ignored by mainstream academic disciplines. They are developing technologies that would be rejected by the marketplace but are nonetheless culturally critical. They are pursuing inquiries that are seen as too controversial, too wacky, too improbable, too speculative for regular science and technology. Their theoretical orientation ranges from celebration of human curiosity to critique of science's arrogance. They enter into the processes in research at all stages: setting research agendas, development of research processes, visualization, interpretations of findings, and education of the public.\n\nThere has been some confusion over the last years of what to call this kind of art that crosses so many disciplines. It is descended from computer and internet art but reaches out to cover many new disciplines. Ars Electronica, which is considered one of leading world organizations concerned with experimental arts, decided three years ago to create a new category to encompass these kinds of arts. Every year they host an international competition for artists working in these experimental fields. They decided to use the name 'Hybrid Arts'. The worldwide community of artists, theorists, and journalists interested in this art are increasingly using this term. Here is a quote from their web site that offers their definition and a preliminary list of kinds of art covered.\nThe “Hybrid Art” category is dedicated specifically to today’s hybrid and transdisciplinary projects and approaches to media art. Primary emphasis is on the process of fusing different media and genres into new forms of artistic expression as well as the act of transcending the boundaries between art and research, art and social/political activism, art and pop culture. Jurors will be looking very closely at how dynamically the submitted work defies classification in a single one of the Prix categories of long standing.\n\nThis category is open to all types of current works in any form:\n\nMany new support systems have evolved to nurture, show, and interpret this kind of art. New educational programs have been developed. Books have been written.\n\n-Genetics, Bioengineering, stem cells, proteomics \n-Art and Biology of Living Systems: microorganisms, plants, animals, ecology\n-Human Biology: the body, bionics, body manipulation, brain & body processes, body imaging, and medicine\n-Physical Sciences: particle physics, atomic energy, geology, physics, chemistry, astronomy, space science, nanotechnology, materials science \n-Kinetics, Electronics, Robotics: physical computing, ubiquitous computing, mixed reality\n-Alternative Interfaces: motion, gesture, touch, facial expression, speech, wearable computing, 3-d sound, and VR\n-Code: algorithms, software art, genetic art, A-life, artificial intelligence\n-Information Systems: databases, surveillance, RFID/barcodes, synthetic cinema, information visualization\nTelecommunications: telephone, radio, telepresence, web art, mobiles, locative media\n\nSince much of the art does not fit into historical categories such as painting or sculpture, many museums and art festivals did not show the work. Curators who were interested created new kinds of festivals, competitions, museums and shows to present the work. Examples include Ars Electronica (note especially Interactive and Hybrid priz competitions. ISEA (International symposium of Electronic Arts), V2 - DEAF (Dutch Electronic Arts Festival), VIDA - Art & Artificial Life International Competition. Ars Electronica offers a festival each year that addresses transdisciplinary themes.Both artists and scientists are invited to speak at the conferences. Recent exhibitions focused on themes such as New Sex, Simplicity and Privacy.\n\nThe hybrid arts community also established organizations and information sources to promote, disseminate, and interpret these new art activities. There are hundreds of such organizations of which a few examples are offered here. The external links show where to get more information. The Journal Leonardo published by MIT Press has a 40-year history of ‘promoting and documenting work at the intersection of the arts, sciences, and technology, and… encouraging and stimulating collaboration between artists, scientists, and technologists.’ The organization also has web sites, abstract services, and collaborates with other organizations in presenting conferences. The website We Make Money Not Art covers media/research conferences, interviews artists/researchers, and discusses developments in various fields from activism and biology to surveillance and wearables.\n\nOther organizations offer public events and facilitate the process of artists collaborating with researchers. For example, The Arts Catalyst in the UK seeks to ‘extend the practice of artists engaging with scientific processes, facilities and technologies in order to reveal and illuminate the social, political and cultural contexts that brought them into being’ through public symposia, exhibitions, and commissions. SymbioticA in Australia is an ‘artistic laboratory dedicated to the research, learning and critique of life sciences.’ It ‘provides an opportunity for researchers to pursue curiosity-based explorations free of the demands and constraints associated with the current culture of scientific research.’ The arts lab is sponsored by the medicine department of a university. Other examples include the Art and Genomics Centre(NL), the LABoral Centro de Arte y Creación Industrial (ES) and Artists in Labs (CH) program.\n\nNew forms of educational programs are being established at universities around the world. Students are expected to master topics in art, media, and research disciplines. For example, the U of Washington’s DXArts program offers a ‘creative research convergence zone for intrepid artists and scholars’ who seek to reach out beyond the arts. The Conceptual/Information Arts (CIA) is the \"experimental program within the Art Department at San Francisco State University dedicated to preparing artists and media experimentors to work at the cutting edge of science and technology\". Courses cover topics such as art & biology, robotics, locative media, and physical computing.\n\nKac, Eduardo. Signs of Life: Bio Art and Beyond. MIT Press, 2007\nIppolito, Jon and Joline Blais: At the Edge of Art, thames & hudson, 2006\nMitchell, Robert, 2010, Bioart and the Vitality of Media, University of Washington Press, Seattle and London.\nPaul, Christiane. Digital Art. Thames & Hudson. 2003\nPoissant, Louise and Ernestine Daubner (eds.) Art Et Biotechnologies. Presses de l'Universite du Quebec. Montreal, 2004\nPopper, Frank. 2005. From Technological to Virtual Art. Cambridge: MIT Press, 2007\nScott, Jill (ed). Artists in the Lab. SpringerWienNewYork, Wien, Austria, 2006.\nReichle, Ingeborg. Art in the Age of Technoscience.\nGenetic Engineering, Robotics, and Artificial Life in Contemporary Art SpringerWienNewYork 2009\nShanken, Edward A.. Telematic Embrace: Visionary Theories of Art Technology and Consciousness. UC Press, 2003 \nSommerer, Christa & Laurent Mignonneeau (eds.) ARt @ Science. New York: Springe:, 1998 \nWildevuur, Sabine E. Invisible Vision; Could Science learn from the Arts. Uitgever: Bohn, Stafleu Van Loghum, 2009\nWilson, Stephen. Art+Science Now. London: Thames & Hudson, 2010. link\nWilson, Stephen. Information Arts: Intersections of Art, Science, and Technology. Cambridge:, MIT Press 2001 link\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2270385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2270385", "title": "Index of aesthetics articles", "text": "Index of aesthetics articles\n\nThis is an alphabetical index of articles about aesthetics.\n\n- \"A Mathematician's Apology\"\n- \"A Philosophical Enquiry into the Origin of Our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful\"\n- Abhinavagupta\n- Abstract art\n- Abstract Illusionism\n- Academic art\n- Acquired taste\n- Action painting\n- Aesthetic atrophy\n- Aesthetic canon\n- Aesthetic emotions\n- Aesthetic interpretation\n- Aesthetic Realism\n- Aesthetic relativism\n- Aestheticism\n- Aestheticization of politics\n- Aestheticization of violence\n- Aesthetics\n- Aesthetics of music\n- Affect (philosophy)\n- Albert Hofstadter\n- Aleksei Losev\n- Alexander Gerard\n- Alexander Gottlieb Baumgarten\n- Alexander Nehamas\n- Algernon Charles Swinburne\n- Ambonoclast\n- American Craftsman\n- American Empire (style)\n- American realism\n- American Society for Aesthetics\n- Anandavardhana\n- André Malraux\n- Anglo-Japanese style\n- Anti-art\n- Anti-Neoism\n- Antwerp Mannerism\n- Antwerp school\n- Applied aesthetics\n- Architectural design values\n- Aristotle\n- Art\n- Art and morality\n- Art as Experience\n- Art criticism\n- Art Deco\n- Art Deco in Durban\n- Art for art's sake\n- Art forgery\n- Art manifesto\n- Art movement\n- Art of murder\n- Art periods\n- Artcore\n- Arte Povera\n- Arthur Danto\n- Arthur Schopenhauer\n- Arthur Schopenhauer's aesthetics\n- Artist\n- Artistic inspiration\n- Artistic merit\n- Artistic revolution\n- Arts and Crafts Movement\n- Arts criticism\n- Ashcan School\n- Attractiveness\n- August Wilhelm Schlegel\n- Authenticity (philosophy)\n- Auto-destructive art\n- Avant-garde\n- Avant-Garde and Kitsch\n- Axiology\n\n- Barbizon school\n- Bauhaus\n- Bay Area Figurative Movement\n- Beauty\n- Béla Balázs\n- Benedetto Croce\n- Bernhard Alexander\n- Beuron Art School\n- Black Artists Group\n- Black Arts Movement\n- Boredom\n- Brandywine School\n- Brian Keeble\n- British Society of Aesthetics\n- Bruce Lee\n\n- Calvin Seerveld\n- Camp (style)\n- Capitalist realism\n- Carl Dahlhaus\n- Catharsis\n- Cellar door\n- Characterism\n- Chinoiserie\n- Christopher Janaway\n- Circulism\n- Classical Realism\n- Classicism\n- Classificatory disputes about art\n- Clive Bell\n- Color Field\n- Color-field Splash\n- Comedy\n- Communication aesthetics\n- Community arts\n- Conceptual art\n- Conceptualism\n- Concrete art\n- Constructivism (art)\n- Contemporary Baroque Art\n- Contextualism\n- Cool (aesthetic)\n- Creativity\n- \"Critique of Judgment\"\n- Cubism\n- Cultural sensibility\n- Culture of Asia\n- Cuteness\n- Cynical realism\n- Czech Cubism\n\n- Dada\n- Danube school\n- Dark romanticism\n- Dau al Set\n- David Hume\n- David Prall\n- De Stijl\n- Death of the Author\n- Decadence\n- Decadent movement\n- Decadentism\n- Defastenism\n- Depiction\n- Déprimisme\n- Dewitt H. Parker\n- Didacticism\n- Directoire style\n- Disgust\n- Distancing effect\n- Donkey's Tail\n- Dragestil\n\n- Eastern Group of Painters\n- Ecstasy (emotion)\n- Ecstasy (philosophy)\n- Edmund Burke\n- Edmund Gurney\n- Eduard Hanslick\n- Edward Bullough\n- Either/Or\n- Elegance\n- Eli Siegel\n- Empire style\n- Emptyism\n- \"Encyclopedia of Aesthetics\"\n- English and Welsh\n- Entertainment\n- Erotic art\n- Eroticism\n- Escapism\n- Esoteric Order of Art\n- Essentialism\n- Essentially contested concept\n- Exoticism\n- Expressionism\n- Eyesore\n\n- Facial symmetry\n- Fact-value distinction\n- Fauvism\n- Feminist art movement\n- Feminist art movement in the United States\n- Feminist literary criticism\n- Feng shui\n- Ferdinand Gotthelf Hand\n- Ferruccio Busoni\n- Fiction\n- Figuration Libre\n- Fine art\n- Florentine School\n- Fluxus\n- Flying Star Feng Shui\n- Forgery\n- Form follows function\n- Formalesque\n- Formalism (art)\n- Formalism (philosophy)\n- Found object\n- \"Four Dissertations\"\n- Francesco de Sanctis\n- Francis Ernest Jackson\n- Francis Hutcheson (philosopher)\n- François Hemsterhuis\n- Frank Sibley (philosopher)\n- Friedrich Nietzsche\n- Friedrich Schiller\n- Functional formism\n- Funk art\n- Futurism\n\n- Geometric abstraction\n- Georg Anton Friedrich Ast\n- Georg Brandes\n- Georg Friedrich Meier\n- Georg Mehlis\n- Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel\n- George Dickie (philosopher)\n- George Lansing Raymond\n- George Santayana\n- Georges Bataille\n- Gjernes\n- Gothic fiction\n- Gotthold Ephraim Lessing\n- Greek Revival architecture\n- Gregory Currie\n- Grotesque body\n- Guild of Romanists\n- Gutai group\n- Guy Sircello\n\n- Haida manga\n- Hamid Dabashi\n- Hans Pfitzner\n- Harlem Renaissance\n- Harmonices Mundi\n- Harmony\n- Heinrich Gustav Hotho\n- Henri Focillon\n- Hermann Theodor Hettner\n- Heroic realism\n- Hierarchy of genres\n- Hippias Major\n- Histogram equalization\n- Historicism\n- Historicism (art)\n- History of aesthetics (pre-20th-century)\n- Hudson River School\n- Hugh Kenner\n- Human figure (aesthetics)\n- Human physical appearance\n- Humour\n- Huǒ hēi àn\n- Hyojin-ism\n- Hypermodernism (art)\n\n- Iki (aesthetic ideal)\n- Imagination\n- Immanuel Kant\n- Impressionism\n- Incoherents\n- Inconnu Independent Art Group\n- Inherently funny word\n- Institutional Critique\n- Institutional theory of art\n- Intentional fallacy\n- International Association of Empirical Aesthetics\n- International Gothic\n- International Typographic Style\n- Irrealism (philosophy)\n\n- Jack of Diamonds (artists)\n- Jacques Derrida\n- Jacques Maritain\n- James DiGiovanna\n- Jan Mukařovský\n- Japanese aesthetics\n- Japanese sound symbolism\n- Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin\n- Jean-Baptiste Dubos\n- Jean-François Lyotard\n- Jerrold Levinson\n- Jerry Farber\n- Jo-ha-kyū\n- Johann Friedrich Herbart\n- Johann Gottfried Herder\n- John Anderson (philosopher)\n- John Dewey\n- John Hospers\n- John Maeda\n- Jonathan Edwards\n- José María Valverde\n- Joseph Addison\n- Joseph Kosuth\n- Joseph Margolis\n- \"Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism\"\n- Józef Kremer\n- Judgement\n- Junge Wilde\n\n- Karl Wilhelm Ferdinand Solger\n- Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel\n- Kendall Walton\n- Kinetic art\n- Kokoro\n- Kung Fu (TV series)\n- Kunstreligion\n\n- Lalita Pandit\n- Late modernism\n- \"Lectures on Aesthetics\"\n- Leo Tolstoy\n- Leonid Stolovich\n- Les Automatistes\n- Les Nabis\n- Lettrism\n- Life imitating art\n- Line of Beauty\n- List of aestheticians\n- List of art movements\n- List of culturally linked qualities of music\n- List of French artistic movements\n- List of Stuckist artists\n- Literary criticism\n- Littoral art\n- Liu Xie\n- Live-art\n- Longinus (literature)\n- Lookism\n- Luminism (American art style)\n- Lyrical Abstraction\n\n- Madeleine Doran\n- Magnificence (History of ideas)\n- Makapansgat pebble\n- Mani Kaul\n- Margaret Magnus\n- Martin Foss\n- Martin Heidegger\n- Marxist aesthetics\n- Masakazu Nakai\n- Masterpiece\n- Mathematical beauty\n- Maurice Blanchot\n- Max Black\n- Maximalism\n- Mazen Asfour\n- Mediology\n- Metaphor\n- Metaphor in philosophy\n- Metaphysical art\n- Metarealism\n- Michael Sprinker\n- Mikhail Bakhtin\n- Milan Damnjanović (philosopher)\n- Mimesis\n- Mingei\n- Minimalism\n- Miyabi\n- Modern expressionism\n- Modernism\n- Modular constructivism\n- Monroe Beardsley\n- Morris Weitz\n- Moscow Conceptualists\n- Music\n- Musica universalis\n- Musicology\n- Musivisual Language\n\n- Nation\n- Natural Design\n- Naturalism (arts)\n- Nelson Goodman\n- Neo-conceptual art\n- Neo-Dada\n- Neo-expressionism\n- Neo-figurative\n- Neo-Futurists\n- Neo-Gothic art movement\n- Neo-pop\n- Neo-primitivism\n- Neo-romanticism\n- Neo-Victorian\n- Neoclassicism\n- Neomodern\n- Neonouveau\n- Neosurrealism\n- Nespelem (art)\n- Neuroesthetics\n- New folk media\n- New Objectivity\n- New Romanticism\n- New Urbanism\n- New York School\n- Nihonga\n- Nimism\n- Noël Carroll\n- Northwest School (art)\n- Norwich School (art movement)\n- \"Notes on \"Camp\"\"\n- Novalis\n- Novgorod School\n- Novísimos\n- Nsumi\n\n- Objectivism (Ayn Rand)\n- \"Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime\"\n- \"On the Genealogy of Morality\"\n- Op art\n- Orientalism\n- Ornament (architecture)\n- Orphism (art)\n- Oscar Wilde\n- Outline of aesthetics\n\n- Painters Eleven\n- Panic Movement\n- Papunya Tula\n- Paradigm\n- Paragone\n- Passionism\n- Patrick Hebron\n- Paul de Man\n- Paul Häberlin\n- Paul Souriau\n- Pennsylvania Impressionism\n- Perception\n- Performing arts\n- Peter Lunenfeld\n- Philhellenism\n- Philistinism\n- \"Philosophy and Literature\" (journal)\n- Philosophy and literature\n- \"Philosophy in a New Key\"\n- Philosophy of design\n- Philosophy of film\n- Philosophy of music\n- Phonaesthetics\n- Phonestheme\n- Photogenic\n- Photorealism\n- Physical attractiveness\n- Plasticien\n- Poetics\n- Poetics (Aristotle)\n- Poetry\n- Pop art\n- Pornography\n- Poshlost\n- Poshlost\n- Post-Futurism\n- Post-Impressionism\n- Post-painterly Abstraction\n- Post-postmodernism\n- Post-romanticism\n- Postminimalism\n- Postmodern art\n- Postmodern music\n- Postmodernism\n- \"Postmodernism, or, the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism\"\n- Poussinist\n- Precisionism\n- Primitivism\n- Principles of art\n- Process art\n- Proletkult\n- Psychical distance\n- Psychology of art\n- Ptolemy\n- Punk visual art\n- Puppetista\n- Purism\n\n- Quality (philosophy)\n\n- R. G. Collingwood\n- Rachida Triki\n- Rasa (aesthetics)\n- Rasquache\n- Real live artist\n- Realism (arts)\n- Regionalism (art)\n- Reinformation\n- Relational Art\n- René Huyghe\n- Representation (arts)\n- Retroarchaeology\n- \"Rhetoric (Aristotle)\"\n- Rhyme\n- Richard Meltzer\n- Richard Shusterman\n- Richard Wollheim\n- Roger de Piles\n- Roger North (17th century)\n- Roger Scruton\n- Roland Barthes\n- Roman Ingarden\n- Romanticism\n- Ronald Paulson\n- Rotation method\n- Rudolf Arnheim\n\n- Salon \"Comparaisons\"\n- Sandhi\n- Secession (art)\n- Seiz Breur\n- Self-declared art movement\n- Semiotics\n- Semiotics of Ideal Beauty\n- Sentimental poetry\n- Sentimentalism (literature)\n- Sexual attraction\n- Sexual selection\n- Sexual selection in human evolution\n- Shibui\n- Shin hanga\n- Sienese School\n- Sikh art and culture\n- Social realism\n- Socialist realism\n- Sociological art\n- Sociology of art\n- Sophistication\n- Søren Kierkegaard\n- Sōsaku hanga\n- Sound poetry\n- Sound symbolism\n- Soviet Nonconformist Art\n- Space art\n- Spanish Eclecticism\n- Stanley Cavell\n- Stephen Pepper\n- Stephen R. Marquardt\n- Steven Poole\n- Street poster art\n- Stroganov School\n- Stuckism\n- Stuckist demonstrations\n- Stupid (art movement)\n- Style (visual arts)\n- Sublime (philosophy)\n- Superfiction\n- Superflat\n- Supervenience\n- Suprematism\n- Susanne Langer\n- Symbolism (arts)\n- \"Symposium (Plato)\"\n- Synchromism\n\n- Tachisme\n- Tansu\n- Taruho Inagaki\n- Tasos Zembylas\n- Taste (sociology)\n- Teaism\n- \"The Aesthetic Dimension\"\n- \"The Analysis of Beauty\"\n- \"The Art Movements\"\n- \"The arts and politics\"\n- \"The Literary Mind and the Carving of Dragons\"\n- \"The medium is the message\"\n- \"The Origin of the Work of Art\"\n- \"The Romantic Manifesto\"\n- \"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction\"\n- Theodor Lipps\n- Theodor Mundt\n- Theodor W. Adorno\n- Theological aesthetics\n- Theories of humor\n- Thomas Munro\n- Thomas Reid\n- Tomonubu Imamichi\n- Totalism\n- Tudor Vianu\n\n- Umberto Eco\n- Utamakura\n\n- Verism\n- Vernon Lee\n- Victor Cousin\n- Vienna School of Fantastic Realism\n- Virgil Aldrich\n- Vissarion Belinsky\n- Visual literacy\n- Visual rhetoric\n- Volcano School\n- Vorticism\n- Vulgarity\n- Vaporwave\n\n- Wabi-sabi\n- Walter Benjamin\n- Walter Pater\n- Warren Shibles\n- Washington Color School\n- Western painting\n- \"What Is Art?\"\n- Wiener Moderne\n- William Kurtz Wimsatt, Jr.\n- Władysław Tatarkiewicz\n- Wolfgang Fritz Haug\n- Woodlands Style\n- Work of art\n\n- Xiaozi\n\n- Yabo\n- Yiannis Psychopedis\n- Yōga (art)\n- Yusuf Balasaghuni\n\n- Zaum\n- Zeami Motokiyo\n- Zhe school (painting)\n- Zoltan Deme\n\n"}
{"id": "459936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459936", "title": "Index of color-related articles", "text": "Index of color-related articles\n\nThis is a list of color topic-related articles.\n\nFor a list of articles about specific named colors, see list of colors.\n\n"}
{"id": "52759037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52759037", "title": "Indigenous Futurisms", "text": "Indigenous Futurisms\n\nIndigenous Futurisms is a movement consisting of art, literature, comics, games, and other forms of media which express Indigenous perspectives of the future, past, and present in the context of science fiction and related sub-genres. Such perspectives may reflect Indigenous ways of knowing, traditional stories, historical or contemporary politics or other cultural realities. \n\nLike Afrofuturism, Indigenous futurism encapsulates multiple modes of art making from literature to visual arts, fashion and music. The term was coined by Grace Dillon, Professor in the Indigenous Nations Studies Program at Portland State University. Indigenous Futurisms critiques the historization of Indigenous people which is used to separate from them the contemporary world while challenging notions of what constitutes advanced technology .\n\nProminent artists working within the field of Indigenous futurism include Skawennati, a Mohawk multi-media artist best known for her project \"TimeTraveller™\", a nine-episode machinima series that uses science fiction to examine First nations histories, Grace Dillon, who is editor of \"Walking the Clouds: An Anthology of Indigenous Science Fiction\", Stephen Graham Jones, a Blackfeet Native American author, and Wendy Red Star, a Native American contemporary multimedia artist. Additionally, Lou Catherine Cornum is a writer and scholar currently working in the field of Indigenous futurism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7488220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7488220", "title": "Inscape (visual art)", "text": "Inscape (visual art)\n\nInscape, in visual art, is a term especially associated with certain works of Chilean artist Roberto Matta, but it is also used in other senses within the visual arts. Though the term \"inscape\" has been applied to stylistically diverse artworks, it usually conveys some notion of representing the artist's psyche as a kind of interior landscape. The word \"inscape\" can therefore be read as a kind of portmanteau, combining \"interior\" (or \"inward\") with \"landscape\".\n\nAccording to Professor Claude Cernuschi, writing in a catalogue for a Matta exhibition at Boston College (see external link below), Matta's use of the term \"inscape\" for a series of landscape-like abstract or surrealist paintings reflects \"the psychoanalytic view of the mind as a three-dimensional space: the 'inscape'.\" The 'inscape' concept is particularly apt for Matta's works of the late 1930s. As Dawn Adès (p. 233) writes, \"A series of brilliant oil paintings done during the years of his [Matta's] first association with the Surrealists explore visual metaphors for the mental landscape.\" And Valerie Fletcher, in \"Crosscurrents of Modernism\" (p. 241), writes that during this time Matta \"created with startling mastery the paintings he called 'inscapes' or 'psychological morphologies.' \" See also Miriam Basilio's essay, \"Wifredo Lam's 'The Jungle' and Matta's 'Inscapes' \".\n\nThe term \"inscape\" was later taken up by the leading Australian surrealist James Gleeson, American abstract artists such as James Brooks, Jane Frank, and Mary Frank (no relation), and even a group of British fantasy artists founded by Brigid Marlin in 1961 and calling themselves the 'Inscape Group.' (The latter group may have had in mind another sense of the word 'inscape', associated with the British poet Gerard Manley Hopkins. See the article titled simply 'inscape' for more information on this.) More recently, in a 1998 review of a Mary Frank exhibition in New York City (cited below), Carol Diehl writes, \"Titled 'Inscapes', the paintings are landscapes of the soul...\"\n\nAlso clearly referring to the psychoanalytical meaning of the word as described by Prof. Cernuschi and others above, the leading journal of art therapy was formerly called simply \"Inscape\". The journal is now called \"International journal of art therapy : Inscape.\" (This is not to be confused with the \"Inscape\" magazine produced by Brigid Marlin's Society for Art of Imagination.)\n\nThe word \"inscape\" is sometimes used, perhaps with a bit of poetic license, to refer to the domain of interior design, suggesting that the interior of a house or building is a kind of interior (or indoor) landscape, a counterpart to the landscape surrounding the structure. This is the sense suggested by the name of the South African interior design school Inscape Design College, which see. It could be, however, that this use of the term is intended as a double-entendre, evoking those other meanings of \"inscape\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21514028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21514028", "title": "Irony", "text": "Irony\n\nIrony (), in its broadest sense, is a rhetorical device, literary technique, or event in which what appears, on the surface, to be the case, differs radically from what is actually the case. \n\nIrony can be categorized into different types, including: \"verbal irony\", \"dramatic irony\", and \"situational irony\". Verbal, dramatic, and situational irony are often used for emphasis in the assertion of a truth. The ironic form of simile, used in sarcasm, and some forms of litotes can emphasize one's meaning by the deliberate use of language which states the opposite of the truth, denies the contrary of the truth, or drastically and obviously understates a factual connection. Other forms, as identified by historian Connop Thirlwall, include dialectic and practical irony.\n\nHenry Watson Fowler, in \"The King's English\", says, \"any definition of irony—though hundreds might be given, and very few of them would be accepted—must include this, that the surface meaning and the underlying meaning of what is said are not the same.\" Also, Eric Partridge, in \"Usage and Abusage\", writes that \"Irony consists in stating the contrary of what is meant.\"\n\nThe use of irony may require the concept of a \"double audience\". Fowler's \"A Dictionary of Modern English Usage\" says:\nIrony is a form of utterance that postulates a double audience, consisting of one party that hearing shall hear & shall not understand, & another party that, when more is meant than meets the ear, is aware both of that more & of the outsiders' incomprehension.\n\nThe term is sometimes used as a synonym for \"incongruous\" and applied to \"every trivial oddity\" in situations where there is no double audience. An example of such usage is:\nSullivan, whose real interest was, ironically, serious music, which he composed with varying degrees of success, achieved fame for his comic opera scores rather than for his more earnest efforts.\n\nThe \"American Heritage Dictionary\" secondary meaning for \"irony\": \"incongruity between what might be expected and what actually occurs\". This sense, however, is not synonymous with \"incongruous\" but merely a definition of dramatic or situational irony. It is often included in definitions of irony \"not only\" that incongruity is present \"but also\" that the incongruity must reveal some aspect of human vanity or folly. Thus the majority of \"American Heritage Dictionary\"'s usage panel found it unacceptable to use the word \"ironic\" to describe mere unfortunate coincidences or surprising disappointments that \"suggest no particular lessons about human vanity or folly.\"\n\nOn this aspect, \"The Oxford English Dictionary\" (\"OED\") has also:\nAccording to \"Encyclopædia Britannica\":\nAccording to Richard Whately:\nThe word came into English as a figure of speech in the 16th century as similar to the French \"ironie\". It derives from the Latin \"ironia\" and ultimately from the Greek \"εἰρωνεία\" eirōneía, meaning \"dissimulation, ignorance purposely affected\".\n\n\"The New Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry and Poetics\" distinguishes between the following types of irony:\n\nAccording to \"A glossary of literary terms\" by Abrams and Hartman,Verbal irony is a statement in which the meaning that a speaker employs is sharply different from the meaning that is ostensibly expressed. An ironic statement usually involves the explicit expression of one attitude or evaluation, but with indications in the overall speech-situation that the speaker intends a very different, and often opposite, attitude or evaluation.\nVerbal irony is distinguished from situational irony and dramatic irony in that it is produced \"intentionally\" by speakers. For instance, if a man exclaims, \"I'm not upset!\" but reveals an upset emotional state through his voice while truly trying to claim he's not upset, it would not be verbal irony by virtue of its verbal manifestation (it would, however, be situational irony). But if the same speaker said the same words and intended to communicate that he was upset by claiming he was not, the utterance would be verbal irony. This distinction illustrates an important aspect of verbal irony—speakers communicate implied propositions that are intentionally contradictory to the propositions contained in the words themselves. There are, however, examples of verbal irony that do not rely on saying the opposite of what one means, and there are cases where all the traditional criteria of irony exist and the utterance is not ironic.\n\nIn a clear example from literature, in Shakespeare's \"Julius Caesar\", Mark Antony's speech after the assassination of Caesar appears to praise the assassins, particularly Brutus (\"But Brutus says he was ambitious; / And Brutus is an honourable man\"), while actually condemning them. \"We're left in no doubt as to who's ambitious and who's honourable. The literal truth of what's written clashes with the perceived truth of what's meant to revealing effect, which is irony in a nutshell\".\nIronic similes are a form of verbal irony where a speaker intends to communicate the opposite of what they mean. For instance, the following explicit similes begin with the deceptive formation of a statement that means \"A\" but that eventually conveys the meaning \"not A\":\n\nThe irony is recognizable in each case only by using knowledge of the source concepts (e.g., that mud is opaque, that root canal surgery is painful) to detect an incongruity.\n\nA fair amount of confusion has surrounded the issue of the relationship between verbal irony and sarcasm.\n\nFowler's \"A Dictionary of Modern English Usage\" states: Sarcasm does not necessarily involve irony and irony has often no touch of sarcasm. This suggests that the two concepts are linked but may be considered separately. \"The Oxford English Dictionary\"'s entry for sarcasm does not mention irony, but the irony entry includes:\nThe \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" has \"Non-literary irony is often called sarcasm\"; while the \"Webster's Dictionary\" entry is:\nPartridge in \"Usage and Abusage\" would separate the two forms of speech completely: \nIrony must not be confused with sarcasm, which is direct: sarcasm means precisely what it says, but in a sharp, caustic, ... manner. \n\nThe psychologist Martin, in \"The Psychology of Humour\", is quite clear that irony is where \"the literal meaning is opposite to the intended\" and sarcasm is \"aggressive humor that pokes fun\". He has the following examples: for irony he uses the statement \"What a nice day\" when it is raining. For sarcasm, he cites Winston Churchill, who is supposed to have said, when told by Bessie Braddock that he was drunk, \"But I shall be sober in the morning, and you will still be ugly\", as being sarcastic, while not saying the opposite of what is intended.\n\nPsychology researchers Lee and Katz (1998) have addressed the issue directly. They found that ridicule is an important aspect of sarcasm, but not of verbal irony in general. By this account, sarcasm is a particular kind of personal criticism levelled against a person or group of persons that incorporates verbal irony. For example, a woman reports to her friend that rather than going to a medical doctor to treat her cancer, she has decided to see a spiritual healer instead. In response her friend says sarcastically, \"Oh, brilliant, what an ingenious idea, that's really going to cure you.\" The friend could have also replied with any number of ironic expressions that should not be labeled as sarcasm exactly, but still have many shared elements with sarcasm.\n\nMost instances of verbal irony are labeled by research subjects as sarcastic, suggesting that the term \"sarcasm\" is more widely used than its technical definition suggests it should be (Bryant & Fox Tree, 2002; Gibbs, 2000). Some psycholinguistic theorists (e.g., Gibbs, 2000) suggest that sarcasm (\"Great idea!\", \"I hear they do fine work.\"), hyperbole (\"That's the best idea I have heard in years!\"), understatement (\"Sure, what the hell, it's only cancer...\"), rhetorical questions (\"What, does your spirit have cancer?\"), double entendre (\"I'll bet if you do that, you'll be communing with spirits in no time...\") and jocularity (\"Get them to fix your bad back while you're at it.\") should all be considered forms of verbal irony. The differences between these rhetorical devices (tropes) can be quite subtle and relate to typical emotional reactions of listeners, and the rhetorical goals of the speakers. Regardless of the various ways theorists categorize figurative language types, people in conversation who are attempting to interpret speaker intentions and discourse goals do not generally identify, by name, the kinds of tropes used (Leggitt & Gibbs, 2000).\n\nEchoic allusion is the main component involved in conveying verbally ironic meaning. It is best described as a speech act by which the speaker simultaneously represents a thought, belief or idea, and implicitly attributes this idea to someone else who is wrong or deluded. In this way, the speaker intentionally dissociates themselves from the idea and conveys their tacit dissent, thereby providing a different meaning to their utterance. In some cases, the speaker can provide stronger dissociation from the represented thought by also implying derision toward the idea or outwardly making fun of the person or people they attribute it to.\n\nEchoic allusion, like other forms of verbal irony, relies on semantically disambiguating cues to be interpreted correctly. These cues often come in the form of paralinguistic markers such as prosody, tone, or pitch, as well as nonverbal cues like hand gesture, facial expression and eye gaze.\n\nAn example of echoic allusion and its disambiguating paralinguistic markers is as follows:\nFrom simple semantic analysis, Person 2 appears to believe Person 1. However, if this conversation is given the context of Person 2 walking in on Person 1 about to eat some cake, and Person 2 speaking their sentence in a significantly decreased rate of speech and lowered tone, the interpretation of \"I just must have been mistaken\" changes. Instead of being taken as Person 2 believing Person 1, the utterance calls to mind someone who would believe Person 1, while also conveying Person 2's implication that said individual would be considered gullible. From this, Person 2 negates the possible interpretation that they believe Person 1.\n\nDramatic irony exploits the device of giving the spectator an item of information that at least one of the characters in the narrative is unaware of (at least consciously), thus placing the spectator a step ahead of at least one of the characters. Connop Thirlwall in his 1833 article \"On the Irony of Sophocles\" originally highlighted the role of irony in drama. \"The Oxford English Dictionary\" defines dramatic irony as:\nAccording to Stanton, dramatic irony has three stages—installation, exploitation, and resolution (often also called preparation, suspension, and resolution)\n—producing dramatic conflict in what one character relies or appears to rely upon, the \"contrary\" of which is known by observers (especially the audience; sometimes to other characters within the drama) to be true. In summary, it means that the reader/watcher/listener knows something that one or more of the characters in the piece is not aware of.\n\nFor example:\n\nTragic irony is a special category of dramatic irony. In tragic irony, the words and actions of the characters contradict the real situation, which the spectators fully realize. \"The Oxford English Dictionary\" defines this as:\nAncient Greek drama was especially characterized by tragic irony because the audiences were so familiar with the legends that most of the plays dramatized. Sophocles' \"Oedipus Rex\" provides a classic example of tragic irony at its fullest. Colebrook writes:\n\nFurther, Oedipus vows to find the murderer and curses him for the plague that he has caused, not knowing that the murderer he has cursed and vowed to find is himself. The audience knows that Oedipus himself is the murderer that he is seeking; Oedipus, Creon, and Jocasta do not.\n\nIrony has some of its foundation in the onlooker's perception of paradox that arises from insoluble problems. For example, in the William Shakespeare play \"Romeo and Juliet\", when Romeo finds Juliet in a drugged, deathlike sleep, he assumes her to be dead. The audience knows that Juliet has faked her death, yet Romeo believes she is truly dead, and commits suicide. Upon awakening to find her dead lover beside her, Juliet stabs herself with a dagger thus killing herself, too.\n\nSituational irony is a relatively modern use of the term, and describes a sharp discrepancy between the expected result and actual results in a certain situation.\nLars Elleström writes:\"Situational irony\" ... is most broadly defined as a situation where the outcome is incongruous with what was expected, but it is also more generally understood as a situation that includes contradictions or sharp contrasts. \n\nFor example:\n\nThe expression cosmic irony or \"irony of fate\" stems from the notion that the gods (or the Fates) are amusing themselves by toying with the minds of mortals with deliberate ironic intent. Closely connected with situational irony, it arises from sharp contrasts between reality and human ideals, or between human intentions and actual results. The resulting situation is poignantly contrary to what was expected or intended.\n\nAccording to Sudhir Dixit, \"Cosmic irony is a term that is usually associated with [Thomas] Hardy. ... There is a strong feeling of a hostile deus ex machina in Hardy's novels.\" In \"Tess of the d'Urbervilles\" \"there are several instances of this type of irony.\" One example follows:\n\n\"Justice\" was done, and the President of the Immortals (in Æschylean phrase) had ended his sport with Tess.\n\nWhen history is seen through modern eyes, there often appear sharp contrasts between the way historical figures see their world's future and what actually transpires. For example, during the 1920s \"The New York Times\" repeatedly scorned crossword puzzles. In 1924, it lamented \"the sinful waste in the utterly futile finding of words the letters of which will fit into a prearranged pattern.\" In 1925 it said \"the question of whether the puzzles are beneficial or harmful is in no urgent need of an answer. The craze evidently is dying out fast.\" Today, no U.S. newspaper is more closely identified with the crossword than \"The New York Times.\"\n\nIn a more tragic example of historical irony, what people now refer to as the \"First World War\" was called by H. G. Wells \"the war that will end war\", which soon became \"the war to end war\" and \"the war to end all wars\", and this became a widespread truism, almost a cliché. Historical irony is therefore a subset of cosmic irony, but one in which the element of time is bound to play a role. Another example could be that of the Vietnam War, where in the 1960s the US attempted to stop the Viet Cong (Viet Minh) taking over South Vietnam. However, it is an often ignored fact that, in 1941, the US originally supported the Viet Minh in its fight against Japanese occupation.\n\nIn the introduction to \"The Irony of American History\", Andrew Bacevich writes:\nGunpowder was, according to prevailing academic consensus, discovered in the 9th century by Chinese alchemists searching for an elixir of immortality.\n\nHistorical irony also includes inventors killed by their own creations, such as William Bullock – unless, due to the nature of the invention, the risk of death was always known and accepted, as in the case of Otto Lilienthal, who was killed by flying a glider of his own devising.\n\nIn certain kinds of situational or historical irony, a factual truth is highlighted by some person's complete ignorance of it or his belief in its opposite. However, this state of affairs does not occur by human design. In some religious contexts, such situations have been seen as the deliberate work of divine providence to emphasize truths and to taunt humans for not being aware of them when they could easily have been enlightened (this is similar to human use of irony). Such ironies are often more evident, or more striking, when viewed retrospectively in the light of later developments which make the truth of past situations obvious to all.\n\nOther prominent examples of outcomes now seen as poignantly contrary to expectation include:\n\n\nIrony is often used in literature to produce a comic effect. This may also be combined with satire. For instance, an author may facetiously state something as a well-known fact and then demonstrate through the narrative that the fact is untrue.\n\nJane Austen's \"Pride and Prejudice\" begins with the proposition \"It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.\" In fact, it soon becomes clear that Austen means the opposite: women (or their mothers) are always in search of, and desperately on the lookout for, a rich single man to make a husband. The irony deepens as the story promotes this romance and ends in a double marriage proposal. \"Austen's comic irony emerges out of the disjunction between Elizabeth's overconfidence (or pride) in her perceptions of Darcy and the narrator's indications that her views are in fact partial and prejudicial.\"\n\n\"\"The Third Man\" is a film that features any number of eccentricities, each of which contributes to the film's perspective of comic irony as well as its overall cinematic self-consciousness.\"\n\nWriting about performances of Shakespeare's \"Othello\" in apartheid South Africa, Robert Gordon suggests: \"Could it be that black people in the audience ... may have viewed as a comic irony his audacity and naïvety in thinking he could pass for white.\"\n\nRomantic irony is \"an attitude of detached scepticism adopted by an author towards his or her work, typically manifesting in literary self-consciousness and self-reflection\". This conception of irony originated with the German Romantic writer and critic Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel.\n\nJoseph Dane writes \"From a twentieth-century perspective, the most crucial area in the history of irony is that described by the term romantic irony.\" He discusses the difficulty of defining romantic irony: \"But what is romantic irony? A universal type of irony? The irony used by romantics? or an irony envisioned by the romantics and romanticists?\" He also describes the arguments for and against its use.\n\nReferring to earlier self-conscious works such as Don Quixote and Tristram Shandy, Douglas Muecke points particularly to Peter Weiss's 1964 play, \"Marat/Sade\". This work is a play within a play set in a lunatic asylum, in which it is difficult to tell whether the players are speaking only to other players or also directly to the audience. When The Herald says, \"The regrettable incident you've just seen was unavoidable indeed foreseen by our playwright\", there is confusion as to who is being addressed, the \"audience\" on the stage or the audience in the theatre. Also, since the play within the play is performed by the inmates of a lunatic asylum, the theatre audience cannot tell whether the paranoia displayed before them is that of the players, or the people they are portraying. Muecke notes that, \"in America, Romantic irony has had a bad press\", while \"in England ... [it] is almost unknown.\"\n\nHowever, in a book entitled \"English Romantic Irony\", Anne Mellor writes, referring to Byron, Keats, Carlyle, Coleridge, and Lewis Carroll:\nSimilarly, metafiction is: \"Fiction in which the author self-consciously alludes to the artificiality or literariness of a work by parodying or departing from novelistic conventions (esp. naturalism) and narrative techniques.\" It is a type of fiction that self-consciously addresses the devices of fiction, thereby exposing the fictional illusion.\n\nGesa Giesing writes that \"the most common form of metafiction is particularly frequent in Romantic literature. The phenomenon is then referred to as Romantic Irony.\" Giesing notes that \"There has obviously been an increased interest in metafiction again after World War II.\"\n\nFor examples, Patricia Waugh quotes from several works at the top of her chapter headed \"What is metafiction?\". These include:\n\n\"The thing is this./ That of all the several ways of beginning a book ... I am confident my own way of doing it is best\" - \"Tristram Shandy\"\n\n\"Since I've started this story, I've gotten boils ...\" - \"The death of the novel and other stories\" by Ronald Sukenick\n\nAdditionally, \"The Cambridge Introduction to Postmodern Fiction\" refers to John Fowles's \"The French Lieutenant's Woman\":\nFor the first twelve chapters ... the reader has been able to immerse him or herself in the story, enjoying the kind of 'suspension of disbelief ' required of realist novels ... what follows is a remarkable act of metafictional 'frame-breaking'. Chapter 13 notoriously begins:\n\nI do not know. This story I am telling is all imagination. These characters I create never existed outside my own mind. ... if this is a novel, it cannot be a novel in the modern sense.\n\nSocratic irony is \"the dissimulation of ignorance practised by Socrates as a means of confuting an adversary\". Socrates would pretend to be ignorant of the topic under discussion, to draw out the inherent nonsense in the arguments of his interlocutors. \"The Chambers Dictionary\" defines it as \"a means by which a questioner pretends to know less than a respondent, when actually he knows more\".\n\nZoe Williams of \"The Guardian\" wrote: \"The technique [of Socratic irony], demonstrated in the Platonic dialogues, was to pretend ignorance and, more sneakily, to feign credence in your opponent's power of thought, in order to tie him in knots.\"\n\nA more modern example of Socratic irony can be seen on the American crime fiction television series, \"Columbo\". The character Lt. Columbo is seemingly naïve and incompetent. His untidy appearance adds to this fumbling illusion. As a result, he is underestimated by the suspects in murder cases he is investigating. With their guard down and their false sense of confidence, Lt. Columbo is able to solve the cases, leaving the murderers feeling duped and outwitted.\n\nDanish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard, and others, see irony, such as that used by Socrates, as a disruptive force with the power to undo texts and readers alike. The phrase itself is taken from Hegel's \"Lectures on Aesthetics\", and is applied by Kierkegaard to the irony of Socrates. This tradition includes 19th-century German critic and novelist Friedrich Schlegel (\"On Incomprehensibility\"), Charles Baudelaire, Stendhal, and the 20th century deconstructionist Paul de Man (\"The Concept of Irony\"). In Kierkegaard's words, from On the Concept of Irony with Continual Reference to Socrates:\n[Socratic] irony [is] the infinite absolute negativity. It is negativity, because it only negates; it is infinite, because it does not negate this or that phenomenon; it is absolute, because that by virtue of which it negates is a higher something that still is not. The irony established nothing, because that which is to be established lies behind it...\n\nWhere much of philosophy attempts to reconcile opposites into a larger positive project, Kierkegaard and others insist that irony—whether expressed in complex games of authorship or simple litotes—must, in Kierkegaard's words, \"swallow its own stomach\". Irony entails endless reflection and violent reversals, and ensures incomprehensibility at the moment it compels speech. Similarly, among other literary critics, writer David Foster Wallace viewed the pervasiveness of ironic and other postmodern tropes as the cause of \"great despair and stasis in U.S. culture, and that for aspiring fictionists [ironies] pose terrifically vexing problems.\"\n\nThe '90s saw an expansion of the definition of irony from \"saying what one doesn't mean\" into a \"general stance of detachment from life in general\", this detachment serving as a shield against the awkwardness of everyday life. Humor from that era (most notably, \"Seinfeld\") relies on the audience watching the show with some detachment from the show's typical signature awkward situations.\n\nThe generation of people in the United States who grew up in the 90s, Millennials, are seen as having this same sort of detachment from serious or awkward situations in life, as well. Hipsters are thought to use irony as a shield against those same serious or genuine confrontations.\n\nSome speakers of English complain that the words \"irony\" and \"ironic\" are often misused, though the more general casual usage of a contradiction between circumstance and expectation originates in the 1640s.\n\nDan Shaughnessy wrote:\nWe were always kidding about the use of irony. I maintained that it was best never to use the word because it was too often substituted for coincidence. (Alanis Morissette's song \"Isn't it Ironic?\" cites multiple examples of things that are patently not ironic.)\n\nTim Conley cites the following:\n\"Philip Howard assembled a list of seven implied meanings for the word \"ironically\", as it opens a sentence:\n\nNo agreed-upon method for indicating irony in written text exists, though many ideas have been suggested. For instance, an irony punctuation mark was proposed in the 1580s, when Henry Denham introduced a rhetorical question mark or percontation point, which resembles a reversed question mark. This mark was also advocated by the French poet Marcel Bernhardt at the end of the 19th century, to indicate irony or sarcasm. French writer Hervé Bazin suggested another \"pointe d'ironie\": the Greek letter \"psi\" with a dot below it, while Tom Driberg recommended that ironic statements should be printed in italics that lean the other way from conventional italics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "209950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209950", "title": "Lists of books", "text": "Lists of books\n\nThis is a list of book lists (bibliographies) on Wikipedia, organized by various criteria.\n\n\n\nLists that include books:\n\n"}
{"id": "36283978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36283978", "title": "Lookism", "text": "Lookism\n\nLookism is discriminatory treatment toward people considered physically unattractive, mainly in the workplace but also in dating and other social settings. While not classified in the same way as racial, cultural, sexual discrimination, \"lookism\" is widespread and affects how people are perceived as well as affecting their opportunities in terms of romantic relationships, job opportunities, etc.\n\nPhysical attractiveness is associated with good things; in contrast, physical unattractiveness is associated with negative things. Many people make judgments of others based on their physical appearance that influence how they respond to those people. Research on the \"What is beautiful is good\" stereotype shows that, overall, those who are physically attractive benefit from their good looks: physically attractive individuals are perceived more positively and physical attractiveness has a strong influence on judgment of a person's competence. In return, physically attractive people benefit from these stereotypical beliefs. Research shows that on average, physically attractive individuals have more friends, better social skills, and more active sex lives. However, attractiveness does not have any effect on the level of happiness experienced by the individual.\n\nThough the term \"lookism\" is of recent coinage, cultures and traditions worldwide have often warned against placing undue value on physical appearance:\n\nTo judge by appearances is to get entangled in the Veil of Maya [in Buddhist thought] ... From ancient times until relatively recently, there was widespread worry about lookism, because the appearance of others may deceive, especially in romance, or it may be personally or politically imprudent to judge or act on appearances. Judging by appearances was prohibited by monotheistic religions (\"no graven images\") and criticized in ancient and medieval philosophies. Skeptics, Stoics, Cynics, Epicureans and Scholastics elaborated various reasons to avoid or subordinate the role of appearances.\n\nHowever, the term \"lookism\" was first coined in the 1970s within the fat acceptance movement. It was used in \"The Washington Post\" Magazine in 1978, which asserted that the term was coined by fat people who created the word to refer to \"discrimination based on looks.\" The word appears in several major English language dictionaries. There is some overlap between the terms teratophobia, cacophobia and lookism.\n\nLookism has received scholarly attention both from a cultural studies and an economics perspective. In the former context, lookism relates to preconceived notions of beauty and cultural stereotyping based on appearance as well as gender roles and expectations. Important economic considerations include the question of income gaps based on looks, as well as increased or decreased productivity from workers considered beautiful or ugly by their co-workers. Due to this, new problems arise that are tied to other social issues like racism and ageism (young over old). The idea of beauty is also linked directly to social class because people who have more free time and money have the ability to work on their appearance. Weight is also linked to social class because people who are overweight do not have the exercise equipment or the healthy food choices that wealthier people do. Judging people on the basis of attractiveness decreases a person's self-esteem leading to a negative self-image.\n\nSome writers have examined this phenomenon among gay men. According to the block quote on page 117 of a 2004 work by Todd Morrison, author Michelangelo Signorile (in a 1997 overview of contemporary trends in the gay male community) described \"body fascism\" asthe setting of a rigid set of standards of physical beauty that pressures everyone within a particular group to conform to them. Any person who doesn't meet those very specific standards is deemed physically unattractive and sexually undesirable. In a culture in which the physical body is held in such high esteem and given such power, body fascism then not only deems those who don't or can't conform to be sexually less desirable, but in the extreme – sometimes dubbed \"looksism\" – also deems an individual completely worthless \"as a person,\" based solely on his exterior. In this sense it is not unlike racism or sexism or homophobia itself. ... (p. 28)\n\nAccording to Nancy Etcoff, a psychologist at Massachusetts General Hospital, \"we face a world where lookism is one of the most pervasive but denied prejudices\". Referring to several studies, Angela Stalcup writes that \"The evidence clearly indicates that not only is there a premium for prettiness in Western culture, there is also penalty for plainness.\" When discrimination on the grounds of a person's appearance turns into fear or conveyed aversion, it is referred to as cacophobia. Sometimes cacophobia may be internalized and thus directed inwards rather than towards others.\n\nStudies on newborns have found that human infants as young as 14 hours from birth prefer to look at attractive faces rather than unattractive faces. The preference also extends to non-human animals such as cats. These findings indicate that lookism is an innate product of how the human visual system functions.\n\nResearch by Dan Ariely found that American women exhibit a marked preference for dating taller men, and that for shorter men to be judged attractive by women, they must earn substantially more money than taller men. \n\nIn the article \"Is Lookism Unjust\", Louis Tietje and Steven Cresap discuss when discrimination based on looks can legitimately be described as unjust. Tietje and Cresap quote evidence that suggests there exists \"a 7–to–9 percent 'penalty' for being in the lowest 9 percent of looks among all workers, and a 5 percent 'premium' for being in the top 33 percent\". While accepting that the evidence indicates that such discrimination does occur, the authors argue that it has been pervasive throughout history and that judgments of aesthetics appear to be a biological adaptation (rather than culturally conditioned) to aid reproduction, survival and social interaction, allowing people to determine viable mates (level of attractiveness being indicative of health) and the status of others as \"friend or enemy, threat or opportunity\". The authors also argue that if physical attractiveness can improve a company's success, then awarding people for it is justifiable, as the trait is thus relevant to the job and discrimination only occurs when irrelevant traits are used. In addition, the authors question the practicality of both redressing any injustices based on lookism and of determining whether such injustices have in fact occurred. Thus the authors conclude that there can be no clear model of injustice in such discrimination, nor would legislation to address it be practicable – \"We do not see how any policy interventions to redress beauty discrimination can be justified.\"\n\nLookism has been an issue in politics for centuries, with a long tradition in the United Kingdom of \"mercilessly exaggerat[ing]\" the physical flaws of politicians in newspaper cartoons. In the 1960 Presidential race between John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon, it was often believed that Kennedy's more conventionally handsome appearance contributed to his winning more approval in their first televised debate, but some researchers have challenged this widespread idea and argued that Kennedy's appearance had little or no influence.\n\nThere are several variables that might contribute to the objectification of masculinity and femininity in politics. Scholar Charlotte Hooper argued that \"gender intersects with other social divisions such as class, race and sexuality to produce complex hierarchies of (gendered) identities\". Hooper argues that institutional practices, such as military combat in war, have greatly defined what it means to be a man. Furthermore, the symbolic dimension, which includes sports, media, current affairs, etc. has \"disseminate[d] a wealth of popular iconography which links Western masculinities to the wider world beyond the borders of the state\". This is where the ideology of lookism is firmly entrenched according to Hooper. Similarly, Laura Shepherd suggests that men are required to fit into the \"matrix of intelligibility\" by acting a certain way, dressing a certain way, and have a mentality that is devoid of emotion or anything effeminate; if they are successful in becoming the ultimate \"man's man\" then they are virtually untouchable. However, others have suggested that there is only an explicit interest in the analysis of masculinity within this political sphere, it will be impossible to develop a reliable analysis of femininity within this same sphere.\n\nDrawing examples from Madeleine Albright's TED talk in 2010, \"On Being a Woman and Diplomat\", Albright expressed her frustrations with how her male colleagues and media commentators would pick apart her appearance. Being the first female Secretary of State for the United States, Albright was in the spotlight on the domestic and international stage; everything from her age, weight, hairstyle and choice of dress were scrutinized; yet ironically, the policy positions she believed to be her most important accomplishments (initiation of the G7, attempts to promote gender equality, etc.) were hardly taken into account. The fact that Albright's general appearance didn't fit into the narrow category of \"attractive\" made it even more difficult for her to navigate the space between being a woman and a diplomat. Albright is not the only woman in a position of power, or otherwise, that has been discriminated against because of her appearance. An article published in \"The Washington Post\" in 2005 labeled Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice, as a \"dominatrix\" when she stepped out in knee-high black-heeled boots during a visit to Wiesbaden Military Base in Germany. Although the article was meant to give credit to Rice for \"challeng[ing] expectations and assumptions\", some argue that the article gave her a hyper-sexualized image, and further removed the audience from focusing on the purpose of her visit to the military place. Similarly, media commentators have often chosen to report on Hillary Clinton's \"man suits\" and Julia Gillard's short hairstyle, instead of focusing on these women's professional accomplishments. Sarah Palin, former governor of Alaska and 2008 Republican Vice-Presidential candidate, was the subject of much media attention due to her conventionally attractive appearance, with Palin suggesting that the focus on her appearance ignored her professional and policy accomplishments.\n\nUntil the 1970s, lookism in the United States was sometimes codified into law. In many jurisdictions, so-called \"ugly laws\" barred people from appearing in public if they had diseases or disfigurements that were considered unsightly. Today, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission considers extreme obesity to be a disability protected by the Americans with Disabilities Act, and a few cities protect against discrimination based on appearance. Otherwise, there is no federal law protecting against discrimination based on physical appearance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25182319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25182319", "title": "MUNFLA", "text": "MUNFLA\n\nMUNFLA (Memorial University of Newfoundland Folklore and Language Archive) is the largest sound recording folklore archive in Canada. It is hosted at Memorial University of Newfoundland, located in the G.A. Hickman Building at the St. John’s campus in Newfoundland, Canada. It is a member of the Canadian Council of Archives and the Association of Newfoundland and Labrador Archives. MUNFLA was founded in 1968 by folklorist Herbert Halpert, head of the Folklore Department, as a joint-venture by the Folklore and English departments at Memorial University. The archive was created as a repository for recordings and material culture of Newfoundland and Labrador folk culture.\n\nThe archive contains a variety of items including oral histories, songs, poetry, childlore, folk narratives, personal experience narratives, folk beliefs as well as student research papers and graduate theses and dissertations from the Department of Folklore.\n\nMUNFLA operates an online catalogue. \n\nThe archive also contains The MacEdward Leach Collection of Songs of Atlantic Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "789667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=789667", "title": "Micrography", "text": "Micrography\n\nMicrography (from Greek, literally small-writing – \"Μικρογραφία\"), also called microcalligraphy, is a Jewish form of calligrams developed in the 9th century, with parallels in Christianity and Islam, utilizing minute Hebrew letters to form representational, geometric and abstract designs. Colored micrography is especially distinctive because these rare artworks are customarily rendered in black and white.\n\nThe artwork is created from text that forms an image when viewed at a distance, creating an interplay between the text and image. The photomosaic, whose tiny individual images form a mosaic when viewed from a distance, is a modern analogue.\n\nThere is a relationship between this form of art, employing both digital and analogic symbols, and the restrictions on images found in the second commandment. Micrography provides a unique solution to the visual artist who wishes to remain devout in observation of Jewish law, by using only text, not images per se. As similar restrictions exist in certain Muslim societies, this solution has been adapted in Islamic calligraphy to the Arabic alphabet as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5908618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5908618", "title": "Neighborhoods of Tulsa, Oklahoma", "text": "Neighborhoods of Tulsa, Oklahoma\n\nTulsa is the second-largest city in the state of Oklahoma. It has many diverse neighborhoods due to its size.\n\nDowntown Tulsa is an area of approximately surrounded by an inner-dispersal loop created by Interstate 244, Highway 64, and Highway 75. The area serves as Tulsa's financial and business district, and is the focus of a large initiative to draw tourism, which includes plans to capitalize on the area's historic architecture. Much of Tulsa's convention space is located in downtown, such as the Tulsa Performing Arts Center, the Tulsa Convention Center, and the BOK Center. Prominent downtown sub-districts include the Blue Dome District, the Brady Arts District, the \"Oil Capital Historic District\", the Greenwood Historical District, Owen Park Historical Neighborhood, and the site of ONEOK Field, a baseball stadium for the Tulsa Drillers opened in 2010.\n\nThe city's historical residential core lies in an area known as Midtown, containing upscale neighborhoods built in the early 20th century with architecture ranging from art deco to Greek Revival. The University of Tulsa, the Swan Lake neighborhood, Philbrook Museum, and the upscale shopping districts of Utica Square, Cherry Street, and Brookside are located in this region. A large portion of the city's southern half has developed since the 1970s, containing low density housing and retail developments. This region, marked by secluded homes and suburban neighborhoods, contains one of the state's largest shopping malls, Woodland Hills Mall, as well as Southern Hills Country Club, and Oral Roberts University.\n\nEast of Highway 169 and north of 61st street, a diverse racial makeup marks the eastern portions of the city, with large Asian and Mexican communities and much of the city's manufacturing industry.\n\nAreas of Tulsa west of the Arkansas River are called West Tulsa, and are marked by large parks, wilderness reserves, and large oil refineries. The northern tier of the city is home to OSU-Tulsa, Gilcrease Museum, Tulsa International Airport, the Tulsa Zoo, the Tulsa Air and Space Museum, and the nation's third-largest municipal park, Mohawk Park.\n\nTulsa includes many structures built during the Oil Boom in the 1920s and 1930s, including Art Deco buildings such as Boston Avenue Methodist Church and Tulsa Union Depot. Waite Phillips left a significant architectural impact on downtown Tulsa through the Philtower and Philcade Building. Other notable downtown Tulsa buildings include the Exchange Bank Building (today known as the 320 South Boston Building, the Cosden Building (later expanded into today's Mid-Continent Tower), Atlas Life Building, Holy Family Cathedral, Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox Church, and the Mayo Hotel. Known for a time as \"Terra Cotta City\", Tulsa hosted the International Sixth Congress on Art Deco in 2001. The core downtown area was designated on the National Register of Historic Places as the Oil Capital Historic District in 2010.\nDowntown Tulsa is in the northwest quadrant of the city and is ringed by an expressway called the Inner Dispersal Loop. Downtown's buildings include many large office towers. At , the BOK Tower (formerly One Williams Center) was the tallest building in any of the 5 \"plains states\" (Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska, North Dakota and South Dakota) until the Devon Tower in Oklahoma City was completed in 2012. The BOK Tower was designed in 1975 by Minoru Yamasaki & Associates, the same architect who designed the World Trade Center in New York City.\n\nThe Tulsa Performing Arts Center occupies a half city block in Tulsa's historical downtown. The PAC is also the design of Minoru Yamasaki. It houses five theatres and a reception hall. More than a quarter of a million people visit the Center each year to attend a performance from one of Tulsa's seven acclaimed musical and dramatic companies including the Tulsa Ballet, Tulsa Symphony Orchestra, Tulsa Opera, Theatre Tulsa, and a variety of symphonic groups. The PAC hosts a multitude of cultural events through the fall, winter and spring.\nIn 2005 the City of Tulsa broke ground on a 19,199 seat regional events center designed by architect César Pelli. The arena was named the BOK Center (or Bank of Oklahoma Center) and opened on August 30, 2008.\nAnother popular downtown entertainment district is the Blue Dome, named for a distinctive, domed building at Second Street and Elgin Avenue, in the area in the eastern section of downtown. The building was originally constructed in 1924 as a Gulf Oil service station. It has been converted to an information desk/office for the district, and is about two blocks south of the OneOK field.\n\nEast Village comprises 115 acres bordered by East 2nd and East 7th Streets, Detroit Avenue and Lansing Avenue, just inside the inner-dispersal loop. This area boasts an upscale martini bar, American Theatre Company Studios, a hair salon, a pet day care, photography studios, lofts, a knitting room and living arts district, among others. The cornerstone of this neighborhood is now the second largest LGBT community center in Oklahoma, the Dennis R. Neill Equality Center, owned and operated by Oklahomans for Equality/OkEq (formerly Tulsa Oklahomans for Human Rights/TOHR), with further development being planned for more restaurants, residential lofts and retail.\n\nThe Oil Capital Historic District was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2010. It is bounded by Third Street on the north, Seventh Street on the South, Cincinnati Avenue on the east and Cheyenne Avenue on the west. This area contains many of the historic Downtown office buildings constructed during the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nRiverview stretches along the east bank of the Arkansas River, just west of Downtown. Uptown is the region just to the south of Downtown. The SoBo (South Boston) bar district in this area at 18th and south Boston is quite popular. The Ambassador Hotel, now listed on the National Register of Historic Places listings in Tulsa County, Oklahoma, was built in 1929 to provide temporary housing for businessmen and now functions as a boutique hotel. The building is at the corner of Main and 14th Street. The Tulsa Preservation Commission identified this location as \"...the Southeast Business Area of the Riverview section of Tulsa.\"\n\nThe Buena Vista Park residential addition, consisting of three blocks, was begun in 1908. It was the start of what is now Buena Vista Park Historic District, which was listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) in 2007. The district now covers . Its period of architectural significance was 1913 - 1933. One of the supporting properties, the James Alexander Veasey House at 1802 South Cheyenne Avenue West, was added to the NRHP in its own right on July 27, 1989.\n\nThe Pearl District is emerging as a cultural hub just east of downtown. Once suffering from significant blight, The Pearl District has seen fervent restoration and new business development thanks to a concerted infill effort on the part of the City of Tulsa, including new bars and restaurants, white collar small offices and new residential buildings, with zoning designed to encourage mixed use and walkability. It is bordered by 1st street to the north and 11th street on the south, and lies adjacent to Centennial Park to the west.\n\nThe Tulsa Fire Alarm Building at 1010 South Detroit, which has been unused for several years, is part of this district. The building was sold in July 2015. It will be converted into a museum honoring Tulsa's firefighters. The museum is expected to open in late 2015 or 2016. The Pearl District also contains The Church Studio, a former church that Leon Russell turned into a recording studio and the focal point of the Tulsa Sound music movement during the 1970s.\n\nRiverview is bounded on the north by 12th and 13th Streets, on the east by the alley between Denver and Elwood Avenues, on the south by Riverside Drive and 14th Place, and on the west by Jackson Avenue. The name came from Riverview Elementary School, which was at 12th and Guthrie. Although the school building was demolished in 1975, the district retained its name.This area contains houses and apartment buildings constructed between 1911 and 1938. \n\nIncluded are several structures that are individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nMidtown is a largely residential district in the heart of the city. This area consists mostly of homes built from the early 1900s to the 1950s and has a wide variety of American styles ranging from the Craftsman bungalow to the ranch-style home to Greek Revival. The neighborhood is even home to a relocated saltbox home from colonial New England. Schools in this part of the city include Bishop Kelley, Edison Preparatory School, Eliot Elementary, Francis Scott Key Elementary, Monte Cassino, Robert E. Lee Elementary, Patrick Henry Elementary, Wright Elementary and Undercroft Montessori. Woodward Park, located in Midtown, is known for its azaleas and gardens and is a popular destination for photography and picnics. Other popular Midtown Parks include Swan Lake, Zink Park, Darlington Park and Whiteside Park.\n\nUtica Square, Tulsa's first suburban shopping center, is an upscale outdoor center with a mix of locally owned retailers, including Miss Jackson's, Tulsa's oldest department store, and national chains. Adjacent to Utica Square is Temple Israel, a Reform Jewish congregation housed in a building by prolific synagogue architect Percival Goodman, and Cascia Hall Preparatory School, a college preparatory school now also known as a key location in the fantasy/horror \"House of Night\" novel series written by P.C. Cast and Kristin Cast. Tulsa's conservative synagogue, B'nai Emunah, is also located in Midtown.\n\nSome of the other major shopping centers in this part of the city include the Promenade Mall, Highland Park Shopping Center, Southroads, Ranch Acres, The Farm Shopping Center, and The Plaza. OU-Tulsa is across the street from the Promenade Mall at 41st and Yale, on the southern edge of Midtown.\n\nIn northeast Midtown, the Tulsa State Fairgrounds, now called Expo Square, is home to several Tulsa landmarks. In addition to the site being the former home to the minor league baseball Tulsa Drillers, the Art Deco Expo Square Pavilion, the Fair Meadows horse racing track, and the annual Tulsa State Fair, it boasts the Quick Trip Expo Center, the largest clearspan building in the world, providing 354,000 square feet (33,000 m²) of column-free space under a cable-suspended roof. In front of the Expo Center is the Golden Driller, standing 76 feet (23 m) tall. Built in 1966 as a symbol for the International Petroleum Expo, the statue serves as a reminder of Tulsa's oily past.\n\nThe Expo Center is also home to the annual Darryl Starbird Rod and Custom Show. Held in early February, it is touted as 'The World's Largest Indoor Car Show' and often draws around 1,500 custom and classic cars, trucks, and motorcycles. Antique car auctions are also held here and draw many visitors from across the nation.\n\nThe Tulsa area boasts nearly of river shoreline along the Arkansas River. River Parks lines more than of that stretch, spread along both banks of the 1/4 mile wide channel and connected by a pedestrian bridge between 21st and 31st streets. River Parks is a popular destination for outdoor recreation. Miles of asphalt-surfaced recreation trails weave past picnic areas, playgrounds, fountains and sculptures. The park's landscape ranges from manicured lawns to the rugged terrain of the Turkey Mountain Urban Wilderness Area. Recreation in River Parks includes fishing, rowing, kayaking, disc golf, hiking, biking and horseback riding.\n\nDuring the spring, summer, and early fall, concerts, festivals and the state's largest free fireworks display (on the Fourth of July) are popular draws to the river. The festival park on the river's west bank is the site of Tulsa's Oktoberfest, one of the oldest and largest in the U.S.\n\nThe Cherry Street District is set near downtown in the northern midtown area, defined by a portion of 15th Street dubbed \"Cherry Street.\" 15th Street has been a major east-west thoroughfare in Tulsa since This street was named Cherry Street prior to the early 1900s, when a city ordinance mandated a numerical street name. The eastern and western boundaries of the present-day district are rather vaguely defined in common usage. A 1992 article in the \"Tulsa World\" stated that the district extends from Peoria Avenue on the west to Utica Avenue on the east. The northern and southern boundaries of this informal district are apparently undefined.\nSouth Quaker Avenue intersects Cherry Street one block east of Peoria. The 1400 block of South Quaker contains five houses of historical interest because they represent the style of homes constructed during the very early 1920s. The most notable is known as McGregor House at 1401 South Quaker, at the intersection of Quaker and 14th street. It is a 1-1/2 story Prairie Style house designed about 1920 by Bruce Goff, then a 15-year-old apprentice with the Rush, Endacott and Rush architecture firm. The house was listed on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) under Criterion C - Architecture, with registration number 10001011.\n\nVisitors to this neighborhood can find many local restaurants, boutique shops, art galleries, antique shops, funky vintage stores, and even a scooter shop now filling old storefronts built in the 1920s & 1930s, as well as some notable old homes in the surrounding residential areas. Numerous condos have been built in recent years just north of Cherry Street. Cherry Street is surrounded by four of Tulsa's designated Historic Districts: the Swan Lake, North Maple Ridge, Gillette and Yorktown neighborhoods. Other neighborhoods adjacent to Cherry Street are Florence Park, Tulsa and the Renaissance neighborhood.\n\nThe Maple Ridge Historic District is just south of downtown in Midtown. This neighborhood contains 'Black Gold Row', where mansions built by the oil barons in the 1920s still stand, long after their original owners have gone.\n\nSunset Terrace is located adjacent to Maple Ridge on its South Side, Terwilleger Heights on its East Side and the Arkansas River to the West. It is traversed by the grand Woodward Boulevard, which links Maple Ridge to Brookside. Sunset Terrace contains many mansions built in the 1920' and 1930s.\n\nBrookside, like Cherry Street, is another popular shopping and entertainment district in Midtown. This area extends from the Arkansas River east to Lewis Avenue and south to 51st Street/Interstate 44. Its defining strip is South Peoria between 31st and I-44, which is a popular commercial area with various upscale shops, boutiques, and art galleries, as well as 35 restaurants and nightspots (many with patio seating) spanning a wide variety of cuisines and dining styles. Scenic Riverside Drive, which parallels the east bank of the river, and River Parks, the park that stretches along the riverbank, are also popular sections of Brookside.\n\nThis is a subdivision of modern homes along South Yale Avenue near 26th Street. Based on a master plan by Tulsa architect Donald Honn, the low-pitch roofs and clean lines of the houses typify the style known as Mid-Century Modern, and the neighborhood was the city's first housing development with a community pool. Construction began in 1953 and all Lortondale homes featured central heating and air conditioning—reportedly the first such subdivision in the nation.\n\nRecognized as a historic neighborhood, Ranch Acres was added the National Register of Historic Places in 2007. The neighborhood is an excellent example of a post-World War II ranch house subdivision. The area is situated primarily between 31st and 41st Streets along South Harvard.\n\nThe Patrick Henry Neighborhood was developed during the Fifties and Sixties and situated between Harvard and Yale at 41st Street south I-44. Patrick Henry is made up of ranch-style homes known for their open floorplans and large lots. Many of these homes were featured on the annual Parade of Homes tours that featured new and modern designs.\n\nThis area takes its name from the two larger neighborhood parks lying within it. The homes in this area are mostly ranch-style homes, some with pronounced mid-century modern design cues. It area overlaps with the Patrick Henry neighborhood, extending East of Yale Avenue to Bishop Kelley High School. Mockingbird Lake is in this neighborhood.\n\nAlthough the neighborhood is primarily residential, it is also home the Tulsa Schusterman campus of University of Oklahoma (including the OU School of Community Medicine) and several commercial developments (most notably Tulsa Promenade).\n\nTo the east of downtown is Tulsa’s oldest suburban shopping area and is noted for its abundance of red brick. The artsy, historic, and recently restored Circle Cinema is located in this area. The Kendall-Whittier shopping area and surrounding neighborhoods are now popular with Tulsa’s rapidly growing Hispanic community. Just east of this area is the University of Tulsa.\n\nFor a copy of the Kendall Whittier Neighborhood Masterplan developed by the neighborhood in partnership with the City of Tulsa please go to: http://www.cityoftulsa.org/Community/Revitalization/documents/KW%20Neighborhood%20Masterplan%2011142006.pdf\n\nSwan Lake is a historic district whose borders consist of 15th Street to the North, Utica Street to the East, 21st Street to the South, and Peoria Avenue to the west. This area was originally named Orcutt District for the landowner, and the lake was originally a cattle watering place. It was the site of an amusement park in the early Twentieth Century, but is now notable for the number and architectural variety of houses and apartment buildings constructed in the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nTerwilleger Heights is located immediately south and west of Utica Square bordered by 21st Street, 31st Street, Utica Avenue and Peoria Avenue. This area has early 1930s homes both grand and small, mature and many newly planted trees, winding streets and is adjacent to the Philbrook Museum of Art and Woodward Park, site of the Tulsa Rose Garden.\n\nRenaissance neighborhood is between 11th Street (Route 66) and 15th Street and Lewis Avenue on the west to Harvard Avenue on the east with Delaware Avenue cutting through the middle. The University of Tulsa is just north of 11th St. on the east side of Delaware. It's a mix of 1920s bungalows and 1930s revival style houses with houses of other eras mixed in, from very new to a few pre-20s houses that were moved from the site of Central High School (now the PSO HQ) in the mid 20s. Renaissance is also a mix of single family homes and a number of duplexes and the east side of Delaware has housed many TU students over the years. Renaissance has an active neighborhood association.\n\nFlorence Park & Florence Park South neighborhoods runs from Harvard Avenue on the east, to the Broken Arrow Expressway on the south & west, and stops at 15th Street on the north. There's a particularly good mix of 1920/30s houses, mostly revival styles, and two of midtown Tulsa's first neighborhoods to be re-discovered and appreciated after the 60/70s flight to suburbia.\n\nWhite City is a residential neighborhood in Midtown, Tulsa, Oklahoma. It is bounded on the north by 2nd Street, on the east by Fulton Avenue, on the south by 11th Street and on the west by Yale Avenue. The neighborhood was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2001. The area includes 480 buildings, of which 325 retain their historic significance. Two parks are also included in the listing.\n\nTulsa's north side originally referred to the area north of the Frisco Railroad tracks up to the northern city limits. It was annexed by the city of Tulsa in 1904. The north side is home to a large percentage of Tulsa's African-American community in addition to working-class Tulsans of other races and ethnicities. The area's Booker T. Washington High School, Tulsa’s African-American high school during the segregation era and now a magnet school, was recently judged to be the 58th best high school in the nation by Newsweek. Northeast of downtown, close to Tulsa International Airport, is Mohawk Park, which includes the Tulsa Zoo and the Oxley Nature Center, and the Tulsa Air and Space Museum. This area is also home to the American Airlines maintenance facility, one of Tulsa's largest employers.\n\nThe Greenwood Historical District is just north of downtown and east of the Brady District. It was once one of the most affluent African-American communities in the United States and referred to as Black Wall Street. In 1921, thirty-five blocks of businesses and residences were burned in this district during the infamous Tulsa Race Riot, the bloodiest racial riot in the history of the United States. The Oklahoma Legislature passed laws in 2001 aimed at revitalizing Greenwood, setting up a scholarship fund for college-bound descendants of riot victims and appropriating $2 million for a riot memorial. As of 2004, two blocks of the old neighborhood have been restored and are part of the Greenwood Historical District. It is now home to the Greenwood Cultural Center, the Tulsa Race Riot Memorial, and the John Hope Franklin Center for Reconciliation, as well as Oklahoma State University - Tulsa and Langston University-Tulsa.\n\nThe Brady Arts District is located north across the Sante Fe Railroad tracks from the central business district and centered at Main Street & Brady Avenue. The Brady District is one of Tulsa's oldest areas, characterized by two-story brick warehouses.\n\nThe Brady Theater, built between 1912 and 1914, was originally designed to serve as the city's municipal auditorium and was simply called \"Convention Hall\" for the first forty years of its life and was one of three internment camps where African Americans were detained after the 1921 Tulsa Race Riot. In 1952, major additions were added and the building was renamed Tulsa Municipal Theater. The building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979. Supplanted as the city auditorium in 1979 by construction of the Performing Arts Center in downtown, \"the Old Lady on Brady\" continues to be used today for a wide variety of concerts and theatrical productions.\n\nNorth of the Brady on Main Street is the Cain's Ballroom, formerly the garage of the Brady family and the home of Bob Wills and his band, the Texas Playboys. The district is also the location of many local artists' galleries, restaurants with late night hours, bars and dance clubs. It is also an emerging gay neighborhood, with several gay or gay-friendly bars and numerous supportive shops and restaurants.\n\nToday, The Brady Arts District is one of the most diverse areas in all of Tulsa. It hosts restaurants, clubs, museums, and businesses and is a prime example of urban living. There is presently construction which will more than double the number of permanent residents in this artistic enclave. The neighborhood's renaissance got a significant boost in late 2012 with the opening of Guthrie Green, a public garden and outdoor stage, on a central plot of land formerly inhabited by commercial buildings. Guthrie Green has quickly emerged as a neighborhood focal point, hosting community events, live music and a farmers market.\n\nThe district and the street were originally named for W. Tate Brady, an early Tulsa business owner and active civic promoter. However, Tate Brady's involvement as a leader in the Tulsa Ku Klux Klan in the 1920s led to residents expressing their wish that the name be changed, and on August 15, 2013, the City Council voted to retain the street name, but instead officially honor Civil War photographer Mathew Brady. Street signs have since been changed to reflect the official street name as \"M.B. Brady St.\" \n\nBrady Heights is a historic district in Tulsa, Oklahoma named for early resident, W. Tate Brady. Its boundaries are Marshall Street on the north, the alley between Cheyenne Avenue and Main Street on the east, Fairview Street on the south, and the Osage Expressway right-of-way on the west. From territorial days until the 1920s, Brady Heights was an important part of the then-fashionable north side of Tulsa. Young professional businessmen and oil men, like G. Y. Vandever, I. S. Mincks and “Diamond Joe” Wilson, owned homes there.\n\nThe North Cheyenne Historic District is bounded on the north by an alley between Archer and Brady Streets, on the east by the alley between Boulder and Cheyenne avenues, on the South by the Frisco railroad tracks and on the west by North Denver Avenue. It was a commercial and industrial area that developed during the early Twentieth Century. According to the Tulsa Preservation Commission, the district \"...was added to the National Register of Historic Places on December 13, 2010 under Criterion A for significance in commerce. Its NRIS number is 10001011.\"\n\nThe history of the Owen Park neighborhood can be traced to the early 19th Century. A description of the area was given by Washington Irving in his book, \"Tour of the Prairies\". A monument in Tulsa's Owen Park denotes the point where the lands of the Osage, Creek and Cherokee nations met. The first American settler was Chauncey Owen, husband of a Creek woman who qualified for a land allotment. This land later became the Owen Park neighborhood. Its borders are Edison Avenue on the north, the municipal Owen Park on the east, the Keystone Expressway (Hwy 412) on the south, and Zenith Avenue on the west. Owen Park is a rapidly gentrifying historic neighborhood that has historic mansions and Crafstman style homes. It is one of the closest neighborhoods to the Brady District and downtown Tulsa.\n\nNorthwest of downtown on the Osage Indian Reservation is the Gilcrease Museum, considered by many to be the finest Western American and American Indian art collection in the world. Thomas Gilcrease was a member of the Creek nation who became very wealthy after the discovery of oil on his allotment. He invested much of his wealth in art, and opened a gallery on his estate in northwest Tulsa in 1949. He deeded the art collection, building and grounds to the City of Tulsa during the mid-1950s.\n\nSharon Hanson, president of the North Star Neighborhood Association, approached an official in the Mayor's office and money was put in the budget for the 36th street north corridor. The community chose the Phoenix District as the new name. The Phoenix District is the home of the OU Physicians Wayman Tisdale Specialty Clinic.\n\nTulsa's south side is popularly considered to be south of the Skelly Bypass (I-44), bounded on the south by the city of Bixby, on the west by the Arkansas River and the city of Jenks, and on the east by the city of Broken Arrow. Many new luxurious homes have been constructed here in the last few decades, as well as numerous apartments, in various price ranges. Land in the area is becoming scarce, however, and development now has begun to spread to neighboring Jenks and Bixby to the south and west, as well as Broken Arrow to the east. As a more affluent demographic has moved into the area, businesses tailored to such residents have also opened nearby. The city's largest automotive dealer strips are located along S. Memorial Dr. from 91st to 101st Streets and from 51st to 31st Streets. The Riverwalk Crossing Shopping Center, just over the river in Jenks at 96th st. includes a movie theater, fine dining, and shopping. Nearby lies the Oklahoma Aquarium, the only one in the state of Oklahoma. Local freshwater fish are complemented by a fine selection of saltwater animals, including sharks. The Karl and Beverly White National Fishing Tackle Museum has over 20,000 pieces valued at more than $4 million. This exhibit makes up the largest and most comprehensive antique fishing tackle collection in the world.\n\nSt. Francis Hospital and its surrounding medical practitioner's offices is located at 61st and Yale and is one of the largest in the state. Prominent in that area of town is the upscale Braeswood neighborhood, East 61st to 63rd Streets and Louisville to Oswego Avenues. Another healthcare cluster exists around South 91st and Mingo, including SouthCrest Hospital, Cancer Treatment Center of America and Saint Francis Hospital South.\nWoodland Hills Mall, the largest in the state anchors the 71st street corridor. Numerous dining options are available in the area. Additionally, shopping centers surrounding the mall are panoramic in scope, as the options for shopping are seemingly endless. It is in this area that the 4-star John Q. Hammonds Renaissance Hotel is located, including conference and meeting rooms. It is located right off US 169, a major north-south highway in eastern south Tulsa. This road curves to the west at around 96th street and soon turns into the Creek Turnpike, a toll road that has been extended to the west to I-44 and to the east to I-44, nearly forming a semi-circular loop around southern Tulsa and its surrounding suburbs.\nThe schools in the area are some of the state's largest, including Jenks and Union High School, with neighboring Broken Arrow being the largest. Tulsa Public School's Memorial High School is located here, along with prestigious, private Holland Hall. Jenks, and Union High Schools are annually among the best in the state and nation in football and their rivalry has drawn national attention. Tulsa Community College, the largest 2-year school in the state, has its Southeast campus off 81st and US 169.\nParks in the area include LaFortune Park, with 2 public golf courses, playgrounds, swimming pool, and jogging trail, Hunter Park, with a disc golf course, jogging trail, playground, and fishing pond, and the Riverparks, which extend south to 101sts St.\n\nSome of the largest and most influential churches in the country in Tulsa are in this part of Tulsa, including Victory Christian, Kirk of the Hills Presbyterian, Asbury United Methodist, South Tulsa Baptist and Grace Church.\n\nSoutheast Tulsa is generally considered as south of 41st St S and east of S Sheridan Rd, all the way to the Bixby and Broken Arrow city limits. Union Schools service most of these residents, with a handful of neighborhoods being served by Tulsa Public Schools and Broken Arrow Public Schools (further east). Neighborhood Parks, soccer fields, sports fields, and public pools can be found within the area. There are multiple corporate offices and other business in the area that staff large work forces. A large diversity of shopping and eating-out opportunities can be found in southeast Tulsa. The area provides easy access to I 244, I 44, Hwy 169 (Mingo Valley Exp), The Creek Turnpike, and the Broken Arrow expressway. Such easy access makes it quick for driving to desired locations and businesses in Downtown, Midtown, Southside, Westside, the Airport, all the major shopping/entertainment areas of the city, and to the outlying cities of Broken Arrow, Owasso, Bixby, and Jenks. The area offers housing built from the early 1970s to the present.\n\nThe historic and now largely abandoned community of Alsuma, Oklahoma lies in this area. Alsuma was annexed by Tulsa in 1966, and is now listed as a ghost town.\n\nSouthern Hills is an exclusive neighborhood on the south side that is centered on the Southern Hills Country Club at 61st and Lewis. Southern Hills Country Club has hosted 13 major golf championships including four U.S. Opens. Many of the original homes in this neighborhood are sprawling suburban homes built in the ranch style.\n\nTulsa's east side is a suburban-style area laying roughly east of Sheridan Road, north of 41st St S, and south of Tulsa International Airport. Constructed largely in the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s, attractions in this part of the city include McClure Park, which is notable for its disc golf course, the Carl Smith Athletic Complex, and the popular Admiral Twin Drive-In movie theatre. There is also a large portion of Route 66 on Tulsa's east side. Areas that fall in Union and Broken Arrow School districts are increasingly attracting high-income professionals looking for suburban life within the city limits. Mayo Demonstration Academy, a magnet school of the Tulsa Public School system, is located in this area. Eastgate Metroplex and East Central High School are also in this area. Also the area is home to Tulsa's Eastern hospitality district, where many hotels are located.\n\nEast Tulsa is also home to growing Mexican-American and Vietnamese-American populations (the latter centered around St. Joseph Vietnamese Catholic Church).\n\nRedbud Valley Nature Preserve is also located in this part of the city.\n\nCommunities of Tulsa's west side in city limits are Red Fork, Carbondale, Garden City, and Turkey Mountain. Other communities considered a part of the west side, but located in Creek County, are Oakhurst, Oakridge, and Allen-Bowden.\n\nWest Tulsa is another reminder of Tulsa’s oil-rich past. Two oil refineries remain in operation to this day on the west bank of the river. This large industrial area gives way to wooded and hilly neighborhoods. The classic art deco Webster High School is here, as is the popular train-themed Ollie’s Station Restaurant, sitting next to the Tulsa rail yard. Other schools in West Tulsa include Berryhill High School, Remington Elementary, Robertson Elementary, Park Elementary and Clinton Middle School. Webster is the oldest existing high school facility in Tulsa, and has an active alumni association. Portions of Route 66 pass through west side. The area is broken up into several sections, including Carbondale and Red Fork, among others.\n\nThe Riverparks system, also here on the bank of the river, includes the Riverwest Festival Park, with its floating stage amphitheater overlooking downtown. Riverwest is home to such popular events as Tulsa's Oktoberfest, one of the largest of its kind in North America, and the Gatesway Balloon Festival.\n\nTulsa's westside is also home to The Oaks Country Club, one of Tulsa's three major country clubs, and Inverness Village, a large retirement community. In addition to these companies, Camp Loughridge, a Christian Summer Camp operates on 186 acres of land in West Tulsa.\n"}
{"id": "13444712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13444712", "title": "Philosophy of music", "text": "Philosophy of music\n\nPhilosophy of music is the study of \"...fundamental questions about the nature of music and our experience of it\". The philosophical study of music has many connections with philosophical questions in metaphysics and aesthetics. \nSome basic questions in the philosophy of music are:\n\n\n\"Explications of the concept of music usually begin with the idea that music is organized sound. They go on to note that this characterization is too broad, since there are many examples of organized sound that are not music, such as human speech, and the sounds non-human animals and machines make.\" There are many different ways of denoting the fundamental aspects of music which are more specific than \"sound\": popular aspects include melody (pitches that occur consecutively), harmony (pitches regarded as groups—not necessarily sounding at the same time—to form chords), rhythm, meter and timbre (also known as a sound's \"color\"). However, noise music may consist mainly of noise. Musique concrète often consists only of sound samples of non-musical nature, sometimes in random juxtaposition. Ambient music may consist of recordings of wildlife or nature. The arrival of these avant-garde forms of music in the 20th century have been a major challenge to traditional views of music as being based around melodies and rhythms, leading to broader characterizations.\n\nThere was intense debate over absolute music versus program music during the late Romantic Era. Advocates of the \"absolute music\" perspective argued that instrumental music does not convey emotions or images to the listener. They claimed that music is not explicitly \"about\" anything and that it is non-representational. The idea of absolute music developed at the end of the 18th century in the writings of authors of early German Romanticism, such as Wilhelm Heinrich Wackenroder, Ludwig Tieck and E. T. A. Hoffmann. Adherents of the \"program music\" perspective believed that music could convey emotions and images. One example of program music is Berlioz's \"Symphonie fantastique\", in which the fourth movement is the composer's depiction of a story about an artist who poisons himself with opium and then is executed. The majority of opposition to absolute instrumental-based music came from composer Richard Wagner and the philosophers Friedrich Nietzsche and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. Wagner's works were chiefly programmatic and often used vocalization, and he said that \"Where music can go no further, there comes the word… the word stands higher than the tone.\" Nietzsche wrote many commentaries applauding the music of Wagner and was in fact an amateur composer himself.\n\nOther Romantic philosophers and proponents of absolute music, such as Johann von Goethe saw music not only as a subjective human \"language\" but as an absolute transcendent means of peering into a higher realm of order and beauty. Some expressed a spiritual connection with music. In Part IV of his chief work, \"The World as Will and Representation\" (1819), Arthur Schopenhauer said that \"music is the answer to the mystery of life. The most profound of all the arts, it expresses the deepest thoughts of life.\" In \"The Immediate Stages of the Erotic, or Musical Erotic\", a chapter of \"Either/Or\" (1843), Søren Kierkegaard examines the profundity of music of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and the sensual nature of \"Don Giovanni\".\n\nIn his 1997 book \"How the Mind Works\", Steven Pinker dubbed music \"auditory cheesecake\", a phrase that in the years since has served as a challenge to the musicologists and psychologists who believe otherwise. Among those to note this stir was Philip Ball in his book \"The Music Instinct\" where he noted that music seems to reach to the very core of what it means to be human: \"There are cultures in the world where to say 'I'm not musical' would be meaningless,\" Ball writes, \"akin to saying 'I'm not alive'.\" In a filmed debate, Ball suggests that music might get its emotive power through its ability to mimic people and perhaps its ability to entice us lies in music's ability to set up an expectation and then violate it.<ref name=\"http://iai.tv/video/music-s-mystery\"></ref>\n\nIn the pre-modern tradition, the aesthetics of music or musical aesthetics explored the mathematical and cosmological dimensions of rhythmic and harmonic organization. In the eighteenth century, focus shifted to the experience of hearing music, and thus to questions about its beauty and human enjoyment (\"plaisir\" and \"jouissance\") of music. The origin of this philosophic shift is sometimes attributed to Baumgarten in the 18th century, followed by Kant. Through their writing, the ancient term \"aesthetics\", meaning sensory perception, received its present-day connotation. In recent decades philosophers have tended to emphasize issues besides beauty and enjoyment. For example, music's capacity to express emotion has been a central issue.\n\nAesthetics is a sub-discipline of philosophy. In the 20th century, important contributions were made by Peter Kivy, Jerrold Levinson, Roger Scruton, and Stephen Davies. However, many musicians, music critics, and other non-philosophers have contributed to the aesthetics of music. In the 19th century, a significant debate arose between Eduard Hanslick, a music critic and musicologist, and composer Richard Wagner. Harry Partch and some other musicologists, such as Kyle Gann, have studied and tried to popularize microtonal music and the usage of alternate musical scales. Also, many modern composers like La Monte Young, Rhys Chatham and Glenn Branca paid much attention to a system of tuning called just intonation.\n\nThere has been a strong tendency in the aesthetics of music to emphasize the paramount importance of compositional structure; however, other issues concerning the aesthetics of music include lyricism, harmony, hypnotism, emotiveness, temporal dynamics, resonance, playfulness, and color (see also musical development).\n\nIt is often thought that music has the ability to affect our emotions, intellect, and psychology; it can assuage our loneliness or incite our passions. The philosopher Plato suggests in the \"Republic\" that music has a direct effect on the soul. Therefore, he proposes that in the ideal regime music would be closely regulated by the state (Book VII).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34504807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34504807", "title": "Pronkstilleven", "text": "Pronkstilleven\n\nPronkstilleven (Dutch for 'ostentatious', 'ornate' or 'sumptuous' still life) is a style of ornate still life painting, which was developed in the 1640s in Antwerp from where it spread quickly to the Dutch Republic. \n\nFlemish artists such as Frans Snyders and Adriaen van Utrecht started to paint still lifes that emphasized abundance by depicting a diversity of objects, fruits, flowers and dead game, often together with living people and animals.\n\nThe style was soon adopted by artists from the Dutch Republic. A leading Dutch representative was Jan Davidsz. de Heem, who spent a long period of his active career in Antwerp and was one of the founders of the style in Holland.\n\nCornelis Norbertus Gijsbrechts developed the style further by incorporating pronkstillevens in the trompe-l'œil compositions for which he was known. An example is his \"\" at the Museum of Fine Arts, Ghent.\n\nPronkstillevens are usually interpreted as a form of vanitas painting that conveys a moral lesson. The various objects in the compositions serve as symbols that can be read as an admonition or a life lesson. The objects usually refer to the transience and emptiness of wealth and possessions and the ultimate extinction and emptiness of earthly life.\n\nFor instance, roses are often used as a vanitas motif, as they recall that all life and earthly beauty are fleeting. Hourglasses are an admonition that life is fleeting and will end. Empty containers such as glasses or vases point to the emptiness of earthly wealth and aspirations. The paintings remind the viewer of the need to practice moderation and temperance.\n"}
{"id": "231156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231156", "title": "Richard Pryor", "text": "Richard Pryor\n\nRichard Franklin Lennox Thomas Pryor (December 1, 1940 – December 10, 2005) was an American stand-up comedian, actor, and social critic. Pryor was known for uncompromising examinations of racism and topical contemporary issues, which employed vulgarities and profanity, as well as racial epithets. He reached a broad audience with his trenchant observations and storytelling style, and is widely regarded as one of the greatest and most influential stand-up comedians of all time.\n\nPryor's body of work includes the concert movies and recordings: \"Richard Pryor: Live & Smokin'\" (1971), \"That Nigger's Crazy\" (1974), \"...Is It Something I Said?\" (1975), \"Bicentennial Nigger\" (1976), \"\" (1979), \"\" (1982), and \"\" (1983). As an actor, he starred mainly in comedies such as \"Silver Streak\" (1976), but occasionally in dramas, such as Paul Schrader's \"Blue Collar\" (1978), or action films, such as \"Superman III\" (1983). He collaborated on many projects with actor Gene Wilder. Another frequent collaborator was actor/comedian/writer Paul Mooney.\n\nPryor won an Emmy Award (1973) and five Grammy Awards (1974, 1975, 1976, 1981, and 1982). In 1974, he also won two American Academy of Humor awards and the Writers Guild of America Award. The first-ever Kennedy Center Mark Twain Prize for American Humor was presented to him in 1998. He was listed at number one on Comedy Central's list of all-time greatest stand-up comedians. In 2017, \"Rolling Stone\" ranked him first on its list of the 50 best stand-up comics of all time.\n\nBorn on December 1, 1940 in Peoria, Illinois, Richard Franklin Lennox Thomas Pryor grew up in the brothel run by his grandmother, Marie Carter, where his alcoholic mother, Gertrude L. (née Thomas), was a prostitute. His father, LeRoy \"Buck Carter\" Pryor (June 7, 1915 – September 27, 1968), was a former boxer and hustler. After Gertrude abandoned him when he was ten, Pryor was raised primarily by Marie, a tall, violent woman who would beat him for any of his eccentricities. Pryor was one of four children raised in his grandmother's brothel. He was sexually abused at age seven, and expelled from school at the age of fourteen. While in Peoria, he became a Freemason at a local lodge.\n\nPryor served in the U.S. Army from 1958 to 1960, but spent virtually the entire stint in an army prison. According to a 1999 profile about Pryor in \"The New Yorker\", Pryor was incarcerated for an incident that occurred while he was stationed in West Germany. Angered that a white soldier was overly amused at the racially charged scenes of Douglas Sirk's film \"Imitation of Life\", Pryor and several other black soldiers beat and stabbed him, although not fatally.\n\nPryor was married seven times to five women:\n\nPryor also had relationships with actresses Pam Grier and Margot Kidder. In 2018, Quincy Jones and Jennifer Lee claimed that Pryor had a sexual relationship with Marlon Brando, and that Pryor was open about his bisexuality with his friends. Pryor's daughter Rain later disputed the claim. In his autobiography, Pryor admitted to having a two-week sexual relationship with a transvestite, which he called \"two weeks of being gay\".\n\nPryor had seven children with six different women:\n\nIn 1963, Pryor moved to New York City and began performing regularly in clubs alongside performers such as Bob Dylan and Woody Allen. On one of his first nights, he opened for singer and pianist Nina Simone at New York's Village Gate. Simone recalls Pryor's bout of performance anxiety:\n\nInspired by Bill Cosby, Pryor began as a middlebrow comic, with material far less controversial than what was to come. Soon, he began appearing regularly on television variety shows, such as \"The Ed Sullivan Show\", \"The Merv Griffin Show\", and \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\". His popularity led to success as a comic in Las Vegas. The first five tracks on the 2005 compilation CD \"\", recorded in 1966 and 1967, capture Pryor in this period.\n\nIn September 1967, Pryor had what he described in his autobiography \"Pryor Convictions\" (1995) as an \"epiphany\". He walked onto the stage at the Aladdin Hotel in Las Vegas (with Dean Martin in the audience), looked at the sold-out crowd, exclaimed over the microphone, \"What the fuck am I doing here!?\", and walked off the stage. Afterward, Pryor began working profanity into his act, including the word \"nigger\". His first comedy recording, the eponymous 1968 debut release on the Dove/Reprise label, captures this particular period, tracking the evolution of Pryor's routine. Around this time, his parents died—his mother in 1967 and his father in 1968.\n\nIn 1969, Pryor moved to Berkeley, California, where he immersed himself in the counterculture and rubbed elbows with the likes of Huey P. Newton and Ishmael Reed.\n\nIn the 1970s, Pryor wrote for such television shows as \"Sanford and Son\", \"The Flip Wilson Show\", and a 1973 Lily Tomlin special, for which he shared an Emmy Award. During this period, Pryor tried to break into mainstream television. He also appeared in several popular films, including \"Lady Sings the Blues\" (1972), \"The Mack\" (1973), \"Uptown Saturday Night\" (1974), \"Silver Streak\" (1976), \"Car Wash\" (1976), \"Bingo Long Traveling All-Stars & Motor Kings\" (1976), \"Which Way Is Up?\" (1977), \"Greased Lightning\" (1977), \"Blue Collar\" (1978), \"The Muppet Movie\" (1979).\n\nPryor signed with the comedy-oriented independent record label Laff Records in 1970, and in 1971 recorded his second album, \"Craps (After Hours)\". Two years later, the relatively unknown comedian appeared in the documentary \"Wattstax\" (1972), wherein he riffed on the tragic-comic absurdities of race relations in Watts and the nation. Not long afterward, Pryor sought a deal with a larger label, and he signed with Stax Records in 1973.\n\nWhen his third, breakthrough album, \"That Nigger's Crazy\" (1974), was released, Laff, which claimed ownership of Pryor's recording rights, almost succeeded in getting an injunction to prevent the album from being sold. Negotiations led to Pryor's release from his Laff contract. In return for this concession, Laff was enabled to release previously unissued material, recorded between 1968 and 1973, at will. \"That Nigger's Crazy\" was a commercial and critical success; it was eventually certified gold by the RIAA and won the Grammy Award for Best Comedy Album at the 1975 Grammy Awards.\n\nDuring the legal battle, Stax briefly closed its doors. At this time, Pryor returned to Reprise/Warner Bros. Records, which re-released \"That Nigger's Crazy\", immediately after \"...Is It Something I Said?\", his first album with his new label. Like \"That Nigger's Crazy\", the album was a hit with both critics and fans; it was eventually certified platinum by the RIAA and won the Grammy Award for Best Comedy Recording at the 1976 Grammy Awards.\n\nPryor's release \"Bicentennial Nigger\" (1976) continued his streak of success. It became his third consecutive gold album, and he collected his third consecutive Grammy for Best Comedy Recording for the album in 1977. With every successful album Pryor recorded for Warner (or later, his concert films and his 1980 freebasing accident), Laff quickly published an album of older material to capitalize on Pryor's growing fame—a practice they continued until 1983. The covers of Laff albums tied in thematically with Pryor movies, such as \"Are You Serious?\" for \"Silver Streak\" (1976), \"The Wizard of Comedy\" for his appearance in \"The Wiz\" (1978), and \"Insane\" for \"Stir Crazy\" (1980).\nPryor co-wrote \"Blazing Saddles\" (1974), directed by Mel Brooks and starring Gene Wilder. Pryor was to play the lead role of Bart, but the film's production studio would not insure him, and Mel Brooks chose Cleavon Little, instead. Before his horribly damaging 1980 freebasing incident, Pryor was about to start filming Mel Brooks' \"History of the World, Part I\" (1981), but was replaced at the last minute by Gregory Hines. Pryor was also originally considered for the role of Billy Ray Valentine on \"Trading Places\" (1983), before Eddie Murphy won the part.\n\nIn 1975, Pryor was a guest host on the first season of \"Saturday Night Live\" and the first black person to host the show. Pryor took longtime girlfriend, actress-talk show host Kathrine McKee (sister of Lonette McKee), with him to New York, and she made a brief guest appearance with Pryor on \"SNL\". He participated in the \"word association\" skit with Chevy Chase. He would later do his own variety show,\"The Richard Pryor Show\", which premiered on NBC in 1977. The show was cancelled after only four episodes probably because television audiences did not respond well to his show's controversial subject matter, and Pryor was unwilling to alter his material for network censors. During the short-lived series, he portrayed the first black President of the United States, spoofed the \"Star Wars\" Mos Eisley cantina, took on gun violence, and in another skit, used costumes and visual distortion to appear nude.\n\nIn 1979, at the height of his success, Pryor visited Africa. Upon returning to the United States, Pryor swore he would never use the word \"nigger\" in his stand-up comedy routine again.\n\nLate in the evening of June 9, 1980, during the making of the film \"Stir Crazy\", and after days of freebasing cocaine, Pryor poured 151-proof rum all over himself and lit himself on fire. While ablaze, he ran down Parthenia Street from his Los Angeles home, until being subdued by police. He was taken to a hospital, where he was treated for second- and third-degree burns covering more than half of his body. Pryor spent six weeks in recovery at the Grossman Burn Center at Sherman Oaks Hospital. His daughter, Rain, stated that the incident happened as a result of a bout of drug-induced psychosis.\n\nPryor incorporated a description of the incident into his comedy show \"\" (1982). He joked that the event was caused by dunking a cookie into a glass of low-fat and pasteurized milk, causing an explosion. At the end of the bit, he poked fun at people who told jokes about it by waving a lit match and saying, \"What's that? Richard Pryor running down the street.\"\n\nAfter his \"final performance\", Pryor did not stay away from stand-up comedy long. Within a year, he filmed and released a new concert film and accompanying album, \"\" (1983), which he directed himself. He also wrote and directed a fictionalized account of his life, \"Jo Jo Dancer, Your Life Is Calling\" (1986), which revolved around the 1980 freebasing incident.\n\nIn 1983, Pryor signed a five-year contract with Columbia Pictures for $40 million and he started his own production company, Indigo Productions. Softer, more formulaic films followed, including \"Superman III\" (1983), which earned Pryor $4 million; \"Brewster's Millions\" (1985), \"Moving\" (1988), and \"See No Evil, Hear No Evil\" (1989). The only film project from this period that recalled his rough roots was Pryor's semiautobiographic debut as a writer-director, \"Jo Jo Dancer, Your Life Is Calling\" (1986), which was not a major success.\n\nDespite a reputation for constantly using profanity on and off camera, Pryor briefly hosted a children's show on CBS called \"Pryor's Place\" (1984). Like \"Sesame Street\", \"Pryor's Place\" featured a cast of puppets, hanging out and having fun in a surprisingly friendly inner-city environment along with several children and characters portrayed by Pryor himself. However, \"Pryor's Place\" frequently dealt with more sobering issues than \"Sesame Street\". It was cancelled shortly after its debut, despite the efforts of famed puppeteers Sid and Marty Krofft and a theme song by Ray Parker, Jr. of \"Ghostbusters\" (1984) fame.\n\nPryor co-hosted the Academy Awards twice and was nominated for an Emmy for a guest role on the television series \"Chicago Hope\". Network censors had warned Pryor about his profanity for the Academy Awards, and after a slip early in the program, a five-second delay was instituted when returning from a commercial break. Pryor is also one of only three \"Saturday Night Live\" hosts to be subjected to a rare five-second delay for his 1975 appearance (along with Sam Kinison in 1986 and Andrew Dice Clay in 1990).\n\nPryor developed a reputation for being demanding and disrespectful on film sets, and for making selfish and difficult requests. In his autobiography \"Kiss Me Like a Stranger\", co-star Gene Wilder says that Pryor was frequently late to the set during filming of \"Stir Crazy\", and that he demanded, among other things, a helicopter to fly him to and from set because he was the star. Pryor was also accused of using allegations of on-set racism to force the hand of film producers into giving him more money:\n\nOne day during our lunch hour in the last week of filming, the craft service man handed out slices of watermelon to each of us. Richard, the whole camera crew, and I sat together in a big sound studio eating a number of watermelon slices, talking and joking. As a gag, some members of the crew used a piece of watermelon as a Frisbee, and tossed it back and forth to each other. One piece of watermelon landed at Richard's feet. He got up and went home. Filming stopped. The next day, Richard announced that he knew very well what the significance of watermelon was. He said that he was quitting show business and would not return to this film. The day after that, Richard walked in, all smiles. I wasn't privy to all the negotiations that went on between Columbia and Richard's lawyers, but the camera operator who had thrown that errant piece of watermelon had been fired that day. I assume now that Richard was using drugs during \"Stir Crazy\".\n\nHe appeared in \"Harlem Nights\" (1989), a comedy-drama crime film starring three generations of black comedians (Pryor, Eddie Murphy, and Redd Foxx).\n\nIn his later years starting in the early to mid-1990s, Pryor used a power-operated mobility scooter due to multiple sclerosis (MS, which he said stood for \"More Shit\"). He appears on the scooter in his last film appearance, a small role in David Lynch's \"Lost Highway\" (1997) playing an auto-repair garage manager named Arnie.\n\nRhino Records remastered all of Pryor's Reprise and WB albums for inclusion in the box set \"...And It's Deep Too! The Complete Warner Bros. Recordings\" (2000).\n\nIn early 2000, Pryor appeared in the cold open of \"The Norm Show\" in the episode entitled \"Norm vs. The Boxer\". He played an elderly man in a wheelchair who lost the rights to in-home nursing when he kept attacking the nurses before attacking Norm himself.\n\nIn 2002, Pryor and his wife/manager, Jennifer Lee Pryor, won legal rights to all the Laff material, which amounted to almost 40 hours of reel-to-reel analog tape. After going through the tapes and getting Richard's blessing, Jennifer Lee Pryor gave Rhino Records access to the tapes in 2004. These tapes, including the entire \"Craps\" album, form the basis of the February 1, 2005, double-CD release \"\".\n\nIn November 1977, after many years of heavy smoking and drinking, Pryor suffered a mild heart attack. He recovered and resumed performing by January the following year. He was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis in 1986. In 1990, Pryor suffered a second heart attack while in Australia. He underwent triple heart bypass surgery in 1991.\n\nIn late 2004, his sister said he had lost his voice as a result of his multiple sclerosis. However, on January 9, 2005, Pryor's wife, Jennifer Lee, rebutted this statement in a post on Pryor's official website, citing Richard as saying: \"I'm sick of hearing this shit about me not talking... not true... I have good days, bad days... but I still am a talkin' motherfucker!\"\n\nOn December 10, 2005, nine days after his 65th birthday, Pryor suffered a heart attack in Los Angeles. He was taken to a local hospital after his wife's attempts to resuscitate him failed. He was pronounced dead at 7:58 am PST. His widow Jennifer was quoted as saying, \"At the end, there was a smile on his face.\" He was cremated, and his ashes were given to his family. Forensic pathologist Michael Hunter believes Pryor's fatal heart attack was caused by coronary artery disease that was at least partially brought about by years of tobacco smoking.\n\nJerry Seinfeld called Pryor \"the Picasso of our profession\" and Bob Newhart heralded Pryor as \"the seminal comedian of the last 50 years\". Dave Chappelle said of Pryor, \"You know those, like, evolution charts of man? He was the dude walking upright. Richard was the highest evolution of comedy.\" This legacy can be attributed, in part, to the unusual degree of intimacy Pryor brought to bear on his comedy. As Bill Cosby reportedly once said, \"Richard Pryor drew the line between comedy and tragedy as thin as one could possibly paint it.\"\n\nIn 1998, Pryor won the first Mark Twain Prize for American Humor from the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. According to former Kennedy Center President Lawrence J. Wilker, Pryor was selected as the first recipient of the Prize because \n\nas a stand-up comic, writer, and actor, he struck a chord, and a nerve, with America, forcing it to look at large social questions of race and the more tragicomic aspects of the human condition. Though uncompromising in his wit, Pryor, like Twain, projects a generosity of spirit that unites us. They were both trenchant social critics who spoke the truth, however outrageous.\nIn 2004, Pryor was voted number one on Comedy Central's list of the 100 Greatest Stand-ups of All Time. In a 2005 British poll to find \"The Comedian's Comedian\", Pryor was voted the 10th-greatest comedy act ever by fellow comedians and comedy insiders.\n\nPryor was posthumously awarded the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award in 2006.\n\nThe animal rights organization PETA gives out an award in Pryor's name to people who have done outstanding work to alleviate animal suffering. Pryor was active in animal rights and was deeply concerned about the plight of elephants in circuses and zoos.\n\nArtist Preston Jackson created a life-sized bronze statue in dedication to the beloved comedian and named it \"Richard Pryor: More than Just a Comedian\". It was placed at the corner of State and Washington Streets in downtown Peoria, on May 1, 2015, close to the neighborhood in which he grew up with his mother. The unveiling was held Sunday, May 3, 2015.\n\nIn 2002, a television documentary entitled \"The Funny Life of Richard Pryor\" depicted Pryor's life and career. Broadcast in the UK as part of the Channel 4 series \"Kings of Black Comedy\", it was produced, directed and narrated by David Upshal and featured rare clips from Pryor's 1960s stand-up appearances and movies such as \"Silver Streak\" (1976), \"Blue Collar\" (1978), \"\" (1978), and \"Stir Crazy\" (1980). Contributors included George Carlin, Dave Chappelle, Whoopi Goldberg, Ice-T, Paul Mooney, Joan Rivers, and Lily Tomlin. The show tracked down the two cops who had rescued Pryor from his \"freebasing incident\", former managers, and even school friends from Pryor's home town of Peoria, Illinois. In the US, the show went out as part of the \"Heroes of Black Comedy\" series on Comedy Central, narrated by Don Cheadle.\n\nA television documentary, \"!!\" (2003) consisted of archival footage of Pryor's performances and testimonials from fellow comedians, including Dave Chappelle, Denis Leary, Chris Rock, and Wanda Sykes, on Pryor's influence on comedy.\n\nOn December 19, 2005, BET aired a Pryor special, titled \"The Funniest Man Dead or Alive\". It included commentary from fellow comedians, and insight into his upbringing.\n\nA retrospective of Pryor's film work, concentrating on the 1970s, titled \"A Pryor Engagement\", opened at Brooklyn Academy of Music Cinemas for a two-week run in February 2013. Several prolific comedians who have claimed Pryor as an influence include George Carlin, Dave Attell, Martin Lawrence, Dave Chappelle, Chris Rock, Colin Quinn, Patrice O'Neal, Bill Hicks, Sam Kinison, Bill Burr, Louis C.K., Jerry Seinfeld, Jon Stewart, Eddie Murphy, Eddie Griffin, and Eddie Izzard.\n\nOn May 31, 2013, Showtime debuted the documentary \"\" directed by Emmy Award–winning filmmaker Marina Zenovich. The executive producers are Pryor's widow Jennifer Lee Pryor and Roy Ackerman. Interviewees include Dave Chappelle, Whoopi Goldberg, Jesse Jackson, Quincy Jones, George Lopez, Bob Newhart, Richard Pryor, Jr., Lily Tomlin, and Robin Williams.\n\nFrom June 7 to 9, 2013, SiriusXM hosted \"Richard Pryor Radio\", a three-day tribute which featured his stand-up comedy and full live concerts. \"Richard Pryor Radio\" replaced The Foxxhole for the duration of the event.\n\nIn the episode \"Taxes and Death or Get Him to the Sunset Strip\"(2012), the voice of Richard Pryor is played by Eddie Griffin in the satirical TV show \"Black Dynamite\".\n\nA planned biopic, entitled \"Richard Pryor: Is It Something I Said?\", was being produced by Chris Rock and Adam Sandler. The film would have starred Marlon Wayans as the young Pryor. Other actors previously attached include Mike Epps and Eddie Murphy. The film would have been directed by Bill Condon and was still in development with no release date, as of February 2013.\n\nThe biopic remained in limbo, and went through several producers until it was announced in January 2014 that it was being backed by The Weinstein Company with Lee Daniels as director. It was further announced, in August 2014, that the biopic will have Oprah Winfrey as producer and will star Mike Epps as Pryor.\n\nHe is portrayed by Brandon Ford Green in Season 1 Episode 4 \"Sugar and Spice\" of Showtime's \"I'm Dying Up Here\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23276306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23276306", "title": "Rotation method", "text": "Rotation method\n\nIn philosopher Søren Kierkegaard's \"Either/Or\", the rotation method is the mechanism used by higher level aesthetes in order to avoid boredom. The method is an essential hedonistic aspect of the aesthetic way of life.\n\nKierkegaard likens the rotation method to the crop rotation used in agriculture, in which the soil is constantly rotated in order to maximize the use of nutrients for the crops. For the aesthete, one constantly changes what one is doing in order to maximize the enjoyment and pleasure derived from each activity.\n\nA consequence of the rotation method would be the aesthete's lack of commitment to any one thing. Commitment requires one to constantly repeat an activity; however, for the aesthetic, repeating an activity leads to boredom, as this activity is no longer novel.\n\nThe rotation method, Kierkegaard argues, would eventually lead aesthetes to a state of despair, because all activities, no matter how unique or new, will eventually become boring:\n\nThe aesthete, Kierkegaard predicts, realizing and responding to the futility of one's hedonistic finite aims, will yearn to experience a more meaningful life.\n\n"}
{"id": "42500254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42500254", "title": "Sacamantecas", "text": "Sacamantecas\n\nSacamantecas (\"Fat extractor\" in Spanish) or mantequero (\"Fat seller/maker\") is the Spanish name for a kind of bogeyman or criminal characterized by killing for human fat.\n\nJulian Pitt-Rivers reports in his study of Alcalá de la Sierra the belief that village children can be stolen by an outsider, disguised as a beggar or a trader, who is hired by a rich man whose ill child can only be cured with the blood of healthy babies.\nThe practice of blood donation lent credence to the myth.\n\nGerald Brenan describes the \"mantequero\" as a monster in human form who lives in deserted areas and feeds on \"manteca\" (\"[human] fat\").\nUpon capture, he shouts in a high pitch and, unless just fed, looks thin.\nBrenan found the myth alive during his stays in the Alpujarra (Andalusia):\nIn 1927 or 1928, he had sublet his Yegen home to the British writer Dick Strachey, nephew of Lytton Strachey.\nOne day, Strachey was walking on rough terrain where he saw three suspicious men.\nFearing of bandoleros, he ran away, but the three Gipsies chased him and drew their knives shouting at him as a \"mantequero\".\nThe first impulse of the Gipsies was to kill the \"mantequero\" and use his blood for magical remedies.\nHowever the eldest Gipsy, a convict, judged safer to bring Strachey to the mayor.\nThey offered to slit his throat themselves, but the British man claimed in his rudimentary Spanish to be a relative of king George V of England, convincing the mayor that he was not dealing with a monster.\n\nA friend of Brenan found that in Torremolinos all the girls believed in \"mantequeros\".\nIn the urban version of the legend, an old evil marquis needs baby blood transfusions to rejuvenate.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21014293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21014293", "title": "Santa Fe Railyard", "text": "Santa Fe Railyard\n\nThe Railyard is a 50-acre arts district in Santa Fe, New Mexico.\nIt contains:\n\n"}
{"id": "1237259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1237259", "title": "Seventh son of a seventh son", "text": "Seventh son of a seventh son\n\nThe seventh son of a seventh son is a concept from folklore regarding special powers given to, or held by, such a son. The seventh son must come from an unbroken line with no female siblings born between and, in turn, be born to such a seventh son. The number has a long history of mystical and biblical significance: seven virtues, seven deadly sins, Seven Sleepers, seven days of creation, etc. In this case, it refers to a man who is the seventh son of a man who is himself a seventh son.\n\nIn some beliefs, the special powers are inborn, inherited simply by virtue of his birth order; in others the powers are granted to him by God or the gods because of his birth order.\n\nThe seventh son of a seventh son is gifted as a healer. The seventh son of a seventh son is part of a more general phenomenon known as the \"cure\" (sometimes also called the \"charm\").\n\nAccording to Kendall's \"Travels through the Northern Parts of the United States, in the year 1807–1808\" while visiting the Newgate copper mine and prison, the author met an innkeep who told him that \"there was to be found in the surrounding hills, a black stone, of a certain species, through which a seventh son of a seventh son, born in the month of February, with a caul on his head, can discern everything that lies in the depths and interior of the globe.\" The author speculates that the importance of mining to the community gave rise to this localized belief.\n\nAmerican author Jackson Pearce uses the folklore around seventh sons in her novel \"Sisters Red\", in which potential werewolves are seventh sons of seventh sons.\n\nIt is believed that he will be a werewolf, \"lobizón\" or \"lobisomem\" (the word in Portuguese language that means \"werewolf\"). To stop the curse the newborn should be baptized in seven different churches, or be baptized by the name of \"Benito\" while the eldest son is his godfather. It is important to note that the local myth of the \"lobizón\" is not connected to the custom that began over 100 years ago by which every seventh son (or seventh daughter) born in Argentina becomes godchild to the president.\n\n\"Ciarallo\" was the seventh son who had the power to enchant and recall snakes, and who was immune to snake venom. It wasn't enough to be a seventh son but was needed a special initiation rite called \"inciaramazione\". Recourse was made to Ciarallo when a snake sneaked into the house and it is said that the reptile was promptly attracted by the sound of his whistle. Another social task of Ciarallo was \"inciaramare\" other people by spreading a special oil, complete with a special recipe, on the arm of those who requested the treatment to ensure protection from snakes bites. Children were led to Ciarallo by their mothers to get protection.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49833293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49833293", "title": "Solapur Terry Towel", "text": "Solapur Terry Towel\n\nSolapur Terry Towel is terry towel weaving or knitting work that are manufactured in the Solapur district of Maharashtra state, India. The terry towel work has been protected under the Geographical indication (GI) of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement. It is listed at item 9 as \"Solapur Terry Towel\" of the GI Act 1999 of the Government of India with registration confirmed by the Controller General of Patents Designs and Trademarks.\n\nSolapur Terry Towel has unique design and it has global market. Also, it is allied production of Solapuri chaddar. The handicraft work gives livelihood assistance to nearly 200,000 people in Solapur district. Terry towel made by cotton yarn.\n"}
{"id": "2067198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2067198", "title": "Talent agent", "text": "Talent agent\n\nA talent agent, or booking agent, is a person who finds jobs for actors, authors, film directors, musicians, models, professional athletes, writers, screenwriters, broadcast journalists, and other professionals in various entertainment or broadcast businesses. In addition, an agent defends, supports and promotes the interest of their clients. Talent agencies specialize, either by creating departments within the agency or developing entire agencies that primarily or wholly represent one specialty. For example, there are modeling agencies, commercial talent agencies, literary agencies, voice-over agencies, broadcast journalist agencies, sports agencies, music agencies and many more.\n\nHaving an agent is not required, but does help the artist in getting jobs (concerts, tours, movie scripts, appearances, signings, sport teams, etc.). In many cases, casting directors, or other businesses go to talent agencies to find the artists for whom they are looking. The agent is paid a percentage of the star's earnings (typically 10%). Therefore, agents are sometimes referred to as \"10 percenters.\" Various regulations govern different types of agents. The regulations are established by artist's unions and the legal jurisdiction in which the agent operates. There are also professional associations of talent agencies.\n\nTalent agents are considered gatekeepers to their client's careers. They have the ability to reshape and reconstruct their client's image. They are dealmakers and assist their client by orchestrating deals within the entertainment industry, more specifically in the Hollywood entertainment industry. \n\nIn California, because talent agencies are working with lucrative contracts, the agencies must be licensed under special sections of the California Labor Code, which defines an agent as a \"person or corporation who engages in the occupation of procuring, offering, promising, or attempting to procure employment for an artist or artists.\"\n\nAs of 2018, the largest agencies by size are William Morris Endeavor (WME), Creative Artists Agency (CAA), United Talent Agency (UTA) and ICM Partners .\n\nSome talent agencies specialize in the representation of television news broadcast journalists and television news magazine hosts. The journalists and hosts represented by these agents primarily work at television stations in local markets or at networks. There are many job titles for broadcast news journalists such as anchors, reporters, weathercasters, sportscasters, correspondents and hosts.\n\nActors may be interested in working theatrically (stage, film or television) as well as in commercials. Some agents will handle all types of acting work, while others may specialize in a particular area. Some agents work only in the field of television, or only in film and television. Typically, the larger the agency, the more specialized the agents within the agency.\n\nAn agent has two sets of clients: the \"talent\" (actors, models, voice-over artists, etc.) and the \"buyer\". The buyer can be a casting director, advertising agency, production company, photographer, or direct client if the client has an \"in-house\" production staff. Agents promote talent to the buyers, submitting talent who have the appropriate age, race, sex, look, talent, etc. that the buyer is seeking for his/her project. Usually, an agent submits the actor's head shot or the model's composite card or portfolio to the buyer. After the buyer has made choices, the agent then arranges an audition (or for models, a \"go-see\" or open call). After the buyer has met the talent, the buyer will contact the agent if any of the talent will be hired. The agent will coordinate the details of wardrobe, directions, etc., as well as negotiate the contract or pay.\n\nNote that the agent's job is to get the talent auditions; the talent is the only person who can get the job. For their work, agents take a 10 to 20% commission of the gross, depending on whether the job is union (such as SAG-AFTRA) or not. Union jobs are paid per negotiated guidelines, but in non-union jobs the pay is sometimes delayed.\n\nA well established agent will have networks upon networks of contacts. Also, agents have access to professional casting services. Many of these casting resources are not available to the general public.\n\nAlthough most of the successful agents are private individuals unknown to the public, some are celebrities in their own right. Notable current and former talent agents includes David Begelman, Ari Emanuel, Freddie Fields, Johnny Hyde, Irving \"Swifty\" Lazar, Sue Mengers, Quincy Sims, Lew Wasserman, Jadin Wong and The Handbook.\n\nIn the music world, booking agents are different from talent managers. Booking agents are the people who actually book shows for the artists they represent. These agents make all of the arrangements with the promoters of the shows. The booking agent presents the promoter or producer of the concert with a performance agreement, which stipulates the artist's requirements. Items may include lighting, sound, meals, hotel accommodations, and transportation. For concert buyers, they work to find the artist who will fit in the need and available budget.\n\nMany of the major booking agencies refuse to represent clients who are not already signed to a major record label and have national distribution of their music. Because of this, artists on independent record labels often seek representation with an independent booking agency.\n\nBars and nightclubs that specialize in presenting live music on a regular basis often employ an individual to assemble the schedule of events. This individual is the venue's buyer, and should not be confused with the booking agent, who presents a roster of available acts to the buyer. Booking agents may also have contacts known as free-lance promoters. These are individuals who agree to produce a concert by locating a venue, providing a sound system and assembling a staff. Producing a show in this manner, at a location rented out for a single evening, is called “four-walling,” as the process entails renting a venue and receiving no additional services or technical equipment other than the space itself. This has often been the only available option for underground musicians lacking enough popular appeal to gain access to more conventional performance venues (see: Punk rock), but is also used among the genre of raves and various DJ-related events.\n\nThe cost factor of having a booking agent must be weighed against what the agent can do for clients and buyers alike. Some agents represent several different types of artists, while others represent artists in one main area/genre.\n\nSome music agencies deal exclusively with cover bands, listing exclusive and non-exclusive artists on their rosters. In addition, some agencies will also work with a third party company to build specific bands using their own database of vetted musicians, whilst other cover band agencies work with session musicians, that provide a 'flexible' line up for each act.\n\nBooking agents are also used for the cruise ship industry where several different categories of entertainers are needed. These can include individual musicians to be part of the ship's orchestra, small bands and ensembles as well as variety entertainers such as singers, instrumentalists, magicians, comedians and acrobats. Artists looking to work on cruise ships will sign an employment contract with the cruise line and a separate commission contract with the booking agent. The agent will usually be based in the country of origin for the artist.\n\nA music manager (or band manager) handles many career issues for bands, singers, record producers, and DJs. A music manager is hired by a musician or band to help with determining decisions related to career moves, bookings, promotions, business deals, recording contracts, etc. The role of music managers is extensive and may include similar duties to that of a press agent, promoter, booking agent, business manager (who is sometimes a certified public accountant), tour managers, and sometimes even a personal assistant. Responsibilities of a business manager are often divided among many individuals who manage various aspects of a musical career. With an unsigned act, music managers must assume multiple roles: booking agent, graphic designer, publicist, promoter, and accountant. As an artist's career develops, responsibilities grow. A music manager becomes important to managing the many different pieces that make up a career in music. The manager can assist singers, songwriters, and instrumentalists in molding a career, finding music producers, and developing relationships with record companies, publishers, agents, and the music-loving public. The duties of an active music manager will focus on developing a reputation for the musician and building a fan base, which may include mastering and launching a demo CD, developing and releasing press kits, planning promotional activities, and booking shows. A music manager will gain access to a recording studio, photographers, and promotions. He or she will see that CD labels, posters, and promotional materials appropriately represent the band or artist, and that press kits are released in a timely manner to appropriate media. Launching a CD with complementary venues and dates is also a music manager's responsibility.\n\nWith the advent of the internet, established and new talent can have a thriving career in the voice over industry through online casting websites. Whilst there are sites that allow any person to join, a new wave of 'professionals only' casting websites is emerging. In an industry where radio and television voice overs can be recorded in home studios because of technology becoming so affordable, high paying jobs are no longer sourced exclusively through traditional voice talent agents.\n\nSince the decline in viewership in theaters, from the 1950s to 1960s, a monumental shift occurred in how studios produced films and reduced the cost of exclusive and expensive actors. After the shift, actors and actresses were working for the studios but were not owned by one major studio entity, and so were able to work with other studios. This shift has meant that agents were now seen as a necessity instead of an option. Agents became third parties who negotiated between studios and clients, making the need for the agents' services an imperative for each party.\n\nIn the 1980s new agencies were established to compete with the \"Big five.\" In 1991 Bauer-Benedek merged with Leading Artists Agency to form what became United Talent Agency. These agencies were Traid Artists and InterTalent. Traid Artist would eventually be sold to William Morris Agency in 1992, and InterTalent would diminish when its partners dispersed between UTA and ICM in the same year.\n\nBy the 2000s, Hollywood's largest talent agencies were known as the \"big five\" or \"top five\". Creative Artists Agency (CAA), William Morris Agency (WMA), United Talent Agency (UTA), International Creative Management (ICM), and Endeavor. In 2009 two of the agencies, Endeavor and the William Morris Agency, merged to form William Morris Endeavor (WME). In 2012, International Creative Management completed a management buyout and formed a partnership with the new name, ICM Partners.\n\nThe difference between the roles of agents and managers has become smaller and more blurred. A frequent definition of the role of a talent manager is to \"oversee the day-to-day business affairs of an artist; advise and counsel talent concerning professional matters, long-term plans and personal decisions which may affect their career.\" Considerable overlap exists as talent agents may opt to fill exactly the same roles for their clients out of a financial interest in developing the careers of their talent and currying their favor.\n\nVarious state laws and labor guild rules govern the roles reserved to agents, as well as specifying certain special rights, privileges, and prohibitions. In the state of California, the labor code requires licensing of talent agencies and includes regulations such as criminal background checks, maintaining separate operating accounts and client trust accounts, and limits total commissions to twenty-five percent, among other regulations. In contrast, management companies are described as \"often unregulated.\" Agents also have certain privileged powers in situations of verbal agreement and can legally agree to a binding employment offer on behalf of their client.\n\nA prominent difference between agents and managers under California state law is that licensed talent agents and employment agents are the only entities legally allowed to seek work on behalf of their clients. This legal distinction has enabled artists such as the Deftones, Pamela Anderson, Nia Vardalos, Freddie Prinze Jr., and others to break contracts with their managers and avoid commissions owed according to those contracts by proving \"unlicensed procurement\" in court. Because the enforcement against talent managers procuring work is largely carried out through civil litigation and not criminal penalties, managers directly seek out work in defiance of state laws, as clients out of self-interest will seldom object to them doing so and cases alleging illegal procurement are infrequent.\n\nThe Writer's Guild, Screen Actor's Guild, and Director's Guild, among labor guilds, strike agency franchise agreements that specify certain regulations and privileges reserved solely for agents including setting maximum commissions at ten percent of a talent's gross earnings. Managers do not face the same restrictions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "339202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339202", "title": "Tall tale", "text": "Tall tale\n\nA tall tale is a story with unbelievable elements, related as if it were true and factual. Some stories such as these are exaggerations of actual events, for example fish stories (\"the fish that got away\") such as, \"That fish was so big, why I tell ya', it nearly sank the boat when I pulled it in!\" Other tall tales are completely fictional tales set in a familiar setting, such as the European countryside, the American frontier, the Canadian Northwest, or the beginning of the Industrial Revolution.\n\nThings are often told in a way that makes the narrator seem to have been a part of the story, and are good-natured. The line between legends and tall tales is distinguished primarily by age; many legends exaggerate the exploits of their heroes, but in tall tales the exaggeration looms large, to the extent of becoming the whole of the story.\n\nThe tall tale is a fundamental element of American folk literature. The tall tale's origins are seen in the bragging contests that often occurred when the rough men of the American frontier gathered. The tales of legendary figures of the Old West, some listed below, owe much to the style of tall tales.\n\nThe semi-annual speech contests held by Toastmasters International public speaking clubs may include a Tall Tales contest. Each and every participating speaker is given three to five minutes to give a short speech of a tall tale nature, and is then judged according to several factors. The winner proceeds to the next level of competition. The contest does not proceed beyond any participating district in the organization to the International level.\n\nThe comic strip \"Non Sequitur\" sometimes features tall tales told by the character Captain Eddie; it is left up to the reader to decide if he is telling the truth, exaggerating a real event, or just telling a whopper.\n\nSome stories are told about exaggerated versions of actual historical individuals:\n\nSubjects of some American tall tales include legendary figures:\n\nSimilar storytelling traditions are present elsewhere. For instance:\n\nThe Australian frontier (known as the bush or the outback) similarly inspired the types of tall tales that are found in American folklore. The Australian versions typically concern a mythical station called The Speewah. The heroes of the Speewah include:\n\nAnother folk hero in Australian folklore is Charlie McKeahnie, the hero of Banjo Paterson's poem \"The Man from Snowy River\", whose bravery, adaptability, and risk-taking could epitomise the new Australian spirit.\n\nThe Canadian frontier has also inspired the types of tall tales that are found in American folklore, such as: \n\nSome European tall tales include:\n\nArlo Guthrie's \"Motorcycle Song\" is often accompanied by a tall tale about the origin of the song.\n\nEarly 20th century postcards became a vehicle for tall tale telling in the US. Creators of these cards, such as the prolific Alfred Stanley Johnson, Jr., and William H. \"Dad\" Martin, usually employed trick photography, including forced perspective, while others painted their unlikely tableaus, or used a combination of painting and photography in early examples of photo retouching. The common theme was gigantism: fishing for leviathans, hunting for or riding oversized animals, and bringing in the impossibly huge sheaves. An homage to the genre can be found on the cover of the \"Eat a Peach\" (1972) album by The Allman Brothers Band.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44237394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44237394", "title": "The Perfect Moment", "text": "The Perfect Moment\n\nThe Perfect Moment was the most comprehensive retrospective of works by New York photographer Robert Mapplethorpe. The show spanned twenty-five years of his career, featuring celebrity portraits, self-portraits, interracial figure studies, floral still lifes, homoerotic images, and collages. The exhibition, organized by Janet Kardon of the Institute of Contemporary Arts in Philadelphia, opened in the winter of 1988 just months before Mapplethorpe’s death from AIDS complications on March 9, 1989. On tour, in the summer of 1989, the exhibition became the centerpiece of a controversy concerning federal funding of the arts and censorship.\n\n\"The Perfect Moment\" covered all aspects of the photographer’s career from the late 1960s to 1988. The traveling exhibition had been scheduled to appear at five other museums in various regions of the country during the next year and a half. It included more than 150 images. Despite the controversial character of some of the photographs, critical response was enthusiastic and attendance was robust throughout the show's Philadelphia run (from December 1988 through January 1989).\n\n\"The Perfect Moment\" traveled to the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago. Again, it generated no unfavorable public or critical attention. In June 1989, after the cancellation of the exhibition by the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington D.C., two and a half weeks before it was to open there, \"The Perfect Moment\" unexpectedly provoked national controversy and ICA became a key player in the congressional debate over what public funds should and should not fund. The issues of censorship and artistic freedom that the show raised occupied the forefront of the debates between conservatives and liberals during the Ronald Reagan era and in its aftermath. Members of the religious right, especially, criticized academics and artists for what they regarded as their indecent, subversive and blasphemous works. \n\n\"The Perfect Moment\" grouped photos into three categories: \n\nRobert Mapplethorpe’s XYZ portfolios, explored three subjects: homosexual sadomasochism (X); flower still lifes (Y); and nude portraits of African American men (Z). The extremely graphic S&M photos from Mapplethorpe’s X Portfolio were displayed in a separate, age-restricted area during at each venue of the exhibition. The portfolios were displayed with a series of poems by poet and singer Patti Smith. The poems echo Mapplethorpe's X,Y,Z trope.\n\nThe images that sparked the most controversy include:\nRosie, a black and white portrait of a very young girl crouched down on a bench outdoors with part of her dress lifted, exposing her genitals, generated controversy because of the subject's age and the issue of consent. This photograph was deemed child pornography by Mapplethorpe's detractors, and it is surprising that it was featured in the exhibition catalogue, considering that the printer had refused to print it for the Mapplethorpe retrospective at the Whitney Museum of Art in 1988. There was one other photograph of a naked child, \"Jessie McBride\" which also contributed to the controversy created by \"Rosie\". \nA 55-minute videotape of a BBC interview with the photographer accompanied the exhibition.\n\nThe art critics in Philadelphia, the show's first venue, critiqued Mapplethorpe's work along formalist lines, without commenting on the provocative content of the X portfolio photographs. Overall, the exhibition was met enthusiastically by critics both Philadelphia and in Chicago, where the show appeared at the Museum of Contemporary Art.\n\nHowever, a campaign launched by the American Family Association, a conservative watchdog group, to censor what they considered “indecent” art changed the climate of reception. In June 12, 1989 Christina Orr-Cahall, the director of the Corcoran Gallery of Art, cancelled “The Perfect Moment,” which was scheduled to open there on June 30. Orr-Cahall feared that \"The Perfect Moment\" would endanger National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) appropriations in the United States Congress.\n\nThe exhibition set off one of the fiercest episodes of America's \"culture wars\" — and sparked a recurring debate about state-funded cultural production and the support of sexually explicit or sacrilegious art by public funds.\n\nThe canceling of the \"Perfect Moment\" provoked a censorship battle about national funding for the arts that was front page news for the next year.\n\nOn June 30, 1989, protesters angered by the cancellation of the show by the Corcoran Gallery projected slides of Mapplethorpe’s photographs on the facade of the museum. Seven hundred people rallied to express their outrage about the Corcoran's decision. Michael Brenson, art critic for the \"New York Times\" wrote, “This exhibit should be seen. It is extremely unfortunate that the Corcoran Gallery of Art canceled it last month in the hope of averting a political outcry…. As much as he has been made out to be a renegade and outlaw, Mapplethorpe is an utterly mainstream artist. He loved freshness and glamor and was obsessed with the moment, which his photographs always reflect. In his restricted spaces and his feeling for abstraction and attentiveness to every shape, edge and texture, Mapplethorpe is a child of the Formalism of the 1960’s.\" The Washington Project for the Arts (WPA) stepped in to host the show, and on July 22, 1989, “The Perfect Moment” opened at this alternative art space. No incidents marred the show's run at the Washington Project for the Arts.\n\nHowever, Senator Jesse Helms introduced legislation that would stop the NEA from funding artwork he considered “obscene.” The legislation subsequently required any recipients of NEA funds to sign an oath that declared they would not promote obscenity. The oath provoked protests from artists and arts organizations. When, during the next grant cycle, in this climate of fear, applications for support equaling hundreds of thousands of dollars were rejected. Outraged artists filed lawsuits against the agency. A compromise was reached in Congress. Although the radically restrictive Helms amendment did not pass, restrictions were placed on NEA funding procedures.\n\nIn March 1990, anti-pornography advocates in Cincinnati Ohio, the Citizens for Community Values, launched a campaign to pressure the Contemporary Arts Center (CAC) to cancel “The Perfect Moment.” Cincinnati law enforcement ordered four hundred visitors from the museum to leave while they videotaped Mapplethorpe’s photographs as evidence to support obscenity charges brought against Dennis Barrie, the director of the CAC, and against the CAC. This was the first time a museum in the United States faced prosecution for the art it displayed.\n\nOn October 5, 1990, Dennis Barrie and the CAC were acquitted in the obscenity case. The prosecution failed to convince the jury that Mapplethorpe’s photographs lacked artistic merit. In Cincinnati, more than 80,000 people saw the show. The censorship proceedings doubtless brought more attention to Mapplethorpe's work than it would have otherwise received.\n\nSince the CAC debacle, images from \"The Perfect Moment\", including the X, Y, and Z portfolios, have circulated to in hundreds of exhibitions internationally. Mapplethorpe's work is currently represented by 12 galleries worldwide, with the largest collection of his works at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum. These photographs and history of their attempted censorship during the 1990s have influenced artists, inspired LGBTQ advocates, and generated much scholarship.\n\n"}
{"id": "520421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=520421", "title": "The Spitting Image", "text": "The Spitting Image\n\nThe Spitting Image: Myth, Memory and the Legacy of Vietnam (1998) is a book by Vietnam veteran and Sociology professor Jerry Lembcke. The book is an analysis of the widely believed, but historically inaccurate, urban legend that American soldiers were spat upon and insulted by antiwar protesters upon returning home from the Vietnam War. The book examines the origin of the earliest stories; the popularization of the \"spat-upon image\" through Hollywood movies and fiction literature, and the role of print news media in perpetuating the now iconic image through which the history of the war and antiwar movement has come to be represented.\n\nLembcke contrasts the absence of credible evidence of spitting by antiwar activists with the large body of evidence showing a mutually supportive, empathetic relationship between veterans and antiwar forces. The book documents the efforts of the Nixon Administration to drive a wedge between military servicemen and the antiwar movement by portraying democratic dissent as betrayal of the troops, effectively redirecting blame for failure in Vietnam onto protesters. Coupled with American society's exaggeration of medical conditions like posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and drug abuse among veterans to the point of broadly vilifying the Vietnam veteran as mentally unfit, emotionally volatile and a \"loser\" and \"victim\", the collective memory about Vietnam has been refocused onto the veteran and away from the war. Lembcke equates this disparagement of the antiwar movement and veterans with the similar 'stab in the back' myths propagated by Germany and France after their war defeats, as an alibi for why they lost the war. Lembcke details the resurrection of this myth of the spat-upon veteran by later administrations during subsequent Gulf War efforts as a way of silencing public dissent.\n\nA persistent but unfounded criticism leveled against those who protested the United States's involvement in the Vietnam War is that protesters spat upon and otherwise derided returning soldiers, calling them \"baby-killers\", etc. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, years after the war in Vietnam ended, the proliferation of these spitting stories increased greatly. As both a Vietnam veteran and a member of the antiwar movement, Lembcke knew this criticism ran counter to what he personally experienced and witnessed. To the contrary, one of the hallmarks of the period's antiwar movement was its support for the troops in the field and the affiliation of many returning veterans with the movement. Lembcke was motivated to look further into the truth and origins of this spat-upon veteran myth, and the contradiction between historical fact and popular collective memory. Other observers had already noticed the proliferation of stories and questioned whether the spitting stories even made sense. In 1987, columnist Bob Greene noted: \n\nEven during the most fervent days of anti-war protest, it seemed that it was not the soldiers whom protesters were maligning. It was the leaders of government, and the top generals—at least, that is how it seemed in memory. One of the most popular chants during the anti-war marches was, \"Stop the war in Vietnam, bring the boys home.\" You heard that at every peace rally in America. \"Bring the boys home.\" That was the message. Also, when one thought realistically about the image of what was supposed to have happened, it seemed questionable. So-called \"hippies,\" no matter what else one may have felt about them, were not the most macho people in the world. Picture a burly member of the Green Berets, in full uniform, walking through an airport. Now think of a \"hippie\" crossing his path. Would the hippie have the nerve to spit on the soldier? And if the hippie did, would the soldier—fresh from facing enemy troops in the jungles of Vietnam—just stand there and take it?\n\nBy 1992, the Director of the Connelly Library and curator of the Vietnam War Collection at LaSalle University listed the spitting myth as one of the \"Top Six Myths\" from the Vietnam era, and observed the myth \"derives from the mythopoeic belief that returning GI's were routinely spat upon at some time during their repatriation to the USA. This particular round of tales has become so commonplace as to be treated reverently even among otherwise wisely observant veterans.\" In 1994, scholar Paul Rogat Loeb wrote, \"to consider spitting on soldiers as even remotely representative of the activist response is to validate a lie\", and noted that myths like that of antiwar activists spitting on soldiers have rewritten or \"erased history\". An academic study into the making and shaping of a collective memory found that evidence of antiwar activists targeting troops was virtually nonexistent. Instead, it found popular memory was manipulated by national security elites and a complicit news media by frequently labeling resistors to U.S. war efforts as \"anti-troop\". As observed by Clarence Page after interviewing Lembcke and Greene, \"the stories have become so widely believed, despite a remarkable lack of witnesses or evidence, that ironically the burden of proof now falls on the accused, the protesters; not their accusers, the veterans. Antiwar protesters must prove the episodes didn't happen, instead of the veterans having to prove they did.\"\n\nGiven this complete lack of evidence that spitting occurred, but acknowledging that it is impossible to prove something never happened, Lembcke set out:\n\nto show how it is possible for a large number of people to believe that Vietnam veterans were spat upon when there is no evidence that they were. In effect, my strategy was to set aside the question of whether or not such acts occurred and to show why even if they did not occur it is understandable that the image of the spat-upon veteran has become widely accepted. Indeed, given the manipulation of information and images that began with the Nixon administration and continued at the hands of filmmakers and the news media during the 1970s and 1980s, it would be remarkable if a majority of Americans had not come to believe that Vietnam veterans were abused by the antiwar movement.\n\nAt the time he wrote \"The Spitting Image\", Lembcke had not found a single substantiated media report to support the now common claims of spitting. He theorizes that the reported \"spitting on soldiers\" scenario was a mythical projection by those who felt \"spat upon\" by an American society tired of the war; an image which was then used to discredit future antiwar activism and serve political interests. He suggests that the manufactured images of pro-war antipathy against antiwar protesters also helped contribute to the myth. Lembcke asserts that memories of being verbally and physically assaulted by antiwar protesters were largely conjured, noting that not even one case could be reliably documented. He further suggests the \"baby-killer\" and \"murderer\" components of the myth may have been reinforced, in part, by the common chants by protesters aimed at President Lyndon Baines Johnson, like \"Hey, hey, LBJ, how many kids did you kill today?\"\n\n\"The Spitting Image\" asserts that the image of abuse of soldiers by antiwar demonstrators only really became ingrained in the American consciousness years after the war had come to a close. Lembcke attributes part of the legend's growth to films relating to Vietnam, notably \"Rambo\", in which a \"spat-upon veteran\" image is popularized. He writes that the myth of the spat-upon veteran was later revived by President George H. W. Bush as a way to help suppress dissent when selling the Gulf War to the American people. Lembcke believes that resurrection of the myth was useful in promoting the yellow ribbon \"Support our Troops\" campaign, as it implies that for one to support the troops, one must also support the war. It conflates the ideas of antiwar sentiment and anti-troop sentiment, despite a common antiwar chant being \"Support the Troops: Bring them Home!\"\n\nThe \"spat-upon veteran\" meme became so pervasive that some found it hard not to believe. In 1989, Bob Greene's book \"\" reprinted letters he had solicited, asking to hear from veterans if they had been spat upon. Greene's book includes 63 alleged accounts involving spitting, and 69 accounts from veterans who do not believe anyone was spat upon after returning from Vietnam, among other stories. Greene admits he couldn't validate the authenticity of the accounts in the letters he received, but he did believe spitting must have occurred, stating, \"There were simply too many letters, going into too fine a detail, to deny the fact.\" Greene concluded, \"I think you will agree, after reading the letters, that even if several should prove to be not what they appear to be, that does not detract from the overall story that is being told.\" \"Greene was too willing to suspend disbelief\", says Lembcke, who cited Greene's book as an example of how prolific the stories had become and also for the patterns that appeared in them. Lembke said, \"These stories have to be taken very seriously, but as historical evidence they are problematic. In the first place, stories of this type didn't surface until about ten years after the end of the war. If the incidents occurred when the story tellers say they did, in the closing years of the war, why is there no evidence for that? Moreover, many of the stories have elements of such exaggeration that one has to question the veracity of the entire account.\"\n\nLembcke points out that there were several newspaper accounts of pro-war demonstrators spitting on antiwar demonstrators and suggests that these oral accounts could easily have been reinterpreted and inverted and made into stories about activists spitting on veterans. He highlights the contradictions between the collective memory of today and contemporaneous historical records, like the results from a 1971 poll showing over 94% of returning Vietnam soldiers received a \"friendly\" welcome. Lembcke also notes how it was older vets from previous wars who most often scorned the returning Vietnam Vets; in 1978 the Vietnam Veterans of America vowed in its founding principle: Never again will one generation of veterans abandon another.\n\nIn \"The Spitting Image\" Lembcke acknowledges that he cannot prove the negative—that no Vietnam veteran was ever spat on—saying it is hard to imagine there not being expressions of hostility between veterans and activists. \"I cannot, of course, prove to anyone's satisfaction that spitting incidents like these did not happen. Indeed, it seems likely to me that it probably did happen to some veteran, some time, some place. But while I cannot prove the negative, I can prove the positive: I can show what did happen during those years and that that historical record makes it highly unlikely that the alleged acts of spitting occurred in the number and manner that is now widely believed.\"\n\nIn 2000, 2004, and again in 2007, journalist Jack Shafer rekindled firestorms when he berated news media outlets for uncritically repeating the myth of the spat-upon veteran. Shafer's \"Slate Magazine\" online articles on the matter, which frequently cited Lembcke's research, generated enormous feedback; the May 2000 article alone received nearly 300 postings on the subject in just a few days, one of its largest-ever responses.\n\nAccording to Shafer, the myth persists primarily because: \n\nShafer acknowledges that it's possible that a Vietnam veteran somewhere might have been spat upon during the war years, and notes that Lembcke concedes as much because nobody can prove something never happened. Shafer announced a challenge to his readers, \"Indeed, each time I write about the spit myth, my inbox overflows with e-mail from readers who claim that a spitting protester targeted them while they were in uniform. Or the e-mail writer claims it happened to a brother or a friend at the airport or bus station. I expect similar e-mails this time, and I will share with readers any account that comes with some sort of evidence—such as a contemporaneous newspaper story or an arrest report—that documents the sordid event. If you can point me to a documented case of a returning Viet vet getting spat upon, please drop a line to slate.pressbox@gmail.com. E-mail may be quoted by name unless the writer stipulates otherwise.\"\n\nLikewise, Lembcke joined the discussion and also commented on it in the \"Humanity & Society\" journal, saying the stories just keep getting better, and asking for any evidence to be raised. The discussions spawned yet another round of more than 60 stories, yet only one was credible.\n\nNorthwestern Law School professor James Lindgren also joined the discussions and, after a review of contemporary news sources, initially claimed to have found news accounts that discussed spitting incidents. Lembcke provided an 18-point response to Lindgren's research, refuting each of his claims but expressing interest in one of them. A December 27, 1971 CBS Evening News report on veteran Delmar Pickett who said he was spat at in Seattle appeared, according to Lembcke, to have some validity as a claim, but still not as evidence that the incident reported actually happened.\n\nSome second-hand news accounts that mention spitting do actually exist, although there has been no evidence to support the narrative that antiwar demonstrators were responsible. Documented accounts exist where the antiwar demonstrators were actually the victims, not the perpetrators. Other commentators have since addressed the myth to various degrees, even referencing the debate spawned by the Slate files.\n\nIn his 2009 book, \"War Stories\", historian and Vietnam veteran Gary Kulik devoted a whole chapter to the myth of \"Spit-upon veterans\". He closely examined Greene's book of letters and the Slate files, as well as the research by Lindgren and Lembcke. Kulik noted the contradictory nature of the stories in Greene's book and concluded that Greene arrogantly dismissed the \"surprising number\" of veterans who \"refuse to believe\" the spitting stories, and wrote, \"Greene was not just credulous, but negligently irresponsible.\" Kulik also criticized Lindgren's research, writing, \"Lindgren's evidence includes only one single first-person (\"I was spit upon\") account—the stories that are at the heart of Lembcke's book—and it appears the none of the accounts he cites were actually witnessed by a reporter. Moreover, Lindgren does not cite a single case of a Vietnam veteran spit upon as he returned home, and that was the story that would ultimately be repeated and believed.\" Kulik concluded that the spitting stories were formulaic and unbelievable, and were propagated to serve the political goals of those who wished to vilify the antiwar movement. \"The image of 'hippie' men and women hawking up gobs of phlegm to hurl at the ribbons of veterans, as a pervasive and commonplace act, is surely false.\"\nSpecialist in civil-military relations and advisor to the National Institute of Military Justice, Diane Mazur, also examined the works by Greene, Lembcke and Lindgren, and concluded: \"There is no contemporaneous evidence that Americans who opposed the war expressed those beliefs by spitting on or otherwise assaulting returning Vietnam Veterans. [...] The idea, however, that spitting on or mistreating Vietnam veterans was in any way typical or representative of anything in that era is completely false. [...] It is by far the most powerful Vietnam War meme—a cultural unit of information passed from one person to another, like a biological gene—because it can be deployed instantly to silence difficult but necessary conversations about the military. For that reason alone the conventional wisdom is important, because it explains much about our civil-military dynamic today. It is also important, however, to understand why that accepted memory is untrue, and who benefits most from keeping it alive. The myth of the spat-upon Vietnam veteran is a difficult one to challenge. [...] One intrepid soul, Professor Jerry Lembcke, both a Vietnam veteran and an academic researcher from Holy Cross University, stepped into the fray ... Every time he discusses his findings in a public forum, a hail of angry responses follows, but his explanations and conclusions are compelling and unsettling.\n\n\"Los Angeles Times\" review:\n\n\"Berkshire Eagle\" review:\n\nKarl Helicher, Library Journal review:\n\nImages of long-haired antiwar protesters, almost always women, spitting on returning Vietnam veterans have become a shameful part of America's collective memory. Lembcke (sociology, Holy Cross Univ.), a member of Vietnam Veterans Against the War, here presents a stunning indictment of this myth, an illusion created, he maintains, by the Nixon-Agnew administration and an unwitting press to attribute America's loss in Vietnam to internal dissension. In fact, the antiwar movement and many veterans were closely aligned, and the only documented incidents show members of the VFW and American Legion spitting on their less successful Vietnam peers. But Lembcke's most controversial conclusion is that posttraumatic stress disorder was as much a political creation?a means of discrediting returning vets who protested the war as unhinged?as it was a medical condition. The image of the psycho-vet was furthered through such Hollywood productions as The Deer Hunter and Coming Home. This forceful investigation challenges the reader to reexamine assumptions about the dark side of American culture that glorifies war more than peace. Highly recommended for large public libraries and for all academic peace studies collections.\n\nMaurice Isserman, \"Chicago Tribune\" review:\n\nThe myth of the spat-upon veteran is not only bad history, but it has been instrumental in selling the American public on bad policy.\n\nChristian G. Appy, \"Chronicle of Higher Education\" review:\n\nLembcke's debunking of the spitting stories is quite persuasive. But he has much broader aims. Not only was there no spitting, he argues, but there was no hostility or tension at all between veterans and protesters. In fact, he characterizes their relationship as \"empathetic and mutually supporting.\" It is certainly true that a remarkable number of veterans opposed the war, and that the antiwar movement did forge alliances with veterans. It is also true that American culture has given too little in-depth attention to antiwar veterans. But Lembcke insists on a strict either/or argument: Veterans and peaceniks were either enemies or comrades. \"Antiwar activists could not have been spitting on veterans while at the same time befriending them in off-base coffeehouses,\" he writes. [...] My own view is that the spitting stories are largely mythic, but that the myth itself reflects the deep anger and animosity that many veterans harbored toward the antiwar movement. Their anger often reflected a sense of class injustice that gave their more privileged peers greater freedom to avoid the war. [...] I base my conclusions on extensive interviews I have conducted with Vietnam veterans since the early 1980s. Lembcke, however, gives no credence to the possibility that veterans themselves played a role in creating the myth of antiwar spitters, or that the myth teaches us anything meaningful about the class and wartime experiences of veterans. For him, the myth is almost entirely a product of Hollywood and right-wing politicians.\\\n\nDavid Dellinger review:\n\nMary Carroll, Booklist review:\n\nNo, Holy Cross College sociology professor Lembcke can't prove a negative, but he makes a strong case that tales of antiwar activists spitting at returning vets are myth. Lembcke, a Nam vet who was active in Vietnam Veterans Against the War, opens with Persian Gulf War politicians' use of \"the spitting image\" and then traces Nixon and Agnew's agitated response to antiwar activism by GIs and veterans. He notes that contemporary media, government, and polling data show no evidence of antiwar spitting incidents; the few events reported had supporters of the war targeting opponents. But later studies reported hostility toward veterans; \"the spitting image\" epitomized that narrative. Similar images were common in post-World War I Germany and France after Indochina; Lembcke suggests the Nixon administration cultivated this notion of betrayal because it stigmatized both the antiwar movement and veterans against the war. With development of a new psychiatric diagnosis, post-traumatic stress disorder, a good vet/bad vet split was complete, and Hollywood films shifted attention from the war itself to its GI victims.\n\n\"San Francisco Chronicle\" review:\n\nLembcke builds a compelling case against collective memory by demonstrating that remembrances of Vietnam were almost at direct odds with circumstantial evidence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "699908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=699908", "title": "Theme (narrative)", "text": "Theme (narrative)\n\nIn contemporary literary studies, a theme is the central topic a text treats. Themes can be divided into two categories: a work's \"thematic concept\" is what readers \"think the work is about\" and its \"thematic statement\" being \"what the work says about the subject\".\n\nThe most common contemporary understanding of theme is an idea or point that is central to a story, which can often be summed in a single word (e.g. love, death, betrayal). Typical examples of themes of this type are conflict between the individual and society; coming of age; humans in conflict with technology; nostalgia; and the dangers of unchecked ambition. A theme may be exemplified by the actions, utterances, or thoughts of a character in a novel. An example of this would be the thematic idea of loneliness in John Steinbeck's \"Of Mice and Men\", wherein many of the characters seem to be lonely. It may differ from the thesis—the text's or author's implied worldview.\n\nA story may have several themes. Themes often explore historically common or cross-culturally recognizable ideas, such as ethical questions, and are usually implied rather than stated explicitly. An example of this would be whether one should live a seemingly better life, at the price of giving up parts of one's humanity, which is a theme in Aldous Huxley’s \"Brave New World\". Along with plot, character, setting, and style, theme is considered one of the components of fiction.\n\nVarious techniques may be used to express many more themes.\n\n\"Leitwortstil\" is the repetition of a wording, often with a theme, in a narrative to make sure it catches the reader's attention. An example of a leitwortstil is the recurring phrase, \"So it goes\", in Kurt Vonnegut's novel \"Slaughterhouse-Five\". Its seeming message is that the world is deterministic: that things only could have happened in one way, and that the future already is predetermined. But given the anti-war tone of the story, the message perhaps is on the contrary, that \"things could have been different\". A non-fictional example of leitwortstil is in the book \"Too Soon Old, Too Late Smart: Thirty True Things You Need to Know Now\" written by Gordon Livingston, which is an anthology of personal anecdotes multiple times interjected by the phrases \"Don't do the same thing and expect different results\", \"It is a bad idea to lie to yourself\", and \"No one likes to be told what to do\".\n\n\"Thematic patterning\" means the insertion of a recurring motif in a narrative. For example, various scenes in John Steinbeck's \"Of Mice and Men\" are about loneliness. Thematic patterning is evident in \"One Thousand and One Nights\", an example being the story of \"The City of Brass\". According to David Pinault, the overarching theme of that tale, in which a group of travelers roam the desert in search of ancient brass artifacts, is that \"riches and pomp tempt one away from God\". The narrative is interrupted several times by stories within the story. These include a tale recorded in an inscription found in the palace of Kush ibh Shaddad; a story told by a prisoner about Solomon; and an episode involving Queen Tadmur's corpse. According to Pinault, \"each of these minor narratives introduces a character who confesses that he once proudly enjoyed worldly prosperity: subsequently, we learn, the given character has been brought low by God ... These minor tales ultimately reinforce the theme of the major narrative\".\n\nSome common themes in literature are \"love,\" \"war,\" \"revenge,\" \"betrayal,\" \"patriotism,\" \"grace,\" \"isolation,\" \"motherhood,\" \"forgiveness,\" \"wartime loss,\" \"treachery,\" \"rich versus poor,\" \"appearance versus reality,\" and \"help from other-worldly powers.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3840912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3840912", "title": "Thunderstone (folklore)", "text": "Thunderstone (folklore)\n\nThroughout Africa, Europe, and Asia flint arrowheads and axes turned up by farmer's plows were considered to have fallen from the sky. They were often thought to be thunderbolts and are called \"thunderstones\". It was not until travelers returned from far-away places where these implements were in actual use that the origins of these objects became known. Even then, these travelers' tales received little popular credence.\n\nIn Scandinavia thunderstones were frequently worshiped as family gods who kept off spells and witchcraft. Beer was poured over them as an offering and they were sometimes anointed with butter. In Switzerland the owner of a thunderstone whirls it, on the end of a thong, three times round his head, and throws it at the door of his dwelling at the approach of a storm to prevent lightning from striking the house. In Italy they are hung around children's necks to protect them from illness and to ward off the Evil eye. In Roman times they were sewn inside dog-collars along with a little piece of coral to keep the dogs from going mad. In Sweden they offer protection from elves. In the French Alps they protect sheep, while elsewhere in France they are thought to ease childbirth. In Burma they are used as a cure and preventative for appendicitis. In Japan they cure boils and ulcers. In Malay and Sumatra they are used to sharpen the kris, are considered very lucky objects, and are credited with being touchstones for gold. Among the Slavs they cure warts on man and beast, and during Passion Week they have the property to reveal hidden treasure.\n\nIn the British Isles some idea of their original use is retained, and they are often referred to variously as elf arrows, elf bolts, elf darts, or fairy arrows, and are said to have been shot by elves or fairies at a person or animal to bewitch them. On the other hand, they are thought, for the most part, to protect the possessor from these little people. The presence of flint instruments found in British cinerary urns of the Roman Era is explained by two theories: 1) they were used by the mourners to lacerate themselves; 2) flints (like all fire-producing stones) are potent magic for preventing the return of the dead. In Ireland flint stones are soaked in water to make a medicine which is good for man or beast. Mounted in silver they are worn as protection against elf-shot, i.e. elf- or fairy-inflicted disease.\nIn North Carolina and Alabama there is a belief that flint stones placed in the fire will keep hawks from molesting the chickens, a belief which probably stems from the European idea that elf arrows protect domestic animals. In Brazil, flint is used as a divining stone for gold, treasure and water. \n\nDuring the Middle Ages many of these well-wrought stones were venerated as weapons, which during the \"war in heaven\" had been used in driving forth Satan and his hosts; hence, in the 11th century the Byzantine emperor sent to the Holy Roman emperor a \"heaven axe\"; and in the 12th century a Bishop of Rennes asserted the value of thunderstones as a divinely appointed means of securing success in battle, safety on the sea, security against thunder, and immunity from unpleasant dreams. \nEven as late as the 17th century, a French ambassador brought a stone hatchet, which still exists in the museum at Nancy, as a present to the Prince-Bishop of Verdun, and claimed that it had healing properties.\n\nThe flint was an object of veneration by most American Indian tribes. According to the Pawnee Origin myth, stone weapons and implements were given to man by the Morning Star. Among the K'iche' people of Guatemala, there is a myth that a flint fell from the sky and broke into 1600 pieces, each of which became a god. Tohil, the God who gave them fire, is still represented as flint. This myth provides a parallel to the almost universal belief in the thunderstone, and reminds us that Jupiter (mythology) was once worshipped in the form of a flint stone. The Cherokee shaman invokes a flint when he is about to scarify a patient prior to applying his medicine. Among the Pueblos we have the Flint Societies which, in most tribes, were primarily concerned with weather and witchcraft, but sometimes had to do with war and medicine.\n\nIn many parts of southern England until the middle of the nineteenth century, another name commonly used for fossil Echinoids was 'thunderstone'. This was a name that in all likelihood formed part of another folk tradition that was almost certainly brought to Britain by Danish and Anglo-Saxon invaders more than 1500 years ago. In 1677 Dr. Robert Plot, the first keeper of the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford, published his classic book \"The Natural History of Oxfordshire\". Plot recorded that in Oxfordshire what we now call fossil echinoids were called thunderstones, as they were thought to have descended from the heavens during a thunderstorm. \nThe St. Peter's Church in Linkenholt, England, was built in 1871 near the location of the old St. Peter's, which had stood for nearly 700 years. The 1871 version of the church included fossil echinoids built into the walls surrounding the windows, a style adopted from the original. This implies that Thunderstone folklore was retained for at least 700 years in England, and had its roots in pagan folklore.\n\nAndrew Dickson White described the discovery of the true origin of thunderstones as a \"line of observation and thought ... fatal to the theological view\". In the last years of the sixteenth century Michael Mercati tried to prove that the \"thunder-stones\" were weapons or implements of early races of men; but for some reason his book was not published until the following century, when other thinkers had begun to take up the same idea. In 1723 Antoine Laurent de Jussieu addressed the French Academy on \"The Origin and Uses of Thunder-stones\". He showed that recent travellers from various parts of the world had brought a number of weapons and other implements of stone to France, and that they were essentially similar to what in Europe had been known as \"thunderstones\". A year later this fact was firmly embedded in the minds of French scientists by the Jesuit Joseph-Francois Lafitau, who published a work showing the similarity between the customs of aborigines then existing in other lands and those of the early inhabitants of Europe. So began, in these works of Jussieu and Lafitau, the science of ethnology. It was more than 100 years later, after the French Revolution of 1830, that the political climate in Europe was free enough of religious sentiment for archaeological discoveries to be dispassionately investigated and the conclusion reached that human existence spanned a much greater period of time than any Christian theologian had dreamt of.\n\nIn 1847, a man previously unknown to the world at large, Boucher de Perthes, published in Paris the first volume of work on \"Celtic and Antediluvian Antiquities\", and in this he showed engravings of typical flint implements and weapons, of which he had discovered thousands upon thousands in the high drift beds near Abbeville, in northern France. So far as France was concerned, he was met at first by what he calls \"a conspiracy of silence\", and then by a contemptuous opposition among orthodox scientists, led by Elie de Beaumont. \n\nIn 1863 the thunderstone myth was further discredited by Charles Lyell in his book \"Geological Evidences of the Antiquity of Man\". Lyell had previously opposed the new ideas about human antiquity, and his changing sides gave further force to the scientific evidence.\n\n"}
{"id": "50613718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50613718", "title": "Tile art", "text": "Tile art\n\nTile art is a small arrangement of tiles, or in some cases a single tile, with a painted pattern or image on top. It is often used as an umbrella term that includes other forms of tile-based art, such as mosaics, micromosaics, and stained glass.\n\nUnlike mosaics, tile art can include larger pieces of tiles that are pre-decorated. While mosaics use pieces of tesserae or another material to construct a pattern from small components, other methods, such as engraving, carving, and molding may be used in tile art. While mosaics are considered a type of tile art, there are many other forms that are also considered tile art.\n\nMany types of art can be considered tile art. Different types of tile art have different features and can be created in different mediums, such as ceramic, porcelain, glass tiles, and other tiled mediums.\n\nListed below are some of the different types of artwork considered tile art:\n\nMany modern tile art designs are based on abstract and pattern-based designs. These are non-representational, unlike than older tile art formats, such as mosaics, which were often portraits or other representational forms of artwork. The design on a piece of tile art may be used as decoration, but may also represent an idea, philosophy or pose a historical, religious or social significance.\n\nAn example of such non-representational art is a set of tiles integrated into an interior or exterior design. The design of the tile art is often based on the theme of the surrounding design. As tiles are built into the surrounding, they can be installed seamlessly integrated into the surrounding area.\n\nModern tile art serves many purposes. The general definition of tile art includes many mediums and many different designs achieved by various techniques and media. For example, tile art may be used to decorate one's home, but must also be practical as a wall or flooring element, as the tiles in an interior design could be replaced by tile art.\n\nTile art can also be used in the garden to compliment the colors in the plants and foliage.\n\nUsing modern printing technology, images can be digitally printed onto a set of tiles or a tile. This can be used in lieu of hanging paintings or using wallpaper.\n\nThe many different types of tile artwork mean that there are many different methods of creating a piece of tile artwork. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "35274542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35274542", "title": "Vagina loquens", "text": "Vagina loquens\n\nThe vagina loquens, or \"talking vagina\", is a significant tradition in literature and art, dating back to the ancient folklore motif of the \"talking cunt\". These tales usually involve vaginas talking due to the effect of magic or charms, and often admitting to their unchastity. Another tradition is a vagina that acquires the power of speech to play the role of informant and reveal a history of previous lovers.\n\nTalking vaginas are an early theme in French literature, most notably in the 13th century fabliau \"Le Chevalier qui faisoit parler les cons et les culs\" and in \"Les bijoux indiscrets\", the first novel by Denis Diderot. Published anonymously in 1748, \"Les bijoux indiscrets\" (\"The Indiscreet Jewels\") is an allegory that portrays Louis XV as the sultan Mangogul of the Congo who owns a magic ring that makes women's genitals (\"jewels\") talk. A comparable \"trope\" that Diderot must have known is found in the ribald \"fabliau\".\n\nIn American literature, a talking vagina is featured in the Ozark folktale \"The Magic Walking Stick\", in which vaginas are made to act as informants. The talking vagina theme is the central trope of \"The Vagina Monologues\".\n\nIn modern art the talking vagina theme is featured prominently in the works of Stephanie Sarley in a subset of her \"Crotch Monster\" series. The talking vagina characters are depicted as anthropomorphized vulvae reacting emotionally and engaging in various activities.\n\nIn film, the pornographic movies \"Le Sexe qui parle\" (1975) and its sequel (1978), and its non-pornographic remake, \"Chatterbox\", feature talking vaginas.\n\nOn television, Joan Rivers portrayed Princess Clara's talking vagina on \"Drawn Together\".\n"}
{"id": "31142766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31142766", "title": "Victimless Leather", "text": "Victimless Leather\n\nVictimless Leather – a prototype of a stitch-less jacket, grown from cell cultures into a layer of tissue supported by a coat shaped polymer layer.\n\nThis is a sub-project of the Tissue Culture & Art Project where the artists are growing a leather jacket without killing any animals. Growing the victimless leather problematizes the concept of garment by making it semi-living. This artistic grown garment is intended to confront people with the moral implications of wearing parts of dead animals for protective and aesthetic reasons and confronts notions of relationships with manipulated living systems.\n\nThe SymbioticA website explains what it is, \"an artistic laboratory dedicated to the research, learning, critique and hands-on engagement with the life sciences.\". The artists work with tissue, constructing and growing complex organisms that can live outside the body, making the new objects semi-living. Their projects are meant to question life, identity and the relationship between humans and other living beings and environments. They are also interested in the ethics around partial life and the possibilities around this type of technology in the future.\n\nThese are some of the sub-projects that are also part of the TC&A project, in addition to Victimless Leather:\n\nNoArk – NoArk is a collection of cells and tissue from many different organisms, growing together inside a \"vessel\", a reference to Noah's Ark. The project website states that NoArk is \"a tangible as well as symbolic ‘craft’ for observing and understanding a biology that combines the familiar with the other\".\nWorry Dolls – Seven modern versions of the Guatemalan Worry doll were hand-crafted of degradable polymers and surgical sutures and seeded with skin, muscle and bone tissue. The tissue was then allowed to grow inside a bioreactor, replacing the polymers as it degrades, thus creating seven semi-living dolls. \nDisembodied Cuisine – Along with Victimless Leather, this is part of the \"Victimless Utopia\". The idea for this project was to take cells from a frog and grow them into something possible to eat, displaying it next to the still living frog the food came from. This problemetizes the whole meat industry – how we kill animals to eat them. Growing tissue outside of the body of the animal is a way to \"make\" meat while the animal stays healthy and living.\nExtra Ear – ¼ Scale – Using human tissue, a quarter-scale replica of artist Stelarc's ear was grown. The project wanted to confront the cultural perceptions of life now that we are able to manipulate living systems, and also discuss the notions of the wholeness of the body. \nThe Pig Wings Project – This project bases its ideas on xenotransplantation and genetically modifying pigs so their organs can be transplanted to humans. The artists used tissue engineering and stem cell technologies to grow pig bone tissue, forming three different sets of wings. One set shaped as bat wings (\"evil\"), one as bird wings (\"good\") and one as pterosaurs wings (\"neutral\").\n\nAn aim for the \"Victimless Leather\" project is to explore and provoke scientific truths, using conceptual art projects to encourage better understanding of cultural ideas around scientific knowledge. The project website point out how clothing has always been used to protect the fragile skin of humans, but lately have evolved into a fabricated object used as a tool to show one's identity. Based on this, clothing can be explored as a tangible example of the relationship between humans and others, and how humans treat others. As the artists put it: \"This particular project will deconstruct our cultural meaning of clothes as a second skin by materialising it and displaying it as an art object.\"\n\nThe intention to grow artificial leather without killing an animal is meant as a contribution to a cultural discussion between art, science and society. Making this jacket presents a possibility of wearing leather that is not part of a dead animal. The projects are presented in Workshops and exhibitions throughout the world to address ethical questions related to bioscience and technology. The artists want the project to be seen in this cultural context, not a commercial one. Their intention is not to create a consumer product, but to offer a starting point for the cultural discussion points mentioned above. As with most of the TC&A projects the artists are concerned with the relationship between humans and other living systems, both natural and scientific made or manipulated.\n\nThe artists wanted to make a leather-like material using living tissue, and ended up making it in the shape of a stitchless jacket. The artists based the jacket on a biodegradable polymer, coated it with 3T3 mouse cells to form connective tissue and topped it up with human bone cells in order to create a stronger skin layer.\n\nTo create the victimless leather, the team needed an artificial environment where semi-living entities are grown, so it is grown inside a bioreactor that acts as a surrogate body. The bioreactor used in this project was custom made, based on an organ perfusion pump designed by Alexis Carrel and Charles Lindbergh. It has an automatic dripping system which feeds the cells. The artists assumed that when the polymer degraded, an integrated jacket would appear. The resulting jacket was tiny, about 2 inches high and 1,4 inches wide and would just fit a mouse.\n\nTo idealize the \"victimless\" of the jacket, immortalized cell lines or cells that divide and multiply forever once they are removed from an animal or human host forming a renewable resource, have been used in the project. The 3T3 mouse cells all come from a mouse who lived in the 1970s.\n\nThe research and development of “Victimless Leather” has been conducted in SymbioticA: the Art and Science Collaborative Research Laboratory, School of Anatomy and Human Biology at the University of Western Australia and in consultation with Professor Arunasalam Dharmarajan from the School of Anatomy and Human Biology as well as Verigen, a Perth-based company that specializes in tissue engineered cartilage for clinical applications. Western Australia state made the investment in the project through ArtsWa in Association with the Lotteries Commission.\n\nFrom a list of selected TC&A exhibitions.\n\nThe victimless leather was featured in the exhibition “Design and the Elastic Mind” at The Museum of Modern Art in New York City, United States. February 24 – May 12, 2008 The project was scheduled to grow continuously until May 12 when the exhibition ended. There were some problems though, when the leather started expanding too quickly, clogging tubes inside the bioreactor. The exhibition leader therefore decided to unplug the project before the end of the exhibition – in a way, killing it.\n\nBecause the artificial leather is made semi-living, the project might be seen as speculative and provocative to some people – questioning whether it is better to kill semi-living beings rather than living beings. \"One of the most common and somewhat surprising comments we heard was that people were disturbed by our ethics of using living cells to grow living fabric, while the use of leather obtained from animals seems to be accepted without any concern for the well-being of the animals from which the skin has been removed.\" artist Ionat Zurr uttered after showing the jacket to the public on \"The Space Between\" exhibition in Australia.\n\nOron Catts was born in Helsinki, Finland in 1967, and is currently residing in Perth, Australia where he has been employed at the University of Western Australia since 1996. He works as an artistic director of SymbioticA, which he is also co-founder of. He is founder of the Tissue Culture & Art Project. From 2000–2001 he was a Research Fellow at the Tissue Engineering and Organ Fabrication Laboratory at Harvard Medical School. He has also worked with numerous other bio-medical laboratories in several different countries.\n\nIonat Zurr was born in London, UK in 1970, and is currently residing in Perth, Australia. Since 1996 she has been employed at the University of Western Australia, where she also did her PhD titled \"Growing Semi-Living Art\" under the Faculty of Architecture, Landscape and Visual Arts . Zurr specialises in video production and biological and digital imaging. She works as an assistant professor and academic coordinator at SymbioticA and is co-founder of the Tissue Culture & Art Project. From 2000–2001 she was a research fellow at the Tissue Engineering and Organ Fabrication Laboratory at Harvard Medical School.\n\nThe project also focuses on human consumption, highlighting that there are victims on every level of it, and that the boundaries between harm and benefit often are blurred. The French actress Brigitte Bardot strongly opposed hunting of animals for vanity and the commercial purpose of the skin. From an indigenous point of view, the context must be seen different. An Inuit hunts the seal and uses the whole body of the animal as a basic resource for his survival.\n\nSimilar to ethics like this, is the interest for artificial meat production due to reactions against the livestock sector because of health and environmental problems. A 2006 UN Food and Agriculture Organization FAO report pointed out the livestock sector as one of the most significant contributors to the most serious environmental problems like soil degradation and water pollution. And because of methane, it spews out more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere than transportation.\n\n"}
{"id": "3257715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3257715", "title": "Women artists", "text": "Women artists\n\nThough women artists have been involved in the making of art throughout history, their work, when compared to that of their male counterparts, is often both overlooked and undervalued. Prevailing stereotypes about the sexes have caused certain media, such as textile or fiber arts, to be primarily associated with women, despite having once been categories both men and women participated in. Additionally, art forms that have gained this distinction are, as in the case of both textile and fabric arts, demoted to categories like \"arts and crafts\", rather than fine art.\n\nWomen in art have been faced with challenges due to gender biases in the mainstream fine art world. They have often encountered difficulties in training, travelling and trading their work, as well as gaining recognition. Beginning in the late 1960s and 1970s, feminist artists and art historians created a Feminist art movement that overtly addresses the role of women in the art world and explores the role of women in art history and in society.\n\nThere are no records of who the artists of the prehistoric eras were, but studies of many early ethnographers and cultural anthropologists indicate that women often were the principal artisans in Neolithic cultures, in which they created pottery, textiles, baskets, painted surfaces and jewelry. Collaboration on large projects was typical. Extrapolation to the artwork and skills of the Paleolithic era suggests that these cultures followed similar patterns. Cave paintings of this era often have human hand prints, 75% of which are identifiable as women's.\n\n\"For about three thousand years, the women – and only the women – of Mithila have been making devotional paintings of the gods and goddesses of the Hindu pantheon. It is no exaggeration, then, to say that this art is the expression of the most genuine aspect of Indian civilization.\"\n\nThe earliest records of western cultures rarely mention specific individuals, although women are depicted in all of the art and some are shown laboring as artists. Ancient references by Homer, Cicero, and Virgil mention the prominent roles of women in textiles, poetry, music, and other cultural activities, without discussion of individual artists. Among the earliest European historical records concerning individual artists is that of Pliny the Elder, who wrote about a number of Greek women who were painters, including Helena of Egypt, daughter of Timon of Egypt, Some modern critics posit that \"Alexander Mosaic\" might not have been the work of Philoxenus, but of Helena of Egypt. One of the few named women painters who might have worked in Ancient Greece, she was reputed to have produced a painting of the battle of Issus which hung in the Temple of Peace during the time of Vespasian. Other women include Timarete, Eirene, Kalypso, Aristarete, Iaia, and Olympias. While only some of their work survives, in Ancient Greek pottery there is a \"caputi hydria\" in the Torno Collection in Milan. It is attribute to the Leningrad painter from BCE and shows women working alongside men in a workshop where both painted vases.\n\nArtists from the Medieval period include Claricia, Diemudus, Ende, Guda, Herrade of Landsberg and Hildegard of Bingen. In the early Medieval period, women often worked alongside men. Manuscript illuminations, embroideries, and carved capitals from the period clearly demonstrate examples of women at work in these arts. Documents show that they also were brewers, butchers, wool merchants, and iron mongers. Artists of the time period, including women, were from a small subset of society whose status allowed them freedom from these more strenuous types of work. Women artists often were of two literate classes, either wealthy aristocratic women or nuns. Women in the former category often created embroideries and textiles; those in the later category often produced illuminations.\n\nThere were a number of embroidery workshops in England at the time, particularly at Canterbury and Winchester; \"Opus Anglicanum\" or English embroidery was already famous across Europe – a 13th-century papal inventory counted over two hundred pieces. It is presumed that women were almost entirely responsible for this production. One of the most famous embroideries of the Medieval period is the Bayeux Tapestry, which was embroidered with wool and is 230 feet long. Its images narrate the Battle of Hastings and the Norman Conquest of England. The Bayeux Tapestry may have been created in either a commercial workshop by a royal or an aristocratic lady and her retinue, or in a workshop in a nunnery. In the 14th century, a royal workshop is documented, based at the Tower of London, and there may have been other earlier arrangements. Manuscript illumination affords us many of the named artists of the Medieval Period including Ende, a 10th-century Spanish nun; Guda, a 12th-century German nun; and Claricia, a 12th-century laywoman in a Bavarian scriptorium. These women, and many more unnamed illuminators, benefited from the nature of convents as the major loci of learning for women in the period and the most tenable option for intellectuals among them.\n\nIn many parts of Europe, with the Gregorian Reforms of the 11th century and the rise in feudalism, women faced many strictures that they did not face in the Early Medieval period. With these societal changes, the status of the convent changed. In the British Isles, the Norman Conquest marked the beginning of the gradual decline of the convent as a seat of learning and a place where women could gain power. Convents were made subsidiary to male abbots, rather than being headed by an abbess, as they had been previously. In Pagan Scandinavia (in Sweden) the only historically confirmed female runemaster, Gunnborga, worked in the 11th century.\n\nIn Germany, however, under the Ottonian Dynasty, convents retained their position as institutions of learning. This might be partially because convents were often headed and populated by unmarried women from royal and aristocratic families. Therefore, the greatest late Medieval period work by women originates in Germany, as exemplified by that of Herrade of Landsberg and Hildegard of Bingen. Hildegard of Bingen (1098–1179) is a particularly fine example of a German Medieval intellectual and artist. She wrote \"The Divine Works of a Simple Man\", \"The Meritorious Life\", sixty-five hymns, a miracle play, and a long treatise of nine books on the different natures of trees, plants, animals, birds, fish, minerals, and metals. From an early age, she claimed to have visions. When the Papacy supported these claims by the headmistress, her position as an important intellectual was galvanized. The visions became part of one of her seminal works in 1142, \"Scivias\" \"(Know the Ways of the Lord)\", which consists of thirty-five visions relating and illustrating the history of salvation. The illustrations in the \"Scivias\", as exemplified in the first illustration, depict Hildegarde experiencing visions while seated in the monastery at Bingen. They differ greatly from others created in Germany during the same period, as they are characterized by bright colors, emphasis on line, and simplified forms. While Hildegard likely did not pen the images, their idiosyncratic nature leads one to believe they were created under her close supervision.\n\nThe 12th century saw the rise of the city in Europe, along with the rise in trade, travel, and universities. These changes in society also engendered changes in the lives of women. Women were allowed to head their husbands' businesses if they were widowed. The Wife of Bath in Chaucer's \"The Canterbury Tales\" is one such case. During this time, women also were allowed to be part of some artisan guilds. Guild records show that women were particularly active in the textile industries in Flanders and Northern France. Medieval manuscripts have many marginalia depicting women with spindles. In England, women were responsible for creating \"Opus Anglicanum\", or rich embroideries for ecclesiastical or secular use on clothes and various types of hangings. Women also became more active in illumination. A number of women likely worked alongside their husbands or fathers, including the daughter of Maître Honoré and the daughter of Jean le Noir. By the 13th century most illuminated manuscripts were being produced by commercial workshops, and by the end of the Middle Ages, when production of manuscripts had become an important industry in certain centres, women seem to have represented a majority of the artists and scribes employed, especially in Paris. The movement to printing, and of book illustration to the printmaking techniques of woodcut and engraving, where women seem to have been little involved, represented a setback to the progress of women artists.\n\nArtists from the Renaissance era include Sofonisba Anguissola, Lucia Anguissola, Lavinia Fontana, Fede Galizia, Diana Scultori Ghisi, Caterina van Hemessen, Esther Inglis, Barbara Longhi, Maria Ormani, Marietta Robusti (daughter of Tintoretto), Properzia de' Rossi, Plautilla Nelli, Levina Teerlinc, Mayken Verhulst, and St. Catherine of Bologna (Caterina dei Vigri).\n\nThis is the first period in Western history in which a number of secular female artists gained international reputations. The rise in women artists during this period may be attributed to major cultural shifts. One such shift was a move toward humanism, a philosophy affirming the dignity of all people, that became central to Renaissance thinking and helped raise the status of women. In addition, the identity of the individual artist in general was regarded as more important; significant artists from this period whose identities are unknown virtually cease to exist. Two important texts, \"On Famous Women\" and \"The City of Women\", illustrate this cultural change. Boccaccio, a 14th-century humanist, wrote \"De mulieribus claris\" (Latin for \"On Famous Women\") (1335–59), a collection of biographies of women. Among the 104 biographies he included was that of Thamar (or Thmyris), an ancient Greek vase painter. Curiously, among the 15th-century manuscript illuminations of \"On Famous Women\", Thamar was depicted painting a self-portrait or perhaps painting a small image of the Virgin and Child. Christine de Pizan, a remarkable late medieval French writer, rhetorician, and critic, wrote \"Book of the City of Ladies\" in 1405, a text about an allegorical city in which independent women lived free from the slander of men. In her work she included real women artists, such as Anastasia, who was considered one of the best Parisian illuminators, although none of her work has survived. Other humanist texts led to increased education for Italian women.\n\nThe most notable of these was \"Il Cortegiano\" or \"The Courtier\" by 16th-century Italian humanist Baldassare Castiglione. This enormously popular work stated that men and women should be educated in the social arts. His influence made it acceptable for women to engage in the visual, musical, and literary arts. Thanks to Castiglione, this was the first period of renaissance history in which noblewomen were able to study painting. Sofonisba Anguissola was the most successful of these minor aristocrats who first benefited from humanist education and then went on to recognition as painters. Artists who were not noblewomen were affected by the rise in humanism as well. In addition to conventional subject matter, artists such as Lavinia Fontana and Caterina van Hemessen began to depict themselves in self-portraits, not just as painters but also as musicians and scholars, thereby highlighting their well-rounded education. Along with the rise in humanism, there was a shift from craftsmen to artists. Artists, unlike earlier craftsmen, were now expected to have knowledge of perspective, mathematics, ancient art, and study of the human body. In the late Renaissance the training of artists began to move from the master's workshop to the Academy, and women began a long struggle, not resolved until the late 19th century, to gain full access to this training. Study of the human body required working from male nudes and corpses. This was considered essential background for creating realistic group scenes. Women were generally barred from training from male nudes, and therefore they were precluded from creating such scenes. Such depictions of nudes were required for the large-scale religious compositions, which received the most prestigious commissions.\n\nAlthough many aristocratic women had access to some training in art, though without the benefit of figure drawing from nude male models, most of those women chose marriage over a career in art. This was true, for example, of two of Sofonisba Anguissola's sisters. The women recognized as artists in this period were either nuns or children of painters. Of the few who emerged as Italian artists in the 15th century, those known today are associated with convents. These artists who were nuns include Caterina dei Virgi, Antonia Uccello, and Suor Barbara Ragnoni. During the 15th and 16th centuries, the vast majority of women who gained any modicum of success as artists were the children of painters. This is likely because they were able to gain training in their fathers' workshops. Examples of women artists who were trained by their fathers include the painter Lavinia Fontana, the miniature portraitist Levina Teerlinc, and the portrait painter Caterina van Hemessen. Italian women artists during this period, even those trained by their family, seem somewhat unusual. However, in certain parts of Europe, particularly northern France and Flanders, it was more common for children of both genders to enter into their father's profession. In fact, in the Low Countries where women had more freedom, there were a number of artists in the Renaissance who were women. For example, the records of the Guild of Saint Luke in Bruges show not only that they admit women as practicing members, but also that by the 1480s twenty-five percent of its members were women (many probably working as manuscript illuminators).\n\nArtists from the Baroque era include: Mary Beale, Élisabeth Sophie Chéron, Maria Theresa van Thielen, Katharina Pepijn, Catharina Peeters, Johanna Vergouwen, Isabel de Cisneros, Giovanna Garzoni Artemisia Gentileschi, Judith Leyster, Maria Sibylla Merian, Louise Moillon, Josefa de Ayala better known as Josefa de Óbidos, Maria van Oosterwijk, Magdalena de Passe, Clara Peeters, Maria Virginia Borghese (daughter of art collector Olimpia Aldobrandini), Luisa Roldán known as La Roldana, Rachel Ruysch, Maria Theresa van Thielen, Anna Maria van Thielen, Francisca-Catherina van Thielen and Elisabetta Sirani. As in the Renaissance Period, many women among the Baroque artists came from artist families. Artemisia Gentileschi is an excellent example of this. She was trained by her father, Orazio Gentileschi, and she worked alongside him on many of his commissions. Luisa Roldán was trained in her father's (Pedro Roldán) sculpture workshop.\n\nWomen artists in this period began to change the way women were depicted in art. Many of the women working as artists in the Baroque era were not able to train from nude models, who were always male, but they were very familiar with the female body. Women such as Elisabetta Sirani created images of women as conscious beings rather than detached muses. One of the best examples of this novel expression is in Artemesia Gentileschi's \"Judith beheading Holofernes\", in which Judith is depicted as a strong woman determining her own destiny. While other artists, including Botticelli and the more traditional woman, Fede Galizia, depicted the same scene with a passive Judith, in her novel treatment, Gentileschi's Judith appears to be an able actor in the task at hand. Action is the essence of it and another painting by her of Judith leaving the scene. Still life emerged as an important genre around 1600, particularly in the Netherlands. Women were at the forefront of this painting trend. This genre was particularly suited to women, as they could access the materials for still life readily. In the North, these practitioners included Clara Peeters, a painter of \"banketje\" or breakfast pieces, and scenes of arranged luxury goods; Maria van Oosterwijk, the internationally renowned flower painter; and Rachel Ruysch, a painter of visually charged flower arrangements. In other regions, still life was less common, but there were important women artists in the genre including Giovanna Garzoni, who created realistic vegetable arrangements on parchment, and Louise Moillon, whose fruit still life paintings were noted for their brilliant colors.\n\nArtists from this period include, Rosalba Carriera, Maria Cosway, Marguerite Gérard, Angelica Kauffman, Adélaïde Labille-Guiard, Giulia Lama, Mary Moser, Ulrika Pasch, Adèle Romany, Anna Dorothea Therbusch, Anne Vallayer-Coster, and Elisabeth Vigée-Le Brun.\n\nIn many countries of Europe, the Academies were the arbiters of style. The Academies also were responsible for training artists, exhibiting artwork, and, inadvertently or not, promoting the sale of art. Most Academies were not open to women. In France, for example, the powerful Academy in Paris had 450 members between the 17th century and the French Revolution, and only fifteen were women. Of those, most were daughters or wives of members. In the late 18th century, the French Academy resolved not to admit any women at all. The pinnacle of painting during the period was history painting, especially large scale compositions with groups of figures depicting historical or mythical situations. In preparation to create such paintings, artists studied casts of antique sculptures and drew from male nudes. Women had limited, or no access to this Academic learning, and as such there are no extant large-scale history paintings by women from this period. Some women made their name in other genres such as portraiture. Elisabeth Vigee-Lebrun used her experience in portraiture to create an allegorical scene, \"Peace Bringing Back Plenty\", which she classified as a history painting and used as her grounds for admittance into the Academy. After the display of her work, it was demanded that she attend formal classes, or lose her license to paint. She became a court favourite, and a celebrity, who painted over forty self-portraits, which she was able to sell.\n\nIn England, two women, Angelica Kauffman and Mary Moser, were founding members of the Royal Academy of Arts in London in 1768. Kauffmann helped Maria Cosway enter the Academy. Although Cosway went on to gain success as a painter of mythological scenes, both women remained in a somewhat ambivalent position at the Royal Academy, as evidenced by the group portrait of \"The Academicians of the Royal Academy\" by Johan Zoffany now in The Royal Collection. In it, only the men of the Academy are assembled in a large artist studio, together with nude male models. For reasons of decorum given the nude models, the two women are not shown as present, but as portraits on the wall instead. The emphasis in Academic art on studies of the nude during training remained a considerable barrier for women studying art until the 20th century, both in terms of actual access to the classes and in terms of family and social attitudes to middle-class women becoming artists. After these three, no woman became a full member of the Academy until Laura Knight in 1936, and women were not admitted to the Academy's schools until 1861. By the late 18th century, there were important steps forward for artists who were women. In Paris, the Salon, the exhibition of work founded by the Academy, became open to non-Academic painters in 1791, allowing women to showcase their work in the prestigious annual exhibition. Additionally, women were more frequently being accepted as students by famous artists such as Jacques-Louis David and Jean-Baptiste Greuze.\n\nWomen artists of the early part of the 19th century include Marie-Denise Villers, who specialized in portraiture; Constance Mayer, who painted portraits and allegories; Marie Ellenrieder, who was noted mainly for her religious paintings in the Nazarene style.\n\nIn the second half of the century, Emma Sandys, Marie Spartali Stillman, Eleanor Fortescue-Brickdale, and Maria Zambaco were women artists of the Pre-Raphaelite movement. Also influenced by the Pre-Raphaelites were Evelyn De Morgan and the activist and painter Barbara Bodichon.\n\nImpressionist painters Berthe Morisot, Marie Bracquemond, and the Americans, Mary Cassatt and Lucy Bacon, became involved in the French Impressionist movement of the 1860s and 1870s. American Impressionist Lilla Cabot Perry was influenced by her studies with Monet and by Japanese art in the late 19th century. Cecilia Beaux was an American portrait painter who also studied in France. Olga Boznańska is considered the best-known of all Polish women artists, and was stylistically associated with Impressionism. \n\nRosa Bonheur was the best-known female artist of her time, internationally renowned for her paintings of animals. Elizabeth Thompson (Lady Butler), perhaps inspired by her life-classes of armoured figures at the Government School, was one of the first women to become famous for large history paintings, specializing in scenes of military action, usually with many horses, most famously \"Scotland Forever!\", showing a cavalry charge at Waterloo.\n\nKitty Lange Kielland was a Norwegian landscape painter.\n\nElizabeth Jane Gardner was an American academic painter who was the first American woman to exhibit at the Paris Salon. In 1872 she became the first woman to ever win a gold medal at the Salon. \n\nIn 1894, Suzanne Valadon was the first woman admitted to the Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts in France. Anna Boch was a post-impressionist painter, as was Laura Muntz Lyall, who exhibited at the 1893 World Columbian Exposition in Chicago, Illinois, and then in 1894 as part of the Société des artistes français in Paris. \n\nJulia Margaret Cameron and Gertrude Kasebier became well known in the new medium of photography, where there were no traditional restrictions, and no established training, to hold them back. \n\nCamille Claudel, Edmonia Lewis and Enid Yandell.\n\nIn the late 19th century, Edmonia Lewis, an African-Ojibwe-Haitian American artist from New York began her art studies at Oberlin College. Her sculpting career began in 1863. She established a studio in Rome, Italy and exhibited her marble sculptures through Europe and the United States.\n\nDuring the century, access to academies and formal art training expanded more for women in Europe and North America. The British Government School of Design, which later became the Royal College of Art, admitted women from its founding in 1837, but only into a \"Female School\" which was treated somewhat differently, with \"life\"- classes consisting for several years of drawing a man wearing a suit of armour. \n\nThe Royal Academy Schools finally admitted women beginning in 1861, but students drew initially only draped models. However, other schools in London, including the Slade School of Art from the 1870s, were more liberal. By the end of the century women were able to study the naked, or very nearly naked, figure in many Western European and North American cities. The Society of Female Artists (now called \"The Society of Women Artists\") was established in 1855 in London and has staged annual exhibitions since 1857, when 358 works were shown by 149 women, some using a pseudonym.\n\nNotable women artists from this period include:\n\nHannelore Baron, Lee Bontecou, Louise Bourgeois, Romaine Brooks, Emily Carr, Leonora Carrington, Mary Cassatt, Elizabeth Catlett, Camille Claudel, Sonia Delaunay, Marthe Donas, Joan Eardley, Marisol Escobar, Dulah Marie Evans, Audrey Flack, Mary Frank, Helen Frankenthaler, Elisabeth Frink, Wilhelmina Weber Furlong, Françoise Gilot, Natalia Goncharova, Nancy Graves, Grace Hartigan, Barbara Hepworth, Eva Hesse, Sigrid Hjertén, Hannah Höch, Frances Hodgkins, Malvina Hoffman, Margaret Ponce Israel, Gwen John, Käthe Kollwitz, Lee Krasner, Frida Kahlo, Hilma af Klint, Laura Knight, Barbara Kruger, Marie Laurencin, Tamara de Lempicka, Séraphine Louis, Dora Maar, Margaret Macdonald Mackintosh, Maruja Mallo, Agnes Martin, Ana Mendieta, Joan Mitchell, Paula Modersohn-Becker, Gabriele Münter, Alice Neel, Louise Nevelson, Georgia O'Keeffe, Orovida Camille Pissarro, Irene Rice Pereira, Bridget Riley, Verónica Ruiz de Velasco, Anne Ryan, Charlotte Salomon, Augusta Savage, Zofia Stryjeńska, Zinaida Serebriakova, Sarai Sherman, Henrietta Shore, Sr. Maria Stanisia, Marjorie Strider, Carrie Sweetser, Suzanne Valadon, Remedios Varo, Maria Helena Vieira da Silva, Nellie Walker, Marianne von Werefkin and Ogura Yuki.\n\nHilma af Klint (1862–1944) was a pioneer abstract painter, working long before her abstract expressionist male counterparts. She was Swedish and regularly exhibited her paintings dealing with realism, but the abstract works were not shown until 20 years after her death, at her request. She considered herself to be a spiritualist and mystic.\n\nMargaret Macdonald Mackintosh (1865–1933) was a Scottish artist whose works helped define the \"Glasgow Style\" of the 1890s and early 20th century. She often collaborated with her husband, the architect and designer Charles Rennie Mackintosh, in works that had influence in Europe. She exhibited with Mackintosh at the 1900 Vienna Secession, where her work is thought to have had an influence on the Secessionists such as Gustav Klimt.\n\nWilhelmina Weber Furlong (1878–1962) was an early American modernist in New York City. She made significant contributions to modern American art through her work at the Art Students League and the Whitney Studio Club. Aleksandra Ekster and Lyubov Popova were Constructivist, Cubo-Futurist, and Suprematist artists well known and respected in Kiev, Moscow and Paris in the early 20th century. Among the other women artists prominent in the Russian avant-garde were Natalia Goncharova, Varvara Stepanova and Nadezhda Udaltsova. Sonia Delaunay and her husband were the founders of Orphism.\n\nIn the Art Deco era, Hildreth Meiere made large-scale mosaics and was the first woman honored with the Fine Arts Medal of the American Institute of Architects. Tamara de Lempicka, also of this era, was an Art Deco painter from Poland. Sr. Maria Stanisia became a notable portraitist, mainly of clergy. Georgia O'Keeffe was born in the late 19th century. She became known for her paintings, featuring flowers, bones, and landscapes of New Mexico. In 1927, Dod Procter's painting \"Morning\" was voted Picture of the Year in the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition, and bought by the \"Daily Mail\" for the Tate gallery. Its popularity resulted in its showing in New York and a two-year tour of Britain. Surrealism, an important artistic style in the 1920s and 1930s, had a number of prominent women artists, including Leonora Carrington, Kay Sage, Dorothea Tanning, and Remedios Varo.\nLee Miller rediscovered solarization and became a high fashion photographer. Dorothea Lange documented the Depression. Margaret Bourke-White created the industrial photographs that were featured on the cover and in the lead article of the first \"Life Magazine\". Diane Arbus based her photography on outsiders to mainstream society. Graciela Iturbide's works dealt with Mexican life and feminism, while Tina Modotti produced \"revolutionary icons\" from Mexico in the 1920s. Annie Leibovitz's photographic work was of rock and roll and other celebrity figures. \n\nMary Carroll Nelson founded the Society of Layerists in Multi-Media (SLMM), whose artist members follow in the tradition of Emil Bisttram and the Transcendental Painting Group, as well as Morris Graves of the Pacific Northwest Visionary Art School. In the 1970s, Judy Chicago created \"The Dinner Party\", a very important work of feminist art. Helen Frankenthaler was an Abstract Expressionist painter and she was influenced by Jackson Pollock. Lee Krasner was also an Abstract Expressionist artist and married to Pollock and a student of Hans Hofmann. Elaine de Kooning was a student and later the wife of Willem de Kooning, she was an abstract figurative painter. Anne Ryan was a collagist. Jane Frank, also a student of Hans Hofmann, worked with mixed media on canvas. In Canada, Marcelle Ferron was an exponent of automatism.\n\nFrom the 1960s on, feminism led to a great increase in interest in women artists and their academic study. Notable contributions have been made by the art historians Germaine Greer, Linda Nochlin, Griselda Pollock and others. Some art historians such as Daphne Haldin have attempted to redress the balance of male-focused histories by compiling lists of women artists, though many of these efforts remain unpublished. Figures like Artemesia Gentileschi and Frida Kahlo emerged from relative obscurity to become feminist icons. The Guerilla Girls, an anonymous group of females formed in 1985, were \"the conscience of the art world.\" They spoke out about indifference and inequalities for gender and race, particularly in the art world. The Guerilla Girls have made many posters as a way of bringing attention, typically in a humorous way, to the community to raise awareness and create change. In 1996, Catherine de Zegher curated an exhibition of 37 great women artists from the twentieth century. The exhibition, \"Inside the Visible\", that travelled from the ICA in Boston to the National Museum for Women in the Arts in Washington, the Whitechapel in London and the Art Gallery of Western Australia in Perth, included artists' works from the 1930s through the 1990s featuring Claude Cahun, Louise Bourgeois, Bracha Ettinger, Agnes Martin, Carrie Mae Weems, Charlotte Salomon, Eva Hesse, Nancy Spero, Francesca Woodman, Lygia Clark and Mona Hatoum among others.\n\nIn 1993, Rachel Whiteread was the first woman to win the Tate Gallery's Turner Prize. Gillian Wearing won the prize in 1997, when there was an all-woman shortlist, the other nominees being Christine Borland, Angela Bulloch and Cornelia Parker. In 1999, Tracey Emin gained considerable media coverage for her entry \"My Bed\", but did not win. In 2006 the prize was awarded to abstract painter, Tomma Abts. In 2001, a conference called \"Women Artists at the Millennium\" was organized at Princeton University. A book by that name was published in 2006, featuring major art historians such as Linda Nochlin analysing prominent women artists such as Louise Bourgeois, Yvonne Rainer, Bracha Ettinger, Sally Mann, Eva Hesse, Rachel Whiteread and Rosemarie Trockel. Internationally prominent contemporary artists who are women also include Magdalena Abakanowicz, Marina Abramović, Jaroslava Brychtova, Lynda Benglis, Lee Bul, Sophie Calle, Janet Cardiff, Li Chevalier, Marlene Dumas, Marisol Escobar, Jenny Holzer, Runa Islam, Chantal Joffe, Yayoi Kusama, Karen Kilimnik, Sarah Lucas, Yoko Ono, Jenny Saville, Carolee Schneeman, Cindy Sherman, Shazia Sikander, Lorna Simpson, Lisa Steele, Stella Vine, Kara Walker, Rebecca Warren, Bettina Werner and Susan Dorothea White. \n\nJapanese artist Yayoi Kusama's paintings, collages, soft sculptures, performance art and environmental installations all share an obsession with repetition, pattern, and accumulation. Her work shows some attributes of feminism, minimalism, surrealism, Art Brut, pop art, and abstract expressionism, and is infused with autobiographical, psychological, and sexual content. She describes herself as an \"obsessive artist\". In November 2008, Christie's auction house New York sold her 1959 painting \"No. 2\" for $5,100,000, the record price in 2008 for a work by a living female artist. During 2010–2011, Pompidou Centre in Paris presented its curators' choice of contemporary women artists in a three-volume's exhibition named \"elles@Centrepompidou\". The museum showed works of major women artists from its own collection. 2010 saw Eileen Cooper elected as the first ever woman 'Keeper of the Royal Academy'. 1995 saw Dame Elizabeth Blackadder in the 300-year history made 'Her Majesty's painter and limber in Scotland, she was awarded the OBE in 1982.\n\nAn interesting genre of women's art is women's environmental art. As of December 2013, the Women Environmental Artists Directory listed 307 women environmental artists, such as Marina DeBris, Vernita Nemec and Betty Beaumont. DeBris uses beach trash to raise awareness of beach and ocean pollution. and to educate children about beach trash. Nemec recently used junk mail to demonstrate the complexity of modern life. Beaumont has been described as a pioneer of environmental art and uses art to challenge our beliefs and actions.\n\nWomen artists have often been mis-characterized in historical accounts, both intentionally and unintentionally; such misrepresentations have often been dictated by the socio-political mores of the given era. There are a number of issues that lie behind this, including:\n\n\n"}
