{"id": "2513911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2513911", "title": "2Mex", "text": "2Mex\n\nAlejandro Ocana, better known by his stage name 2Mex, is a rapper from Los Angeles, California. He is a member of The Visionaries and Of Mexican Descent. He has collaborated with underground hip hop artists such as Jel, Omid, Thavius Beck, Factor, Radioinactive and Isaiah \"Ikey\" Owens. He is a member of the Project Blowed crew, and he is affiliated with Shape Shifters.\n\n2Mex attended the Good Life Cafe open mic nights in 1993. Around that time, he founded Of Mexican Descent with Xololanxinxo.\n\nIn 1998, he released his first album with The Visionaries as well as the first Of Mexican Descent album, and he was featured on the OD (Omid) compilation album \"Beneath the Surface\". In 1999, he was featured (with Xololanxinxo as Of Mexican Descent) on the Fat Jack compilation album \"Cater to the DJ\", and he released his first solo album \"Fake It Till You Make It\" as The Mind Clouders with producer Mums the Word. In 2000, he was featured (as a member of the Afterlife Crew) on the Afterlife Records compilation \"Declaration of an Independent\". He then released \"B-Boys in Occupied Mexico\" on Mean Street in 2001. \"Sweat Lodge Infinite\" was released on Temporary Whatever in 2003. The self-titled album, \"2Mex\", was released in 2004. He released \"My Fanbase Will Destroy You\" on Strange Famous Records in 2010. It features guest appearances from Murs, Prince Po, Busdriver and Nobody.\n\n2Mex is featured in Ava Duvernay's award-winning documentary \"This Is the Life\", chronicling the music movement that was birthed at The Good Life Cafe in South Central, Los Angeles. The Good Life Cafe is the open-mic workshop where he first performed with Of Mexican Descent in 1993.\n\nSolo\n2Mex & Maiselph\n\nThe Visionaries\n\nOf Mexican Descent\n\nThe Mind Clouders\n\nSonGodSuns\n\n$martyr\n\nLook Daggers\n\nThe Returners\n\n2Mex, KeyKool, & LMNO\n\nGuest appearances\n\n"}
{"id": "57125214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57125214", "title": "A Dialogue on Personal Identity and Immortality", "text": "A Dialogue on Personal Identity and Immortality\n\nA Dialogue on Personal Identity and Immortality is a book by the philosopher John Perry.\nIt has been translated into Spanish, Chinese, Persian and Korean.\n\nIt deals with standard problems in the theory of personal identity in the form of a dialogue between a terminally ill university professor at a small Midwestern college, Gretchen Weirob, and her two friends, Sam Miller and Dave Cohen. The views represented include those of Bernard Williams, John Locke, and Derek Parfit. The format of associating different philosophical positions with different characters in a dialogue recalls David Hume's \"Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion\". \n\n"}
{"id": "32498719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32498719", "title": "A Ge", "text": "A Ge\n\nA Ge (Simplified Chinese: 阿鸽; Hanyu Pinyin: Ā Gē) (born 1948) is a Chinese print artist from Liangshan in Sichuan Province and is a member of the Yi people ethnic minority. \nPer government policy towards ethnic minorities, A Ge was recruited at age twelve to attend the Sichuan Fine Arts Institute and was encouraged to create art to publicize Yi minority culture and help development.\n\nIn 1964 she graduated from the national minority class at the Sichuan branch of the China Artists Association. She is married to Xu Kuang.\n\nA Ge is a Grade 1 National Artist, a member of the China Artists Association and the Chinese Engravers Association, and is chairman of the Sichuan Artists Association. Her works have been collected by the British Museum in London.\n\nSelected works:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52331783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52331783", "title": "A Hoàng", "text": "A Hoàng\n\nA Hoàng (born 1995) is a Vietnamese footballer who plays as a Defender for V-League club Hoàng Anh Gia Lai F.C..2913\n"}
{"id": "50527564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50527564", "title": "A Mít", "text": "A Mít\n\nA Mít (born 1997) is a Vietnamese footballer of ethnic Degar descent who plays as a midfielder for V-League (Vietnam) club SHB Đà Nẵng F.C..\n\nA Mít was born one of eight children to a poor Degar family of melon farmers in Kon Tum. At the age of just 12 A Mít traveled to Pleiku to join the HAGL – Arsenal JMG Academy. However A Mít's small size and frequent injuries and sicknesses caused him to quit and go back to his families farm. A couple years latter a scout from SHB Đà Nẵng took notice and invited A Mít to the club's academy. A Mít showed impressive improvement and in 2016 made his league debut.\n"}
{"id": "49070918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49070918", "title": "Aaajiao", "text": "Aaajiao\n\naaajiao （aka.Xu Wenkai） (), is the online handle of Xu Wenkai, a Shanghai- and Berlin-based artist, avid blogger and free thinker.\n\nBorn in 1984, aaajiao grew up in Xi’an, the ancient capital of Qin and Han Dynasty known for the Terracotta Army. The year of 1984, coinciding with George Orwell’s dystopian masterpiece, seems to explain the perfect alignment between the vivid SciTech-driven imagination and the sometimes-poetic sophistication, frequently seen as the main theme of aaajiao’s work. Many of aaajiao’s works tap into the most current trends of thoughts around the Internet sphere, with a focus on the emerging controversies and phenomenon related to data processing, blogsphere/wemedia and filtered information. In his most recent projects, the artist has adopted a more extended scope of practices, borrowing elements from architecture, electronic music, performance arts, product design, even medicine, to portray the young generation harnessing the power of cyber technology and the ever-present social media.\n\nBeing one of the most frequently exhibited Chinese new media artists, aaajiao has been featured in both international and domestic scenes. Highlights include: “Global Control And Censorship - ZKM | Zentrum für Kunst und Medientechnologie Karlsruhe, Karlsruhe(2015)”, The 2nd “CAFAM Future” Exhibition: Observer-Creator · The Reality Representation of Chinese Young Art Beijing, CAFA Art Museum (2015); Cosmos - Limited and Limitless, Existence and Co-existence Shanghai, 21st Century Minsheng Art Museum (2014),Thingworld - International Triennial of New Media Art Beijing,The National Art Museum of China (2014),The West Bund Architecture and Contemporary Art Biennale, Shanghai (2013); “One World” Exposition – Chinese Art in the Age of the New Media, Videotage, TransLife: Media Art China 2011 - International Triennial of New Media Art Beijing,The National Art Museum of China (2011),Hong Kong (2011); Transmediale, Berlin (2010), etc. aaajiao is a winner of the Jury Prize from Art Sanya Awards 2014, a nominee of OCAT – Pierre Huber Art Prize, and most recently, a nominee of the “Young Artist of the Year” of 9th “Award of Art China”.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36169336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36169336", "title": "Abdelkader Aamara", "text": "Abdelkader Aamara\n\nAbdelkader Aamara ( - born 28 January 1962, in Bouarfa) is a Moroccan politician of the Justice and Development Party and is its Chief Treasurer. On 3 January 2012 he was nominated as the Minister for Industry, Trade and New Technologies in the cabinet of Abdelilah Benkirane. Between 2013 and 2016 he was the Minister for Energy, Mines, Water and Environment and since 5 April 2017 he has been the minister for Equipment, Transport and Water Logistics in the cabinet of El Othmani. From 2 - 20 August 2018 he also took an interim position as the Minister for Economy and Finance following the firing of Mohamed Boussaid. Since 2002 he has served as MP for Salé (re-elected in 2007, 2011) and is a professor at the Hassan II Institute of Agronomy in Rabat, from which he graduated in 1986.\n\nA laureate and then, since 1986, professor at the Rabat Hassan II Veterinary and Agronomical Institute, Abdelkader Amara obtained his doctorate in the same year before leaving for France in 1989.\n\nAmara has been a member of the General Secretariat, Treasurer and Former President of the Central Framework Committee of the Justice and Development Party since 1997. He has also been an expert at the World Science Organisation, based in Sweden, for the last ten years.\n\nAs a Councillor in the town of Salé since 2002, Amara is also a former President of the Productive Sectors Commission in the Chamber of Representatives and is an ex-member of the chamber's bureau.\n\nAs Vice-President of the Justice and Development Party group in the chamber in charge of communications, Amara is also a founding member of the Association of Moroccan Parliamentarians Against Corruption and a former member of the Administrative Commission of the National Higher Education Trade Union.\n\nAmara is also the Vice-President of the World Forum of Islamic Parliamentarians, of which he is a founding member, and founding member of the International Alliance for the Support of Al-Qods and Palestine (Istanbul).\n\nAbdelkader Amara is married and a father of three children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071113", "title": "Ambivalence", "text": "Ambivalence\n\nAmbivalence is a state of having simultaneous conflicting reactions, beliefs, or feelings towards some object. Stated another way, ambivalence is the experience of having an attitude towards someone or something that contains both positively and negatively valenced components. The term also refers to situations where \"mixed feelings\" of a more general sort are experienced, or where a person experiences uncertainty or indecisiveness.\n\nAlthough attitudes tend to guide attitude-relevant behavior, those held with ambivalence tend to do so to a lesser extent. The less certain an individual is in their attitude, the more impressionable it becomes, hence making future actions less predictable and/or less decisive. Ambivalent attitudes are also more susceptible to transient information (e.g., mood), which can result in a more malleable evaluation. However, since ambivalent people think more about attitude-relevant information, they also tend to be more persuaded by (compelling) attitude relevant information than less ambivalent people.\n\nExplicit ambivalence may or may not be experienced as psychologically unpleasant when the positive and negative aspects of a subject are both present in a person's mind at the same time. Psychologically uncomfortable ambivalence, also known as cognitive dissonance, can lead to avoidance, procrastination, or to deliberate attempts to resolve the ambivalence. People experience the greatest discomfort from their ambivalence at the time when the situation requires a decision to be made. People are aware of their ambivalence to varying degrees, so the effects of an ambivalent state vary across individuals and situations. For this reason, researchers have considered two forms of ambivalence, only one of which is subjectively experienced as a state of conflict.\n\nThe psychological literature has distinguished between several different forms of ambivalence. One, often called subjective ambivalence or felt ambivalence, represents the psychological experience of conflict (affective manifestation), mixed feelings, mixed reactions (cognitive manifestation), and indecision (behavioral manifestation) in the evaluation of some object. Ambivalence is not always acknowledged by the individual experiencing it. Although, when the individual becomes aware to a varying degree, discomfort is felt, which is elicited by the conflicting attitudes about a particular stimulus.\n\nSubjective ambivalence is generally assessed using direct self-report measures regarding one's experience of conflict about the topic of interest. Because subjective ambivalence is a secondary judgment of a primary evaluation (i.e., I'm conflicted \"of\" my positive attitude towards the president), it is considered to be metacognitive. The point of these measures is to find out how much a person experiences ambivalence in a particular evaluation. Their report may be provided in a number of ways.\n\nPriester and Petty, for example, utilized a rating system where they had subjects rate the level of conflict they were experiencing on a scale from 0 (as in the subject experienced \"no conflict at all\") to 10 (as in the subject experienced \"maximum conflict\"). However, people do not like to experience the negative emotions associated with ambivalence and therefore may not acknowledge, or report, their level of conflict as accurately as possible. This makes the measure of felt ambivalence a bit less reliable than a researcher may desire.\n\nAnother measure of ambivalence that has been developed is called objective ambivalence or potential ambivalence, which represents the simultaneous acknowledgement of both positive and negative evaluations regarding a particular stimulus. Objective ambivalence is an indirect measure of attitude conflict that allows individuals to answer questions based on more accessible aspects of their attitude and is therefore generally viewed as an advantageous means of measurement. This indirect measure does not assume that the individual has complete knowledge and/or awareness of their attitudinal conflict and helps to eliminate confounding factors that may be affecting their attitudes.\n\nObjective ambivalence is generally assessed using a method first developed by Kaplan, in which a standard bipolar attitude scale (e.g., extremely negative to extremely positive) is split into two separate scales, each independently assessing the magnitude of one valence (e.g., not at all negative to extremely negative). If a person endorses both positive and negative reactions towards the same object, then at least some objective ambivalence is present.\n\nKaplan initially operationalized ambivalence as the lesser of the two reactions (i.e., positive or negative evaluations), also called conflicting reactions (and contrasted with dominant reactions). For example, if objective ambivalence towards exercising was assessed using two separate 6-point scales, and a person indicated that his or her evaluation was slightly negative (e.g., 2 on a 6-point scale) and extremely positive (e.g., 6 on a 6-point scale), this person's ambivalence would be quantified by the lesser of these two evaluations (i.e., 2 in this example).\n\nKaplan's measure yields the formula: formula_1\n\nHere, S is representative of the smaller rating or reaction, and the L is representative of the larger rating or reaction.\n\nHowever, Kaplan's measure has largely been replaced in practice by one proposed by Thompson et al. Thompson' s formula fulfills the three necessary conditions for any scale measuring ambivalence as suggested by Breckler.\n\nThe three conditions are as follows:\nThompson et al. refined Kaplan's formula to incorporate Breckler's components: formula_2\n\nThe creation of this formula was pivotal because it accounts for both subjective and objective ratings.\n\nResearch has shown only a moderate correlation between felt and potential ambivalence, although, both measures are useful depending on what is being asked. Potential ambivalence is often utilized by ambivalence researchers to gather more information about diversity of attitudes across contexts. Each individual experiences the after-effects of unpleasant feelings in a different way, whether or not associated with ambivalence awareness.\n\nThere are two primary moderators that link felt and potential ambivalence: \"simultaneous accessibility\" and \"preference for consistency\".\n\nSimultaneous accessibility is when potential ambivalence depends on how quickly and uniformly conflicting evaluations come to mind. Positive and negative knowledge regarding beliefs about an attitude object are concurrently known, but not always accessible. Only when the connection of the evaluations are applicable and coinciding to awareness, does potential ambivalence result in felt ambivalence.\n\nPreference for consistency uses incentives to combine incoming stimuli with current variables in order to respond to approaching impulses. In other words, people often review past behaviors when making new decisions; if preference for consistency is high, they are more likely to ignore new information and are thus bias to past behaviors.\n\nTraditionally, attitudes were considered one-dimensional—from positive to negative—but given the rise of research findings, this perspective has lost much of its value. Ambivalence studies were a primary reason that attitudinal assessments demanded a new design. Because the basic assumption of an ambivalent attitude is that it is paradoxical, a one-dimensional perspective is likely to portray faulty information. For instance, a numerical rating of zero can be produced both by someone with a love-hate relationship toward an object, and someone who is completely indifferent about that object. There is a significant difference in the behaviors and experiences of those possessing strong conflicting attitudes, compared to those who are simply neutral. This perspective is unsuitable for examining ambivalence and based on current research does not appear to accurately reflect how attitudes function and are experienced.\n\nThe two-dimensional perspective separately rates positive and negative attitudes toward an attitudinal object. The relative magnitude of positive and negative rankings are recognized by this model, providing a distinction between ambivalence and indifference. By comparing the magnitude of attitudes, the two-dimensional perspective also allows for an approximation of the degree of ambivalence; similarity in the magnitude of an individual’s positive and negative attitude towards an object indicating ambivalence, and the strength of these attitudes reveals its degree. The two-dimensional view can report everything the one-dimensional perspective can, but it has the added ability to account for ambivalence. Though this model of attitude is clearly more useful for understanding and potentially assessing ambivalence than a one dimensional model it still suffers numerous paradoxes which are difficult to argue away without acknowledging that there is more contributing to one's attitudes and their stability than perceptions regarding the object alone. These issues prompt the recent emergence of multidimensional models.\n\nThe Multidimensional model for attitude deviates from the linear perspectives previously mentioned. Conceptually the multidimensional model can be thought of as a network of attitudinal hubs which form a web of contributions contributing to one's attitude about a particular object. Thus ones attitude toward an object is a product of the attitudes one holds for all related objects which are activated consciously or unconsciously when considering the object in question, and is not simply an attribution regarding the object alone in a vacuum. Ambivalence occurs when there are near equal weight of contributions of both positive and negative sources according to this perspective. Note in this view the ambivalent attitude is not tied directly to the object but rather the near equivalence of positive and negative contributing attitudes.\n\nThis model is very useful for understanding why attitude towards an object can fluctuate often within a relatively short span. If this model is accurate than a change in the degree of activation of particular objects related to the attitudinal object in question will alter the degree to which they contribute their attitudinal influence towards one's current attitude regarding the object in question. This allows for variance in attitude towards an object without requiring any permanent change in one's beliefs regarding neither the object nor the objects related to it. According to this model one's attitude towards eating a high calorie dessert food would likely become more positive during times when an individual is hungry, as the centers associated with the satiation property of food are now more active and contributing more influence to the attitude regarding consuming the dessert. The other contributing attitudes do not need to have been suppressed (though they can be) for the temporary change in attitude all that is required, is an increase in the output of one contributor.\n\nContinued or repeated activation of the same related objects to a given attitudinal object will likely be reinforced and over time lend more stability to the attitude, and are likely to diminish the activation of those objects not strongly activated; however it should be noted that the contributing objects are themselves also subject to changes in attitudes regarding\nthem, so no final resolution of stability will necessarily occur. In addition if the same conflicting attitudinal contributors are continuing to “fire together” they will both be reinforced and thus may not contribute towards the resolution of ambivalence.\n\nNot all attitude objects are linked to both positive and negative relations. This model is built on the idea that meta-cognition has to do with \"knowing about knowing.\" The process works if someone has the knowledge about cognition and is also able to control their thoughts. An evaluation creates initial thoughts that are then analyzed by a secondary thought which may vary in strength toward an assessment. Once an evaluation is obtained, the strength of the validity affects how the interpretation is perceived. If a successful univalent attitude is achieved, final evaluations are labelled as either true or false based on varying degrees of confidence.\n\nCognitive consistency theories were established on the premise that individuals prefer dependable and coherent cognition. Inconsistency in one's thoughts, feelings, emotions, values, beliefs, attitudes, or behaviors causes tension. In the past, consistency theorists focused primarily on the instinctive drive to reduce this psychological discomfort and return to a simple, balanced state. Unlike classical approaches, however, theories of attitudinal ambivalence are more concerned with the \"perceived \"paradoxical state itself.\n\nFritz Heider established the first approach in the growing family of consistency theories; balance theory seeks to understand one's thoughts regarding their personal relationship with others and with the environment. Triadic relationships are used to evaluate the structure and quality of attitudes within a given arrangement.\n\nSocial ties, for example, can be analyzed in terms of an individual's perception of the relationships between his or her self \"(p)\", another person \"(o), \"and the topic (e.g., issue, belief, value, object) of focus \"(x)\". According to Heider, a balanced triangle is accomplished when all three links are positive, or two are negative and one is positive (since a positive number is still achieved).\n\nThe overall assumption of balance theory is rooted in the philosophy that unbalanced states have a tendency to wreak havoc. Satisfying relationships require balance, otherwise, it is not uncommon to experience consequences like stress, tension, or ambivalence.\n\nEvaluative-cognitive consistency theory refers to a condition in which one holds opposing attitudes towards an object that are not of equal magnitude; the focus is the overall difference in evaluations, with no regard to magnitude.\n\n“Ambivalence is a function of the \"amount of conflict\" within an attitude, whereas evaluative-cognitive consistency is a function of the \"magnitude of the difference\" between evaluations.”\n\nIn a set of dimension scores, for example, positive 5 and negative 5 have the same degree of consistency as does the set of positive 9 and negative 1. Yet, the degree of ambivalence in each set is vastly different. This distinction is important when examining the implications and effects of ambivalence, since seemingly similar ratings are in fact quite different.\n\nThe two-dimensional perspective of attitudinal assessment can distinguish between ambivalence and evaluative-cognitive consistency. As ratings increase, both ambivalence and evaluative-cognitive consistency have a tendency to be less stable and less effective at predicting behavior.\n\nPast studies have linked ambivalent mental states to slower response times (due to low accessibility) and mild attitudes, although theories of evaluative-cognitive consistency have yet to report such findings.\n\nThe feeling of discomfort that results from inconsistent cognition is a powerful determinant of human behavior. The emergence of research on intellectual tension dates back to the mid-20th century, and has been a hot topic in social psychology ever since. In 1957, Leon Festinger was the first to investigate the phenomenon, thereupon coining the theory of cognitive dissonance. Festinger and other early psychologists held the notion that cognitive dissonance was the result of any \"two \"conflicting thoughts or opinions. Currently, however, research has proven that not all cognitive inconsistencies are equally upsetting, for it is not necessarily the dissonance itself that causes strife, rather, it is the individuals construct of the given contention.\n\nDissonance, then, is characterized as a discrepancy between an attitude held by an individual and the actual behavior that is practiced by that individual, whereas ambivalence is seen as having a disparity within the attitude itself. Though unique, the ambivalent state, still, is closely connected to dissonance theory, being its most common product.\n\nIndividuals seek to satisfy a stable and positive self-image. For this reason, the greatest tension is encountered when there is an incongruity between who one thinks they are and their actual behavior. Such threats to self-esteem evoke motivation to rid oneself of the distress. According to present research, there are three widely accepted methods to reduce cognitive dissonance:\n\nAs noted above, the desire to maintain one's preconceived notions can have vast implications. Studies have shown it is not uncommon for people to distort reality while attempting reduce ambivalence. The manner by which one chooses to replace unwanted thoughts is mostly an unconscious process, yet several factors influence the ability and likelihood of doing so.\n\nInformation processing for ambivalent attitudes is less efficient and takes longer than processing of attitudes that are relatively univalent. The information is less accessible, so it takes longer for a person to integrate multiple viewpoints regarding an attitude object into one cohesive opinion or judgement. The lack of accessibility here does serve to reduce a biased thought process. Yet, since it takes a greater amount of effort to resolve two conflicting attitudes, if one desires to form a conclusion, a more extensive thought process is necessary.\n\nResearchers have sought to understand the relationship between objective and subjective ambivalence. Thompson and his colleagues argue that people with positive and negative evaluations which are of similar magnitude (e.g., +4 and -3) should experience more ambivalence than people whose evaluations are of dissimilar magnitude (e.g., +4 and -1). Similarly, they argue that even with relatively similar positive and negative evaluations, people whose evaluations are more extreme (e.g., +6 and -5) should experience more ambivalence than people whose evaluations are less extreme (e.g., +2 and -1).\n\nThe Griffin formula, also known as the similarity-intensity model: formula_3\n\nHere, P and N are the magnitude of positive and negative reactions, respectively.\n\nSome research has stated that as the relative contribution of dominant reactions decreases, the magnitude of conflicting reactions increases. Other studies have found that objective ambivalence predicts subjective ambivalence to a greater extent when both the positive and negative reactions are accessible, or when a decision about the attitude object is imminent. Still, more evidence has demonstrated that objective ambivalence is not the only precursor to subjective ambivalence. For example, interpersonal ambivalence, the presence of attitudes which are in conflict with those of important others, independently predicts subjective ambivalence, as does the mere anticipation of information which may conflict with one's preexisting attitude.\n\nBoth personal and circumstantial aspects must be considered in order to accurately assess relationship sustainability between subjective and objective ambivalence.\n\nIndividual characteristics are essential in deciding the most beneficial coping strategies. Research has shown that certain personality traits may impact an individuals likelihood of experiencing ambivalence. There are certain personality traits that aren't as relevant to ambivalence, such as the need for closure. Other components may alter these traits that may contribute toward ambivalence, such as tolerance to ambiguity. Particularly, those possessing the need for cognition, or the inclination to evaluate the discrepancies between positive and negative emotions, are less likely to experience ambivalence. In other words, the desire to resolve issues, which requires a great deal of cognitive resources, fosters cognitive strength and thus the ability to overcome ambivalence.\n\nAmbivalent attitudes that demonstrate weakness are accessed slower than strong attitudes. This leads to a conflict called response competition; the process of slowing down responses because of the difficulty to choose between positive and negative beliefs and feelings. Bottom-up processing shows how greater cognitive effort entwined with combined beliefs results in non congruent information. Once individuals are confronted several choices, they are then followed by uncertain outcomes. Thus concluding that slower response times may be due to systematic processing.\n\nIndividuals with a greater concern for invalidity experience a heightened amount of ambivalence, presumably because they are concerned with making wrongful judgments, and as a result, efforts to adjust attitude become inhibited. Response to ambivalence, then, is affected by an individual's need for consistency; hence, the higher the need for consistency, the more adverse the reaction will be to maintaining two contradictory attitudes simultaneously, whereas someone with a reduced need for consistency will experience less mental frustration Those seeking to rectify inconsistencies and resolve conflict are able to reject ambivalence better than most.\n\nAdditionally, some individuals have a more pronounced fear of invalidity than others. When this fear is experienced to a stronger degree, these individuals will not want to acknowledge the ambivalence as it is especially uncomfortable. Since the ambiguity is not being resolved, it will persist within the person.<nowiki> </nowiki>Gebauer, Maio, and Pakizeh discuss the possibility that many perfectionists, despite the seemingly positive qualities exerted, are at risk of neglecting internal inconsistencies. Consequently, it is not unlikely for those individuals to confront a plethora of unexplained, ambivalent feelings.\n\nAmbivalence will emerge when two (or more) goals valued by an individual are in conflict regarding the same attitudinal object. The individual becomes ambivalent about the object to which they both reference, not as much when regarding the individual goals themselves.\n\nMany decisions as common as food consumption or selection can invoke some degree of ambivalence\nevery day. An action can seem to have pleasant outcomes, but it can simultaneously cause issues as well. Emotions or attitudes that are ambivalent may spark both quick and far-off consequences that are inconsistent. A chronic dieter, for example, may experience ambivalence between the goals of eating enjoyment and weight control. Each of these goals independently are viewed as positive, but when conjoined in regards to actually eating more food, the resulting conflict prompts ambivalence. The object of eating enjoyment and the object of losing weight are both regarded with positive attitude, but these two goals are incongruent with each other and are both activated when considering eating.\n\nThe goal driven ambivalence that produces several forms of behavior modification may have profound implications on the behaviors and outcomes. Some examples are overcoming addiction, procrastination, health maintenance, and many others. Much of the focus of previous work has been concentrated on pain avoidance and pleasure seeking (focus on the ambivalent object itself), and not enough to the \"pleasure\" goal objectives related to and driving the conflict. Under certain circumstances, people who are exposed to unpleasant experiences are motivated to decrease unpleasant feelings toward ambivalence. One way to accomplish such a task is by acquiring new knowledge that can result in more immediate conclusions about the attitude object, or result in an adjustment in the individuals attitudes regarding the contributing goals which prompted the conflict.\n\nAmbivalent attitudes that demonstrate weakness are accessed slower than strong attitudes and are thought to have less of an influence on behavior. This leads to a conflict called response competition; the process of slowing down responses because of the difficulty to choose between positive and negative beliefs and feelings. Bottom-up processing shows how greater cognitive effort entwined with combined beliefs results in incongruent information. Once individuals are confronted several choices, they are then followed by uncertain outcomes. Thus concluding that slower response times may be due to systematic processing.\n\nAmbivalence is often the result of conflict arising from personal or social values. Different cultures, and the individuals within them, have different values surrounding race, ethnicity, nationality, class, religion or beliefs, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, and health status. Social constructs and perceived norms and values within a given society create contradictory feelings for many individuals. If opposing values are activated by the same object they are likely to clash upon encounter.\n\nConflicted value items do not need to come from the same category, but to be considered a contributor of ambivalence, discordance must occur.\n\nThe attitudinal object of women in the workplace could, for example, be affected by religious or political values. The contributing value systems are both held in positive regard but are opposed to each other in reference to the attitudinal ambivalent item. The amount of ambivalence experienced corresponds to the positive regard of each value contributing to the conflict. In other words, weakly held conflicting values should not generate as much ambivalence as strongly held values.\n\nAffective ambivalence (A+/A-) refers to disparity between feelings, whereas cognitive ambivalence (C+/C-) focuses on the disagreement between beliefs. Together, the notion of affective-cognitive ambivalence (A+/C-) or (A-/C+) embodies the commonly known conundrum of “\"the heart vs. mind conflict.\"”\n\nWhen each state is in balance, the influence on attitude is equal (A+/C+). Yet, there is compelling evidence that affect tends to overpower cognition (A+/C-).\n\nThat is to say, the degree of ambivalence construed at any given moment can alter the mechanisms by which one views the world. When ambivalent cognitive states become psychologically agonizing, motivation rises to eliminate distress. Under those circumstances, people generally pay more attention to information that is relevant to their ambivalent state, in particular when it is perceived as having the potential to reduce discomfort.\n\nAmbivalence is often conceptualized as a negative predictor of attitude strength. That is, as an attitude becomes more ambivalent, its strength decreases. Strong attitudes are those that are stable over time, resistant to change, and predict behavior and information processing.\n\nStudies have found that ambivalent attitudes are less stable over time, less resistant to change, and less predictive of behavior.\n\nAmbivalent attitudes are subject to change based on the concepts, feelings, or objects that are salient at the time. Since an ambivalent attitude is one in which positive and negative feelings are held simultaneously, the strength of either may wax or wane depending on what context the individual finds themselves in; different aspects of an attitude may be activated across situations.\n\nAmbivalent attitudes are known to be susceptible to persuasion. Since there is less certainty associated with an ambivalent attitude, both facts and trivial information are assessed, assimilated, and determinant of one's attitude. Accordingly, this may bias or persuade an individual's attitude. Strong attitudes, on the other hand, are less likely to be manipulated because they are essentially \"anchored in knowledge structures\".\n\nArmitage and Conner conducted a study regarding attitudes toward eating a low-fat diet. Attitudes of a high ambivalence group and a low ambivalence group were recorded two times within five months. Following an attitude change intervention the high ambivalence group demonstrated a significant positive change in attitude toward the diet (compared to a control group) whereas the low ambivalence group demonstrated very little change if any.\n\nIn situations that highlight one dimension over the other, individuals who are high in ambivalence are more likely to embrace the clear-cut better aspect of the attitude object.\n\nThe concept of ambivalence was introduced into psychiatric parlance by Eugen Bleuler, who used it in print for the first time in his 1910 article \"Vortrag über Ambivalenz\". Bleuler distinguished three main types of ambivalence: volitional, intellectual, and emotional. Volitional ambivalence refers to an inability to decide on an action—what Montaigne called \"a spirit justly balanced betweene two equal desires\". The concept (if not Bleuler's term) had a long prehistory, reaching back through Buridan's ass, starving between two equally attractive bales of hay in the Middle Ages, to Aristotle. Intellectual ambivalence—the sceptical belief that \"There is no reason but hath a contrary to it\" —also follows a long tradition reaching back through Montaigne to Sextus Empiricus and Pyrrho. (Freud considered Bleuler's stress on intellectual ambivalence particularly appropriate given his own ambivalence towards Freud's intellectual constructs, alternatively praising and criticizing them). Emotional ambivalence involved opposing affective attitudes towards the same object, as with the man who both loved and hated his wife.\n\nWhile mainly dealing with ambivalence in relation to the psychological splitting of schizophrenia, Bleuler also noted how \"in the dreams of healthy persons, affective as well as intellectual ambivalence is a common phenomenon\".\n\nFreud was swift to pickup Bleuler's concept of ambivalence, applying it to areas he had previously dealt with in terms of ambiguous language, or the persistent co-existence of love and hatred aimed at the same person. Freud also extended the scope of Bleuler's term to cover the co-existence of active and passive trends in the same instinctual impulse—what Freud called \"pairs of contrary component instincts\" such as looking and being looked at.\n\nKarl Abraham explored the presence of ambivalence in mourning—something he thought to be a universal phenomenon. Others in psychoanalysis have traced the roots of contradictory impulses (usually love and hate) to very early stages of psychosexual development.\n\nDefences against feeling both of the two contradictory emotions include psychological repression, isolation and displacement. Thus, for example, an analytic patient's love for his father might be quite consciously experienced and openly expressed—while his \"hate\" for the same object might be heavily repressed and only indirectly expressed, and thus only revealed in analysis. A drug addict may feel ambivalently about their drug of choice; they are aware of their drug use as a negative-impact agent in their lives (socially, financially, physically, etc.) while simultaneously seeking and using the drug because of the positive-impact results they receive from the drug's usage (the \"high\"). (More recent discourse of addiction as a mental health concern and chemically-induced/encoded \"imperative\", rather than as a behavioral \"choice\", complicates the notion of ambivalence as it relates to addiction.)\n\nAnother relevant distinction is that whereas the psychoanalytic notion of \"ambivalence\" sees it as engendered by all neurotic conflict, a person's everyday \"mixed feelings\" may easily be based on a quite realistic assessment of the imperfect nature of the thing being considered.\n\nPhilosophers such as Hili Razinsky consider how ambivalence relates to other aspects of the human experience, such as personhood, action, and judgement, and what it means that strict ambivalence is possible.\n\nThe first too write about ambivalence in 2004 was Susan Peabody who donated the concept to Love Addicts Anonymous.\n"}
{"id": "25324226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25324226", "title": "Anti-aging movement", "text": "Anti-aging movement\n\nThe anti-aging movement is a social movement devoted to eliminating or reversing aging, or reducing the effects of it. A substantial portion of the attention of the movement is on the possibilities for life extension, but there is also interest in techniques such as cosmetic surgery which ameliorate the effects of aging rather than delay or defeat it.\n\nTwo popular proponents of the anti-aging movement include Ray Kurzweil, who says humanity can defeat aging through the advance of technology, and Aubrey De Grey, who says that the human body is a very complicated machine and thus, can be repaired indefinitely. Other scientists and significant contributors to the movement include molecular biologists, geneticists, and biomedical gerontologists such as Gary Ruvkun, Cynthia Kenyon, and Arthur D. Levinson. However, figures in the gerontology community in 2003 tried to distance their research from the perceived pseudoscience of the movement.\n\nAnti-aging medicine has become a budding and rapidly growing medical specialty as physicians who initially sought treatment for themselves have received training and certification in its practice by organizations such as the American Academy of Anti-Aging Medicine (A4M).\n\nCentral to anti-aging medicine is administration of human growth hormone. Clinical studies have shown that low-dose growth hormone (GH) treatment for adults with GH deficiency changes the body composition by increasing muscle mass, decreasing fat mass, and increasing bone density and muscle strength. It also improves cardiovascular parameters (i.e. decrease of LDL cholesterol) and affects the quality of life without significant side effects. However, it is also said to have potentially dangerous side-effects when used in injectable form, if proper protocols are not followed. It is not approved for use in healthy aging patients, though many have been using it for this reason for decades now. That restriction is sidestepped by means of a diagnosis of some injury, organic condition, or adult growth hormone deficiency which supposedly has resulted in reduced secretion of the hormone.\n\nAdministration of estrogen and other hormones such as progestin were popularized by the 1966 book \"Feminine Forever\" by Robert A. Wilson. However, the increase of the use of estrogen was shown to be associated with an increased risk of cancer. Later, in 2002, research into the long-term effects of estrogen on post-menopausal women, the Women’s Health Initiative, produced evidence that there were serious side effects. Physicians who prescribe the hormones now prescribe low doses of the drugs. Research into the long-term effects of hormone replacement therapy is continuing, with a 2017 Cochrane systematic review concluding that long-term use may decrease the risk of bone fractures or postmenopausal osteoporosis, but increase the risk of stroke, heart attacks, endometrial cancer, and breast cancer. Hormone therapy is generally only recommended for postmenopausal women who are at a high risk of osteoporosis when non-hormonal treatments are not suitable. Hormone therapy is not suitable or advised for treating cardiovascular disease, dementia, or for preventing cognitive decline in postmenopausal women. The risks of long-term hormonal therapy for women under 50 years of age have not been determined.\n\nBiogerontology is a scientific discipline which has the same area of interest but, as a branch of gerontology, takes a more conservative approach.\n\nA substantial fraction of older people, taking their cue from alternative medicine, purchase and use herbal supplements and other products which promise relief from the incidents and dangers of aging. Some products are not effective while others hold promise.\n\nThere are at least two opposite views on the prospects of anti-aging research and development. One group states that there is a great deal of over-heated rhetoric in use with respect to life extension with over-optimistic projections on the part of its advocates. They also claim that there is little evidence that any significant breakthrough has been made, or is on the horizon. Some state that, this is largely due to a current lack of funding or interest in the issue. A study of the common supplements and hormone treatments used published in 2006 in the \"Cleveland Clinic Journal of Medicine\" showed that none of them are effective with respect to extending life.\nAnother group notices that recent scientific successes in rejuvenation and extending the lifespan of model animals (mice 2.5 times, yeast and nematodes 10 times) and discovery of variety of species (including humans of advanced ages) having negligible senescence give hope to achieve negligible senescence (cancel ageing) for younger humans, reverse ageing, or at least significantly delay it. Moreover, stopping or delaying aging should be a focus of the modern science and medicine since ageing is the major cause of mortality in the world.\n\nThough some scientists think curing aging is impossible, there are some criticisms of both the time frame life extensionists envision (the first, perhaps somewhat crude, treatments within the next several decades, or at least before the beginning of the 22nd century) and of whether curing aging is even desirable. Common criticisms of the idea of life extension are fears it will cause the world to be more overpopulated; however De Grey counters that by saying that since menopause would also be delayed, women could wait longer to have children and thus, the rate of growth would actually \"decline\" as a result. Also, the slowly growing population would buy centuries of time to figure out new places to live, such as space colonies.\n\n"}
{"id": "2196795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2196795", "title": "Apparent death", "text": "Apparent death\n\nApparent death, colloquially known as playing dead, feigning death, or playing possum, is a behavior in which animals take on the appearance of being dead. This form of animal deception is an adaptive behavior also known as tonic immobility or thanatosis. Apparent death can be used as a defense mechanism or as a form of aggressive mimicry, and occurs in a wide range of animals.\n\nWhen induced by humans, the state is sometimes colloquially known as animal hypnosis. According to Gilman et al., the investigation of \"animal hypnosis\" dates back to the year 1646 in a report by Athanasius Kircher.\n\nTonic immobility (TI) is a behaviour in which some animals become apparently temporarily paralysed and unresponsive to external stimuli. In most cases, this occurs in response to an extreme threat such as being captured by a (perceived) predator, although in sharks exhibiting the behaviour, some scientists relate it to mating, arguing that biting by the male immobilizes the female and thus facilitates mating.\n\nDespite appearances, the animal remains conscious throughout tonic immobility. Evidence for this includes the occasional responsive movement, scanning of the environment and animals in TI often taking advantage of escape opportunities.\n\nSome sharks can be induced into tonic immobility by inverting them and restraining them by hand, e.g. dogfish sharks, lemon sharks, whitetip reef sharks. For tiger sharks (measuring 3–4 metres in length), tonic immobility can be induced by humans placing their hands lightly on the sides of the animal's snout in the area surrounding the eyes. During tonic immobility in sharks, the dorsal fins straighten, and both breathing and muscle contractions become more steady and relaxed. This state persists for an average of 15 minutes before recovery and the resumption of active behaviour. Scientists have exploited this response to study shark behaviour; chemical shark repellent has been studied to test its effectiveness and to more accurately estimate dose sizes, concentrations and time to recovery. Tonic immobility can also be used as a form of mild anesthesia during experimental manipulations of sharks.\n\nScientists also believe that tonic immobility can be a stressful experience for sharks. By measuring blood chemistry samples when the shark is immobile, it has been suggested that tonic immobility can actually put stress on the shark, and reduce breathing efficiency. However, it has also been proposed that sharks have a series of compensatory mechanisms that work to increase respiration rates and lower stress.\n\nIt has been observed that orcas can exploit sharks' tonic immobility to prey on large sharks. Some orcas ram sharks from the side to stun them, then flip the sharks to induce tonic immobility and keep them in such state for sustained time. For some sharks, this prevents water from flowing through their gills and the result can be fatal.\n\nGoldfish, trout, rudd, tench, brown bullhead, medaka, paradise fish, and topminnow have been reported to go limp when they are restrained on their backs. Oscars seem to go into shock when they are stressed (when their aquarium is being cleaned, for example): they lie on their side, stop moving their fins, start to breathe more slowly and deeply, and lose colour. A similar behavior has been reported for convict tangs in the field.\n\nIn 1997, it was reported that around the Farallon Islands off the coast of California, a female orca was seen apparently inducing tonic immobility in a great white shark. The orca held the shark upside down to induce TI and kept the shark still for 15 minutes, causing it to suffocate to death. This was the first recorded case of predation on a great white shark in the wild by a species other than humans.\n\nAnother case of orcas apparently inducing TI has been observed with stingrays in New Zealand. In this context, the orcas turn themselves upside down before attacking, trap the stingrays in their mouths then quickly right themselves. This inverts the stingray, thereby inducing TI, rendering the fish helpless and an easy meal.\n\nTonic immobility can be reliably induced in iguanas by a combination of inversion, restraint and moderate pressure. During TI, there are obvious changes in respiration including a decline in respiration rate, the rhythm becomes sporadic, and the magnitude irregular. The prolonged period of TI does not seem to be consistent with the fear hypothesis, but could be the result of a period of cortical depression due to increased brain stem activity.\n\nTonic immobility can also be induced in the Carolina anole. The characteristics of this TI vary as a function of the duration and condition of captivity.\n\nIn rabbits, the physiological and behavioral responses to induced tonic immobility have been found to be indicative of a fear-motivated stress state. Tonic immobility is considered a last attempt for prey to escape being eaten by a predator. A 2006 study concluded that rabbits show symptoms that are in line with being stressed after being in a tonic immobility state, such as a faster heart rate and breathing. This confirms that the promotion of tonic immobility to increase a bond between rabbits and their owners – holding the rabbit on its back and thinking the rabbits enjoy it – is misplaced; however, the researchers concluded that inducing tonic immobility in rabbits is appropriate for certain veterinary procedures, as it holds less risk than anesthesia.\n\nTonic immobility has been hypothesized to occur in humans undergoing intense trauma, including sexual assault. While \"freezing\" in response to life-threatening situations is well-known, the common \"freeze\" response exhibited by victims of rape is often misunderstood as passive consent.\n\nThere is also an increasing body of evidence that points to a positive contribution of tonic immobility in human functioning. Thus, defensive immobilization is hypothesized to have played a critical role in the evolution of human parent-child attachment, sustained attention and suggestibility, REM sleepand theory of mind.\n\nTonic immobility is considered to be a fear-potentiated response induced by physical restraint and characterised by reduced responsiveness to external stimulation. It has been used as a measure in the assessment of animal welfare, particularly hens, since 1970. The rationale for the TI test is that the experimenter simulates a predator thereby eliciting the anti-predator response. The precept is that the prey animal 'pretends' to be dead to be able to escape when/if the predator relaxes its concentration. Death-feigning birds often take advantage of escape opportunities; TI in quail reduces the probability of the birds being predated by cats.\n\nTo induce tonic immobility, the animal is gently restrained on its side or back for a period of time, e.g. 15 seconds. This is done either on a firm, flat surface or sometimes in a purpose-built ‘V’- or ‘U’-shaped restraining cradle. In rodents, the response is sometimes induced by additionally pinching or attaching a clamp to the skin at the nape of the neck. Scientists record behaviours such as the number of inductions (15-second restraining periods) required for the animal to remain still, the latency to the first major movements (often cycling motions of the legs), latency to first head or eye movements and the duration of immobility, sometimes called the ‘righting time’.\n\nTonic immobility has been used to show that hens in cages are more fearful than those in pens, hens on the top tier of tiered battery cages are more fearful than those on the lower levels, hens carried by hand are more fearful than hens carried on a mechanical conveyor, and hens undergoing longer transportation times are more fearful than those undergoing transport of a shorter duration.\n\nTonic immobility as a scientific tool has also been used with mice, gerbils, guinea pigs, rats, rabbits and pigs.\n\nIn animal behaviour, thanatosis (from the Greek noun , meaning \"putting to death\"; \"cf. \": Thanatos) is the process by which an animal feigns death in order to evade unwelcome attention. It can be for various reasons, such as that of a prey evading a predator, a male trying to mate with a female, or a predator trying to lure potential prey closer. The French biologist Georges Pasteur classifies it as a form of \"self-mimesis\", a form of camouflage or mimicry in which the \"mimic\" imitates itself in a dead state.\n\nFor defensive purposes, thanatosis hinges on the pursuer's becoming unresponsive to its victim, as most predators only catch live prey.\n\nIn beetles, artificial selection experiments have shown that there is heritable variation for length of death-feigning. Those selected for longer death-feigning durations are at a selective advantage to those at shorter durations when a predator is introduced, which suggests that thanatosis is indeed adaptive.\n\nIn the hog-nosed snake, a threatened individual rolls onto its back and appears to be dead when threatened by a predator, while a foul-smelling, volatile fluid oozes from its body. Predators, such as cats, then lose interest in the snake, which both looks and smells dead. One reason for their loss of interest is that rotten-smelling animals are avoided as a precaution against infectious disease, so the snake is, in this case, exploiting that reaction. Newly hatched young also instinctively show this behaviour when rats try to eat them.\n\nIn mammals, the Virginia opossum is perhaps the best known example of defensive thanatosis. \"Playing possum\" is an idiomatic phrase which means \"pretending to be dead\". It comes from a characteristic of the Virginia opossum, which is famous for pretending to be dead when threatened. This instinct does not always pay off in the modern world; for example, opossums scavenging roadkill may use it in response to the threat posed by oncoming traffic, and subsequently end up as roadkill themselves.\n\nThe usual advice for humans attempting to survive an attack by a brown bear is to lie face down, cover the face with ones hands/arms/elbows, and 'play dead'; hopefully the bear will get bored and wander away after a while.\n\n\"Playing possum\" can also mean simply pretending to be injured, unconscious, asleep, or otherwise vulnerable, often to lure an opponent into a vulnerable position him or herself.\n\nThanatosis has also been observed in some invertebrates such as the wasp \"Nasonia vitripennis\", and the cricket, \"Gryllus bimaculatus\".\n\nIn the spider species \"Pisaura mirabilis\", male spiders often stage elaborate rituals of gift-giving and thanatosis to avoid getting eaten by female spiders during mating. Studies have shown higher chances of success in mating with females for males who exhibit death-feigning more frequently than for males who do it less.\n\n\"Nimbochromis\" (sleeper cichlids), endemic to Lake Malawi in East Africa, are large predatory fish for whom thanatosis is a form of aggressive mimicry. This fish will lie down on its side on the bottom sediments and assume a blotchy coloration. Scavengers, attracted to what seems like a dead fish, will approach the predator to investigate. \"N. livingstoni\" then abandons the pretense, righting itself again and quickly eating any scavenger unfortunate enough to come too close. A similar strategy has also been observed in the African cichlid \"Lamprologus lemairii\" from Lake Tanganyika and in the Central American yellowjacket cichlid \"Parachromis friedrichsthalii\".\n\n"}
{"id": "64243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64243", "title": "Aquatic ape hypothesis", "text": "Aquatic ape hypothesis\n\nThe aquatic ape hypothesis (AAH), also referred to as aquatic ape theory (AAT) and more recently the waterside model, is the idea that the ancestors of modern humans were more aquatic and as such were habitual waders, swimmers and divers. The hypothesis in its present form was proposed by the marine biologist Alister Hardy in 1960, who argued that a branch of apes was forced by competition over terrestrial habitats to hunt for food such as shellfish on the sea shore and sea bed leading to adaptations that explained significant characteristics such as man's functional hairlessness and bipedalism. This proposal was built upon by Elaine Morgan, who added feminist criticism in opposition to the male image of the \"mighty hunter\" being presented in popular anthropological works by Robert Ardrey and others. While her 1972 book \"The Descent of Woman\" was very popular with the public, it attracted little attention from scientists and those who did comment complained that there was no way of testing hypotheses about soft body parts and human habits in the distant past.\n\nMorgan removed the feminist content in several later books and her ideas were discussed at a 1987 conference devoted to the idea. Her 1990 book \"Scars of Evolution\" received some favorable reviews but the thesis was subject to scathing criticism from the anthropologist John Langdon in 1997, who characterized it as an \"umbrella hypothesis\" and argued that the hypothesis is not more parsimonious than simply rejecting the hypothesis.\n\nThe hypothesis remains highly controversial and is generally more popular with the lay public than with scientists. Though much of the mainstream academic community ignored or derided the initial proposal, academics in the last 15 years have conducted research at least in part inspired by AAH. Scientists supportive of AAH have published research that indicates that at some point in the last five million years humans became dependent on essential fatty acids and iodine, which are found in abundance in sea resources. Efficient function of the human brain requires these nutrients.\n\nThe German pathologist Max Westenhöfer (1871–1957) discussed in 1942 various human characteristics (hairlessness, subcutaneous fat, the regression of the olfactory organ, webbed fingers, direction of the body hair etc.) that could have derived from an aquatic past, quoting several other authors who had made similar speculations. As he did not believe human beings were apes, he believed this might have been during the Cretaceous, contrary to what is possible given the geologic and evolutionary biology evidence available at the time. He stated: \"The postulation of an aquatic mode of life during an early stage of human evolution is a tenable hypothesis, for which further inquiry may produce additional supporting evidence.\" He later abandoned the concept.\n\nIndependently of Westenhöfer's writings, the marine biologist Alister Hardy had since 1930 also hypothesized that humans may have had ancestors more aquatic than previously imagined, although his work, unlike Westenhöfer's, was rooted in the Darwinian consensus. On the advice of his colleagues, Hardy delayed presenting the hypothesis for approximately thirty years. After he had become a respected academic and knighted for contributions to marine biology, Hardy finally voiced his thoughts in a speech to the British Sub-Aqua Club in Brighton on 5 March 1960. Several national newspapers reported sensational presentations of Hardy's ideas, which he countered by explaining them more fully in an article in \"New Scientist\" on 17 March 1960: \"My thesis is that a branch of this primitive ape-stock was forced by competition from life in the trees to feed on the sea-shores and to hunt for food, shellfish, sea-urchins etc., in the shallow waters off the coast.\"\n\nThe idea was generally ignored by the scientific community after the article was published. Some interest was received, notably from the geographer Carl Sauer whose views on the role of the seashore in human evolution \"stimulated tremendous progress in the study of coastal and aquatic adaptations\" inside marine archaeology. In 1967, the hypothesis was mentioned in \"The Naked Ape\", a popular book by the zoologist Desmond Morris, who reduced Hardy's phrase \"more aquatic ape-like ancestors\" to the bare \"aquatic ape\", commenting that \"despite its most appealing indirect evidence, the aquatic theory lacks solid support\".\n\nWhile traditional descriptions of 'savage' existence identified three common sources of sustenance: gathering of fruit and nuts, fishing and hunting, in the 1950s, the anthropologist Raymond Dart focused on hunting and gathering as the likely organizing concept of human society in prehistory, and hunting was the focus of the screenwriter Robert Ardrey's 1961 best-seller \"African Genesis\". Another screenwriter, Elaine Morgan, responded to this focus in her 1972 \"Descent of Woman\", which parodied the conventional picture of \"the Tarzanlike figure of the prehominid who came down from the trees, saw a grassland teeming with game, picked up a weapon and became a Mighty Hunter,\" and pictured a more peaceful scene of humans by the seashore. She took her lead from a section in Morris's 1967 book which referred to the possibility of an \"Aquatic Ape\" period in evolution, his name for the speculation by the biologist Alister Hardy in 1960. When it aroused no reaction in the academic community, she dropped the feminist criticism and wrote a series of books–\"The Aquatic Ape\" (1982), \"The Scars of Evolution\" (1990), \"The Descent of the Child\" (1994) and \"The Aquatic Ape Hypothesis\" (1997)–which explored the issues in more detail.\n\nHardy's hypothesis as outlined in the \"New Scientist\" was:\nHardy argued a number of features of modern humans are characteristic of aquatic adaptations. He pointed to human's lack of body hair as being analogous to the same lack seen in certain other marine mammals, such as the whale and the hippopotamus, and noted the layer of subcutaneous fat humans have that Hardy believed other apes lacked, although it has been shown that captive apes with ample access to food have levels of subcutaneous fat similar to humans. Additional features cited by Hardy include the location of the trachea in the throat rather than the nasal cavity, the human propensity for front-facing copulation, tears and eccrine sweating, though these claimed pieces of evidence have alternative evolutionary adaptationist explanations that do not invoke an aquatic context. Hardy additionally posited that bipedalism evolved first as an aid to wading before becoming the usual means of human locomotion, and tool use evolved out of the use of rocks to crack open shellfish. These last arguments were cited by later proponents of AAH as an inspiration for their research programs.\n\nMorgan summed up her take on the hypothesis in 2011:\n\nAcademics who have commented on the aquatic ape hypothesis include categorical opponents (generally members of the community of academic anthropology) who reject almost all of the claims related to the hypothesis. Other academics have argued that the rejection of Hardy and Morgan is partially unfair given that other explanations which suffer from similar problems are not so strongly opposed. A conference devoted to the subject was held at Valkenburg, Netherlands in 1987. Its 22 participants included academic proponents and opponents of the theory and several neutral observers headed by the anthropologist Vernon Reynolds of Oxford University. His summary at the end was:\n\nThe AAH has received little attention from mainstream anthropologists and paleoanthropologists. It is not accepted as empirically supported by the scholarly community, and has been met with significant skepticism.\n\nIn a 1997 critique, anthropologist John Langdon considered the AAH under the heading of an \"umbrella hypothesis\" and argued that the difficulty of ever disproving such a thing meant that although the idea has the appearance of being a parsimonious explanation, it actually was no more powerful an explanation than the null hypothesis that human evolution is not particularly guided by interaction with bodies of water. Langdon argued that however popular the idea was with the public, the \"umbrella\" nature of the idea means that it cannot serve as a proper scientific hypothesis. Langdon also objected to Morgan's blanket opposition to the \"savannah hypothesis\" which he took to be the \"collective discipline of paleoanthropology\". He observed that some anthropologists had regarded the idea as not worth the trouble of a rebuttal. In addition, the evidence cited by AAH proponents mostly concerned developments in soft tissue anatomy and physiology, whilst paleoanthropologists rarely speculated on evolutionary development of anatomy beyond the musculoskeletal system and brain size as revealed in fossils. After a brief description of the issues under 26 different headings, he produced a summary critique of these with mainly negative judgments. His main conclusion was that the AAH was unlikely ever to be disproved on the basis of comparative anatomy, and that the one body of data that could potentially disprove it was the fossil record.\n\nAnthropologist John D. Hawks wrote that it is fair to categorize the AAH as pseudoscience because of the social factors that inform it, particularly the personality-led nature of the hypothesis and the unscientific approach of its adherents. Physical anthropologist Eugenie Scott has described the aquatic ape hypothesis as an instance of \"crank anthropology\" akin to other pseudoscientific ideas in anthropology such as alien-human interbreeding and Bigfoot.\n\nIn \"The Accidental Species: Misunderstandings of Human Evolution\" (2013), the \"Nature\" editor Henry Gee remarked on how a seafood diet can aid in the development of the human brain. He nevertheless criticized the AAH because \"it's always a problem identifying features [such as body fat and hairlessness] that humans have now and inferring that they must have had some adaptive value in the past.\" Also \"it's notoriously hard to infer habits [such as swimming] from anatomical structures\".\n\nPopular support for the AAH has become an embarrassment to some anthropologists who want to explore the effects of water on human evolution without engaging with the AAH, which they consider \"emphasizes adaptations to deep water (or at least underwater) conditions\". Foley and Lahr suggest that \"to flirt with anything watery in paleoanthropology can be misinterpreted\", but argue \"there is little doubt that throughout our evolution we have made extensive use of terrestrial habitats adjacent to fresh water, since we are, like many other terrestrial mammals, a heavily water-dependent species.\" But they allege that \"under pressure from the mainstream, AAH supporters tended to flee from the core arguments of Hardy and Morgan towards a more generalized emphasis on fishy things.\"\n\nIn \"The Waterside Ape\", a pair of 2016 BBC Radio documentaries, David Attenborough, discussed a \"move towards mainstream acceptance” for the AAH in the light of new research findings. Scientists interviewed included Kathlyn Stewart and Michael Crawford who had published papers in a special issue of the \"Journal of Human Evolution\" on \"The Role of Freshwater and Marine Resources in the Evolution of the Human Diet, Brain and Behavior\". Responding to the documentaries in a newspaper article, paleoanthropologist Alice Roberts dismissed the AAH as a distraction \"from the emerging story of human evolution that is more interesting and complex\" and that it had become \"a theory of everything\" that is simultaneously \"too extravagant and too simple\".\n\nPhilosopher Daniel Dennett, in his discussion of evolutionary philosophy, commented\n\"During the last few years, when I have found myself in the company of distinguished biologists, evolutionary theorists, paleoanthropologists and other experts, I have often asked them to tell me, please, exactly why Elaine Morgan must be wrong about the aquatic theory. I haven’t yet had a reply worth mentioning, aside from those who admit, with a twinkle in their eyes, that they have also wondered the same thing.\" He challenged both Elaine Morgan and the scientific establishment in that \"Both sides are indulging in adapt[at]ionist Just So stories\". Along the same lines, historian Erika Lorraine Milam noted that independent of Morgan's work, certain standard explanations of human development in paleoanthropology have been roundly criticized for lacking evidence while being based on sexist assumptions. Anatomy lecturer Bruce Charlton gave Morgan's book \"Scars of Evolution\" an enthusiastic review in the British Medical Journal in 1991, calling it \"exceptionally well written\" and \"a good piece of science\".\n\nIn 1995, paleoanthropologist Phillip Tobias declared that the savannah hypothesis was dead, because the open conditions did not exist when humanity's precursors stood upright and that therefore the conclusions of the Valkenberg conference were no longer valid. Tobias praised Morgan's book \"Scars of Evolution\" as a \"remarkable book\" though he said that he did not agree with all of it. Tobias and his student further criticised the orthodox hypothesis by arguing that the coming out of the forest of man's precursors had been an unexamined assumption of evolution since the days of Lamarck, and followed by Darwin, Wallace and Haeckel, well before Raymond Dart used it.\n\nAlister Hardy was astonished and mortified in 1960 when the national Sunday papers carried banner headlines \"Oxford professor says man a sea ape\", causing problems with his Oxford colleagues. As he later said to his ex-pupil Desmond Morris, \"Of course I then had to write an article to refute this saying no this is just a guess, a rough hypothesis, this isn't a proven fact. And of course we're not related to dolphins.\"\n\nElaine Morgan's 1972 book \"Descent of Woman\" became an international best-seller, a Book of the Month selection in the United States and was translated into ten languages. Part of this was related to the growing women's liberation movement as Morgan's work was inspired by a feminist critique of then-standard anthropological ideas. She assumed that the total lack of response to her book from the academic community was due to the fact that she was an outsider. \"The response I had not foreseen was total silence. But in respect of the aquatic theme that is what I got from them - and with few exceptions still get. That kind of silence is a virtually unbeatable strategy\". Morgan removed the feminist critique and rewrote the scientific text, publishing it as \"The Aquatic Ape\" ten years later, but it did not garner greater reaction from scientists.\n\nAlthough the general reaction to Hardy and Morgan's proposals was silence by the relevant academic community, there have been over the last decades some academics who were inspired by AAH proposals, even to the point of pursuing particular lines of research on its basis. Some of the academics and professional scientists who have supported the AAH include Michael Crawford, Professor and Director of the Institute of Brain Chemistry and Human Nutrition at Imperial College London, his former postdoctoral researcher, Stephen Cunnane, now professor of medicine at Université de Sherbrooke, Erika Schagatay, professor of Environmental Physiology at Mid Sweden University, Kathlyn M. Stewart, Section Head of Palaeobiology at the Canadian Museum of Nature, and Tom Brenna, Professor of Paediatrics and Chemistry at University of Texas.\n\nAfter reviewing 30 different explanations of bipedalism, evolutionary biologist Carsten Niemitz proposed a \"shore dweller\" hypothesis of wading, though distancing himself from the AAH. He records 10 monkey and ape species, including chimpanzees and gorillas, who have been observed wading on two feet. Niemitz's hypothesis places the wading bipedalism of hominids as occurring in the late Miocene. Other researchers, including AAH proponent Algis Kuliukas, performed experiments to measure the comparative energy used when lacking orthograde posture with using fully upright posture. Although it is harder to walk upright with bent knees on land, this difference gradually diminishes as the depth of water increases and is still practical in thigh-high water.\n\nIn a critique of the AAH, Henry Gee questioned any link between bipedalism and diet. Gee writes that early humans have been bipedal for 5 million years, but our ancestor's \"fondness for seafood\" emerged a mere 200,000 years ago.\n\nIn their 1989 book \"The Driving Force: Food, Evolution and The Future\", Michael Crawford together with co-author David Marsh wrote about the connections they saw between nutrition and human evolution, and in particular claimed that Omega-3 fatty acids were vital for the development of the brain. \"A branch of the line of primitive ancestral apes was forced by competition to leave the trees and feed on the seashore. Searching for oysters, mussels, crabs, crayfish and so on they would have spent much of their time in the water and an upright position would have come naturally.\" Crawford and Marsh argued that the norm of brain size seen in small and aquatic mammals is similar to humans and they further opine that other primates and carnivores had lost relative brain capacity (though the relationship between brain size and intelligence is not isomorphic). Reviewing their book for the \"New Scientist\", biologists Caroline Pond and Dick Colby were highly critical, saying that the work provided \"no significant new information that would be of interest to biologists\" and that its style was \"speculative, theoretical and in many places so imprecise as to be misleading.\"\n\nAccording to Crawford, \"the evolution of a large brain on the savannahs of Africa was impossible. The only way it could have happened was with the resources of the marine food-web which initiated the growth and development of the brain in the first place\". A group of evolutionary nutritionists and paleontologists led by Cunnane, Stewart, and Crawford published works arguing a correlation between aquatic diet and human brain evolution in their \"shore-based diet scenario\", acknowledging the Hardy/Morgan's thesis as a foundation work of their model. They describe problems in landlocked communities as being supportive of AAH, with reports of cretinism in the Alps since the 18th century and widespread goitres in parts of Africa, which is only prevented by the addition of iodine to diets. According to Cunnane, \"Without the availability of iodized table salt, non-coastal (inland) habitats do not provide foods rich enough to meet human iodine requirements.\" Evidence supports aquatic food consumption in \"Homo\" as early as the Pliocene but its linkage to brain evolution remains controversial.\n\nWhat has been lacking has been the paleontological evidence that early humans consumed fish in significant amounts earlier than tens to hundreds of thousands of years ago. Part of the problem has been the avoidance of taphonomic bias by researchers: most hominin fossils occur in marginal lacustrine environments and the presence of fish remains is therefore no proof of fish consumption. Fish bones often decompose so that special tests are required to detect them. The archaeological record of human fishing and coastal settlement is fundamentally flawed due to postglacial sea level rise.\n\nAside from working as a professor, Schagatay is also an experienced scuba and freediver whose research centers around human diving abilities. She suggests that such abilities are consistent with selective pressure for underwater foraging during human evolution, and discussed other anatomical traits speculated as diving adaptations by Hardy/Morgan. John Langdon suggested that such traits could be enabled by a human developmental plasticity.\n\nA 2016 research programme conducted by Tom Brenna (then at Cornell University), with the help of Judy St Leger at San Diego Seaworld, compared the chemistry of vernix on human neonates and samples of a vernix-like substance on California Sealion pups. They established that its molecular composition is comparable to human vernix, being rich in both branch chain fatty acids (BCFAs) and squalene.\n\n"}
{"id": "3366914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3366914", "title": "Artificial reproduction", "text": "Artificial reproduction\n\nArtificial reproduction/propagation is the creation of new life by other than the natural means available to an organism. Examples include artificial insemination, in vitro fertilization, cloning and embryonic splitting, or cleavage.\n\nCutting plants' stems and placing them in compost is also a form of artificial reproduction.\nWe can grow many plants from one plant by using the man-made methods. The process of growing many plants from one plant by man-made methods is called artificial propagation of plants. A number of methods of artificial propagation of plants are used in agriculture (for raising crops), and horticulture (cultivation of vegetables, fruits and flowers). The three common methods for the artificial propagation of plants are:\n\nWe will now describe all these methods, one by one. Let us start with the cuttings method for the artificial propagation of plants.\n\nIn this method, a branch of the plant is pulled towards the ground and a part of it is covered with moist soil leaving the tip of the branch exposed above the ground. After some time, new roots develop from the part of the branch buried in the soil. The branch is then cut off from the parent plant. The part of the branch which has developed roots grows to become a new plant (just like the parent plant). Jasmine plant (chameli) is propagated or produced by the layering method.\n\nWe can see from that one left side branch and one right side branch of the parent jasmine plant have been buried in moist soil. The parts of branches which are buried in soil grow their own roots. When this happens, the branches of the parent plant connecting the newly formed plants are cut off so that the newly formed plants may grow on their own and develop into mature plants (like the parent plant).\n\nMany plants like strawberry and raspberry are propagated by the natural layering method. The natural layering occurs because these plants form runners (which are soft horizontal stems running above the ground). Wherever the ends of such runners touch the ground, new plants are formed at those places. In this way, many more strawberry or raspberry plants are formed from\" the parent plant in a natural way.\n\nThe layering method is used for the propagation (or reproduction) of plants like : Jasmine, Strawberry, Raspberry, Lemon, Guava, Hibiscus (China rose), Bougainvillea and many slender ornamental plants.Example: Nerium\n\nGrafting is a method in which the cut stems of two different plants are joined together in such a way that the two stems join and grow as a single plant. This new plant will have the \ncharacteristics of both the original plants.\nThe cutted stem of a plant having roots and fixed in the soil is called \"stock\". Stock is the lower part of a plant having the roots.The cutted stem of another plant without is called 'scion'. Scion is the upper part of a plant which may have leaves on it .\n\nIn carrying out grafting, two plants are chosen which are to be used as scion and stock. First, the stem (or branch) is removed from the plant chosen to be made scion (for its desirable characteristics) by making a slanting cut. This gives us the scion with a slanting cut. The stem of second plant (or tree) to be used in grafting is also cut in a slanting way. The lower part of this plant (or tree) is stock. It has also a slanting cut.\n\nThe scion is placed over the stock. The cut surfaces of the scion and stock are fitted together and bound tightly with a piece of cloth and covered properly with polythene sheet (so as to prevent harmful infection by bacteria or fungus, and loss of water and plant sap from the cut and joined ends of stock and scion).\n\nWhile joining the scion to the stock, care should be taken to make sure that the cambium layer of scion is in contact with the cambium layer of stock (because the cambium layer in the stem is responsible for growth).\n\nThe cut soon heals and the stock and scion of two plants grow together and become one plant. The scion continues to produce its original leaves, flowers and fruits but it gets water and minerals for making food from the chosen stock. So, the fruits will have the characteristics of both the plants (from which scion and stock have come).\n\nGrafting is used to breed fruit trees and flowering bushes. Apple, peach, apricot and pear trees are often grafted. We will now describe some of the advantages of the grafting method of artificial propagation.\n Grafting can be used to produce varieties of seedless fruits. Some examples of such plants which are reproduced by artificial vegetative propagation methods are: Banana, Pineapple, Orange, Grape, Rose etc.\n\nwww.cmf.org\n"}
{"id": "44006007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44006007", "title": "Cosmology episode", "text": "Cosmology episode\n\nA cosmology episode is a sudden loss of meaning, followed eventually by a transformative pivot, which creates the conditions for revised meaning.\n\nIn the wake of the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis, the Vietnam War, the 1977 Tenerife airport disaster, the 1984 Bhopal chemical disaster, and the relatively sudden insertion of personal computers into the workplace, organizational scholar Karl E. Weick coined the term \"cosmology episode,\" as follows, in 1985:\n\n\"Representations of events normally hang together sensibly within the set of assumptions that give them life and constitute a 'cosmos' rather than its opposite, a 'chaos.' Sudden losses of meaning that can occur when an event is represented electronically in an incomplete, cryptic form are what I call a 'cosmology episode.' Representations in the electronic world can become chaotic for at least two reasons: The data in these representations are flawed, and the people who manage those flawed data have limited processing capacity. These two problems interact in a potentially deadly vicious circle.\"\n\nThe concept of cosmology episodes evolved significantly between 1985 and 1993, when Weick published his now-classic reanalysis of Norman Maclean's study of the Mann Gulch wildland firefighting disaster in 1949. In the 1993 article, Weick positions cosmology episodes within a constructivist ontology, he links the term to a variety of similar concepts, and he provides a better-developed definition than he was able to provide in 1985.\n\nFirst, Weick makes it clear that cosmology episodes occur within a constructivist ontology of the world, rather than the more familiar objectivist and subjectivist ontologies:\n\n\"The basic idea of sensemaking is that reality is an ongoing accomplishment that emerges from efforts to create order and make retrospective sense of what occurs... Sensemaking emphasizes that people try to make things rationally accountable to themselves and others. Thus, in the words of Morgan, Frost, and Pondy (1983: 24), \"individuals are not seen as living in, and acting out their lives in relations \"to\", a wider reality, so much as creating and sustaining images of a wider reality, in part to rationalize what they are doing. They realize their reality by 'reading into' their situation patterns of significant meaning.\"\n\nSecond, Weick clarifies the key phrase \"sudden loss of meaning\" by linking it to related ideas described by other organizational scholars:\n\n\"Minimal organizations, such as we find in the crew at Mann Gulch, are susceptible to sudden losses of meaning, which have been variably described as fundamental surprises (Reason, 1990) or as events that are inconceivable (Lanir, 1989), hidden (Westrum, 1982), or incomprehensible (Perrow, 1984). Each of these labels points to the low probability that the event could occur, which is why it is meaningless. But these explanations say less about the astonishment of the perceiver, and even less about the perceiver's inability to rebuild some sense of what is happening.\"\n\nThird, Weick expands his 1985 definition -- \"sudden losses of meaning\"—to a more nuanced description:\n\n\"Cosmology refers to a branch of philosophy often subsumed under metaphysics that combines rational speculation and scientific evidence to understand the universe as a totality of phenomena. Cosmology is the ultimate macro perspective, directed at issues of time, space, change, and contingency as they relate to the origin and structure of the universe. Integrations of these issues, however, are not just the handiwork of philosophers. Others also must make their peace with these issues, as reflected in what they take for granted. People, including those who are smokejumpers, act as if events cohere in time and space and that change unfolds in an orderly manner. These everyday cosmologies are subject to disruption. And when they are severely disrupted, I call this a cosmology episode (Weick, 1985: 51-52). A cosmology episode occurs when people suddenly and deeply feel that the universe is no longer a rational, orderly system.\"\n\nBuilding on Weick's 1993 definition of cosmology episodes, Weick, his colleagues, and other researchers have advanced knowledge of best practices during cosmology episodes at four levels of analysis: (1) catastrophic cosmology episodes, such as the 9/11 terrorist attacks of 2001 and the Haitian earthquake of 2010; (2) disastrous cosmology episodes, such as the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami and the 2005 Hurricane Katrina; (3) contextualized cosmology episodes occurring within specific domains, such as the 1976 Three Mile Island nuclear system incident and the 1970 Apollo 13 space system incident; and (4) everyday cosmology episodes, such as transition of leaders at the top of an organization and the introduction of new technologies throughout an organization.\n\nThe study of cosmology episodes is distinct from the study of high-reliability organizations because the concept directs explicit attention to the integral role of human spirituality during catastrophic events—as the threatened entity (what now is my role in the universe?), the source of inspiration/improvisation (what now am I able to do to respond to the event?), and the re-established entity (what now is my different role in the universe?). Consequently, the topic of cosmology episodes lends itself to study by researchers within two small academic organizations—the American Psychological Association's Division 36 (Psychology of Religion and Spirituality) and the Academy of Management's MSR Division (Management, Spirituality, and Religion).\n\nA 2016 article titled \"Cosmology Episodes: A Reconceptualization,\" Doug Orton and Kari O'Grady identified three taxonomies that they found helpful in studying 164 citations of the term \"cosmology episode\" on Google Scholar. One taxonomy was based on level of analysis (nation, community, organization, team, and individual). One taxonomy was based on five resilience processes (anticipating, sense-losing, improvising, sense-remaking, and renewing). The third taxonomy -- of interest here -- is level of intensity of the cosmology episode (catastrophe, disaster, crisis, ancillary, and metaphorical). Communications researchers tend to be more present in the study of community disasters; management researchers tend to be more present in the study of organizational crises. Importantly, though, it is possible for a community-level cosmology episode to be catastrophic (e.g. Hurrican Katrina), disastrous (e.g the Red River floods of 1997), a crisis (e.g. the 22 July 2005 Stockwell Subway Shooting), ancillary (e.g. an e coli epidemic for a food company), and metaphorical (e.g. the introduction of new technology in an Italian courtroom).\n"}
{"id": "557189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=557189", "title": "Creatures 2", "text": "Creatures 2\n\nCreatures 2 is the second game in the Creatures artificial life game series made by Creature Labs, and the sequel to 1996 game \"Creatures\". It features three species: the cute, dependent Norns, the cantankerous Grendels and the industrious Ettins. The game tries to simulate life, and includes a complex two-dimensional ecology of plants, animals and insects, which provide the environment for the three main species to live and develop in. The player interacts with the world using a hand-shaped cursor, and tries to encourage the creatures' development by manipulating various objects around the world, guiding the creatures using the cursor and encouraging the creatures to speak.\n\nMany new gameplay features included in Creatures 2 not present in the original game include a new physics model and a global weather system, along with brand new applets and a world twice the size of the Creatures 1 world.\n\nThe executable file for the game was in fact an interpreter for its scripting language, thus allowing users to make total conversions or derivative works from the game.\n\nLike the other games in the series, Creatures 2 is mostly open-ended, with no predetermined goals, allowing the player to raise Norns at their own pace. In each new world, the player begins in the incubator cavern area. The hatchery, one of the game's in-built applets, allows the player to add Norn eggs to the world, which can be hatched via the incubator. Norns may also be downloaded from the internet and imported into to use in the game.\n\nOnce Norns reach adolescence at around an hour old, they are ready to breed, and female Norns will begin an oestrogen cycle. When Norns mate, there is a long kissing sound with a pop at the end – known as a kisspop. Like real life, not all mating results in a pregnancy. The Norn reproductive process can be monitored via the Breeder's Kit.\n\nAt the beginning, the player is only able to navigate a small area of Albia. As their Norns explore the world, however, more areas will be able to visited. If a Norn falls into water and is picked up, it cannot be placed in an unvisited area.\n\nLike the previous game, every plant, animal and insect in Albia is a separate system called an autonomous agent, or just \"agent\" for short. Many user-created agents have been made, which can be injected into the world using the Injector Kit applet, which also includes an analysis page giving the opportunity to check new objects for potentially harmful contents before injecting them.\n\nAlbia, the world in which Creatures 2 is set, is a vast disc-world filled with a wide variety of flora, ranging from the Cacti that inhabit the desert to the exclusive mushroom-like Gelsemium plant that can only be found in a single cavern. Albia is also home to a substantial amount of animal life, such as bees which pollinate flowers and create honey, and Zander fish, which provide a food source for creatures near the oceans. Scattered throughout the world are various seed launchers, which can be used to replenish stocks if any life-forms become extinct.\n\nAlbia also has four seasons: Spring, Summer, Winter and Autumn, and boasts its very own climate, with weather such as snow mainly occurring during the colder months, and rain mostly during the Spring. The game also has an on-screen thermometer, allowing the player to monitor Albia's temperature at all times.\n\nCreatures 2's release was widely anticipated. It is likely that around 450,000 copies of the original Creatures had been sold by the time the game was released, and a huge following had developed behind it. The \"Early Adoption Program\", a promotion where 250 copies of Creatures 2 were given away prior to its official release in September 1998, was scheduled to begin in July 1998, but was pushed back as the game was not close to release quality at the point at which the EAP was scheduled to start. In the end, most received their copies several weeks after the release date.\n\nUpon release, the game suffered from numerous flaws, such as a deficient Norn genome that lead to a condition dubbed \"One Hour Stupidity Syndrome (OHSS)\", which caused Norns to forgot basic survival skills such as eating and sleeping. The task of creating the new Norn genome was given to Sandra Linkletter (Slink), who was also a member of the Creatures community. During development, many problems emerged, most likely due to disagreements between Slink and the Creatures 2 team. Slink later claimed that her design had been compromised by the geneticist brought on to finish her work, Eric Goodwin, and later accused Cyberlife of deriving their update from hers.\n\nCyberlife later released a patch with an improved genome after several weeks had passed. Several users also created improved Norn genomes, such as the Canny Norn genome created by Chris Double and Lis Morris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56016131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56016131", "title": "CryptoKitties", "text": "CryptoKitties\n\nCryptoKitties is a blockchain based video game developed by Axiom Zen that allows players to purchase, collect, breed and sell various types of virtual cats. It represents one of the earliest attempts to deploy blockchain technology for recreational and leisurely purposes. The game's popularity in December 2017 congested the Ethereum network, causing it to reach an all-time high in transactions and slow down significantly.\n\nCryptoKitties is not a cryptocurrency. Instead it operates on Ethereum's underlying blockchain network, as a non fungible token (NFT) unique to each CryptoKitty. Each CryptoKitty is unique and owned by the user, validated through the blockchain, and its value can appreciate or depreciate based on the market. CryptoKitties cannot be replicated and cannot be transferred without the user's permission even by the game developers. Users can interact with their CryptoKitties, having the ability to buy, sell, and sire (breed) them. A test version of CryptoKitties was unveiled at ETH Waterloo on October 19, 2017, the largest Ethereum hackathon in the world. As of December 2, 2017, Genesis, the first and highest selling cat was sold for 246.9255 ETH (~$117,712 USD) on that day.\n\nThe virtual cats are breedable and carry a unique number and 256 bit distinct genome with DNA and different attributes (cattributes) that can be passed to offspring. Several traits can be passed down from the parents to the offspring. These include pattern, mouth (shape), fur, eye shape, base color, accent color, highlight color, eye color, and optional wild and environment characteristics. Other features like cool down times are not passed down but are instead a function of the 'generation' of the offspring, which is one higher than the maximum generation between the two parents. In December 2017 a CryptoKitty sold for $100,000.\n\nOn March 20, 2018, it was announced that \"CryptoKitties\" would be spun off into its own company and raised $12 million from several top venture capital firms and angel investors. The investment round was led by New York based Union Square Ventures and San Francisco based Andreessen Horowitz.\n\nIn May 2018, \"CryptoKitties\" launched their first celebrity-branded CryptoKitty with Stephen Curry, an American professional basketball player. As part of the partnership, Curry was given three CryptoKitties with special imagery, the first of which he put up for auction. The company later suspended the auction, claiming that Stephen Curry wasn't as involved as they initially thought. The company was later sued for trade secret theft over the Stephen Curry collectibles.\n\nIn October 2018, \"CryptoKitties\" reached the milestone of 1 million cats being bred with a volume of 3.2 million transactions on its smart contracts. In November 2018, Dapper Labs, which was spun out of Axiom Zen as the developer of \"CryptoKitties\", raised an additional $15 million in a venture round led by Venrock.The company doubled its valuation in this round.\n\nIn 2018 \"CryptoKitties\" will help the German museum ZKM Center for Art and Media Karlsruhe explain blockchain.\n\nA CryptoKitties' ownership is tracked via a smart contract on the Ethereum blockchain. CryptoKitties are distributed automatically, via smart contract, at the rate of one every 15 minutes (672 per week) for one year. Each CryptoKitty is represented in the form of a non-fungible ERC-721 token, which allows for each entity to have specific cattributes.\n\nBased on the limited number of cats going into circulation and their limited genomes, there is a limit of 4 billion total cats that can be bred. Each cat will have a distinct visual appearance (\"phenotype\") determined by its immutable genes (\"genotype\") stored in the smart contract. Because cats are tokens on a blockchain, they can be bought, sold, or transferred digitally, with strong guarantees of ownership. A CryptoKitty does not have a permanently assigned gender. While they can only engage in one breeding session at one time, each cat is able to act as either matron or sire. The owner chooses with each breeding interaction.\n\nA group known as Axiom Zen innovation studio developed the game. Until November 2018, Axiom Zen intends to continually release a new CryptoKitty every 15 minutes, with the rest of supply determined by breeding of CryptoKitties. CryptoKitty owners may put them up for sale via an auction for a price set in Ether (ETH).\n\nThere are concerns that \"CryptoKitties\" is crowding out more serious, significant business that use the Ethereum platform. As of December 5, 2017 Etherscan has reported a sixfold increase in pending transactions on Ethereum since the game's release just a week earlier. \"\"CryptoKitties\" has become so popular that it's taking up a significant amount of available space for transactions on the Ethereum platform\", said Garrick Hileman, from the University of Cambridge. Ethereum miners increased the gas limit in response to \"CryptoKitties\", which allowed for more data per block and increasing transactions per second.\n\n"}
{"id": "1681293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1681293", "title": "De mortuis nil nisi bonum", "text": "De mortuis nil nisi bonum\n\nThe Latin phrases De mortuis nihil nisi bonum and De mortuis nil nisi bene [dicendum] (\"Of the dead, [say] nothing but good\") indicate that it is socially inappropriate to speak ill of the dead. As a mortuary aphorism, \"De mortuis. . . .\" derives from the Latin sentence \"De mortuis nil nisi bonum dicendum est\" (\"Of the dead nothing but good is to be said\"), which also is abbreviated as Nil nisi bonum. Freer translations into English are often used as aphorisms, these include: \"Speak no ill of the dead\", \"Of the dead, speak no evil\", and \"Do not speak ill of the dead\". \n\nThe first recorded use of the phrase of mortuary respect dates from the 4th century, published in the \"Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers\" (ca. AD 300), Book 1, Chapter 70, by Diogenes Laërtius, wherein the Greek aphorism \"τὸν τεθνηκóτα μὴ κακολογεῖν\" (\"tòn tethnekóta mè kakologeîn\", \"Do not speak ill of the dead\") is attributed to Chilon of Sparta (ca. 600 BC), one of the Seven Sages of Greece. In the 15th century, during the Italian Renaissance, the humanist monk Ambrogio Traversari translated Diogenes’s Greek book into Latin, as \"Laertii Diogenis vitae et sententiae eorum qui in philosophia probati fuerunt\" (1433), and so popularized \"De mortuis nihil nisi bonum\", the Latin aphorism advising respect for the dead.\n\n\n After the thwarting of his gun-running operation, meant to alter the course of British politics, the villain, Professor Ormsby, challenges the hero, Commander Stevenson, with the phrase \"De mortuis nil nisi bonum\", to imply that he, Prof. Ormsby, would kill himself, for which reason Commander Stevenson would cancel the news-media campaign with which he had planned to publicly discredit Ormsby as a traitor.\n\nTo the implicit, honour-saving offer, Stevenson replies, “Certainly, I am concerned with justice in this matter, not with politics.”\n\nThe next day, Professor Ormsby defenestrates himself from his rooms at Cambridge University, and Commander Stevenson returns to his life on the River Dart.\n\nThe second replies: “Well. \"De mortuis\", and all that, but I wasn’t exactly keen on him. I thought him rather an unwholesome little beast.”\n\nHearing steps on the path, and seeing a dismal little procession passing the window: a sergeant of police and another uniformed man, carrying a stretcher between them . . . Mr. Puffett glanced from the window and removed his bowler hat: “And where’s all ’is cheeseparin’ brought ’im now?” he demanded.\n\nThe second man, Lord Peter Wimsey, says: “Nowhere . . . \"De mortuis\"” and then some . . . Yes, he seems to be getting a nice derangement of epitaphs, poor old creature.”\n\n\n\n<poem>\nWe eat and drink, we come and go,\nI speak in riddles. Is it so?\nMy riddles need not mar your glee;\nFor I will neither bid you share\nMy thoughts, nor will I bid you shun,\nThough I should see in yonder chair\nTh’ Egyptian’s muffled skeleton.\nOne toast with me, your glasses fill,\nAye, fill them level with the brim,\n\"De mortuis, nisi bonum, nil!\"\nThe lights are growing dim.\n</poem>\n\nThe poem, “Sunlight on the Sea” (The Philosophy of a Feast), is in the collection, \"Sea Spray and Smoke Drift\" (1876).\n\n\n<poem>\nMy mother made my need,\nmy father my conscience.\n\"De mortuis nil nisi bonum\".\n\nTherefore it will cost me\nbitterly to lie,\nto prostrate myself\nat the edge of a grave.\n\nI say to the earth\n“be kind to my mother,\nnow and later.\nSave, with your coldness,\nthe beauty we all envied.\"\n\nI became an old woman.\nI welcomed the dark\nI used so to fear.\n\"De mortuis nil nisi bonum\".\n</poem>\n\nThe poem, “The Open Grave”, is in the collection, \"Vita Nova\" (1999).\n\n\n\nThe clergyman asks: “Well, \"nil nisi bonum\". But did he really deserve . . . a place in here?”\n\nColonel Brighton’s reply is a pregnant silence.\n\n"}
{"id": "2197297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2197297", "title": "Death education", "text": "Death education\n\nDeath education is education about death that focuses on the human and emotional aspects of death. Though it may include teaching on the biological aspects of death, teaching about coping with grief is a primary focus. Death education is formally known as thanatology. Thanatology stems from the Greek word \"thanatos\", meaning death, and \"ology\" meaning a science or organized body of knowledge. A specialist in this field is referred to as a thanatologist. \nDeath education refers to the experiences and activities of death that one deals with. Death education also deals with being able to grasp the different processes of dying, talk about the main topics of attitudes and meanings toward death, and the after effects on how to learn to care for people that are affected by the death. The main focus in death education is teaching people how to cope with grief. Many people feel death education is a taboo and instead of talking about death and grieving, they hide it away and never bring it up to others. With the right education of death, the less of a taboo it will be.\n\nHistorically death education in American society has been seen as a taboo topic, not worthy of scholarly research or for educational purposes. In the 1960s pioneering professionals like that of Herman Feifel (1959), Elisabeth Kübler-Ross (1969), and Cicely Saunders (1967) encouraged behavioral scientists, clinicians, and humanists to pay attention and to study death-related topics. This initiated the death-awareness movement and began the widespread study of death-related behavior, developing new programs of care for the dying and bereaved, as well as new research on death-related attitudes.\n\n\"Death is no enemy of life; it restores our sense of the value of living. Illness restores the sense of proportion that is lost when we take life for granted. To learn about value and proportion we need to honor illness, and ultimately to honor death.\" Death education honors death by educating about death, dying, and bereavement to enrich personal lives, inform and guide individuals in their transactions with society, prepare individuals for their public roles as citizens, help prepare and support individuals in their professional and vocational roles, and lastly to enhance the ability of individuals to communicate effectively about death-related matters.\n\nOne of the major organizations that educates people on death is Hospice. Hospice offers support for the caregiver, and Hospice also offers information on what to expect before death and what the family can expect after death. One of the major subjects that hospice addresses within death are the myths that come along with death. Hospice will also walk caretakers through the signs and symptoms to look for that signify death.\nHospice is an important type of care that helps spread and explain death education to the people. When people have a loved one that is not able to get anymore help from medication or doctors, it would be a good recommendation for them to go to hospice. They would be able to receive great support and comfort during the end of their life journey. Not only does hospice give care to the terminally ill, they also give grief suggestions to family members and close friends. \"With proper care, proper support, and love, we can share the miracle that is life\". The end of a person's life should be centered on being alive instead of being dead.\n\nStudents of a death education course need to clearly understand the complex knowledge of the subject, learn the five key areas of knowledge, and to learn the physical, psycho-social, behavioral, and cognitive aspects of death. The five key areas are: understanding the dying process, decision making for end of life, loss, grief, and bereavement, assessment and intervention, and traumatic death. Death education should be taught in perspective and one's emotional response should be proportionate to the occasion. In addition death education can be taught formally or informally. Formally planned death education is associated with learning in organized educational settings including: schools, colleges, graduate education, professional workshops, and volunteer training programs.\n\nin her book, In Death and Dying (1969), Elisabeth Kubler-Ross proposed the five stages of the dying process. Though her work has often been referred to as the \"five stages of grief,\" the original work was based on her clinical observations of the psychosocial responses of terminally ill patients to their impending death. Much scholarly debate has surrounded the legitimacy of her five \"stages\"—denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance. Experienced psychosocial clinicians have largely rejected the accuracy of the model because it addresses only emotional states, sets up false expectations of the process, and have not been empirically verified as a descriptive model.\n\nThe first stage is denial and isolation. When you first hear about a loved one who has a deathly illness your first instinct is to deny the reality of the situation. This is known as a defense mechanism because we block out the words by not fully processing them and also hide from the facts.\nThe second stage is anger. Once the blocking out subsides the reality of the situation becomes overwhelming and the pain from the news emerges.\nThe third stage is bargaining. This stage you will feel more vulnerable and helpless. In order to gain control again you'll start thinking of ways that would have made it better like:\n• \"If only we had sought medical attention sooner…\"\n• \"If only we got a second opinion from another doctor…\"\n• \"If only we had tried to be a better person toward them…\"\n\nAll of these are defense lines to try and protect us from the reality of pain in a lost one.\nThe fourth stage is depression. In this stage there can be two different types of depression that you deal with. The first type of depression can be a more quiet and private feeling. The second type of depression is the kind where sadness and regret overtake your body and become the predominate factors in your life.\nThe fifth and final stage is acceptance. This stage does not always reach everyone but for the people who actually get it should consider this stage as a gift. It does not mean that you will not be sad anymore but it does mean that there is going to be some kind of peace that you are able to reach with the loved one that died.\n\nEven though people are still conservative towards the idea of death and dying, with help and the education of death, people will come to know death as a natural part of life that everyone will someday have to go through. Instead of being timid and scared of death, people will become comfortable towards the topic and be able to prepare for what will come in the future. Death education is not just for medical professionals and those dealing with the terminally ill but rather death education is beneficial to everyone for it reveals the importance of quality in living and the human search for meaning. \"Dying was what human life moved toward and therefore dying was what a human being constantly prepared for.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1468466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1468466", "title": "Elixir of life", "text": "Elixir of life\n\nThe elixir of life, also known as elixir of immortality and sometimes equated with the philosopher's stone, is a potion that supposedly grants the drinker eternal life and/or eternal youth. This elixir was also said to cure all diseases. Alchemists in various ages and cultures sought the means of formulating the elixir.\n\nIn ancient China, various emperors sought the fabled elixir with varying results. In the Qin Dynasty, Qin Shi Huang sent Taoist alchemist Xu Fu with 500 young men and 500 young women to the eastern seas to find the elixir, but he never came back (legend has it that he found Japan instead). When Shi Huang Di visited, he brought 3000 young girls and boys, but none of them ever returned.\n\nThe ancient Chinese believed that ingesting long-lasting precious substances such as jade, cinnabar or hematite would confer some of that longevity on the person who consumed them. Gold was considered particularly potent, as it was a non-tarnishing precious metal; the idea of potable or drinkable gold is found in China by the end of the third century BC. The most famous Chinese alchemical book, the Danjing yaojue (Essential Formulas of Alchemical Classics) attributed to Sun Simiao (c. 581 – c. 682 CE), a famous medical specialist respectfully called \"King of Medicine\" by later generations, discusses in detail the creation of elixirs for immortality (mercury, sulfur, and the salts of mercury and arsenic are prominent, and most are poisonous) as well as those for curing certain diseases and the fabrication of precious stones.\n\nMany of these substances, far from contributing to longevity, were actively toxic and resulted in Chinese alchemical elixir poisoning. The Jiajing Emperor in the Ming Dynasty died from ingesting a lethal dosage of mercury in the supposed \"Elixir of Life\" conjured by alchemists. British historian Joseph Needham compiled a list of Chinese emperors whose deaths were likely due to elixir poisoning.\n\nAmrita, the elixir of life has been described in the Hindu scriptures (not to be confused with Amrit related to Sikh religion (see Amrit Sanskar)). Anybody who consumes even a tiniest portion of Amrit has been described to gain immortality. Legend has it that at early times when the inception of the world had just taken place, evil demons (Ashur) had gained strength. This was seen as a threat to the gods (Devas) who feared them. So these gods (including Indra, the god of sky, Vayu, the god of wind, and Agni, the god of fire) went to seek advice and help from the three primary gods according to the Hindus: Vishnu (the preserver), Brahma (the creator), and Shiva (the destroyer). They suggested that Amrit could only be gained from the samudra manthan (or churning of the ocean) for the ocean in its depths hid mysterious and secret objects. Vishnu agreed to take the form of a turtle on whose shell a huge mountain was placed. This mountain was used as a churning pole.\n\nWith the help of a Vasuki (mighty and long serpent, king of Nagloka) the churning process began at the surface. From one side the gods pulled the serpent, which had coiled itself around the mountain, and the demons pulled it from the other side. As the churning process required immense strength, hence the demons were persuaded to do the job—they agreed in return for a portion of Amrit. Finally with their combined efforts (of the gods and demons), Amrit emerged from the ocean depths. All the gods were offered the drink but the gods managed to trick the demons who did not get the holy drink.\n\nThe oldest Indian writings, the Vedas (Hindu sacred scriptures), contain the same hints of alchemy that are found in evidence from ancient China, namely vague references to a connection between gold and long life. Mercury, which was so vital to alchemy everywhere, is first mentioned in the 4th to 3rd century BC Arthashastra, about the same time it is encountered in China and in the West. Evidence of the idea of transmuting base metals to gold appears in 2nd to 5th century AD Buddhist texts, about the same time as in the West.\n\nIt is also possible that the alchemy of medicine and immortality came to China from India, or vice versa; in any case, for both cultures, gold-making appears to have been a minor concern, and medicine the major concern. But the elixir of immortality was of little importance in India (which had other avenues to immortality). The Indian elixirs were mineral remedies for specific diseases or, at the most, to promote long life.\n\nIn European alchemical tradition, the Elixir of Life is closely related to the creation of the philosopher's stone. According to legend, certain alchemists have gained a reputation as creators of the elixir. These include Nicolas Flamel and St. Germain.\n\nThe Elixir has had hundreds of names (one scholar of Chinese history reportedly found over 1,000 names for it), among them Amrit Ras or Amrita, Aab-i-Hayat, Maha Ras, Aab-Haiwan, Dancing Water, Chasma-i-Kausar, Mansarover or the Pool of Nectar, Philosopher's stone, and Soma Ras. The word \"elixir\" was not used until the 7th century A.D. and derives from the Arabic name for miracle substances, \"al iksir\". Some view it as a metaphor for the spirit of God (\"e.g.\", Jesus's reference to \"the Water of Life\" or \"the Fountain of Life\"). \"But whoever drinks the water I give him will never thirst. Indeed, the water I give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life.\" (John 4:14) The Scots and the Irish adopted the name for their \"liquid gold\": the Gaelic name for whiskey is uisce beatha, or water of life.\n\n\"Aab-i-Hayat\" is Persian and means \"water of life\". \"Chashma-i-Kausar\" (not \"hasma\") is the \"Fountain of Bounty\", which Muslims believe to be located in Paradise. As for the Indian names, \"Amrit Ras\" means \"immortality juice\", \"Maha Ras\" means \"great juice\", and \"Soma Ras\" means \"juice of Soma\". Soma was a psychoactive drug, by which the poets of the Vedas received their visions, but the plant is no longer known. Later, Soma came to mean the moon. \"Ras\" later came to mean \"sacred mood experienced listening to poetry or music\"; there are altogether nine of them. Mansarovar, the \"mind lake\" is the holy lake at the foot of Mt. Kailash in Tibet, close to the source of the Ganges.\n\nThe elixir of life has been an inspiration, plot feature, or subject of artistic works including animation, comics, films, musical compositions, novels, and video games. Examples include L. Frank Baum's fantasy novel \"John Dough and the Cherub\", the science fiction series \"Doctor Who\", \"Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone\", \"House of Anubis\", the popular manga \"Fullmetal Alchemist\", the light novel \"Baccano!\", and the movie Professor Layton and the Eternal Diva of the popular Professor Layton franchise.\n\n"}
{"id": "22092879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22092879", "title": "Ending Aging", "text": "Ending Aging\n\nEnding Aging: The Rejuvenation Breakthroughs that Could Reverse Human Aging in Our Lifetime is a 2007 book written by Aubrey de Grey, a biomedical gerontologist, with his research assistant Michael Rae. \"Ending Aging\" describes de Grey's proposal for eliminating aging as a cause of debilitation and death in humans, and restoring the body to an indefinitely youthful state, a project plan that he calls the \"Strategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence\", or \"SENS\". De Grey argues that defeating aging is feasible, possibly within a few decades, and he outlines steps that can be taken to hasten the development of regenerative medicine treatments that will save lives.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41185116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41185116", "title": "Eternal oblivion", "text": "Eternal oblivion\n\nIn philosophy, eternal oblivion (also referred to as non-existence or nothingness) is the permanent cessation of one's consciousness upon death. This concept is often associated with religious skepticism and atheism, and may be based in part on the lack of objective evidence for an afterlife and identifying fallacies in the arguments for an afterlife such as Occam's razor.\n\nAccording to contemporary theories of consciousness, the brain is the basis of subjective experience, agency, self-awareness, and awareness of the surrounding natural world. When brain death occurs, all brain function permanently ceases. Many people who believe that death is a permanent cessation of consciousness also believe that consciousness is dependent upon the functioning of the brain. Scientific research has discovered that some areas of the brain, like the reticular activating system or the thalamus, appear to be necessary for consciousness, because damage to these structures or their lack of function causes a loss of consciousness.\n\nThrough a naturalist analysis of the mind (an approach adopted by many philosophers of mind and neuroscientists), it is regarded as being dependent on the brain, as shown from the various effects of brain damage.\n\nThe English word \"oblivion\" (late 14c.) comes from the Old French \"oblivion\" (13c.) and directly from the Latin \"oblivionem\", meaning \"forgetfulness; a being forgotten\", which also comes from the word \"oblivisci\" (\"to forget\"). Oblivion itself means \"state of being forgotten\".\n\nThomas W. Clark, founder of Center for Naturalism, wrote a paper titled \"Death, Nothingness, and Subjectivity\". He critiqued what he saw as a flawed description of eternal oblivion as a \"plunge into darkness\". When some imagine their deaths (including the non-religious), they project themselves into a future self which experiences an eternal silent darkness. This is wrong, because without consciousness, there is no awareness of space and no basis for time. For Clark, in oblivion there isn't even an absence of experience, as we can only speak of experience when a subjective self exists.\n\nAccording to neuroscientist Giulio Tononi, consciousness is \"all we are and all we have: lose consciousness and, as far as you are concerned, your own self and the entire world dissolve into nothingness.\"\n\nSteven Pinker explains the following in the seminar Is Science Killing the Soul, a discussion with Richard Dawkins presenting evidence against the existence of souls. He elaborates;\n\nIn his book \"The Big Picture\", physicist Sean Carroll asserts that through physics we can demonstrate that death is equivalent to eternal oblivion. He writes;\n\nIn the \"Apology of Socrates\" (written by Plato), after Socrates is sentenced to death, he addresses the court. He ponders the nature of death, and summarizes that there are basically two opinions about it. The first is that it is a migration of the soul or consciousness from this existence into another, and that the souls of all previously deceased people will also be there. This excites Socrates, because he will be able to conduct his dialectic inquiries with all of the great Greek heroes and thinkers of the past. The other opinion about death is that it is oblivion, the complete cessation of consciousness, not only unable to feel but a complete lack of awareness, like a person in a deep, dreamless sleep. Socrates says that even this oblivion does not frighten him very much, because while he would be unaware, he would correspondingly be free from any pain or suffering. Indeed, Socrates says, not even the great King of Persia could say that he ever rested so soundly and peacefully as he did in a dreamless sleep.\n\nCicero, writing three centuries later in his treatise \"On Old Age\", in the voice of Cato the Elder, similarly discussed the prospects of death, frequently referring to the works of earlier Greek writers. Cicero also concluded that death was either a continuation of consciousness or cessation of it, and that if consciousness continues in some form, there is no reason to fear death; while if it is in fact eternal oblivion, he will be free of all worldly miseries, in which case he should also not be deeply troubled by death.\n\nSimilar thoughts about death were expressed by the Roman poet and philosopher Lucretius in his first-century BC didactic poem \"De rerum natura\" and by the ancient Greek philosopher Epicurus in his \"Letter to Menoeceus\", in which he writes;\n\nParaphrasing philosopher Paul Edwards, Keith Augustine and Yonatan I. Fishman note that \"the greater the damage to the brain, the greater the corresponding damage to the mind. The natural extrapolation from this pattern is all too clear — obliterate brain functioning altogether, and mental functioning too will cease\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6121900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6121900", "title": "Eternal youth", "text": "Eternal youth\n\nEternal youth is the concept of human physical immortality free of ageing. The youth referred to is usually meant to be in contrast to the depredations of aging, rather than a specific age of the human lifespan. Achieving eternal youth so far remains beyond the capabilities of scientific technology. However, much research is being conducted in the sciences of genetics which may allow manipulation of the aging process in the future. Eternal youth is common in mythology, and is a popular theme in fiction.\n\nEternal youth is a characteristic of the inhabitants of Paradise in Abrahamic religions.\n\nThe Hindus believe that the Vedic and the post-Vedic rishis have attained immortality, which implies the ability to change one's body's age or even shape at will. These are some of the siddhas in Yoga. Markandeya is said to always stay at the age of 16.\n\nThe difference between eternal life and the more specific eternal youth is a recurrent theme in Greek and Roman mythology. The mytheme of requesting the boon of immortality from a god, but forgetting to ask for eternal youth appears in the story of Tithonus. A similar theme is found in Ovid regarding the Cumaean Sibyl.\n\nIn Norse mythology, Iðunn is described as providing the gods apples that grant them eternal youthfulness in the 13th century Prose Edda.\n\nAn individual's DNA plays a role in the aging process. Aging begins even before birth, as soon as cells start to die and need to be replaced. On the ends of each chromosome are repetitive sequences of DNA, telomeres, that protect the chromosome from joining with other chromosomes, and have several key roles. One of these roles is to regulate cell division by allowing each cell division to remove a small amount of genetic code. The amount removed varies by the cell type being replicated. The gradual degradation of the telomeres restricts cell division to 40-60 times, also known as the Hayflick limit. Once this limit has been reached, more cells die than can be replaced in the same time span. Thus, soon after this limit is reached the organism dies. The importance of telomeres is now clearly evident: lengthen the telomeres, lengthen the life.\n\nHowever, a study of the comparative biology of mammalian telomeres indicated that telomere length correlates inversely, rather than directly, with lifespan, and concluded that the contribution of telomere length to lifespan remains controversial. Also, telomere shortening does not occur with age in a some postmitotic tissues, such as in the rat brain. In humans, skeletal muscle telomere lengths remain stable from ages 23–74. In baboon skeletal muscle, that consists of fully differentiated post-mitotic cells, less than 3% of myonuclei contain damaged telomeres and this percentage does not increase with age. Thus telomere shortening does not appear to be a major factor in the aging of the differentiated cells of brain or skeletal muscle.\n\nStudies have shown that 90 percent of cancer cells contain large amounts of an enzyme called telomerase. Telomerase is an enzyme that replenishes the worn away telomeres by adding bases to the ends and thus renewing the telomere. A cancer cell has in essence turned on the telomerase gene, and this allows them to have an unlimited amount of divisions without the telomeres wearing away. Other kinds of cells that can surpass the Hayflick limit are stem cells, hair follicles, and germ cells. This is because they contain raised amounts of telomerase.\n\nThe idea that the human body can be repaired in old age to a more youthful state has gathered significant commercial interest over the past few years, including by companies such as Human Longevity Inc, Google Calico, and Elysium Health. In addition to these larger companies, many startups are currently developing therapeutics to tackle the 'ageing problem' using therapy. In 2015 a new class of drugs senolytics was announced (currently in pre-clinical development) designed specifically to combat the underlying biological causes of frailty.\n\nThe \"loss of youth\" or ageing process is responsible for increasing the risk of individuals to many diseases including cancer, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, and others. As a result, in recent years, many high net worth individuals have donated large amounts of their money towards initiatives towards scientific research into the ageing process itself or therapies to slow or reverse the ageing process. These people include Peter Thiel, Aubrey de Grey, Larry Ellison, Sergey Brin, Dmitry Itskov, Paul Gallen, and Mark Zuckerberg. This would allow humans to extend or maintain their youth indefinitely.\n\n"}
{"id": "380015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380015", "title": "Evolution (Baxter novel)", "text": "Evolution (Baxter novel)\n\nEvolution is a collection of short stories that work together to form an episodic science fiction novel by author Stephen Baxter. It follows 565 million years of human evolution, from shrewlike mammals 65 million years in the past to the ultimate fate of humanity (and its descendants, both biological and non-biological) 500 million years in the future.\n\nThe book follows the evolution of mankind as it shapes surviving Purgatorius into tree dwellers, remoulds a group that drifts from Africa to a (then much closer) New World on a raft formed out of debris, and confronting others with a terrible dead end as ice clamps down on Antarctica.\n\nThe stream of DNA runs on elsewhere, where ape-like creatures in North Africa are forced out of their diminishing forests to come across grasslands where their distant descendants will later run joyously. At one point, hominids become sapient, and go on to develop technology, including an evolving universal constructor machine that goes to Mars and multiplies, and in an act of global ecophagy consumes Mars by converting the planet into a mass of machinery that leaves the Solar system in search of new planets to assimilate. Human extinction (or the extinction of human culture) also occurs in the book, as well as the end of planet Earth and the rebirth of life on another planet. (The extinction-level event that causes the human extinction is, indirectly, an eruption of the Rabaul caldera, coupled with various actions of humans themselves, some of which are only vaguely referred to, but implied to be a form of genetic engineering which removed the ability to reproduce with non-engineered humans.) Also to be found in \"Evolution\" are ponderous Romans, sapient dinosaurs, the last of the wild Neanderthals, a primate who witnesses the extinction of the dinosaurs, symbiotic primate-tree relationships, mole people, and primates who live on a Mars-like Earth. The final chapter witnesses the final fate of the last primate and the descendants of the replicator machines sent to Mars that are implied to have reached sentience and colonized the galaxy.\nIn the epilogue, Joan Useb (a paleontologist introduced in the prologue and in the intermission sections) discusses the philosophy of evolution with her daughter Lucy as they weather the aftermath of Rabaul on the Galapagos, where Charles Darwin made his observations leading to his landmark theory.\n\nPeter Cannon reviewing for \"Publishers Weekly\" stated \"here is a rigorously constructed hard SF novel where the question is not whether humanity will reach the stars but how it will survive its own worst tendencies.\" \"Kirkus Reviews\" called this novel \"glum, dyspeptic, and depressing.\" Jackie Cassada said in her review for \"Library Journal\" that \"spanning more than 165 million years and encompassing the entire planet, Baxter's ambitious saga provides both an exercise in painless paleontology and superb storytelling.\"\n\n\"Evolution\" has been compared to Olaf Stapledon's \"Last and First Men\" and Baxter has acknowledged Stapledon's influence.\n\n"}
{"id": "6079418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6079418", "title": "Gerontechnology", "text": "Gerontechnology\n\nGerontechnology is an inter- and multidisciplinary academic and professional field combining gerontology and technology. Sustainability of an ageing society depends upon our effectiveness in creating technological environments, including assistive technology and inclusive design, for innovative and independent living and social participation of older adults in any state of health, comfort and safety. In short, gerontechnology concerns matching technological environments to health, housing, mobility, communication, leisure and work of older people. Research outcomes form the basis for designers, builders, engineers, manufacturers, and those in the health professions (nursing, medicine, gerontology, geriatrics, environmental psychology, developmental psychology, etc.), to provide an optimum living environment for the widest range of ages.\n\nGerontechnology, which has also been called gerotechnology is considered an adjunct to the promotion of human health and well-being. It pertains to both human development and aging with the aim to compress morbidity and to increase vitality and quality of life throughout the life-span. It creates solutions to extend the working phase in society by maximizing the vital and productive years in the later years of life, which consequently reduces the cost of care.\n\nThe overall framework of gerontechnology may be seen as a matrix of domains of human activity: (1) health & self-esteem, housing & activities of daily living, communication & governance, mobility & transport, work & leisure, and (2) technology interventions or impact levels (enhancement & satisfaction, prevention & engagement, compensation & assistance, care and care organisation). Underpinning all these elements are generic and applied evidence-based research. Such research supports the development of products and services.\n\nGerontechnology has much in common with other interdisciplinary domains, such as Assistive Technology (for the compensation & assistance and the care support & care organisation rows of the matrix), and Universal Design for the development of all products and services pertaining to gerontechnology.\n\nGerontological design focuses on providing effective solutions to improve the way of life for aging people, through gerontological knowledge and design research methods to obtain a better understanding of individuals' preferences and requirements.\n\nGerontological design also refers specifically to the study and practice of building design methods that support elderly users in the built environment. Some universities host professors, commonly in architecture or interior design departments, that specialize in the study and teaching of this design specialization. Not only does this include the examination of building design characteristics that impact older adults' physiological well-being, but it can also include the investigation of building design characteristics that impact informational needs (i.e. finding one's way around in a space) or social interaction needs (Campbell, 2012).\n\nBetween 2008 and 2030, Singapore will witness an age profile shift in its population's history. In 2005, one in 12 residents was 65 years or older. By 2030, one in five residents will be 65 years or older. Studies show that in 2002, 7% of the world's population is aged 65 and above. By 2050, it is envisaged that the percentage could rise to nearly 17%. The aging population and its impact on economics, politics, education and lifestyle is no longer an isolated issue but a global concern. Products and services relevant to the \"silver industry\" or the \"mature market\" increasingly abound in the marketplace. The demand for designers with a keen sense for the aging population's needs who employ gerontological design process knowledge concomitantly rises.\n\nAn international academic journal with delayed open-access, Gerontechnology , is published by the International Society for Gerontechnology (ISG) .\n\nA comprehensive edited book \"Gerontechnology\" has been published in 2016.\n\n The first ISG Masterclass for PhD students in 2006 produced a scheme to support gerontechnological research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5679463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5679463", "title": "Indefinite lifespan", "text": "Indefinite lifespan\n\nIndefinite lifespan (also known as indefinite life extension or bio-indefinite) is a term used in the life extension movement and transhumanism to refer to the hypothetical longevity of humans (and other life-forms) under conditions in which ageing is effectively and completely prevented and treated. Their lifespans would be \"\" (that is, they would not be \"\"), because protection from the effects of aging on health does not guarantee survival. Such individuals would still be susceptible to death by disease, starvation, accidents, or deliberate killing, but not death from aging. Semantically, \"indefinite lifespan\" is more accurate than \"immortality\" which, especially in religious contexts, implies an inability to die.\n\nLongevity escape velocity is a term used in the life extension movement. It is a hypothetical situation in which life expectancy is being increased faster than time is being expended. For example, in a given year in which longevity escape velocity would be maintained, technological advances would increase life expectancy more than that year took away by passing by.\n\nThe terms \"immortality\" and \"eternal youth\" are often used as synonyms for \"indefinite lifespan\", but they carry connotations from their other contexts which science has deemed to be impossible. That is, \"immortal\" means \"incapable of dying\". \"Eternal\" implies guaranteed existence for eternity, and in this context is also implausible because of entropy. Even if cures were found for all the degenerative diseases, and effective treatments were developed for all the processes of aging, so that bodies could be maintained as easily as cars can be repaired, people would still be killed in accidents, slain in wars, choose to die, etc.\n\nThe term indefinite lifespan represents a more achievable state of affairs, because it merely implies freedom from death by aging or infirmity.\n\nThe use of the term is also sometimes favored for reasons of linguistic aesthetics, in the same way that the term birth control is preferred to \"\"birth prevention\" or \"birth elimination\"\" which both imply, as does 'immortality', that the choice is one-time only and has permanent consequences. Whereas the point of 'indefinite lifespan', like the point of 'birth control', is to gain the opportunity to lead one's life in a more conscious and deliberate manner.\n\nThis question is twofold. On the one hand it can be interpreted to mean, \"Will a cure (or program of effective treatments) for aging ever be developed?\" while on the other hand it could mean \"Will the effective treatment of aging become available soon enough for those alive today to take advantage of it?\" The answer to the first question is conditional on medical advancement: if medical science continues to advance in the fields of biogerontology and bioengineering, then some people hope the answer is \"yes, that it will happen eventually, except if some event or series of events were to prevent the further advance of biological science\" (\"see\" Risks to civilization, humans and planet Earth \"and the\" Doomsday Clock). Many scientists researching this area at the moment do not agree. They see a problem in not just individual diseases but in failure of repair mechanisms alluded to above in the discussion of thermodynamic considerations.\n\nWhile science is constantly advancing and technology is becoming ever more sophisticated, the human body and mind are only evolving very slowly, and the aging process has not, in that time, become any more damaging (\"which, in short, is why we live three times as long on average in the twenty-first century as we did ten thousand years before\").\n\nThe answer to the second question depends on two factors: the first being \"how fast\" medical science advances, and the second being \"how well\" each person takes care of themself (such as utilizing the best available life extension technology or not, and generally eating and behaving in a healthful and non-degrading way), both of which may affect whether or not a given person is still alive when the cure (or set of treatments) becomes available. This strategy is captured in the subtitle \"Live Long Enough to Live Forever\" of the life extension book \"Fantastic Voyage\", by Ray Kurzweil and Terry Grossman.\n\nThe second factor to the second question hinges on the first factor - no amount of healthy living will enable somebody alive today to reach the point of indefinite lifespan if medical science is curtailed significantly, or if aging turns out to be massively more complex than currently believed. However, if biomedical gerontology continues to improve, if somatic genetic engineering becomes safe and effective (and is not banned by opponents) within the relatively near future, it may be conceivable for some of those now alive to attain indefinite lifespans.\n\nStrategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence is a proposed research program for repairing all types of age-related damage.\n\nCalorie restriction has been presented as a piece of the puzzle of reaching actuarial escape velocity. Other proposed techniques include genetic engineering, telomere extension, organ regeneration, nanotechnology, and even mind uploading.\n\nOn the theory that the primary cause of aging is DNA damage [see DNA damage theory of aging and DNA damage (naturally occurring)], there are, in principle, two ways of reducing DNA damage in cells, and thus allowing indefinite extension of lifespan. These are:\n\nThere is a large body of literature on antioxidant phytochemicals that reduce the occurrence of oxidative DNA damage. However, when intervention trials were carried out using these antioxidants as dietary supplements and cancer as the endpoint, the results generally proved disappointing.\n\nOn the other hand, there seems to be evidence that certain dietary components stimulate repair of DNA damage, and protect against cancer as an endpoint. One of these is chlorogenic acid, a major component of, and absorbable from, coffee. Coffee is protective against colorectal cancer, and chlorogenic acid and its metabolites increase the protein expression levels of two DNA repair enzymes: Pms2 and PARP. Another compound that protects against the early stages of cancer is naringenin, a citrus flavonoid. Naringenin was shown to increase the mRNA expression levels of two DNA repair enzymes, DNA pol beta and OGG1.\n\n"}
{"id": "52008609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52008609", "title": "Katrine Aalerud", "text": "Katrine Aalerud\n\nKatrine Aalerud (born 4 December 1994) is a Norwegian professional racing cyclist. She rode in the women's road race at the 2016 UCI Road World Championships, finishing in 39th place.\n"}
{"id": "59010226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59010226", "title": "Kay 9ice", "text": "Kay 9ice\n\nPhilip Kwaku Kissi popularly known as Kay 9ice, was born on May 27, 1990 in Accra, Ghana. a Ghanaian Hiplife and Afrobeats artiste. Kay 9ice currently signed to GHOZT MUSIK a record label based in Ghana & +816 studios.\n\nPhilip hails from Akoefe in the Volta Region of Ghana. Growing up, afrobeats music became his favorite at the junior high school level Ashaiman Government School.\nHe won himself the pleasure to be the first Ghanaian to be introduced by BBC Music and to feature on BBC6 Music Mixtape.\n\nKay 9ice became part of a musical group called Rekx Bois (Real Entertainment Knocked Down Extremely). Due to his hard work musically he had his first big appearance during Flowking Stone's oseikrom shutdown show in Kumasi, Ghana. With his hard work, he got nominated for the median edition for Ashaiman Music Awards 2018 and Ghana Music Awards South Africa for which he got 7 nominations and promising Artist Of The Year 2018 respectively.\n\nHe won the Afro-Song Of The Year category in The median edition Of the Ashaiman Music Awards 2018 and was also nominated for ghana Music awards south africa. He is also the first ghanaian to be feature on BBC 6 Music Introducing Mixtape.\n"}
{"id": "16993993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16993993", "title": "Life Extension Institute", "text": "Life Extension Institute\n\nThe Life Extension Institute was an organization formed in the United States in 1913 with the philanthropic goal of prolonging human life through hygiene and disease prevention. Its organizational officers included many celebrity-philanthropists such as William Howard Taft, Alexander Graham Bell, and Mabel Thorp Boardman but also genuine medical experts including William James Mayo, Russell Henry Chittenden, and J. H. Kellogg and a \"Hygiene Reference Board\" of dozens of nationally recognized physicians of that era such as Mazÿck Porcher Ravenel and Major General William Crawford Gorgas.\n\nA major project of the institute which fulfilled its mission to disseminate knowledge was publication of the book \"How to Live, Rules for Healthful Living Based on Modern Science\", now in the public domain.\n\nThe institute was a proponent of eugenics including sterilization of grossly \"unfit\" individuals:\n"}
{"id": "25577815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25577815", "title": "Life Sciences (journal)", "text": "Life Sciences (journal)\n\nLife Sciences is a weekly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering research on the molecular, cellular, and physiological mechanisms of pharmacotherapy.\n\nIndexed by ISI Life Sciences received an impact factor of 2.702 as reported in the 2014 Journal Citation Reports by Thomson Reuters, ranking it 53rd out of 123 journals in the category \"Medicine, research & experimental\" and ranking it 103rd out of 254 journals in the category \"Pharmacology & Pharmacy\".\n\nThe current Editor in Chief is Loren E. Wold.\n"}
{"id": "68140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68140", "title": "List of life sciences", "text": "List of life sciences\n\nThe life sciences or biological sciences comprise the branches of science that involve the scientific study of life and organisms – such as microorganisms, plants, and animals including human beings. \n\nLife science is one of the two major branches of natural science, the other being physical science, which is concerned with non-living matter. \n\nBy definition, biology is the natural science that studies life and living organisms, with the other life sciences being its sub-disciplines. \n\nSome life sciences focus on a specific type of organism. For example, zoology is the study of animals, while botany is the study of plants. Other life sciences focus on aspects common to all or many life forms, such as anatomy and genetics. Some focus on the micro scale (e.g. molecular biology, biochemistry) other on larger scales (e.g. cytology, immunology, ethology, ecology). Another major, branch of life sciences involves understanding the mindneuroscience.\n\nLife sciences discoveries are helpful in improving the quality and standard of life, and have applications in health, agriculture, medicine, and the pharmaceutical and food science industries.\n\nBiology – burst and eclectic field, composed of many branches and sub-disciplines. However, despite the complexity and the broad scope of the science, there are certain general and unifying concepts within it that govern all study and research, consolidating it into a single, coherent field. Here are some of biology's major branches:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20347", "title": "Meaning of life", "text": "Meaning of life\n\nThe meaning of life, or the answer to the question \"What is the meaning of life?\", pertains to the significance of living or existence in general. Many other related questions include: \"Why are we here?\", \"What is life all about?\", or \"What is the purpose of existence?\" There have been a large number of proposed answers to these questions from many different cultural and ideological backgrounds. The search for life's meaning has produced much philosophical, scientific, theological, and metaphysical speculation throughout history. Different people and cultures believe different things for the answer to this question. \n\nThe meaning of life as we perceive it is derived from philosophical and religious contemplation of, and scientific inquiries about existence, social ties, consciousness, and happiness. Many other issues are also involved, such as symbolic meaning, ontology, value, purpose, ethics, good and evil, free will, the existence of one or multiple gods, conceptions of God, the soul, and the afterlife. Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related empirical facts about the universe, exploring the context and parameters concerning the \"how\" of life. Science also studies and can provide recommendations for the pursuit of well-being and a related conception of morality. An alternative, humanistic approach poses the question, \"What is the meaning of \"my\" life?\"\n\nQuestions about the meaning of life have been expressed in a broad variety of ways, including the following:\n\nThese questions have resulted in a wide range of competing answers and arguments, from scientific theories, to philosophical, theological, and spiritual explanations.\n\nMany members of the scientific community and philosophy of science communities think that science can provide the relevant context, and set of parameters necessary for dealing with topics related to the meaning of life. In their view, science can offer a wide range of insights on topics ranging from the science of happiness to death anxiety. Scientific inquiry facilitates this through nomological investigation into various aspects of life and reality, such as the Big Bang, the origin of life, and evolution, and by studying the objective factors which correlate with the subjective experience of meaning and happiness.\n\nResearchers in positive psychology study empirical factors that lead to life satisfaction, full engagement in activities, making a fuller contribution by utilizing one's personal strengths, and meaning based on investing in something larger than the self. Large-data studies of flow experiences have consistently suggested that humans experience meaning and fulfillment when mastering challenging tasks, and that the experience comes from the way tasks are approached and performed rather than the particular choice of task. For example, flow experiences can be obtained by prisoners in concentration camps with minimal facilities, and occur only slightly more often in billionaires. A classic example is of two workers on an apparently boring production line in a factory. One treats the work as a tedious chore while the other turns it into a game to see how fast she can make each unit, and achieves flow in the process.\n\nNeuroscience describes reward, pleasure, and motivation in terms of neurotransmitter activity, especially in the limbic system and the ventral tegmental area in particular. If one believes that the meaning of life is to maximize pleasure and to ease general life, then this allows normative predictions about how to act to achieve this. Likewise, some ethical naturalists advocate a science of morality—the empirical pursuit of flourishing for all conscious creatures.\n\nExperimental philosophy and neuroethics research collects data about human ethical decisions in controlled scenarios such as trolley problems. It has shown that many types of ethical judgment are universal across cultures, suggesting that they may be innate, whilst others are culture specific. The findings show actual human ethical reasoning to be at odds with most logical philosophical theories, for example consistently showing distinctions between action by cause and action by omission which would be absent from utility based theories. Cognitive science has theorized about differences between conservative and liberal ethics and how they may be based on different metaphors from family life such as strong fathers vs nurturing mother models.\n\nNeurotheology is a controversial field which tries to find neural correlates and mechanisms of religious experience. Some researchers have suggested that the human brain has innate mechanisms for such experiences and that living without using them for their evolved purposes may be a cause of imbalance. Studies have reported conflicted results on correlating happiness with religious belief and it is difficult to find unbiased meta-analyses.\n\nSociology examines value at a social level using theoretical constructs such as value theory, norms, anomie, etc. One value system suggested by social psychologists, broadly called Terror Management Theory, states that human meaning is derived from a fundamental fear of death, and values are selected when they allow us to escape the mental reminder of death.\n\nEmerging research shows that meaning in life predicts better physical health outcomes. Greater meaning has been associated with a reduced risk of Alzheimer's disease, reduced risk of heart attack among individuals with coronary heart disease, reduced risk of stroke, and increased longevity in both American and Japanese samples. In 2014, the British National Health Service began recommending a five step plan for mental well-being based on meaningful lives, whose steps are: (1) Connect with community and family; (2) Physical exercise; (3) Lifelong learning; (4) Giving to others; (5) Mindfulness of the world around you.\n\nThe exact mechanisms of abiogenesis are unknown: notable hypotheses include the RNA world hypothesis (RNA-based replicators) and the iron-sulfur world hypothesis (metabolism without genetics). The process by which different lifeforms have developed throughout history via genetic mutation and natural selection is explained by evolution. At the end of the 20th century, based upon insight gleaned from the gene-centered view of evolution, biologists George C. Williams, Richard Dawkins, and David Haig, among others, concluded that if there is a primary function to life, it is the replication of DNA and the survival of one's genes. This view has not achieved universal agreement; Jeremy Griffith is a notable exception, maintaining that the meaning of life is to be integrative. Responding to an interview question from Richard Dawkins about \"what it is all for\", James Watson stated \"I don't think we're \"for\" anything. We're just the products of evolution.\"\n\nThough scientists have intensively studied life on Earth, defining life in unequivocal terms is still a challenge. Physically, one may say that life \"feeds on negative entropy\" which refers to the process by which living entities decrease their internal entropy at the expense of some form of energy taken in from the environment. Biologists generally agree that lifeforms are self-organizing systems which regulate their internal environments as to maintain this organized state, metabolism serves to provide energy, and reproduction causes life to continue over a span of multiple generations. Typically, organisms are responsive to stimuli and genetic information changes from generation to generation, resulting in adaptation through evolution; this optimizes the chances of survival for the individual organism and its descendants respectively.\n\nNon-cellular replicating agents, notably viruses, are generally not considered to be organisms because they are incapable of independent reproduction or metabolism. This classification is problematic, though, since some parasites and endosymbionts are also incapable of independent life. Astrobiology studies the possibility of different forms of life on other worlds, including replicating structures made from materials other than DNA.\n\nThough the Big Bang theory was met with much skepticism when first introduced, it has become well-supported by several independent observations. However, current physics can only describe the early universe from 10 seconds after the Big Bang (where zero time corresponds to infinite temperature); a theory of quantum gravity would be required to understand events before that time. Nevertheless, many physicists have speculated about what would have preceded this limit, and how the universe came into being. For example, one interpretation is that the Big Bang occurred coincidentally, and when considering the anthropic principle, it is sometimes interpreted as implying the existence of a multiverse.\n\nThe ultimate fate of the universe, and implicitly humanity, is hypothesized as one in which biological life will eventually become unsustainable, such as through a Big Freeze, Big Rip, or Big Crunch.\n\nTheoretical cosmology studies many alternative speculative models for the origin and fate of the universe beyond the big bang theory. A recent trend has been models of the creation of 'baby universes' inside black holes, with our own big bang being a white hole on the inside of a black hole in another parent universe. Multiverse theories claim that every possibility of quantum mechanics is played out in parallel universes.\n\nThe nature and origin of consciousness and the mind itself are also widely debated in science. The explanatory gap is generally equated with the hard problem of consciousness, and the question of free will is also considered to be of fundamental importance. These subjects are mostly addressed in the fields of cognitive science, neuroscience (e.g. the neuroscience of free will) and philosophy of mind, though some evolutionary biologists and theoretical physicists have also made several allusions to the subject.\nReductionistic and eliminative materialistic approaches, for example the Multiple Drafts Model, hold that consciousness can be wholly explained by neuroscience through the workings of the brain and its neurons, thus adhering to biological naturalism.\n\nOn the other hand, some scientists, like Andrei Linde, have considered that consciousness, like spacetime, might have its own intrinsic degrees of freedom, and that one's perceptions may be as real as (or even more real than) material objects. Hypotheses of consciousness and spacetime explain consciousness in describing a \"space of conscious elements\", often encompassing a number of extra dimensions. Electromagnetic theories of consciousness solve the binding problem of consciousness in saying that the electromagnetic field generated by the brain is the actual carrier of conscious experience, there is however disagreement about the implementations of such a theory relating to other workings of the mind. Quantum mind theories use quantum theory in explaining certain properties of the mind. Explaining the process of free will through quantum phenomena is a popular alternative to determinism.\n\nBased on the premises of non-materialistic explanations of the mind, some have suggested the existence of a cosmic consciousness, asserting that consciousness is actually the \"ground of all being\". Proponents of this view cite accounts of paranormal phenomena, primarily extrasensory perceptions and psychic powers, as evidence for an incorporeal higher consciousness. In hopes of proving the existence of these phenomena, parapsychologists have orchestrated various experiments, but successful results might be due to poor experimental controls and might have alternative explanations.\n\nThe most common definitions of meaning in life involve three components. First, Reker and Wong define personal meaning as the \"cognizance of order, coherence and purpose in one's existence, the pursuit and attainment of worthwhile goals, and an accompanying sense of fulfillment\" (p. 221). In 2016 Martela and Steger defined meaning as coherence, purpose, and significance. In contrast, Wong has proposed a four-component solution to the question of meaning in life, with the four components purpose, understanding, responsibility, and enjoyment (PURE):\n\nThus, a sense of significance permeates every dimension of meaning, rather than stands as a separate factor.\n\nAlthough most psychology researchers consider meaning in life as a subjective feeling or judgment, most philosophers (e.g., Thaddeus Metz, Daniel Haybron) propose that there are also objective, concrete criteria for what constitutes meaning in life.\nWong has proposed that whether life is meaningful depends not only on subjective feelings but, more importantly, on whether a person's goal-striving and life as a whole is meaningful according to some objective normative standard.\n\nThe philosophical perspectives on the meaning of life are those ideologies which explain life in terms of ideals or abstractions defined by humans.\n\nPlato, a pupil of Socrates, was one of the earliest, most influential philosophers. His reputation comes from his idealism of believing in the existence of universals. His Theory of Forms proposes that universals do not physically exist, like objects, but as heavenly forms. In the dialogue of \"The Republic\", the character of Socrates describes the Form of the Good. His theory on justice in the soul relates to the idea of happiness relevant to the question of the meaning of life.\n\nIn Platonism, the meaning of life is in attaining the highest form of knowledge, which is the Idea (Form) of the Good, from which all good and just things derive utility and value.\n\nAristotle, an apprentice of Plato, was another early and influential philosopher, who argued that ethical knowledge is not \"certain\" knowledge (such as metaphysics and epistemology), but is \"general\" knowledge. Because it is not a theoretical discipline, a person had to study and practice in order to become \"good\"; thus if the person were to become virtuous, he could not simply study what virtue \"is\", he had to \"be\" virtuous, via virtuous activities. To do this, Aristotle established what is virtuous:\nYet, if action A is done towards achieving goal B, then goal B also would have a goal, goal C, and goal C also would have a goal, and so would continue this pattern, until something stopped its infinite regression. Aristotle's solution is the \"Highest Good\", which is desirable for its own sake. It is its own goal. The Highest Good is not desirable for the sake of achieving some other good, and all other \"goods\" desirable for its sake. This involves achieving \"eudaemonia\", usually translated as \"happiness\", \"well-being\", \"flourishing\", and \"excellence\".\n\nAntisthenes, a pupil of Socrates, first outlined the themes of Cynicism, stating that the purpose of life is living a life of Virtue which agrees with Nature. Happiness depends upon being self-sufficient and master of one's mental attitude; suffering is the consequence of false judgments of value, which cause negative emotions and a concomitant vicious character.\n\nThe Cynical life rejects conventional desires for wealth, power, health, and fame, by being free of the possessions acquired in pursuing the conventional. As reasoning creatures, people could achieve happiness via rigorous training, by living in a way natural to human beings. The world equally belongs to everyone, so suffering is caused by false judgments of what is valuable and what is worthless per the customs and conventions of society.\n\nAristippus of Cyrene, a pupil of Socrates, founded an early Socratic school that emphasized only one side of Socrates's teachings—that happiness is one of the ends of moral action and that pleasure is the supreme good; thus a hedonistic world view, wherein bodily gratification is more intense than mental pleasure. Cyrenaics prefer immediate gratification to the long-term gain of delayed gratification; denial is unpleasant unhappiness.\n\nEpicurus, a pupil of the Platonist Pamphilus of Samos, taught that the greatest good is in seeking modest pleasures, to attain tranquility and freedom from fear (ataraxia) via knowledge, friendship, and virtuous, temperate living; bodily pain (aponia) is absent through one's knowledge of the workings of the world and of the limits of one's desires. Combined, freedom from pain and freedom from fear are happiness in its highest form. Epicurus' lauded enjoyment of simple pleasures is quasi-ascetic \"abstention\" from sex and the appetites:\n\"When we say ... that pleasure is the end and aim, we do not mean the pleasures of the prodigal or the pleasures of sensuality, as we are understood to do, by some, through ignorance, prejudice or wilful misrepresentation. By pleasure we mean the absence of pain in the body and of trouble in the soul. It is not by an unbroken succession of drinking bouts and of revelry, not by sexual lust, nor the enjoyment of fish, and other delicacies of a luxurious table, which produce a pleasant life; it is sober reasoning, searching out the grounds of every choice and avoidance, and banishing those beliefs through which the greatest tumults take possession of the soul.\"\n\nThe Epicurean meaning of life rejects immortality and mysticism; there is a soul, but it is as mortal as the body. There is no afterlife, yet, one need not fear death, because \"Death is nothing to us; for that which is dissolved, is without sensation, and that which lacks sensation is nothing to us.\"\n\nZeno of Citium, a pupil of Crates of Thebes, established the school which teaches that living according to reason and virtue is to be in harmony with the universe's divine order, entailed by one's recognition of the universal \"logos\", or reason, an essential value of all people. The meaning of life is \"freedom from suffering\" through \"apatheia\" (Gr: απαθεια), that is, being objective and having \"clear judgement\", \"not\" indifference.\n\nStoicism's prime directives are virtue, reason, and natural law, abided to develop personal self-control and mental fortitude as means of overcoming destructive emotions. The Stoic does not seek to extinguish emotions, only to avoid emotional troubles, by developing clear judgement and inner calm through diligently practiced logic, reflection, and concentration.\n\nThe Stoic ethical foundation is that \"good lies in the state of the soul\", itself, exemplified in wisdom and self-control, thus improving one's spiritual well-being: \"\"Virtue\" consists in a \"will\" which is in agreement with Nature.\" The principle applies to one's personal relations thus: \"to be free from anger, envy, and jealousy\".\n\nThe Enlightenment and the colonial era both changed the nature of European philosophy and exported it worldwide. Devotion and subservience to God were largely replaced by notions of inalienable natural rights and the potentialities of reason, and universal ideals of love and compassion gave way to civic notions of freedom, equality, and citizenship. The meaning of life changed as well, focusing less on humankind's relationship to God and more on the relationship between individuals and their society. This era is filled with theories that equate meaningful existence with the social order.\n\nClassical liberalism is a set of ideas that arose in the 17th and 18th centuries, out of conflicts between a growing, wealthy, propertied class and the established aristocratic and religious orders that dominated Europe. Liberalism cast humans as beings with inalienable natural rights (including the right to retain the wealth generated by one's own work), and sought out means to balance rights across society. Broadly speaking, it considers individual liberty to be the most important goal, because only through ensured liberty are the other inherent rights protected.\n\nThere are many forms and derivations of liberalism, but their central conceptions of the meaning of life trace back to three main ideas. Early thinkers such as John Locke, Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Adam Smith saw humankind beginning in the state of nature, then finding meaning for existence through labor and property, and using social contracts to create an environment that supports those efforts.\n\nKantianism is a philosophy based on the ethical, epistemological, and metaphysical works of Immanuel Kant. Kant is known for his deontological theory where there is a single moral obligation, the \"Categorical Imperative\", derived from the concept of duty. Kantians believe all actions are performed in accordance with some underlying maxim or principle, and for actions to be ethical, they must adhere to the categorical imperative.\n\nSimply put, the test is that one must universalize the maxim (imagine that all people acted in this way) and then see if it would still be possible to perform the maxim in the world without contradiction. In \"Groundwork\", Kant gives the example of a person who seeks to borrow money without intending to pay it back. This is a contradiction because if it were a universal action, no person would lend money anymore as he knows that he will never be paid back. The maxim of this action, says Kant, results in a contradiction in conceivability (and thus contradicts perfect duty).\n\nKant also denied that the consequences of an act in any way contribute to the moral worth of that act, his reasoning being that the physical world is outside one's full control and thus one cannot be held accountable for the events that occur in it.\n\nThe origins of utilitarianism can be traced back as far as Epicurus, but, as a school of thought, it is credited to Jeremy Bentham, who found that \"nature has placed mankind under the governance of two sovereign masters, pain and pleasure\", then, from that moral insight, deriving the \"Rule of Utility\": \"that the good is whatever brings the greatest happiness to the greatest number of people\". He defined the meaning of life as the \"greatest happiness principle\".\n\nJeremy Bentham's foremost proponent was James Mill, a significant philosopher in his day, and father of John Stuart Mill. The younger Mill was educated per Bentham's principles, including transcribing and summarizing much of his father's work.\n\nNihilism suggests that life is without objective meaning.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche characterized nihilism as emptying the world, and especially human existence, of meaning, purpose, comprehensible truth, and essential value; succinctly, nihilism is the process of \"the devaluing of the highest values\". Seeing the nihilist as a natural result of the idea that God is dead, and insisting it was something to overcome, his questioning of the nihilist's life-negating values returned meaning to the Earth.\nTo Martin Heidegger, nihilism is the movement whereby \"being\" is forgotten, and is transformed into value, in other words, the reduction of being to exchange value. Heidegger, in accordance with Nietzsche, saw in the so-called \"death of God\" a potential source for nihilism:\n\"If God, as the supra-sensory ground and goal, of all reality, is dead; if the supra-sensory world of the Ideas has suffered the loss of its obligatory, and above it, its vitalizing and up-building power, then nothing more remains to which Man can cling, and by which he can orient himself.\"\n\nThe French philosopher Albert Camus asserts that the absurdity of the human condition is that people search for external values and meaning in a world which has none, and is indifferent to them. Camus writes of value-nihilists such as Meursault, but also of values in a nihilistic world, that people can instead strive to be \"heroic nihilists\", living with dignity in the face of absurdity, living with \"secular saintliness\", fraternal solidarity, and rebelling against and transcending the world's indifference.\n\nThe current era has seen radical changes in both formal and popular conceptions of human nature. The knowledge disclosed by modern science has effectively rewritten the relationship of humankind to the natural world. Advances in medicine and technology have freed humans from significant limitations and ailments of previous eras; and philosophy—particularly following the linguistic turn—has altered how the relationships people have with themselves and each other are conceived. Questions about the meaning of life have also seen radical changes, from attempts to reevaluate human existence in biological and scientific terms (as in pragmatism and logical positivism) to efforts to meta-theorize about meaning-making as a personal, individual-driven activity (existentialism, secular humanism).\n\nPragmatism originated in the late-19th-century US, concerning itself (mostly) with truth, and positing that \"only in struggling with the environment\" do data, and derived theories, have meaning, and that \"consequences\", like utility and practicality, are also components of truth. Moreover, pragmatism posits that \"anything\" useful and practical is not always true, arguing that what most contributes to the most human good in the long course is true. In practice, theoretical claims must be \"practically verifiable\", i.e. one should be able to predict and test claims, and, that, ultimately, the needs of humankind should guide human intellectual inquiry.\n\nPragmatic philosophers suggest that the practical, useful understanding of life is more important than searching for an impractical abstract truth about life. William James argued that truth could be made, but not sought. To a pragmatist, the meaning of life is discoverable only via experience.\n\nTheists believe God created the universe and that God had a purpose in doing so. Theists also hold the view that humans find their meaning and purpose for life in God's purpose in creating. Theists further hold that if there were no God to give life ultimate meaning, value and purpose, then life would be absurd.\n\nAccording to existentialism, each man and each woman creates the essence (meaning) of their life; life is not determined by a supernatural god or an earthly authority, one is free. As such, one's ethical prime directives are \"action\", \"freedom\", and \"decision\", thus, existentialism opposes rationalism and positivism. In seeking meaning to life, the existentialist looks to where people find meaning in life, in course of which using only reason as a source of meaning is insufficient; this gives rise to the emotions of anxiety and dread, felt in considering one's free will, and the concomitant awareness of death. According to Jean-Paul Sartre, existence precedes essence; the (essence) of one's life arises \"only\" after one comes to existence.\n\nSøren Kierkegaard spoke about a \"\", arguing that life is full of absurdity, and one must make his and her own values in an indifferent world. One can live meaningfully (free of despair and anxiety) in an unconditional commitment to something finite, and devotes that meaningful life to the commitment, despite the vulnerability inherent to doing so.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer answered: \"What is the meaning of life?\" by stating that one's life reflects one's will, and that the will (life) is an aimless, irrational, and painful drive. Salvation, deliverance, and escape from suffering are in aesthetic contemplation, sympathy for others, and asceticism.\n\nFor Friedrich Nietzsche, life is worth living only if there are goals inspiring one to live. Accordingly, he saw nihilism (\"all that happens is meaningless\") as without goals. He stated that asceticism denies one's living in the world; stated that values are not objective facts, that are rationally necessary, universally binding commitments: our evaluations are interpretations, and not reflections of the world, as it is, in itself, and, therefore, all ideations take place from a particular perspective.\n\nIn absurdist philosophy, the Absurd arises out of the fundamental disharmony between the individual's search for meaning and the apparent meaninglessness of the universe. As beings looking for meaning in a meaningless world, humans have three ways of resolving the dilemma. Kierkegaard and Camus describe the solutions in their works, \"The Sickness Unto Death\" (1849) and \"The Myth of Sisyphus\" (1942):\n\nPer secular humanism, the human species came to be by reproducing successive generations in a progression of unguided evolution as an integral expression of nature, which is self-existing. Human knowledge comes from human observation, experimentation, and rational analysis (the scientific method), and not from supernatural sources; the nature of the universe is what people discern it to be. Likewise, \"values and realities\" are determined \"by means of intelligent inquiry\" and \"are derived from human need and interest as tested by experience\", that is, by critical intelligence. \"As far as we know, the total personality is [a function] of the biological organism transacting in a social and cultural context.\"\n\nPeople determine human purpose without supernatural influence; it is the human personality (general sense) that is the purpose of a human being's life. Humanism seeks to develop and fulfill: \"Humanism affirms our ability and responsibility to lead ethical lives of personal fulfillment that aspire to the greater good of humanity\". Humanism aims to promote enlightened self-interest and the common good for all people. It is based on the premises that the happiness of the individual person is inextricably linked to the well-being of all humanity, in part because humans are social animals who find meaning in personal relations and because cultural progress benefits everybody living in the culture.\n\nThe philosophical subgenres posthumanism and transhumanism (sometimes used synonymously) are extensions of humanistic values. One should seek the advancement of humanity and of all life to the greatest degree feasible and seek to reconcile Renaissance humanism with the 21st century's technoscientific culture. In this light, every living creature has the right to determine its personal and social \"meaning of life\".\n\nFrom a humanism-psychotherapeutic point of view, the question of the meaning of life could be reinterpreted as \"What is the meaning of \"my\" life?\" This approach emphasizes that the question is personal—and avoids focusing on cosmic or religious questions about overarching purpose. There are many therapeutic responses to this question. For example, Viktor Frankl argues for \"Dereflection\", which translates largely as: cease endlessly reflecting on the self; instead, engage in life. On the whole, the therapeutic response is that the question itself—what is the meaning of life?—evaporates when one is fully engaged in life. (The question then morphs into more specific worries such as \"What delusions am I under?\"; \"What is blocking my ability to enjoy things?\"; \"Why do I neglect loved-ones?\".) \"See also: Existential Therapy and Irvin Yalom\"\n\nLogical positivists ask: \"What is the meaning of life?\", \"What is the meaning in asking?\" and \"If there are no objective values, then, is life meaningless?\" Ludwig Wittgenstein and the logical positivists said: \"Expressed in language, the question is meaningless\"; because, \"in\" life the statement the \"meaning of x\", usually denotes the \"consequences\" of x, or the \"significance\" of x, or \"what is notable\" about x, etc., thus, when the meaning of life concept equals \"x\", in the statement the \"meaning of x\", the statement becomes recursive, and, therefore, nonsensical, or it might refer to the fact that biological life is essential to having a meaning in life.\n\nThe things (people, events) in the life of a person can have meaning (importance) as parts of a whole, but a discrete meaning of (the) life, itself, aside from those things, cannot be discerned. A person's life has meaning (for themselves, others) as the life events resulting from their achievements, legacy, family, etc., but, to say that life, itself, has meaning, is a misuse of language, since any note of significance, or of consequence, is relevant only \"in\" life (to the living), so rendering the statement erroneous. Bertrand Russell wrote that although he found that his distaste for torture was not like his distaste for broccoli, he found no satisfactory, empirical method of proving this:\nWhen we try to be definite, as to what we mean when we say that this or that is \"the Good,\" we find ourselves involved in very great difficulties. Bentham's creed, that pleasure is the Good, roused furious opposition, and was said to be a pig's philosophy. Neither he nor his opponents could advance any argument. In a scientific question, evidence can be adduced on both sides, and, in the end, one side is seen to have the better case—or, if this does not happen, the question is left undecided. But in a question, as to whether this, or that, is the ultimate Good, there is no evidence, either way; each disputant can only appeal to his own emotions, and employ such rhetorical devices as shall rouse similar emotions in others ... Questions as to \"values\"—that is to say, as to what is good or bad on its own account, independently of its effects—lie outside the domain of science, as the defenders of religion emphatically assert. I think that, in this, they are right, but, I draw the further conclusion, which they do not draw, that questions as to \"values\" lie wholly outside the domain of knowledge. That is to say, when we assert that this, or that, has \"value\", we are giving expression to our own emotions, not to a fact, which would still be true if our personal feelings were different.\n\nPostmodernist thought—broadly speaking—sees human nature as constructed by language, or by structures and institutions of human society. Unlike other forms of philosophy, postmodernism rarely seeks out \"a priori\" or innate meanings in human existence, but instead focuses on analyzing or critiquing \"given\" meanings in order to rationalize or reconstruct them. Anything resembling a \"meaning of life\", in postmodernist terms, can only be understood within a social and linguistic framework, and must be pursued as an escape from the power structures that are already embedded in all forms of speech and interaction. As a rule, postmodernists see awareness of the constraints of language as necessary to escaping those constraints, but different theorists take different views on the nature of this process: from radical reconstruction of meaning by individuals (as in deconstructionism) to theories in which individuals are primarily extensions of language and society, without real autonomy (as in poststructuralism).\n\nAccording to naturalistic pantheism, the meaning of life is to care for and look after nature and the environment.\n\nEmbodied cognition uses the neurological basis of emotion, speech, and cognition to understand the nature of thought. Cognitive neuropsychology has identified brain areas necessary for these abilities, and genetic studies show that the gene FOXP2 affects neuroplasticity which underlies language fluency. \nGeorge Lakoff, a professor of cognitive linguistics and philosophy, advances the view that metaphors are the usual basis of meaning, not the logic of verbal symbol manipulation. Computers use logic programming to effectively query databases but humans rely on a trained biological neural network. Post modern philosophies that use the indeterminacy of symbolic language to deny definite meaning ignore those who feel they know what they mean and feel that their interlocutors know what they mean. Choosing the correct metaphor results in enough common understanding to pursue questions such as the meaning of life. Improved knowledge of brain function should result in better treatments producing healthier brains. When combined with more effective training, a sound personal assessment as to the meaning of one’s life should be straightforward.\n\nThe Mohist philosophers believed that the purpose of life was universal, impartial love. Mohism promoted a philosophy of impartial caring—a person should care equally for all other individuals, regardless of their actual relationship to him or her. The expression of this indiscriminate caring is what makes man a righteous being in Mohist thought. This advocacy of impartiality was a target of attack by the other Chinese philosophical schools, most notably the Confucians who believed that while love should be unconditional, it should not be indiscriminate. For example, children should hold a greater love for their parents than for random strangers.\n\nConfucianism recognizes human nature in accordance with the need for discipline and education. Because humankind is driven by both positive and negative influences, Confucianists see a goal in achieving virtue through strong relationships and reasoning as well as minimizing the negative. This emphasis on normal living is seen in the Confucianist scholar Tu Wei-Ming's quote, \"we can realize the ultimate meaning of life in ordinary human existence.\"\n\nThe Legalists believed that finding the purpose of life was a meaningless effort. To the Legalists, only practical knowledge was valuable, especially as it related to the function and performance of the state.\n\nThe religious perspectives on the meaning of life are those ideologies which explain life in terms of an implicit purpose not defined by humans. According to the Charter for Compassion signed by many of the world's leading religious and secular organizations, the core of religion is the golden rule of `treat others as you would have them treat you'. The Charter's founder, Karen Armstrong, quotes the ancient Rabbi Hillel who suggested that `the rest is commentary'. This is not to reduce the commentary's importance, and Armstrong considers that its study, interpretation and ritual are the means by which religious people internalize and live the golden rule.\n\nZoroastrianism is the religion and philosophy named after its prophet Zoroaster, which is believed to have influenced the beliefs of Judaism and its descendant religions. Zoroastrians believe in a universe created by a transcendental God, Ahura Mazda, to whom all worship is ultimately directed. Ahura Mazda's creation is \"asha\", truth and order, and it is in conflict with its antithesis, \"druj\", falsehood and disorder. (See also Zoroastrian eschatology).\n\nSince humanity possesses free will, people must be responsible for their moral choices. By using free will, people must take an active role in the universal conflict, with good thoughts, good words and good deeds to ensure happiness and to keep chaos at bay.\n\nIn Islam, humanity's ultimate purpose is to discover their creator Allah () through His signs, and be grateful to Him through sincere love and devotion. This is practically shown by following the Divine guidelines revealed in the Qur'an and the Tradition of the Prophet. Earthly life is a test, determining one's position of closeness to Allah in the hereafter. A person will either be close to Him and His Love in \"Jannah\" (Paradise) or far away in \"Jahannam\" (Hell).\n\nFor Allah's satisfaction, via the Qur'an, all Muslims must believe in God, his revelations, his angels, his messengers, and in the \"Day of Judgment\". The Qur'an describes the purpose of creation as follows: \"Blessed be he in whose hand is the kingdom, he is powerful over all things, who created death and life that he might examine which of you is best in deeds, and he is the almighty, the forgiving\" (Qur'an 67:1–2) and \"And I (Allâh) created not the jinn and mankind except that they should be obedient (to Allah).\" (Qur'an 51:56). Obedience testifies to the oneness of God in his lordship, his names, and his attributes. Terrenal life is a test; how one \"acts\" (behaves) determines whether one's soul goes to Jannat (Heaven) or to Jahannam (Hell). However, on the day of Judgement the final decision is of Allah alone.\n\nThe Five Pillars of Islam are duties incumbent to every Muslim; they are: Shahadah (profession of faith); salat (ritual prayer); Zakah (charity); Sawm (fasting during Ramadan), and Hajj (pilgrimage to Mecca). They derive from the Hadith works, notably of Sahih Al-Bukhari and Sahih Muslim. The five pillars are not mentioned directly in the Quran.\n\nBeliefs differ among the Kalam. The Sunni and the Ahmadiyya concept of pre-destination is divine decree; likewise, the Shi'a concept of pre-destination is divine justice; in the esoteric view of the Sufis, the universe exists only for God's pleasure; Creation is a grand game, wherein Allah is the greatest prize.\n\nThe Sufi view of the meaning of life stems from the hadith qudsi that states \"I (God) was a Hidden Treasure and loved to be known. Therefore I created the Creation that I might be known.\" One possible interpretation of this view is that the meaning of life for an individual is to know the nature of God, and the purpose of all of creation is to reveal that nature, and to prove its value as the ultimate treasure, that is God. However, this hadith is stated in various forms and interpreted in various ways by people, such, as 'Abdu'l-Bahá of the Bahá'í Faith, and in Ibn'Arabī's Fuṣūṣ al-Ḥikam.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith emphasizes the unity of humanity. To Bahá'ís, the purpose of life is focused on spiritual growth and service to humanity. Human beings are viewed as intrinsically spiritual beings. People's lives in this material world provide extended opportunities to grow, to develop divine qualities and virtues, and the prophets were sent by God to facilitate this.\n\nIn the Judaic world view, the meaning of life is to elevate the physical world ('Olam HaZeh') and prepare it for the world to come ('Olam HaBa'), the messianic era. This is called Tikkun Olam (\"Fixing the World\"). Olam HaBa can also mean the spiritual afterlife, and there is debate concerning the eschatological order. However, Judaism is not focused on personal salvation, but on communal (between man and man) and individual (between man and God) spiritualised actions in this world.\n\nJudaism's most important feature is the worship of a single, incomprehensible, transcendent, one, indivisible, absolute Being, who created and governs the universe. Closeness with the God of Israel is through study of His Torah, and adherence to its mitzvot (divine laws). In traditional Judaism, God established a special covenant with a people, the people of Israel, at Mount Sinai, giving the Jewish commandments. Torah comprises the written Pentateuch and the transcribed oral tradition, further developed through the generations. The Jewish people are intended as \"a kingdom of priests and a holy nation\" and a \"light to the Nations\", influencing the other peoples to keep their own religio-ethical Seven Laws of Noah. The messianic era is seen as the perfection of this dual path to God.\n\nJewish observances involve ethical and ritual, affirmative and prohibitive injunctions. Modern Jewish denominations differ over the nature, relevance and emphases of mitzvot. Jewish philosophy emphasises that God is not affected or benefited, but the individual and society benefit by drawing close to God. The rationalist Maimonides sees the ethical and ritual divine commandments as a necessary, but insufficient preparation for philosophical understanding of God, with its love and awe. Among fundamental values in the Torah are pursuit of justice, compassion, peace, kindness, hard work, prosperity, humility, and education. The world to come, prepared in the present, elevates man to an everlasting connection with God. Simeon the Righteous says, \"the world stands on three things: on Torah, on worship, and on acts of loving kindness.\" The prayer book relates, \"blessed is our God who created us for his honor...and planted within us everlasting life.\" Of this context, the Talmud states, \"everything that God does is for the good,\" including suffering.\n\nThe Jewish mystical Kabbalah gives complimentary esoteric meanings of life. As well as Judaism providing an immanent relationship with God (personal theism), in Kabbalah the spiritual and physical creation is a paradoxical manifestation of the immanent aspects of God's Being (panentheism), related to the Shekhinah (Divine feminine). Jewish observance unites the sephirot (Divine attributes) on high, restoring harmony to creation. In Lurianic Kabbalah, the meaning of life is the messianic rectification of the shattered sparks of God's persona, exiled in physical existence (the Kelipot shells), through the actions of Jewish observance. Through this, in Hasidic Judaism the ultimate essential \"desire\" of God is the revelation of the Omnipresent Divine essence through materiality, achieved by man from within his limited physical realm, when the body will give life to the soul.\n\nChristianity has its roots in Judaism, and shares much of the latter faith's ontology. Its central beliefs derive from the teachings of Jesus Christ as presented in the New Testament. Life's purpose in Christianity is to seek divine salvation through the grace of God and intercession of Christ (John 11:26). The New Testament speaks of God wanting to have a relationship with humans both in this life and the life to come, which can happen only if one's sins are forgiven (John 3:16–21; 2 Peter 3:9).\n\nIn the Christian view, humankind was made in the Image of God and perfect, but the Fall of Man caused the progeny of the first Parents to inherit Original Sin and its consequences. Christ's passion, death and resurrection provide the means for transcending that impure state (Romans 6:23). The good news that this restoration from sin is now possible is called the gospel. The specific process of appropriating salvation through Christ and maintaining a relationship with God varies between different denominations of Christians, but all rely on faith in Christ and the gospel as the fundamental starting point. Salvation through faith in God is found in Ephesians 2:8–9 – \"For by grace you have been saved through faith; and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God; not as a result of works, that no one should boast\" (NASB; 1973). The gospel maintains that through this belief, the barrier that sin has created between man and God is destroyed, thereby allowing God to regenerate (change) the believer and instill in them a new heart after God's own will with the ability to live righteously before him. This is what the terms \"Born again\" or \"saved\" almost always refer to.\n\nIn the \"Westminster Shorter Catechism\", the first question is: \"What is the chief end of Man?\" (that is, \"What is Man's main purpose?\"). The answer is: \"Man's chief end is to glorify God, and enjoy him forever\". God requires one to obey the revealed moral law, saying: \"love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind; and your neighbour as yourself\". The \"Baltimore Catechism\" answers the question \"Why did God make you?\" by saying \"God made me to know Him, to love Him, and to serve Him in this world, and to be happy with Him forever in heaven.\"\n\nThe Apostle Paul also answers this question in his speech on the Areopagus in Athens: \"And He has made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth, and has determined their preappointed times and the boundaries of their dwellings, so that they should seek the Lord, in the hope that they might grope for Him and find Him, though He is not far from each one of us.\"\n\nCatholicism's way of thinking is better expressed through the Principle and Foundation of St. Ignatius of Loyola: \"The human person is created to praise, reverence, and serve God Our Lord, and by doing so, to save his or her soul. All other things on the face of the earth are created for human beings in order to help them pursue the end for which they are created. It follows from this that one must use other created things, in so far as they help towards one's end, and free oneself from them, in so far as they are obstacles to one's end. To do this, we need to make ourselves indifferent to all created things, provided the matter is subject to our free choice and there is no other prohibition. Thus, as far as we are concerned, we should not want health more than illness, wealth more than poverty, fame more than disgrace, a long life more than a short one, and similarly for all the rest, but we should desire and choose only what helps us more towards the end for which we are created.\"\n\nMormonism teaches that the purpose of life on Earth is to gain knowledge and experience and to have joy. Mormons believe that humans are literally the spirit children of God the Father, and thus have the potential to progress to become like Him. Mormons teach that God provided his children the choice to come to Earth, which is considered a crucial stage in their development—wherein a mortal body, coupled with the freedom to choose, makes for an environment to learn and grow. The Fall of Adam is not viewed as an unfortunate or unplanned cancellation of God's original plan for a paradise; rather, the opposition found in mortality is an essential element of God's plan because the process of enduring and overcoming challenges, difficulties, and temptations provides opportunities to gain wisdom and strength, thereby learning to appreciate and choose good and reject evil. Because God is just, he allows those who were not taught the gospel during mortality to receive it after death in the spirit world, so that all of his children have the opportunity to return to live with God, and reach their full potential.\n\nA recent alternative Christian theological discourse interprets Jesus as revealing that the purpose of life is to elevate our compassionate response to human suffering; nonetheless, the conventional Christian position is that people are justified by belief in the propitiatory sacrifice of Jesus' death on the cross.\n\nHinduism is a religious category including many beliefs and traditions. Since Hinduism was the way of expressing meaningful living for a long time, before there was a need for naming it as a separate religion, Hindu doctrines are supplementary and complementary in nature, generally non-exclusive, suggestive and tolerant in content. Most believe that the ātman (spirit, soul)—the person's true \"self\"—is eternal. In part, this stems from Hindu beliefs that spiritual development occurs across many lifetimes, and goals should match the state of development of the individual. There are four possible aims to human life, known as the \"purusharthas\" (ordered from least to greatest): (i)\"Kāma\" (wish, desire, love and sensual pleasure), (ii)\"Artha\" (wealth, prosperity, glory), (iii)\"Dharma\" (righteousness, duty, morality, virtue, ethics), encompassing notions such as \"ahimsa\" (non-violence) and satya (truth) and (iv)\"Moksha\" (liberation, i.e. liberation from Saṃsāra, the cycle of reincarnation).\n\nIn all schools of Hinduism, the meaning of life is tied up in the concepts of karma (causal action), sansara (the cycle of birth and rebirth), and moksha (liberation). Existence is conceived as the progression of the ātman (similar to the western concept of a soul) across numerous lifetimes, and its ultimate progression towards liberation from karma. Particular goals for life are generally subsumed under broader yogas (practices) or dharma (correct living) which are intended to create more favorable reincarnations, though they are generally positive acts in this life as well. Traditional schools of Hinduism often worship Devas which are manifestations of Ishvara (a personal or chosen God); these Devas are taken as ideal forms to be identified with, as a form of spiritual improvement.\n\nIn short, the goal is to realize the fundamental truth about oneself. This thought is conveyed in the Mahāvākyas (\"Tat Tvam Asi\" (thou art that), \"Aham Brahmāsmi\", \"Prajñānam Brahma\" and \"Ayam Ātmā Brahma\" (the soul and the world are one)).\n\nLater schools reinterpreted the vedas to focus on Brahman, \"The One Without a Second\", as a central God-like figure.\n\nIn monist Advaita Vedanta, ātman is ultimately indistinguishable from Brahman, and the goal of life is to know or realize that one's ātman (soul) is identical to Brahman. To the Upanishads, whoever becomes fully aware of the ātman, as one's core of self, realizes identity with Brahman, and, thereby, achieves Moksha (liberation, freedom).\n\nDvaita Vedanta and other bhakti schools have a dualist interpretation. Brahman is seen as a supreme being with a personality and manifest qualities. The ātman depends upon Brahman for its existence; the meaning of life is achieving Moksha through love of God and upon His grace.\n\nVaishnavism is a branch of Hinduism in which the principal belief is the identification of Vishnu or Narayana as the one supreme God. This belief contrasts with the Krishna-centered traditions, such as Vallabha, Nimbaraka and Gaudiya, in which Krishna is considered to be the One and only Supreme God and the source of all avataras.\n\nVaishnava theology includes the central beliefs of Hinduism such as monotheism, reincarnation, samsara, karma, and the various Yoga systems, but with a particular emphasis on devotion (bhakti) to Vishnu through the process of Bhakti yoga, often including singing Vishnu's name's (bhajan), meditating upon his form (dharana) and performing deity worship (puja). The practices of deity worship are primarily based on texts such as Pañcaratra and various Samhitas.\n\nOne popular school of thought, Gaudiya Vaishnavism, teaches the concept of Achintya Bheda Abheda. In this, Krishna is worshipped as the single true God, and all living entities are eternal parts and the Supreme Personality of the Godhead Krishna. Thus the constitutional position of a living entity is to serve the Lord with love and devotion. The purpose of human life especially is to think beyond the animalistic way of eating, sleeping, mating and defending and engage the higher intelligence to revive the lost relationship with Krishna.\n\nJainism is a religion originating in ancient India, its ethical system promotes self-discipline above all else. Through following the ascetic teachings of Jina, a human achieves enlightenment (perfect knowledge). Jainism divides the universe into living and non-living beings. Only when the living become attached to the non-living does suffering result. Therefore, happiness is the result of self-conquest and freedom from external objects. The meaning of life may then be said to be to use the physical body to achieve self-realization and bliss.\n\nJains believe that every human is responsible for his or her actions and all living beings have an eternal soul, \"jiva\". Jains believe all souls are equal because they all possess the potential of being liberated and attaining Moksha. The Jain view of karma is that every action, every word, every thought produces, besides its visible, an invisible, transcendental effect on the soul.\n\nJainism includes strict adherence to ahimsa (or \"ahinsā\"), a form of nonviolence that goes far beyond vegetarianism. Jains refuse food obtained with unnecessary cruelty. Many practice a lifestyle similar to veganism due to the violence of modern dairy farms, and others exclude root vegetables from their diets in order to preserve the lives of the plants from which they eat.\n\nBuddhists practice to embrace with mindfulness the ill-being (suffering) and well-being that is present in life. Buddhists practice to see the causes of ill-being and well-being in life. For example, one of the causes of suffering is unhealthy attachment to objects material or non-material. The Buddhist sūtras and tantras do not speak about \"the meaning of life\" or \"the purpose of life\", but about the potential of human life to end suffering, for example through embracing (not suppressing or denying) cravings and conceptual attachments. Attaining and perfecting dispassion is a process of many levels that ultimately results in the state of Nirvana. Nirvana means freedom from both suffering and rebirth.\nTheravada Buddhism is generally considered to be close to the early Buddhist practice. It promotes the concept of Vibhajjavada (Pali), literally \"Teaching of Analysis\", which says that insight must come from the aspirant's experience, critical investigation, and reasoning instead of by blind faith. However, the Theravadin tradition also emphasizes heeding the advice of the wise, considering such advice and evaluation of one's own experiences to be the two tests by which practices should be judged. The Theravadin goal is liberation (or freedom) from suffering, according to the Four Noble Truths. This is attained in the achievement of Nirvana, or Unbinding which also ends the repeated cycle of birth, old age, sickness and death. The way to attain Nirvana is by following and practicing the Noble Eightfold Path.\n\nMahayana Buddhist schools de-emphasize the traditional view (still practiced in Theravada) of the release from individual Suffering (Dukkha) and attainment of Awakening (Nirvana). In Mahayana, the Buddha is seen as an eternal, immutable, inconceivable, omnipresent being. The fundamental principles of Mahayana doctrine are based on the possibility of universal liberation from suffering for all beings, and the existence of the transcendent Buddha-nature, which is the eternal Buddha essence present, but hidden and unrecognised, in all living beings.\n\nPhilosophical schools of Mahayana Buddhism, such as Chan/Zen and the vajrayana Tibetan and Shingon schools, explicitly teach that bodhisattvas should refrain from full liberation, allowing themselves to be reincarnated into the world until all beings achieve enlightenment. Devotional schools such as Pure Land Buddhism seek the aid of celestial buddhas—individuals who have spent lifetimes accumulating positive karma, and use that accumulation to aid all.\n\nThe monotheistic Sikh religion was founded by Guru Nanak Dev, the term \"Sikh\" means student, which denotes that followers will lead their lives forever learning. This system of religious philosophy and expression has been traditionally known as the Gurmat (literally \"the counsel of the gurus\") or the Sikh Dharma. The followers of Sikhism are ordained to follow the teachings of the ten Sikh Gurus, or enlightened leaders, as well as the holy scripture entitled the \"Gurū Granth Sāhib\", which includes selected works of many philosophers from diverse socio-economic and religious backgrounds.\n\nThe Sikh Gurus say that salvation can be obtained by following various spiritual paths, so Sikhs do not have a monopoly on salvation: \"The Lord dwells in every heart, and every heart has its own way to reach Him.\" Sikhs believe that all people are equally important before God. Sikhs balance their moral and spiritual values with the quest for knowledge, and they aim to promote a life of peace and equality but also of positive action.\n\nA key distinctive feature of Sikhism is a non-anthropomorphic concept of God, to the extent that one can interpret God as the Universe itself (pantheism). Sikhism thus sees life as an opportunity to understand this God as well as to discover the divinity which lies in each individual. While a full understanding of God is beyond human beings, Nanak described God as not wholly unknowable, and stressed that God must be seen from \"the inward eye\", or the \"heart\", of a human being: devotees must meditate to progress towards enlightenment and the ultimate destination of a Sikh is to lose the ego completely in the love of the lord and finally merge into the almighty creator. Nanak emphasized the revelation through meditation, as its rigorous application permits the existence of communication between God and human beings.\n\nTaoist cosmogony emphasizes the need for all sentient beings and all man to return to the \"primordial\" or to rejoin with the \"Oneness\" of the Universe by way of self-cultivation and self-realization. All adherents should understand and be in tune with the ultimate truth.\n\nTaoists believe all things were originally from Taiji and Tao, and the meaning in life for the adherents is to realize the temporal nature of the existence. \"Only introspection can then help us to find our innermost reasons for living ... the simple answer is here within ourselves.\"\n\nShinto is the native religion of Japan. Shinto means \"the path of the kami\", but more specifically, it can be taken to mean \"the divine crossroad where the kami chooses his way\". The \"divine\" crossroad signifies that all the universe is divine spirit. This foundation of free will, choosing one's way, means that life is a creative process.\n\nShinto wants life to live, not to die. Shinto sees death as pollution and regards life as the realm where the divine spirit seeks to purify itself by rightful self-development. Shinto wants individual human life to be prolonged forever on earth as a victory of the divine spirit in preserving its objective personality in its highest forms. The presence of evil in the world, as conceived by Shinto, does not stultify the divine nature by imposing on divinity responsibility for being able to relieve human suffering while refusing to do so. The sufferings of life are the sufferings of the divine spirit in search of progress in the objective world.\n\nThere are many new religious movements in East Asia, and some with millions of followers: Chondogyo, Tenrikyo, Cao Đài, and Seicho-No-Ie. New religions typically have unique explanations for the meaning of life. For example, in Tenrikyo, one is expected to live a Joyous Life by participating in practices that create happiness for oneself and others.\n\nThe mystery of life and its true meaning is an often recurring subject in popular culture, featured in entertainment media and various forms of art.\n\nIn \"Monty Python's The Meaning of Life\", there are several allusions to the meaning of life. At the end of the film, a character played by Michael Palin is handed an envelope containing \"the meaning of life\", which she opens and reads out to the audience: \"Well, it's nothing very special. Uh, try to be nice to people, avoid eating fat, read a good book every now and then, get some walking in, and try to live together in peace and harmony with people of all creeds and nations.\"\n\nMany other Python sketches and songs are also existential in nature, questioning the importance we place on life (\"Always Look on the Bright Side of Life\") and other meaning-of-life related questioning. John Cleese also had his sit-com character Basil Fawlty contemplating the futility of his own existence in Fawlty Towers.\n\nIn Douglas Adams' popular comedy book, movie, television, and radio series \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\", the Answer to the Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything is given the numeric solution \"42\", after seven and a half million years of calculation by a giant supercomputer called Deep Thought. When this answer is met with confusion and anger from its constructors, Deep Thought explains that \"I think the problem such as it was, was too broadly based. You never actually stated what the question was.\". Deep Thought then constructs another computer—the Earth—to calculate what the Ultimate Question actually is. \nLater Ford and Arthur manage to extract the question as the Earth computer would have rendered it. That question turns out to be \"what do you get if you multiply six by nine\", and it is realised that the program was ruined by the unexpected arrival of the Golgafrinchans on Earth, and so the actual Ultimate Question Of Life, The Universe, And Everything remains unknown. While 6 x 9 would be written as 42 in the tridecimal numeral system, author Douglas Adams claimed that this was mere coincidence and completely serendipitous.\n\nIn \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Homer the Heretic\", a representation of God agrees to tell Homer what the meaning of life is, but the show's credits begin to roll just as he starts to say what it is.\n\nIn \"Red vs. Blue\" season 1 episode 1 the character Simmons asks Grif the question \"Why are we here?\" and is a major line in the series.\n\nIn \"Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure\", the characters are asked how we should live our lives, and reply with a version of the golden rule `be excellent to each other' followed by 'party on, dudes!'.\n\nIn \"Person of Interest\" season 5 episode 13, an artificial intelligence referred to as The Machine tells Harold Finch that the secret of life is \"Everyone dies alone. But if you mean something to someone, if you help someone, or love someone. If even a single person remembers you then maybe you never really die at all.\" This phrase is then repeated at the very end of the show to add emphasis to the finale.\n\n\"What is the meaning of life?\" is a question many people ask themselves at some point during their lives, most in the context \"What is the purpose of life?\". Some popular answers include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22690333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22690333", "title": "Methuselah-like proteins", "text": "Methuselah-like proteins\n\nThe Methuselah-like proteins are a family of G protein-coupled receptors found in insects that play a role in aging and reproduction. Antagonizing these receptors can extend the life span of the animal and make it more resistant to free radicals and starvation, but also reduce reproduction and increase cold sensitivity. The age dependent decline in olfaction and motor function is unaffected.\n\nMethuselah-like proteins are related to G protein-coupled receptors of the secretin receptor family.\n"}
{"id": "53010729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53010729", "title": "Mirror life", "text": "Mirror life\n\nMirror life (also called mirror-image life, chiral life, or enantiomeric life) is a hypothetical form of life with mirror-reflected molecular building blocks. The possibility of mirror life was first discussed by Louis Pasteur. Although this alternative life form has not been discovered in nature, efforts to build a mirror-image version of biology's molecular machinery are already underway.\n\nMany of the essential molecules for life on Earth can exist in two mirror-image forms, referred to as \"left-handed\" and \"right-handed\", but living organisms do not use both. Proteins are exclusively composed of left-handed amino acids; RNA and DNA contain only right-handed sugars. This phenomenon is known as homochirality. It is not known whether homochirality emerged before or after life, whether the building blocks of life must have this particular chirality, or indeed whether life needs to be homochiral. Protein chains built from amino acids of mixed chirality tend not to fold or function as catalysts, but mirror-image proteins have been constructed that work the same but on substrates of opposite handedness.\n\nIt is thought that such mirror organisms can be highly incompatible with existing microbes (viruses, bacteria, protozoa, etc.). Hypothetically, it is possible to recreate an entire ecosystem from the bottom up, in chiral form. In this way, the creation of an Earth ecosystem without microbial diseases might be possible. In some distant future, mirror life could be employed to create robust, effective and disease-free ecosystems for use on other planets.\n\nAdvances in synthetic biology, like synthesizing viruses since 2002, partially synthetic bacteria in 2010, or synthetic ribosomes in 2013, may lead to the possibility of fully synthesizing a living cell from small molecules, where we could use mirror-image versions (enantiomers) of life's building-block molecules, in place of the standard ones. Some proteins have been synthesized in mirror-image versions, including polymerase in 2016.\n\nReconstructing regular lifeforms in mirror-image form, using the mirror-image (chiral) reflection of their cellular components, could be achieved by substituting left-handed amino acids with right-handed ones, in order to create mirror reflections of all regular proteins. Analogously, we could get reflected sugars, DNA, etc., on which reflected enzymes would work perfectly. Finally we would get a normally functioning mirror reflection of a natural organism - a chiral counterpart organism - with which natural viruses and bacteria couldn't interact. Electromagnetic force (chemistry) is unchanged under such molecular reflection transformation (P-symmetry). There is a small alteration of weak interactions under reflection, which can produce very small corrections, but these corrections are many orders of magnitude lower than thermal noise - almost certainly too tiny to alter any biochemistry. However, there are also theories that weak interactions can have a greater effect on longer nucleic acids or protein chains, resulting in much less efficient conversion of mirror ribozymes or enzymes than normal ribozymes or enzymes.\n\nChiral animals would need to feed on reflected food, produced by reflected plants. The great advantage, though, is that such chiral organisms should enjoy a disease-free life, completely immune to all viruses and microbes (which virologists are now beginning to understand underlie a huge number of diseases).\n\nViruses would be completely incompatible with the reflected cellular structures; and bacteria, protozoa, and fungi could not function because they would not be able to find normal sugars inside reflected organisms. The reverse sugars circulating in the chiral organism's body would be indigestible as far as normal bacteria are concerned, so any bacterium entering a chiral organism would simply starve to death. The chiral environment is hostile for normal viruses, protozoa, bacteria, etc.\n\nMirror life presents potential dangers. For example, a chiral-mirror version of cyanobacteria, which only needs achiral nutrients and light for photosynthesis, could take over Earth's ecosystem due to lack of natural enemies, disturbing the bottom of the food chain by producing mirror versions of the required sugars. Some bacteria can digest L-glucose; exceptions like this would give some rare lifeforms an unanticipated advantage.\n\nDirect application of mirror-chiral organisms can be mass production of enantiomers (mirror-image) of molecules produced by normal life.\n\n\nThe creation of one chiral human is the basis of 1950 Arthur C. Clarke's story \"Technical Error\", from The Collected Stories. In this story, a physical accident transforms a person into his mirror image, speculatively explained by travel through a fourth physical dimension.\n\nAn alien machine that reverses chirality, and a blood-symbiote that functions properly only when in one chirality, were central to Roger Zelazny's 1976 novel Doorways in the Sand.\n\nIn the 2017 Daniel Suarez novel \"Change Agent\", an antagonist, Otto, nicknamed the \"Mirror Man\", is revealed to be a genetically-engineered enantiomeric human. He views other humans with disdain and causes them to feel an inexplicable repulsion by his very presence.\n\n"}
{"id": "58442478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58442478", "title": "Mohammad Aamer (cricketer, born 1995)", "text": "Mohammad Aamer (cricketer, born 1995)\n\nMohammad Aamer (born 8 August 1995) is a Pakistani cricketer. He made his first-class debut for Zarai Taraqiati Bank Limited in the 2018–19 Quaid-e-Azam Trophy on 8 September 2018.\n"}
{"id": "3397134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3397134", "title": "Moral responsibility", "text": "Moral responsibility\n\nIn philosophy, moral responsibility is the status of morally deserving praise, blame, reward, or punishment for an act or omission performed or neglected in accordance with one's moral obligations.\nDeciding what (if anything) counts as \"morally obligatory\" is a principal concern of ethics.\n\nPhilosophers refer to people who have moral responsibility for an action as moral agents. Agents have the capability to reflect upon their situation, to form intentions about how they will act, and then to carry out that action. The notion of free will has become an important issue in the debate on whether individuals are ever morally responsible for their actions and, if so, in what sense. Incompatibilists regard determinism as at odds with free will, whereas compatibilists think the two can coexist.\nMoral responsibility does not necessarily equate to legal responsibility. A person is legally responsible for an event when a legal system is liable to penalise that person for that event. Although it may often be the case that when a person is morally responsible for an act, they are also legally responsible for it, the two states do not always coincide.\n\nDepending on how a philosopher conceives of free will, they will have different views on moral responsibility.\n\nMetaphysical libertarians think actions are not always causally determined, allowing for the possibility of free will and thus moral responsibility. All libertarians are also incompatibilists; they think that if causal determinism were true of human action; people would not have free will. Accordingly, libertarians subscribe to the principle of alternate possibilities, which posits that moral responsibility requires that people could have acted differently.\n\nPhenomenological considerations are sometimes invoked by incompatibilists to defend a libertarian position. In daily life, we feel as though choosing otherwise is a viable option. Although this feeling doesn't firmly establish the existence of free will, some incompatibilists claim the phenomenological feeling of alternate possibilities is a prerequisite for free will.\n\nJean-Paul Sartre suggested that people sometimes avoid incrimination and responsibility by hiding behind determinism: \"...we are always ready to take refuge in a belief in determinism if this freedom weighs upon us or if we need an excuse\".\n\nA similar view has it that individual moral culpability lies in individual character. That is, a person with the character of a murderer has no choice other than to murder, but can still be punished because it is right to punish those of bad character. How one's character was determined is irrelevant from this perspective. Robert Cummins, for example, argues that people should not be judged for their individual actions, but rather for how those actions \"reflect on their character\". If character (however defined) is the dominant causal factor in determining one's choices, and one's choices are morally wrong, then one should be held accountable for those choices, regardless of genes and other such factors.\n\nIn law, there is a known exception to the assumption that moral culpability lies in either individual character or freely willed acts. The insanity defense—or its corollary, diminished responsibility (a sort of appeal to the fallacy of the single cause)—can be used to argue that the guilty deed was not the product of a guilty mind. In such cases, the legal systems of most Western societies assume that the person is in some way not at fault, because his actions were a consequence of abnormal brain function (implying brain function is a deterministic causal agent of mind and motive).\n\nThe argument from luck is a criticism against the libertarian conception of moral responsibility. It suggests that any given action, and even a person's character, is the result of various forces outside that person's control. It may not be reasonable, then, to hold that person solely morally responsible. Thomas Nagel suggests that four different types of luck (including genetic influences and other external factors) end up influencing the way that a person's actions are evaluated morally. For instance, a person driving drunk may make it home without incident, and yet this action of \"drunk driving\" might seem more morally objectionable if someone happens to jaywalk along his path (getting hit by the car).\n\nThis argument can be traced back to David Hume. If physical indeterminism is true, then those events that are not determined are scientifically described as probabilistic or random. It is therefore argued that it is doubtful that one can praise or blame someone for performing an action generated randomly by his nervous system (without there being any non-physical agency responsible for the observed probabilistic outcome).\n\nHard determinists (not to be confused with Fatalists) often use liberty in practical moral considerations, rather than a notion of a free will. Indeed, faced with the possibility that determinism requires a completely different moral system, some proponents say \"So much the worse for free will!\". Clarence Darrow, the famous defense attorney, pleaded the innocence of his clients, Leopold and Loeb, by invoking such a notion of hard determinism. During his summation, he declared:\n\nPaul the Apostle, in his Epistle to the Romans addresses the question of moral responsibility as follows: \"Hath not the potter power over the clay, of the same lump to make one vessel unto honour, and another unto dishonour?\" In this view, individuals can still be dishonoured for their acts even though those acts were ultimately completely determined by God.\n\nJoshua Greene and Jonathan Cohen, researchers in the emerging field of neuroethics, argue, on the basis of such cases, that our current notion of moral responsibility is founded on libertarian (and dualist) intuitions. They argue that cognitive neuroscience research (e.g. neuroscience of free will) is undermining these intuitions by showing that the brain is responsible for our actions, not only in cases of florid psychosis, but also in less obvious situations. For example, damage to the frontal lobe reduces the ability to weigh uncertain risks and make prudent decisions, and therefore leads to an increased likelihood that someone will commit a violent crime. This is true not only of patients with damage to the frontal lobe due to accident or stroke, but also of adolescents, who show reduced frontal lobe activity compared to adults, and even of children who are chronically neglected or mistreated. In each case, the guilty party can, they argue, be said to have less responsibility for his actions. Greene and Cohen predict that, as such examples become more common and well known, jurors’ interpretations of free will and moral responsibility will move away from the intuitive libertarian notion that currently underpins them.\n\nGreene and Cohen also argue that the legal system does not require this libertarian interpretation. Rather, they suggest that only retributive notions of justice, in which the goal of the legal system is to punish people for misdeeds, require the libertarian intuition. Many forms of ethically realistic and consequentialist approaches to justice, which are aimed at promoting future welfare rather than retribution, can survive even a hard determinist interpretation of free will. Accordingly, the legal system and notions of justice can thus be maintained even in the face of emerging neuroscientific evidence undermining libertarian intuitions of free will.\n\nNeuroscientist David Eagleman maintains similar ideas. Eagleman says that the legal justice system ought to become more forward looking. He says it is wrong to ask questions of narrow culpability, rather than focusing on what is important: what needs to change in a criminal's behavior and brain. Eagleman is not saying that no one is responsible for their crimes, but rather that the \"sentencing phase\" should correspond with modern neuroscientific evidence. To Eagleman, it is damaging to entertain the illusion that a person can make a single decision that is somehow, suddenly, independent of their physiology and history. He describes what scientists have learned from brain damaged patients, and offers the case of a school teacher who exhibited escalating pedophilic tendencies on two occasions—each time as results of growing tumors. Eagleman also warns that less attractive people and minorities tend to get longer sentencing—all of which he sees as symptoms that more science is needed in the legal system.\n\nDerk Pereboom defends a skeptical position about free will he calls hard incompatibilism. In his view, we cannot have free will if our actions are causally determined by factors beyond our control, or if our actions are indeterministic events—if they happen by chance. Pereboom conceives of free will as the control in action required for moral responsibility in the sense involving deserved blame and praise, punishment and reward. While he acknowledges that libertarian agent causation, the capacity of agents as substances to cause actions without being causally determined by factors beyond their control, is still a possibility, he regards it as unlikely against the backdrop of the most defensible physical theories. Without libertarian agent causation, Pereboom thinks the free will required for moral responsibility in the desert-involving sense is not in the offing. However, he also contends that by contrast with the backward-looking, desert-involving sense of moral responsibility, forward-looking senses are compatible with causal determination. For instance, causally determined agents who act badly might justifiably be blamed with the aim of forming faulty character, reconciling impaired relationships, and protecting others from harm they are apt to cause.\n\nPereboom proposes that a viable criminal jurisprudence is compatible with the denial of deserved blame and punishment. His view rules out retributivist justifications for punishment, but it allows for incapacitation of dangerous criminals on the analogy with quarantine of carriers of dangerous diseases. Isolation of carriers of the Ebola virus can be justified on the ground of the right to defend against threat, a justification that does not reference desert. Pereboom contends that the analogy holds for incapacitation of dangerous criminals. He also argues that the less serious the threat, the more moderate the justifiable method of incapacitation; for certain crimes only monitoring may be needed. In addition, just as we should do what we can, within reasonable bounds, to cure the carriers of the Ebola virus we quarantine, so we should aim to rehabilitate and reintegrate the criminals we incapacitate. Pereboom also proposes that given hard incompatibilism, punishment justified as general deterrence may be legitimate when the penalties don't involve undermining an agent's capacity to live a meaningful, flourishing life, since justifying such moderate penalties need not invoke desert.\n\nCompatibilists contend that even if determinism were true, it would still be possible for us to have free will. The Hindu text \"The Bhagavad Gita\" offers one very early compatibilist account. Facing the prospect of going to battle against kinsmen to whom he has bonds, Arjuna despairs. Krishna attempts to assuage Arjuna's anxieties. He argues that forces of nature come together to produce actions, and it is only vanity that causes us to regard ourselves as the agent in charge of these actions. However, Krishna adds this caveat: \"... [But] the Man who knows the relation between the forces of Nature and actions, witnesses how some forces of Nature work upon other forces of Nature, and becomes [not] their slave...\" When we are ignorant of the relationship between forces of Nature, we become passive victims of nomological facts. Krishna's admonition is intended to get Arjuna to perform his duty (i.e., fight in the battle), but he is also claiming that being a successful moral agent requires being mindful of the wider circumstances in which one finds oneself. Paramahansa Yogananda also said, \"Freedom means the power to act by soul guidance, not by the compulsions of desires and habits. Obeying the ego leads to bondage; obeying the soul brings liberation.\"\n\nIn the Western tradition, Baruch Spinoza echoes the \"Bhagavad Gita\"s point about agents and natural forces, writing \"men think themselves free because they are conscious of their volitions and their appetite, and do not think, even in their dreams, of the causes by which they are disposed to wanting and willing, because they are ignorant [of those causes].\" Krishna is hostile to the influence of passions on our rational faculties, speaking up instead for the value of heeding the dictates of one's own nature: \"Even a wise man acts under the impulse of his nature. Of what use is restraint?\" Spinoza similarly identifies the taming of one's passions as a way to extricate oneself from merely being passive in the face of external forces and a way toward following our own natures.\n\nDaniel Dennett asks why anyone would care about whether someone had the property of responsibility and speculates that the idea of moral responsibility may be \"a purely metaphysical hankering\".\n\nMauro suggests that a sense of personal responsibility does not operate or evolve universally among humankind. He argues that it was absent in the successful civilization of the Iroquois.\n\nIn recent years, research in experimental philosophy has explored whether people's untutored intuitions about determinism and moral responsibility are compatibilist or incompatibilist. Some experimental work has included cross-cultural studies. However, the debate about whether people naturally have compatibilist or incompatibilist intuitions has not come out overwhelmingly in favor of one view or the other, finding evidence for both views. For instance, when people are presented with abstract cases that ask if a person could be morally responsible for an immoral act when they could not have done otherwise, people tend to say no, or give \"incompatibilist\" answers. When presented with a specific immoral act that a specific person committed, people tend to say that that person is morally responsible for their actions, even if they were determined (that is, people also give \"compatibilist\" answers).\n\nThe neuroscience of free will investigates various experiments that might shed light on free will.\n\nWhen people attribute moral responsibility, they usually attribute it to individual moral agents. However, Joel Feinberg, among others, has argued that corporations and other groups of people can have what is called ‘collective moral responsibility’ for a state of affairs. For example, when South Africa had an apartheid regime, the country's government might have been said to have had collective moral responsibility for the violation of the rights of non-European South Africans.\n\nOne of the attributes defined for psychopathy is \"failure to accept responsibility for own actions\".\n\nThe emergence of automation, robotics and related technologies prompted the question, 'Can an artificial system be morally responsible?' The question has a closely related variant, 'When (if ever) does moral responsibility transfer from its human creator(s) to the system?'.\n\nThe questions \"arguably\" adjoin with but are distinct from machine ethics, which is concerned with the moral behavior of artificial systems. Whether an artificial system's behavior qualifies it to be morally responsible has been a key focus of debate.\n\nBatya Friedman and Peter Kahn Jr posited that intentionality is a necessary condition for moral responsibility, and that computer systems as conceivable in 1992 in material and structure could not have intentionality.\n\nArthur Kuflik asserted that humans must bear the ultimate moral responsibility for a computer's decisions, as it is humans who design the computers and write their programs. He further proposed that humans can never relinquish oversight of computers.\n\nFrances Grodzinsky et al. considered artificial systems that could be modelled as finite state machines. They posited that if the machine had a fixed state transition table, then it could not be morally responsible. If the machine could modify its table, then the machine's designer still retained some moral responsibility.\n\nPatrick Hew argued that for an artificial system to be morally responsible, its rules for behaviour and the mechanisms for supplying those rules must not be supplied entirely by external humans. He further argued that such systems are a substantial departure from technologies and theory as extant in 2014. An artificial system based on those technologies will carry zero responsibility for its behaviour. Moral responsibility is apportioned to the humans that created and programmed the system.\n\nColin Allen et al. proposed that an artificial system may be morally responsible if its behaviours are functionally indistinguishable from a moral person, coining the idea of a 'Moral Turing Test'. They subsequently disavowed the Moral Turing Test in recognition of controversies surrounding the Turing Test.\n\nAndreas Matthias described a 'responsibility gap' where to hold humans responsible for a machine would be an injustice, but to hold the machine responsible would challenge 'traditional' ways of ascription. He proposed three cases where the machine's behaviour ought to be attributed to the machine and not its designers or operators. First, he argued that modern machines are inherently unpredictable (to some degree), but perform tasks that need to be performed yet cannot be handled by simpler means. Second, that there are increasing 'layers of obscurity' between manufacturers and system, as hand coded programs are replaced with more sophisticated means. Third, in systems that have rules of operation that can be changed during the operation of the machine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41077350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41077350", "title": "OpenWorm", "text": "OpenWorm\n\nOpenWorm is an international open science project to simulate the roundworm \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" at the cellular level as a simulation. Although the long-term goal is to model all 959 cells of the \"C. elegans\", the first stage is to model the worm's locomotion by simulating the 302 neurons and 95 muscle cells. This bottom up simulation is being pursued by the OpenWorm community. As of this writing, a physics engine called Sibernetic has been built for the project and models of the neural connectome and a muscle cell have been created in NeuroML format. A 3D model of the worm anatomy can be accessed through the web via the OpenWorm browser. The OpenWorm project is also contributing to develop Geppetto, a web-based multi-algorithm, multi-scale simulation platform engineered to support the simulation of the whole organism.\n\nThe roundworm \"C. elegans\" has one of the simplest nervous systems of any organism, with its hermaphrodite type having only 302 neurons. Furthermore, the structural connectome of these neurons is fully worked out. There are fewer than one thousand cells in the whole body of a \"C. elegans\" worm, and because \"C. Elegans\" is a model organism, each has a unique identifier and comprehensive supporting literature. Being a model organism, the genome is fully known, along with many well characterized mutants readily available, a comprehensive literature of behavioural studies, etc. With so few neurons and new calcium 2 photon microscopy techniques it should soon be possible to record the complete neural activity of a living organism. By manipulating the neurons through optogenetic techniques, combined with the above recording capacities the project is in an unprecedented position to be able to fully characterize the neural dynamics of an entire organism.\n\nIn the process of trying to build an \"in silico\" model of a relatively simple organism like \"C. elegans\", new tools are being developed which will make it easier to model progressively more complex organisms.\n\nProject Nemaload was created as a research program trying to empirically establish the relevant biological facts which are necessary for a true bottom-up simulation. The project founder, David Dalrymple, is a collaborator on the OpenWorm project.\n\nAlthough the ultimate goal is to simulate all features of \"C. elegans\"' behaviour, the project is new and the first behaviour the Open Worm community decided to simulate is a simple motor response: teaching the worm to crawl. To do so, the virtual worm must be placed in a virtual environment. A full feedback loop must be established: Environmental Stimulus > Sensory Transduction > Interneuron Firing > Motor Neuron Firing > Motor Output > Environmental Change > Sensory Transduction.\n\nThere are two main technical challenges here: modelling the neural/electrical properties of the brain as it processes the information, and modelling the mechanical properties of the body as it moves. The neural properties are being modeled by a Hodgkin-Huxley model, and the mechanical properties are being modeled by a Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamic algorithm.\n\nThe OpenWorm team built an engine called Geppetto which could integrate these algorithms and due to its modularity will be able to model other biological systems (like digestion) which the team will tackle at a later time.\n\nThe team also built an environment called NeuroConstruct which is able to output neural structures in NeuroML. Using NeuroConstruct the team reconstructed the full connectome of \"C. elegans\".\n\nUsing NeuroML the team has also built a model of a muscle cell. Note that these models currently only model the relevant properties for the simple motor response: the neural/electrical and the mechanical properties discussed above.\n\nThe next step is to connect this muscle cell to the six neurons which synapse on it and approximate their effect.\n\nThe rough plan is to then both:\n\nAs of January 2015, the project is still awaiting peer review, and researchers involved in the project are reluctant to make bold claims about its current resemblance to biological behavior; project coordinator Stephen Larson estimates that they are \"only 20 to 30 percent of the way towards where we need to get\".\n\nIn 1998 Japanese researchers announced the Perfect C. elegans Project. A proposal was submitted, but the project appears to have been abandoned.\n\nIn 2004 a group from Hiroshima began the Virtual C. elegans Project. They released two papers which showed how their simulation would retract from virtual prodding.\n\nIn 2005 a Texas researcher described a simplified C. elegans simulator based on a 1-wire network incorporating a digital Parallax Basic Stamp processor, sensory inputs and motor outputs. Inputs employed 16-bit A/D converters attached to operational amplifier simulated neurons and a 1-wire temperature sensor. Motor outputs were controlled by 256-position digital potentiometers and 8-bit digital ports. Artificial muscle action was based on Nitinol actuators. It used a \"sense-process-react\" operating loop which recreated several instinctual behaviors.\n\nThese early attempts of simulation have been criticized for not being biologically realistic. Although we have the complete structural connectome, we do not know the synaptic weights at each of the known synapses. We do not even know whether the synapses are inhibitory or excitatory. To compensate for this the Hiroshima group used machine learning to find some weights of the synapses which would generate the desired behaviour. It is therefore no surprise that the model displayed the behaviour, and it may not represent true understanding of the system.\n\nThe Open Worm community is committed to the ideals of open science. Generally this means that the team will try to publish in open access journals and include all data gathered (to avoid the file drawer problem). Indeed, all the biological data the team has gathered is publicly available, and the five publications the group has made so far are available for free on their website. All the software that OpenWorm has produced is completely free and open source.\n\nOpen Worm is also trying a radically open model of scientific collaboration. The team consists of anyone who wishes to be a part of it. There are over one hundred \"members\" who are signed up for the high volume technical mailing list. Of the most active members who are named on a publication there are collaborators from Russia, Brazil, England, Scotland, Ireland and the United States. To coordinate this international effort, the team uses \"virtual lab meetings\" and other online tools that are detailed in the resources section.\n\n"}
{"id": "47959728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47959728", "title": "Orphan Wisdom", "text": "Orphan Wisdom\n\nOrphan Wisdom is a philosophical system invented and promoted by Stephen Jenkinson that believes what modern people \"suffer from most is culture failure, amnesia of ancestry and deep family story, phantom or sham rites of passage, no instruction on how to live with each other or with the world around us or with our dead or with our history.\" Before his 2010 founding of the Orphan Wisdom School, Jenkinson directed palliative care at Mount Sinai Hospital of Toronto. Orphan Wisdom's teachings push against \"'death phobia' and 'grief illiteracy'\" to promote acceptance of death well before death in order to \"participate emotionally in their deaths as they participate in other big life events\".\n\nThe documentary film about Jenkinson and Orphan Wisdom, \"Griefwalker\", was produced by the National Film Board of Canada and filmed over twelve years by Tim Wilson.\n\nThe 2015 book \"Die Wise: A Manifesto for Sanity and Soul\" is Jenkinson's history, explication and exploration of his approach to coming to terms with death. Its dense and sometimes poetic prose is both a critique of dominant Western cultural practices and denials - in part gleaned from his years the \"death trade,\" as Jenkinson calls it - as well as what the author has learned elsewhere, particularly from indigenous peoples. His ideas also have an affinity with Buddhist teachings, which have their origin in the Buddha's confronting the reality of suffering and death.\n\n"}
{"id": "55362208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55362208", "title": "Ovarian follicle activation", "text": "Ovarian follicle activation\n\nOvarian follicle activation can be defined as primordial follicles in the ovary moving from a quiescent (inactive) to a growing phase. The primordial follicle in the oocyte is what makes up the “pool” of follicles that will be induced to enter growth and developmental changes that change them into pre-ovulatory follicles, ready to be released during ovulation. The process of development from a primordial follicle to a pre-ovulatory follicle is called folliculogenesis.\n\nActivation of the primordial follicle involves the following: a morphological change from flattened to cuboidal granulosa cells, proliferation of granulosa cells, formation of the protective zona pellucida layer, and growth of the oocyte.\n\nIt is widely understood that androgens act primarily on preantral follicles and that this activity is important for preantral follicle growth. Additionally, it is thought that androgens are involved in primordial follicle activation. However, the influence of androgens on primordial follicle recruitment and whether this response is primary or secondary is still uncertain.\n\nPrimordial follicles are activated to grow into antral follicles. Communication between the oocytes and the surrounding somatic cells, such as the granulosa cells and the theca cells, is involved in the control of primordial follicle activation. There are various activator signalling pathways that are involved in the control of ovarian follicle activation, including: Neurotropin, nerve growth factor (NGF) and its tyrosine receptor kinase (NTRK1), neurotrophin 4 (NT4), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and their receptor NTRK2. Additional ligands have a role in facilitating primordial follicle activation such as transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-B), growth differentiation factor 9 (GDF9) and bone morphogenic protein 15 (BMP15).\n\nFollicular activation rate is increased in experiments where recombinant GDF9 is added. Additionally, in vitro addition of GDF9 to human ovarian cortical tissue causes enhanced activation and follicular survival. Removing GDF9 from mice, through knock-out experiments, halts follicle progression beyond the first stage, and prevents granulosa cell proliferation. However, these GDF9 null mice have accelerated oocyte growth, suggesting that GDF9 is partially responsible for granulosa cell recruitment, as well as inhibiting oocyte growth. GDF9 promotes follicular survival and growth as a result of dampened granulosa apoptosis and follicular atresia.\n\nAs discussed above TGF-β ligands, for example BMP4 and 7 have a role in follicular activation. SMADS are downstream molecules of the TGF-β signalling pathway, hence rely on TGF-β for activation. In the absence of SMADs, mice have decreased folliculogenesis, with decreased quantities of primordial follicles, as well as developed adult follicles at both developmental stages. BMP15 has been shown to stimulate granulosa cell growth by encouraging proliferation of undifferentiated granulosa cells. This is not dependent on FSH. It was shown that two proliferation markers, Ki-67 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), are regulated by these factors. Additionally, PCNA has been suggested to act as a key regulator of ovarian follicle development. The temporal expression of PCNA in oocytes is coincident with the start of primordial follicle formation. PCNA promotes apoptosis of oocytes, which regulates primordial follicle assembly.\n\nAnother molecule that has been implicated in the activation of oocyte follicles is Forkhead boxL2 (Foxl2). In knock out studies, it has been shown that Foxl2 may be responsible for the cuboidal transition of the pre-granulosa cells. Hence, when Foxl2 is removed, the primordial follicles are unable to develop into secondary follicles.\n\nSpermatogenesis-and-oogenesis-specific basic helix-loop-helix containing protein 1 (Sohlh1) is expressed within germ cell clusters and in new primordial follicles. Knock out studies of this protein in mice show a reduced number of oocytes present at 7 weeks post birth and a malfunction in the transition from primordial to primary follicle.\n\nPhosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) is a tumour suppressor gene whose actions directly affect the activation of primordial follicles. It does this by negatively controlling the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. This particular action of PTEN was initially discovered in an experiment using PTEN knockout mice. The absence of PTEN within the primordial follicles lead to an increase in AKT phosphorylation. This then creates a subsequent rise in FOXO3 export, as AKT is no longer inhibiting its production. This led to over-activation of the primordial follicles, which resulted in a premature decline of the primordial follicle pool.\n\nWhen Foxo3 is KO in mice models a huge uncontrolled activation of follicles is seen thus the mouse ovaries are deficient of the entire pool of primordial follicles because they have been prematurely activated. This action is regulated by phosphorylation, the unphosphorylated form is transcriptionally active in the nucleus. However, when phosphorylation occurs the protein is transported to the cytoplasm and loses its transcriptional activity. Pelosi et al. noted that the timing and level of the Foxo3 expression is very important to regulate ovarian follicle activation.\n\nAKt- PTEN-AKt and Foxo3 are all involved in the same pathway. PTEN is situated upstream of AKt. Therefore, if PTEN is deleted specifically from an oocyte this causes an increase in AKt activity resulting in large numbers of dormant ovarian follicles resuming their growth and differentiation. The TSC complex also plays an important role in this pathways by suppressing the activity of mTOR which has been proven to be essential for maintaining dormancy.\n\nTuberin/tuberous sclerosis complex is also thought to be important in the regulation of primordial follicle activation. TSC negatively controls the function of mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin). TSC knockout mice have a raised level of mTORC1 activity. Suppressing mTORC1 is a necessary process to prevent primordial follicles from being prematurely activated and therefore premature ovarian insufficiency.\n\nAMH (Anti-mullerian Hormone) is a member of the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-b), that has a very important role in regulating both testicular and ovarian function. In the first instance AMH inhibits the initial enrollment of the resting primordial follicles. Secondly AMH prevents the regulation of preantral/small antral follicle growth by reducing their responsiveness to FSH.\n\nP27 inhibits cell cycle progression at the G1 phase by preventing the action of cyclin E-Cdk2. Due to its’ important role in the cell cycle, it is found within the nucleus of mice oocytes in primordial and primary follicles. During puberty of p27 knock out mice, all primordial follicles are activated and leads to POF. This indicates that p27 is a vital regulator in maintaining a quiescent state in primordial follicles.\n\nPremature ovarian failure (POF), or premature ovarian insufficiency (POI), is a female reproductive disorder characterised by at least 4 months of primary or secondary amenorrhea, before the age of 40. It is caused by either a decrease in the primordial follicle pool, accelerated atresia of follicles or altered maturation or recruitment of primordial follicles and is associated with menopausal levels of follicle stimulating hormones, exceeding 40 Ul/L. Specific activator and suppressor genes are implicated in ovarian follicle activation and recent research suggests that POF may be the consequence of a genetic mutation in one or more of these genes.\n\nFOXL2 - FOXL2 knockout mouse models showed failure of granulosa cell differentiation, which led to the premature activation and depletion of primordial follicles, characteristic of POF. Two different variations of mutations in the FOXL2 gene, which cause different forms of POF, one with earlier onset and the other with later onset and incomplete penetrance, have been identified. Additionally, mutations in the FOXL2 gene have been found in approximately 5% of nonsyndromic POF patients, which suggests that FOXL2 mutations are also associated with idiopathic POF.\n\nBMP15 and GDF9 - Mutations in BMP15 and GDF9 genes can be involved in POF, but are not major causes of the disease. For example, low GDF9 mutation frequency has been found in a large cohort of Indian cases of POF.\n\nSOHLH1 - Little is known about the causative association of SOHLH1 and POF, however three novel SOHLH1 variants have been found to potentially cause the disease and when studied, they were absent in controls.\n\nAMH - A decrease in AMH expression in POF antral follicles leads to defective antral development.\n\nmTORC1 and PI3K - Deregulation of mTORC1 and PI3K signaling pathways in oocytes results in ovarian pathological conditions, including POF and subsequent infertility.\n\nPTEN - Studies of mice with a deletion in PTEN in the oocytes showed early activation of the entire pool of primordial follicles, leading to a lack of primordial follicles in adulthood, resulting in a POF phenotype.\n\nFoxo3a - Studies into mice with complete and partial Foxo3a deletions also showed premature activation of the entire primordial follicle pool, destroying the ovarian reserve and leading to oocyte death. This led to a POF phenotype, seen in studies in a range of countries.\n\nTSC - In the oocytes of Tsc2 knockout mice, elevated mTORC1 activity causes the pool of primordial follicles to become activated prematurely. This results in follicle depletion in early adulthood, causing POF.\n\nAs well as having many genetic causes, premature ovarian failure has been shown to be a side effect of many chemotherapeutic agents. The damage suffered by ovaries appears to be dose-dependent, and a class of chemotherapy drugs known as alkylating agents, seem to cause the most damage to the ovary and follicles. There are two ways in which this damage occurs:\nChemotherapeutic agents, such as Cyclophosphamide, have been shown to activate the PI3K/PTEN/Akr pathway, which is the main pathway involved in keeping the follicles dormant and permitting them to grow - activation of this pathway encourages more primordial follicles to grow and develop. These growing follicles may then be destroyed in subsequent rounds of chemotherapy, which often target growing cells, which will then cause more primordial follicles to differentiate and grow to replace the destroyed cells. This concept, known as burnout, leads to a depletion of the ovarian reserve and results in premature ovarian failure.\n\nOocyte cryopreservation is a preservative process which can be used as a way of preserving fertility in children treated for childhood or adolescent cancer, and to avoid the damage caused to the ovaries caused by cytotoxic drugs often used in chemotherapy. There are several methods of cryopreservation, each with different levels of effectiveness. After cryopreservation, the ovarian tissue must be placed back into the patient, in order to allow the ovary to function normally again and regain fertility.\n\nRestoration of the ovarian function occurs in almost all cases of cryopreservation, but it takes a while for the ovarian follicles to regain full function. In all cases of successful function restoration, it took 3.5-6.5 months after reimplantation before a rise in oestrogen, a key hormone produced by the ovary, and a decrease in follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) were detected. The variation in time difference may be due to differences in the follicular reserves in the women at the time of cryopreservation.\n"}
{"id": "353837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353837", "title": "Personal experience", "text": "Personal experience\n\nPersonal experience of a human being is the moment-to-moment experience and sensory awareness of internal and external events or a sum of experiences forming an empirical unity such as a period of life.\n\nAn early belief of some philosophers of Ancient Greece was that the mind was like a recording device and simply kept somehow-objective records of what the senses experienced. This was believed in the Western world into the 20th century until cognitive psychology experiments decisively proved that it was not true, and that many events were simply filled in by the mind, based on what \"should be\". This, among other things, explained why eyewitness accounts of events often were so widely varied.\n\nIn Ancient Rome it was believed that personal experience was part of some divine or species-wide collective experience. This gave rise to notions of racial memory, national mission, and such notions as racism and patriotism. It was likely easier to create political movements and military morale with such notions, than a strictly personal idea of experience. Carl Jung and Joseph Campbell were notable investigators of these ideas of collective experience in the 20th century.\n\nDuring the Enlightenment, there was rigorous investigation of these ideas. Immanuel Kant noted that it was only possible to explain \"experience and its objects\" as a consequence of each other: either experience makes those objects possible, or those objects make experience possible. This is seen today as dualism, and denying the possibility of a third thing making both experience and whatever reality its objects have, both possible. That thing could be a more universal cognition, as proposed in some versions of Christianity or Gaia philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "31564169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31564169", "title": "Philosophy of happiness", "text": "Philosophy of happiness\n\nThe philosophy of happiness is the philosophical concern with the existence, nature, and attainment of happiness. Philosophers believe, happiness can be understood as the moral goal of life or as an aspect of chance; indeed, in most European languages the term happiness is synonymous with luck. Thus, philosophers usually explicate on happiness as either a state of mind, or a life that goes well for the person leading it.\n\nPlato (c. 428 c. 347 BCE), using Socrates (c. 470 399 BCE) as the main character in his philosophical dialogues, outlined the requirements for happiness in \"The Republic\".\n\nIn \"The Republic\", Plato asserts that those who are moral are the only ones who may be truly happy. Thus, one must understand the cardinal virtues, particularly justice. Through the thought experiment of the Ring of Gyges, Plato comes to the conclusion that one who abuses power enslaves himself to his appetites, while the man who chooses not to remains rationally in control of himself, and therefore is happy.\n\nHe also sees a type of happiness stemming from social justice through fulfilling one's social function; since this duty forms happiness, other typically seen sources of happiness such as leisure, wealth, and pleasure are deemed lesser, if not completely false, forms of happiness.\n\nAristotle (384 – 322 BCE) held that \"eudaimonia\" (Greek: ) is the goal of human thought and action. Eudaimonia is usually translated as happiness, but \"human flourishing\" may be a more accurate translation. Eudaimonia involves activity, exhibiting virtue (\"arete\", Greek: ἀρετή) in accordance with virtue.\n\nWithin the \"Nicomachean Ethics\", Aristotle points to the fact that many aims are really only intermediate aims, and are desired only because they make the achievement of higher aims possible. Therefore, things such as wealth, intelligence, and courage are valued only in relation to other things, while eudaimonia is the only thing valuable in isolation.\n\nAristotle regarded virtue as necessary for a person to be happy and held that without virtue the most that may be attained is contentment. Aristotle has been criticized for failing to show that virtue is necessary in the way he claims it to be, and he does not address this moral skepticism.\n\nAntisthenes (c. 445 – c. 365 BCE), often regarded as the founder of Cynicism, advocated an ascetic life lived in accordance with virtue. Xenophon testifies that Antisthenes had praised the joy that sprang \"from out of one's soul,\" and Diogenes Laertius relates that Antisthenes was fond of saying: \"I would rather go mad than feel pleasure.\" He maintained that virtue was sufficient in itself to ensure happiness, only needing the strength of a Socrates.\n\nHe, along with all following Cynics, rejected any conventional notions of happiness involving money, power, and fame, to lead entirely virtuous, and thus happy, lives. Thus, happiness can be gained through rigorous training (askesis, Greek: ) and by living in a way which was natural for humans, rejecting all conventional desires, preferring a simple life free from all possessions.\n\nDiogenes of Sinope (c. 412 – c. 323 BCE) is most frequently seen as the perfect embodiment of the philosophy. The Stoics themselves saw him as one of the few, if not only, who have had achieved the state of sage.\n\nStoicism was a school of philosophy established by Zeno of Citium (c. 334 – c. 262 BCE). While Zeno was syncretic in thought, his primary influence were the Cynics, with Crates of Thebes (c. 365 – c. 285 BCE) as his mentor.\n\nStoics believe that \"virtue is sufficient for happiness\". One who has attained this sense of virtue would become a sage. In the words of Epictetus, this sage would be \"sick and yet happy, in peril and yet happy, dying and yet happy, in exile and happy, in disgrace and happy,\"\n\nThe Stoics therefore spent their time trying to attain virtue. This would only be achieved if one was to dedicate their life studying Stoic logic, Stoic physics, and Stoic ethics.\n\nThe Cyrenaics were a school of philosophy established by Aristippus of Cyrene (c. 435 – c. 356 BCE). The school asserted that the only good is positive pleasure, and pain is the only evil. They posit that all feeling is momentary so all past and future pleasure have no real existence for an individual, and that among present pleasures there is no distinction of kind. Claudius Aelianus, in his \"Historical Miscellany\", writes about Aristippus:\n\nSome immediate pleasures can create more than their equivalent of pain. The wise person should be in control of pleasures rather than be enslaved to them, otherwise pain will result, and this requires judgement to evaluate the different pleasures of life.\n\nEpicureanism was founded by Epicurus (c. 341 – c. 270 BCE). The goal of his philosophy was to attain a state of tranquility (\"ataraxia\", Greek: ) and freedom from fear, as well as absence of bodily pain (\"aponia\", Greek: ). Toward these ends, Epicurus recommended an ascetic lifestyle, noble friendship, and the avoidance of politics.\n\nOne aid to achieving happiness is the \"tetrapharmakos\" or the four-fold cure:\n\n\"Do not fear god,<br>\nDo not worry about death;<br>\nWhat is good is easy to get, and<br>\nWhat is terrible is easy to endure.\"<br>\n(\"Philodemus, Herculaneum Papyrus, 1005, 4.9–14\").\n\nThe School of the Sextii was founded by Quintus Sextius the Elder (fl. 50 BCE). It characterized itself mainly as a philosophical-medical school, blending Pythagorean, Platonic, Cynic, and Stoic elements together. They argued that to achieve happiness, one ought to be vegetarian, have nightly examinations of conscience, and avoid both consumerism and politics, and believe that an elusive incorporeal power pervades the body.\n\nSt. Augustine of Hippo (354 – 430 AD) was an early Christian theologian and philosopher whose writings influenced the development of Western Christianity and Western philosophy.\n\nFor St. Augustine, all human actions revolve around love, and the primary problem humans face is the misplacing of love. Only in God can one find happiness, as He is source of happiness. Since humanity was brought forth from God, but has since fallen, one's soul dimly remembers the happiness from when one was with God. Thus, if one orients themselves toward the love of God, all other loves will become properly ordered. In this manner, St. Augustine follows the Neoplatonic tradition in asserting that happiness lays in the contemplation of the purely intelligible realm.\n\nSt. Augustine deals with the concept of happiness directly in his treatises \"De beata vita\" and \"Contra Academicos\".\n\nBoethius (c. 480–524 AD) was a philosopher, most famous for writing \"The Consolation of Philosophy\". The work has been described as having had the single most important influence on the Christianity of the Middle Ages and early Renaissance and as the last great work of the Classical Period. The book describes many themes, but among them he discusses how happiness can be attainable despite changing fortune, while considering the nature of happiness and God.\n\nHe posits that happiness is acquired by attaining the perfect good, and that perfect good is God. He then concludes that as God ruled the universe through Love, prayer to God and the application of Love would lead to true happiness.\n\nAvicenna (c. 980–1037), also known as 'Ibn-Sina', was polymath and jurist; he is regarded as one of the most significant thinkers in the Islamic Golden Age. According to him, happiness is the aim of humans, and that real happiness is pure and free from worldly interest. Ultimately, happiness is reached through the conjunction of the human intellect with the separate active intellect.\n\nAl-Ghazali (c. 1058–1111) was a Muslim theologian, jurist, philosopher, and mystic of Persian descent. Produced near the end of his life, al-Ghazali wrote \"The Alchemy of Happiness\" (\"Kimiya-yi Sa'ādat\", (). In the work, he emphasizes the importance of observing the ritual requirements of Islam, the actions that would lead to salvation, and the avoidance of sin. Only by exercising the human faculty of reason - a God-given ability - can one transform the soul from worldliness to complete devotion to God, the ultimate happiness.\n\nAccording to Al-Ghazali, there are four main constituents of happiness: self-knowledge, knowledge of God, knowledge of this world as it really is, and the knowledge of the next world as it really is.\n\nMaimonides (c. 1135-1204) was a Jewish philosopher and astronomer, who became one of the most prolific and influential Torah scholars and physicians. He writes that happiness is ultimately and essentially intellectual.\n\nSt. Thomas Aquinas (1225 – 1274 AD) was a philosopher and theologian, who became a Doctor of the Church in 1323. His system syncretized Aristotelianism and Catholic theology within his \"Summa Theologica\". The first part of the second part is divided into 114 articles, the first five deal explicitly with the happiness of humans. He states that happiness is achieved by cultivating several intellectual and moral virtues, which enable us to understand the nature of happiness and motivate us to seek it in a reliable and consistent way. Yet, one will be unable to find the greatest happiness in this life, because final happiness consists in a supernatural union with God. As such, man’s happiness does not consist of wealth, status, pleasure, or in any created good at all. Most goods do not have a necessary connection to happiness, since the ultimate object of man’s will, can only be found in God, who is the source of all good.\n\nMichel de Montaigne (1533-1592) was a French philosopher. Influenced by Aristotelianism and Christianity, alongside the conviction of the separation of public and private spheres of life, Montaigne writes that happiness is a subjective state of mind and that satisfaction differs from person to person. He continues by acknowledging that one must be allowed a private sphere of life to realize those particular attempts of happiness without the interference of society.\n\nJeremy Bentham (1748-1832) was a British philosopher, jurist, and social reformer. He is regarded as the founder of modern utilitarianism.\n\nHis particular brand of utilitarianism indicated that the most moral action is that which causes the highest amount of utility, where defined utility as the aggregate pleasure after deducting suffering of all involved in any action. Happiness, therefore, is the experience of pleasure and the lack of pain. Actions which do not promote the greatest happiness is morally wrong - such as ascetic sacrifice. This manner of thinking permits the possibility of a calculator to measure happiness and moral value.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer (1788-1860) was a German philosopher. His philosophy express that egotistical acts are those that are guided by self-interest, desire for pleasure or happiness, whereas only compassion can be a moral act.\n\nSchopenhauer explains happiness in terms of a wish that is satisfied, which in turn gives rise to a new wish. And the absence of satisfaction is suffering, which results in an empty longing. He also links happiness with the movement of time, as we feel happy when time moves faster and feel sad when time slows down.\n\nWładysław Tatarkiewicz (1886-1980) was a Polish philosopher, historian of philosophy, historian of art, esthetician, and ethicist.\n\nFor Tatarkiewicz, happiness is a fundamental ethical category.\n\nHerbert Marcuse (1898–1979) was a German-American philosopher, sociologist, and political theorist, associated with the Frankfurt School of critical theory.\n\nIn his 1937 essay 'The Affirmative Character of Culture,' he suggests culture develops tension within the structure of society, and in that tension can challenge the current social order. If it separates itself from the everyday world, the demand for happiness will cease to be external, and begin to become an object of spiritual contemplation.\n\nIn the \"One-Dimensional Man\", his criticism of consumerism suggests that the current system is one that claims to be democratic, but is authoritarian in character, as only a few individuals dictate the perceptions of freedom by only allowing certain choices of happiness to be available for purchase. He further suggests that the conception that 'happiness can be bought' is one that is psychologically damaging.\n\nViktor Frankl (1905-1997) was an Austrian neurologist, psychiatrist, Holocaust survivor and founder of logotherapy. His philosophy revolved around the emphasis on meaning, the value of suffering, and responsibility to something greater than the self; only if one encounters those questions can one be happy.\n\nRobert Nozick (1938-2002) was an American philosopher.\n\nIn his 1974 book, \"Anarchy, State, Utopia\", he proposed a thought experiment where one is given the option to enter a machine that would give the maximum amount of unending hedonistic pleasure for the entirety of one's life.\n\nScientism is the approach that the empirical sciences are the most valuable branches of learning and culture.\n\nHappiness economics is the quantitative and theoretical study of happiness, positive and negative affect, well-being, quality of life, life satisfaction and related concepts, typically combining economics with other fields such as psychology and sociology. The tracking of Gross National Happiness or the satisfaction of life grow increasingly popular as the economics of happiness challenges traditional economic aims.\n\nRichard Layard has been very influential in this area. He has shown that mental illness is the main cause of unhappiness.\n\nSonja Lyubomirsky asserted in her 2007 book, \"The How of Happiness\", that happiness is 50 percent genetically determined (based on twin studies), 10 percent circumstancial, and 40 percent subject to self-control. Lyubomirsky suggests a twelve-point program to maximize the final 40 percent.\n\nNot all cultures seek to maximise happiness, and some cultures are averse to happiness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25869076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25869076", "title": "Philosophy of life", "text": "Philosophy of life\n\nThere are at least two senses in which the term philosophy is used: a formal and an informal sense. In the formal sense, philosophy is an academic study of the fields of aesthetics, ethics, epistemology, logic, metaphysics, as well as social and political philosophy. One's \"philosophy of life\" is philosophy in the informal sense, as a personal philosophy, whose focus is resolving the existential questions about the human condition. \n\n\"Philosophy of life\" also refers to a specific conception of philosophizing as a way of life, endorsed by the German \"Lebensphilosophie\" movement whose main representative is Wilhelm Dilthey and several other Continental philosophers such as Henri Bergson and Pierre Hadot.\n\nThe human situation appears to be a struggle between what \"is\" (existence) and what \"ought\" (essence) to be.\n\nThere are at least three prevailing theories on how to respond to the existential question.\n\n\n\n\nThere are two basic forms of existentialism:\n\nReligious existentialism is best exemplified by St. Augustine, Blaise Pascal, Paul Tillich, and the philosophy of Søren Kierkegaard. Religious existentialism holds that there are two levels of reality, essence, which is the ground of being, and existence. Religion is the ultimate concern in this view.\n\nAtheistic existentialism is best exemplified by Friedrich Nietzsche, Martin Heidegger, and Jean-Paul Sartre. It holds that there is one level of reality, existence. In this view, each person constructs his own unique and temporary essence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3117750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3117750", "title": "Rational egoism", "text": "Rational egoism\n\nRational egoism (also called rational selfishness) is the principle that an action is rational if and only if it maximizes one's self-interest. The view is a normative form of egoism. It is distinct from psychological egoism (according to which people are \"motivated\" only to act in their own self-interest) and ethical egoism (that moral agents \"ought\" only to do what is in their own self-interest).\n\nRational egoism was embodied by Russian author Nikolay Chernyshevsky in the 1863 book \"What Is to Be Done?\". Chernyshevsky's standpoint was ultimately socialistic, and was criticised by Fyodor Dostoyevsky in the 1864 book \"Notes from Underground\".\n\nEnglish philosopher Henry Sidgwick discussed rational egoism in his book \"The Methods of Ethics\", first published in 1872. A method of ethics is \"any rational procedure by which we determine what individual human beings 'ought' – or what it is 'right' for them – to do, or seek to realize by voluntary action\". Sidgwick considers three such procedures, namely, rational egoism, dogmatic intuitionism, and utilitarianism. Rational egoism is the view that, if rational, \"an agent regards quantity of consequent pleasure and pain to himself alone important in choosing between alternatives of action; and seeks always the greatest attainable surplus of pleasure over pain\".\n\nSidgwick found it difficult to find any persuasive reason for preferring rational egoism over utilitarianism. Although utilitarianism can be provided with a rational basis and reconciled with the morality of common sense, rational egoism appears to be an equally plausible doctrine regarding what we have most reason to do. Thus we must \"admit an ultimate and fundamental contradiction in our apparent intuitions of what is Reasonable in conduct; and from this admission it would seem to follow that the apparently intuitive operation of Practical Reason, manifested in these contradictory judgments, is after all illusory\".\n\nThe author and philosopher Ayn Rand also discusses a theory that she called 'rational egoism'. She holds that it is both irrational and immoral to act against one's self-interest. Thus, her view is a conjunction of both rational egoism (in the standard sense) and ethical egoism, because according to Objectivist philosophy, egoism cannot be properly justified without an epistemology based on reason:\n\nHer book \"The Virtue of Selfishness\" (1964) explains the concept of rational egoism in depth. According to Rand, a rational man holds his own life as his highest value, rationality as his highest virtue, and his happiness as the final purpose of his life.\n\nConversely, Rand was sharply critical of the ethical doctrine of altruism:\n\nTwo objections to rational egoism are given by the English philosopher Derek Parfit, who discusses the theory at length in \"Reasons and Persons\" (1984). First, from the rational egoist point of view, it is rational to contribute to a pension scheme now, even though this is detrimental to one's present interests (which are to spend the money now). But it seems equally reasonable to maximize one's interests now, given that one's reasons are not only relative to him, but to him as he is now (and not his future self, who is argued to be a \"different\" person). Parfit also argues that since the connections between the present mental state and the mental state of one's future self may decrease, it is not plausible to claim that one should be indifferent between one's present and future self.\n\nThe \"selfish gene\" model of evolution suggests that human (and animal) behaviors that seem altruistic are actually selfish, if viewed from the perspective of genes/phenotypes. People help each other \"selflessly\" because copies of their own genes also exist in others, so behaviors that help the genes survive are selected for, with the altruistic drive decreasing with genetic distance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36542139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36542139", "title": "Risto Aaltonen", "text": "Risto Aaltonen\n\nRisto Kalevi Aaltonen (born 16 March 1939 in Helsinki) is a Finnish actor. He became known in Finland for his roles as Kalle in the sixties series \"Hanski\" and for his role as a gangster in the 1969 comedy film \"Leikkikalugangsteri\". In the 1960s and 1970s he also did some work as a film and theatre director.\n"}
{"id": "500163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=500163", "title": "Self-replicating spacecraft", "text": "Self-replicating spacecraft\n\nThe idea of self-replicating spacecraft has been applied – in theory – to several distinct \"tasks\". The particular variant of this idea applied to the idea of space exploration is known as a von Neumann probe. Other variants include the Berserker and an automated terraforming seeder ship.\n\nIn theory, a self-replicating spacecraft could be sent to a neighbouring planetary system, where it would seek out raw materials (extracted from asteroids, moons, gas giants, etc.) to create replicas of itself. These replicas would then be sent out to other planetary systems. The original \"parent\" probe could then pursue its primary purpose within the star system. This mission varies widely depending on the variant of self-replicating starship proposed.\n\nGiven this pattern, and its similarity to the reproduction patterns of bacteria, it has been pointed out that von Neumann machines might be considered a form of life. In his short story, \"Lungfish\" (see Self-replicating machines in fiction), David Brin touches on this idea, pointing out that self-replicating machines launched by different species might actually compete with one another (in a Darwinistic fashion) for raw material, or even have conflicting missions. Given enough variety of \"species\" they might even form a type of ecology, or – should they also have a form of artificial intelligence – a society. They may even mutate with untold thousands of \"generations\".\n\nThe first quantitative engineering analysis of such a spacecraft was published in 1980 by Robert Freitas, in which the non-replicating Project Daedalus design was modified to include all subsystems necessary for self-replication. The design's strategy was to use the probe to deliver a \"seed\" factory with a mass of about 443 tons to a distant site, have the seed factory replicate many copies of itself there to increase its total manufacturing capacity, over a 500-year period, and then use the resulting automated industrial complex to construct more probes with a single seed factory on board each.\n\nIt has been theorized that a self-replicating starship utilizing relatively conventional theoretical methods of interstellar travel (i.e., no exotic faster-than-light propulsion, and speeds limited to an \"average cruising speed\" of 0.1c.) could spread throughout a galaxy the size of the Milky Way in as little as half a million years.\n\nIn 1981, Frank Tipler put forth an argument that extraterrestrial intelligences do not exist, based on the absence of von Neumann probes. Given even a moderate rate of replication and the history of the galaxy, such probes should already be common throughout space and thus, we should have already encountered them. Because we have not, this shows that extraterrestrial intelligences do not exist. This is thus a resolution to the Fermi paradox – that is, the question of why we have not \"already\" encountered extraterrestrial intelligence if it is common throughout the universe.\n\nA response came from Carl Sagan and William Newman. Now known as \"Sagan's Response\", it pointed out that in fact Tipler had underestimated the rate of replication, and that von Neumann probes should have already started to consume most of the mass in the galaxy. Any intelligent race would therefore, Sagan and Newman reasoned, not design von Neumann probes in the first place, and would try to destroy any von Neumann probes found as soon as they were detected. As Robert Freitas has pointed out, the assumed capacity of von Neumann probes described by both sides of the debate are unlikely in reality, and more modestly reproducing systems are unlikely to be observable in their effects on our Solar System or the Galaxy as a whole.\n\nAnother objection to the prevalence of von Neumann probes is that civilizations of the type that could potentially create such devices may have inherently short lifetimes, and self-destruct before so advanced a stage is reached, through such events as biological or nuclear warfare, nanoterrorism, resource exhaustion, ecological catastrophe, or pandemics.\n\nSimple workarounds exist to avoid the over-replication scenario. Radio transmitters, or other means of wireless communication, could be used by probes programmed not to replicate beyond a certain density (such as five probes per cubic parsec) or arbitrary limit (such as ten million within one century), analogous to the Hayflick limit in cell reproduction. One problem with this defence against uncontrolled replication is that it would only require a single probe to malfunction and begin unrestricted reproduction for the entire approach to fail – essentially a technological cancer – unless each probe also has the ability to detect such malfunction in its neighbours and implements a seek and destroy protocol (which in turn could lead to probe-on-probe space wars if faulty probes first managed to multiply to high numbers before they were found by sound ones, which could then well have programming to replicate to matching numbers so as to manage the infestation). Another workaround is based on the need for spacecraft heating during long interstellar travel. The use of plutonium as a thermal source would limit the ability to self-replicate. The spacecraft would have no programming to make more plutonium even if it found the required raw materials. Another is to program the spacecraft with a clear understanding of the dangers of uncontrolled replication.\n\nThe details of the mission of self-replicating starships can vary widely from proposal to proposal, and the only common trait is the self-replicating nature.\n\nA von Neumann probe is a spacecraft capable of replicating itself. The concept is named after Hungarian American mathematician and physicist John von Neumann, who rigorously studied the concept of self-replicating machines that he called \"Universal Assemblers\" and which are often referred to as \"von Neumann machines\". While von Neumann never applied his work to the idea of spacecraft, theoreticians since then have done so.\n\nIf a self-replicating probe finds evidence of primitive life (or a primitive, low-level culture) it might be programmed to lie dormant, silently observe, attempt to make contact (this variant is known as a Bracewell probe), or even interfere with or guide the evolution of life in some way.\n\nPhysicist Paul Davies of Arizona State University has even raised the possibility of a probe resting on our own Moon, having arrived at some point in Earth's ancient prehistory and remained to monitor Earth, which is very reminiscent of Arthur C. Clarke's \"The Sentinel\" and the Stanley Kubrick .\n\nA variant idea on the interstellar von Neumann probe idea is that of the \"Astrochicken\", proposed by Freeman Dyson. While it has the common traits of self-replication, exploration, and communication with its \"home base\", Dyson conceived the Astrochicken to explore and operate within our own planetary system, and not explore interstellar space.\n\nOxford-based philosopher Nick Bostrom discusses the idea that future powerful superintelligences will create efficient cost-effective space travel and interstellar Von Neumann probes.\n\nAnders Sandberg and Stuart Armstrong argued that launching the colonization of the entire reachable universe through self-replicating probes is well within the capabilities of a star-spanning civilization, and proposed a theoretical approach for achieving it in 32 years, by mining planet Mercury for resources and constructing a Dyson Swarm around the Sun.\n\nA variant of the self-replicating starship is the \"Berserker\". Unlike the benign probe concept, Berserkers are programmed to seek out and exterminate lifeforms and life-bearing exoplanets whenever they are encountered.\n\nThe name is derived from the \"Berserker\" series of novels by Fred Saberhagen which describe a war between humanity and such machines. Saberhagen points out (through one of his characters) that the Berserker warships in his novels are not von Neumann machines themselves, but the larger complex of Berserker machines – including automated shipyards – \"do\" constitute a von Neumann machine. This again brings up the concept of an ecology of von Neumann machines, or even a von Neumann hive entity.\n\nIt is speculated in fiction that Berserkers could be created and launched by a xenophobic civilization (see \"Anvil of Stars\", by Greg Bear, in the section In fiction below) or could theoretically \"mutate\" from a more benign probe. For instance, a von Neumann ship designed for terraforming processes – mining a planet's surface and adjusting its atmosphere to more human-friendly conditions – might malfunction and attack inhabited planets, killing their inhabitants in the process of changing the planetary environment, and then self-replicate and dispatch more ships to attack other planets.\n\nYet another variant on the idea of the self-replicating starship is that of the seeder ship. Such starships might store the genetic patterns of lifeforms from their home world, perhaps even of the species which created it. Upon finding a habitable exoplanet, or even one that might be terraformed, it would try to replicate such lifeforms – either from stored embryos or from stored information using molecular nanotechnology to build zygotes with varying genetic information from local raw materials.\n\nSuch ships might be terraforming vessels, preparing colony worlds for later colonization by other vessels, or – should they be programmed to recreate, raise, and educate individuals of the species that created it – self-replicating colonizers themselves. Seeder ships would be a suitable alternative to Generation ships as a way to colonize worlds too distant to travel to in one lifetime.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15826297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15826297", "title": "Seriousness", "text": "Seriousness\n\nSeriousness (noun; adjective: serious) is an attitude of gravity, solemnity, persistence, and earnestness toward something considered to be of importance. Some notable philosophers and commentators have criticised excessive seriousness, while others have praised it. Seriousness is often contrasted with comedy, as in the seriocomedy. In the theory of humor, one must have a sense of humor and a sense of seriousness to distinguish what is supposed to be taken literally or not, or of being important or not. Otherwise, it may also be contrasted with a sense of play. How children learn a sense of seriousness to form values and differentiate between the serious and that which is not is studied in developmental psychology and educational psychology. There is a distinction between the degree of seriousness of various crimes in sentencing under the law, and also in law enforcement. There is a positive correlation with the degree of seriousness of a crime and viewer ratings of news coverage. What is or is not considered serious varies widely with different cultures.\n\nSometimes fields studying degrees of seriousness overlap, such as developmental psychology studies of development of the sense of degrees of seriousness as it relates to transgressions, which has overlap with criminology and the seriousness of crimes. \nSource:Alchilagyo.com\n\nSome use \"seriousness\" as a term of praise for scholarship or in literary review. 19th century poet, cultural critic, and literary critic, Matthew Arnold said that the most important criteria used to judge the value of a poem were \"high truth\" and \"high seriousness\".\n\nMany have expressed an attitude of disdain toward taking things too seriously, as opposed to viewing things with an attitude of humor. Poet, playwright, and philosopher Joseph Addison said that being serious is dull, \"we are growing serious, and let me tell you, that's the next step to being dull.\" Political satirist P.J. O'Rourke said that \"Seriousness is stupidity sent to college.\" Epigramist, poet, and playwright Oscar Wilde said that \"life is too important to be taken seriously.\" In a play on words, novelist Samuel Butler indicated that the \"central serious conviction in life\" is that nothing should be taken with too much seriousness, \"the one serious conviction that a man should have is that nothing is to be taken too seriously.\"\n\nIn some ascetic or puritan religious sects, an attitude of seriousness is always to be taken, and solemnity, sobriety, and puritanism with its hostility to social pleasures and indulgences are the only acceptable attitudes. Perry Miller, \"the master of American intellectual history\", wrote of excessive seriousness of the Puritans, \"simple humanity cries at last for some relief from the interminable high seriousness of the Puritan code.\"\n\nExistentialist philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre called the \"spirit of seriousness’’ the belief that there is an objective and independent goodness in things for people to discover, and that this belief leads to bad faith. He argued that people forget that values are not absolute, but are contingent and subjectively determined. In Sartre’s words, \"the spirit of seriousness has two characteristics: it considers values as transcendent ‘'givens’’, independent of human subjectivity, and it transfers the quality of ‘desirable’ from the ontological structure of things to their simple material constitution.\"\n\nSeriousness is sometimes contrasted with the comical in humor. In the performing arts and literature, the seriocomedy is a genre which blends seriousness with the comical, drama with comedy.\n\nIn the theory of humor, one must have a sense of humor and a sense of seriousness to distinguish what is supposed to be taken literally or not. An even more keen sense is needed when humor is used to make a serious point. Psychologists have studied how humor is intended to be taken as having seriousness, as when court jesters used humor to convey serious information. Conversely, when humor is not intended to be taken seriously, bad taste in humor may cross a line after which it is taken seriously, though not intended.\n\nIn Developmental psychology and educational psychology, seriousness is studied as it relates to how children develop an ability to distinguish levels of seriousness as it relates to transgressions and expenditure of time; for example, a child must learn to distinguish between levels of seriousness in admonitions such as between \"don't fidget\" and \"don't forget to look both ways when crossing the street\", which have the same linguistic and normative structure, but different levels of seriousness.\n\nThe degree of seriousness of crimes is an important factor relating to crime. One standard for measurement is the degree to which a crime affects others or society. A felony is generally considered to be a crime of \"high seriousness\", while a misdemeanor is not.\n\nIn criminal law the degree of seriousness is considered when meting out punishment to fit the crime, and in considering to what extent overcrowded prison facilities will be used. Seriousness of a crime is a major factor in considerations of the allocation of scarce law enforcement funds.\n\nThe meaning and measurement of seriousness is a major concern in public policy considerations. A quantitative scoring system called the \"seriousness score\" has been developed for use in allocating law enforcement resources and sentencing.\n\nAs to England and Wales, see section 143 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003.\n\nDegrees of seriousness are used in medicine to make decisions about care. Seriousness is related to the effects of delaying or not having medical care. In an emergency hospital, the triage nurse must evaluate levels of seriousness of medical emergencies and rank them to determine order of care. Seriousness of illness is used to make decisions as to whether to perform invasive procedures such as surgery.\n\nThere is a positive correlation between the degree of seriousness of a crime and viewer ratings of news coverage.\n\nWhat is considered serious varies widely across cultures and is studied in sociology, cultural anthropology, and criminology; being of the wrong religious faith may be considered a serious crime in some cultures; smoking marijuana may be a serious crime in some cultures and not others; homosexuality a serious crime in some cultures; and prostitution is a serious crime in some cultures. Perception of seriousness is measured in assessing varying cultural perceptions on health risks.\n"}
{"id": "366863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=366863", "title": "Shangri-La", "text": "Shangri-La\n\nShangri-La is a fictional place described in the 1933 novel \"Lost Horizon\" by British author James Hilton. Hilton describes Shangri-La as a mystical, harmonious valley, gently guided from a lamasery, enclosed in the western end of the Kunlun Mountains. Shangri-La has become synonymous with any earthly paradise, particularly a mythical Himalayan utopia – a permanently happy land, isolated from the world. In the novel, the people who live at Shangri-La are almost immortal, living hundreds of years beyond the normal lifespan and only very slowly aging in appearance. The name also evokes the imagery of the exoticism of the Orient.\n\nIn the ancient Tibetan scriptures, the existence of seven such places is mentioned as \"Nghe-Beyul Khembalung\". Khembalung is one of several \"beyuls\" (hidden lands similar to Shangri-La) believed to have been created by Padmasambhava in the 9th century as idyllic, sacred places of refuge for Buddhists during times of strife (Reinhard, 1978).\n\nThe phrase \"Shangri-La\" most probably comes from the Tibetan ',\"Shang\" – a district of Ü-Tsang, north of Tashilhunpo\" + ', pronounced \"ri\", \"Mountain\" = \"Shang Mountain\" + \"\", Mountain Pass, which suggests that the area is accessed to, or is named by, \"Shang Mountain Pass\".\n\nWhile the name Shangri-La is of relatively recent origin, the concept previously existed.\n\nAcademic scholars have debunked the myth of Shangri-La and argued that this has less to do with an unexplored place and is more connected to a fantasy of the Western world.\n\nIn China, the poet Tao Yuanming of the Jin Dynasty (265–420 CE) described a kind of Shangri-La in his work \"The Tale of the Peach Blossom Spring\" (). The story goes that there was a fisherman from Wuling, who came across a beautiful peach grove, and he discovered happy and content people who lived completely cut off from the troubles in the outside world since the Qin Dynasty (221–207 BCE).\n\nShambhala is a core concept in Tibetan Buddhism that describes a realm of harmony between man and nature that is also connected with the Kalachakra or \"wheel of time\". The Shambhala ideal is described in detail in the Shambhala Sutra, a historical text written by the Sixth Panchen Lama (1737–1780) which describes some of the Shambhala locations as being in Ngari, the western prefecture of Tibet.\n\nFolklore from the Altai Mountains describe Mount Belukha as a gateway to Shambhala. The Kun Lun Mountains (崑崙山) offer another possible place for valleys like the Shangri-La, since Hilton specifically described the “Kuen-Lun” mountains as its likely location in the book, however, Hilton is not known to have visited or studied the area. Parts of the Kun Lun lie within Ngari, mentioned in the Shambhala Sutra.\n\nIn a \"New York Times\" interview in 1936, Hilton states that he used \"Tibetan material\" from the British Museum, particularly the travelogue of two French priests, Evariste Regis Huc and Joseph Gabet, to provide the Tibetan cultural and Buddhist spiritual inspiration for Shangri-La. Huc and Gabet travelled a roundtrip between Beijing and Lhasa in 1844–1846 on a route more than north of Yunnan. Their famous travelogue, first published in French in 1850, went through many editions in many languages. A popular \"condensed translation\" was published in England in 1928, at the time that Hilton would have been gathering inspiration for – or perhaps writing – \"Lost Horizon\".\n\nToday various places, such as parts of southern Kham in northwestern Yunnan province, including the tourist destinations of Lijiang and Zhongdian, claim the title. In modern China, Zhongdian county was renamed Xiānggélǐlā (香格里拉, Shangri-La in Chinese) in 2001, to attract tourists.\n\nHilton visited the Hunza Valley in northern Pakistan, close to the Chinese border, a few years before \"Lost Horizon\" was published; hence it is a popularly believed inspiration for Hilton's physical description of Shangri-La. Being an isolated green valley surrounded by mountains, enclosed on the western end of the Himalayas, it closely matches the description in the novel; also, in an ironic reversal on the story, due to increased exposure to ultraviolet radiation, inhabitants of the high-altitude parts of the valley appear to age quickly. However, because the Hunza Valley does not have Tibetan culture and lacks Buddhist religion, it could not have been the inspiration for the cultural context for Hilton's story.\n\nPlaces like Sichuan and Tibet also claim the real Shangri-La was in its territory. In 2001, Tibet Autonomous Region put forward a proposal that the three regions optimise all Shangri-La tourism resources and promote them as one. After failed attempts to establish a China Shangri-la Ecological Tourism Zone in 2002 and 2003, government representatives of Sichuan and Yunnan provinces and Tibet Autonomous Region signed a declaration of co-operation in 2004. Also in 2001, Zhongdian County in northwestern Yunnan officially renamed itself Shangri-La County.\n\nAmerican explorers Ted Vaill and Peter Klika visited the Muli area of southern Sichuan Province in 1999, and claimed that the Muli monastery in this remote region was the model for James Hilton's Shangri-La, which they thought Hilton learned about from articles on this area in several \"National Geographic\" magazine articles in the late 1920s and early 1930s written by Austrian-American explorer Joseph Rock. Vaill completed a film based on their research, \"Finding Shangri-La\", which debuted at the Cannes Film Festival in 2007. However, Michael McRae unearthed an obscure James Hilton interview from a \"New York Times\" gossip column where he reveals his cultural inspiration for Shangri-La and, if it is any place, it is more than 250 km north of Muli on the route travelled by Huc and Gabet.\n\nBetween 2002–2004 a series of expeditions were led by author and film maker Laurence Brahm in western China which determined that the Shangri-La mythical location in Hilton's book \"Lost Horizon\" was based on references to northern Yunnan Province from articles published by National Geographic's first resident explorer Joseph Rock.\n\nOn 2 December 2010, OPB televised one of Martin Yan's \"Hidden China\" episodes, \"Life in Shangri-La\", in which Yan said that \"Shangri-La\" is the actual name of a real town in the hilly and mountainous region in northwestern Yunnan Province, frequented by both Han and Tibetan locals. Martin Yan visited arts and craft shops, local farmers as they harvest crops, and sampled their cuisine.\n\nTelevision presenter and historian Michael Wood, in the \"Shangri-La\" episode of the BBC documentary series \"In Search of Myths and Heroes\", suggests that the legendary Shangri-La is the abandoned city of Tsaparang in upper Satluj valley, and that its two great temples were once home to the kings of Guge in modern Tibet.\nThe Travel Channel recently aired an episode of Expedition Unknown that followed host Josh Gates to Nepal and its surrounding areas in search of Shangri-La. His findings are not necessarily proof that Shangri-La is or was real. However, the sky caves that are found do represent some interesting facts.\n\nThere are a number of cultural usages of the Shangri-La idea that have developed since 1933 in the wake of the novel and the film made from it.\n\nIn 2006 the International Astronomical Union gave the equatorial, dark, low-lying area of Saturn's moon Titan the name Shangri-La.\n\n\n\nShangri-La as part of the plot\n\nEiichi Ikegami wrote a novel titled \"Shangri-La\" (2005); an anime adaptation of the novel was released in 2008.\n\n\nLed Zeppelin's \"Kashmir\" contains the following lyrics: \"Like Shangri-La beneath the summer moon / I will return again / As the dust that floats finds you / We're movin' through Kashmir.\"\n\n\"Shangri-La\" is a song written by Ray Davies of The Kinks. The song appeared on the 1969 concept album, \"Arthur (Or the Decline and Fall of the British Empire)\". The song's inspiration can be traced back to when the band visited the Davies brothers' sister, Rose, and her family in Australia, the \"designed community\" that the family lived in serving as the initial lyrical inspiration.\n\nShangri-La also appears in the Oasis song \"Idler's Dream\", B-side to \"The Hindu Times\". The lyrics appear as: \n\"And as I close my eyes,\nAnd the sky turns red\nI realise just what you are.\nYou're an idler's dream,\nand you're singing Shangri-la\nShangri-la\nShangri-la\nShangri-la.\"\n\n\"Going to Shangri-La\" is a song from Atlanta Rhythm Section\n\n“This is Shangri-La” is a song on the album \"Apple\" by Mother Love Bone. \n\n\"Shangri-La\" is a track on Billy Idol's 1993 album \"Cyberpunk\".\n\n\"Helsinki–Shangri-La\" is a 2010 single of Finnish rapper Paleface.\n\n\"Shangri-La\" is the final track on the album \"A New World Record\" by ELO.\n\nElectro-Acoustic Harpist and multi-instrumentalist, Gary Edward Drum, released his composition: \"ENTERING SHANGRI-LA\" on his 2013 album: \"The Utopia Within\".\nOn 15 May 2017, Korean boyband VIXX released their song \"Shangri-La\" together with their 4th mini album, which has the same name.\n\nThe AC/DC song \"Sin City\" on the 1978 \"Powerage\" album, Shangri-la is mentioned with the lyrics \"Lamborghini's, caviar\nDry martini's, Shangrila\"\n\nShangri-La is mentioned in the song “Dr. Feelgood” by Mötley Crüe, from the album of the same name. Shangri-La is included in the lyric “He’ll tell you he’s the king of these Barrio streets, movin’ up to Shangri-La”.\n\nStevie Nicks’ solo album \"Trouble in Shangri-La\" was released on May 1, 2001. Cover art features an oriental setting showing Nicks with her back to the camera looking out over an ocean.\n\nEnglish rock band Arctic Monkeys mentioned Shangri-La in the song \"Suck It and See\", from their fourth studio album, released on 6 June 2011 by Domino Recording Company. The lyrics appear as: \n\"Blue moon girls from once upon a Shangri-La\nHow I often wonder where you are\nYou have got that face that just says\n\"Baby, I was made to break your heart\", oh-oh-oh\"\n\nShangri-La is often used in a similar context to \"Garden of Eden,\" to represent a paradise hidden from modern man. It is sometimes used as an analogy for a lifelong quest or something elusive that is much sought. For a man who spends his life obsessively looking for a cure to a disease, such a cure could be said to be that man's \"Shangri-La.\" It also might be used to represent perfection that is sought by man in the form of love, happiness, or Utopian ideals. It may be used in this context alongside other mythical and famous examples of somewhat similar metaphors such as El Dorado, The Fountain of Youth, and The Holy Grail.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51472", "title": "Spore", "text": "Spore\n\nIn biology, a spore is a unit of sexual or asexual reproduction that may be adapted for dispersal and for survival, often for extended periods of time, in unfavourable conditions. Spores form part of the life cycles of many plants, algae, fungi and protozoa. Bacterial spores are not part of a sexual cycle but are resistant structures used for survival under unfavourable conditions. Myxozoan spores release amoebulae into their hosts for parasitic infection, but also reproduce within the hosts through the pairing of two nuclei within the plasmodium, which develops from the amoebula.\n\nSpores are usually haploid and unicellular and are produced by meiosis in the sporangium of a diploid sporophyte. Under favourable conditions the spore can develop into a new organism using mitotic division, producing a multicellular gametophyte, which eventually goes on to produce gametes. Two gametes fuse to form a zygote which develops into a new sporophyte. This cycle is known as alternation of generations.\n\nThe spores of seed plants, however, are produced internally and the megaspores, formed within the ovules and the microspores are involved in the formation of more complex structures that form the dispersal units, the seeds and pollen grains.\n\nThe term \"spore\" derives from the ancient Greek word σπορά \"spora\", meaning \"seed, sowing\", related to σπόρος \"sporos\", \"sowing,\" and σπείρειν \"speirein\", \"to sow.\"\n\nIn common parlance, the difference between a \"spore\" and a \"gamete\" (both together called gonites) is that a spore will germinate and develop into a sporeling, while a gamete needs to combine with another gamete to form a zygote before developing further.\n\nThe main difference between spores and seeds as dispersal units is that spores are unicellular, while seeds contain within them a multicellular gametophyte that produces a developing embryo, the multicellular sporophyte of the next generation. Spores germinate to give rise to haploid gametophytes, while seeds germinate to give rise to diploid sporophytes.\n\nVascular plant spores are always haploid. Vascular plants are either homosporous (or isosporous) or heterosporous. Plants that are homosporous produce spores of the same size and type. \n\nHeterosporous plants, such as seed plants, spikemosses, quillworts, and ferns of the order Salviniales produce spores of two different sizes: the larger spore (megaspore) in effect functioning as a \"female\" spore and the smaller (microspore) functioning as a \"male\". Such plants typically give rise to the two kind of spores from within separate sporangia, either a megasporangium that produces megaspores or a microsporangium that produces microspores. In flowering plants, these sporangia occur within the carpel and anthers, respectively.\n\nFungi commonly produce spores, as a result of sexual, or asexual, reproduction. Spores are always haploid and grow into mature haploid individuals through mitotic division of cells. In multicellular species, the visible fungus is composed entirely of haploid cells. Only during sexual reproduction are diploid cells present, as a result of the fusion of two haloid gamate cells. These diploid cells produce the haploid spores.\n\nSpores can be classified in several ways:\n\nIn fungi and fungus-like organisms, spores are often classified by the structure in which meiosis and spore production occurs. Since fungi are often classified according to their spore-producing structures, these spores are often characteristic of a particular taxon of the fungi.\n\n\n\nSpores can be differentiated by whether they can move or not.\n\nUnder high magnification, spores can be categorized as either monolete spores or trilete spores. In monolete spores, there is a single line on the spore indicating the axis on which the mother spore was split into four along a vertical axis. In trilete spores, all four spores share a common origin and are in contact with each other, so when they separate, each spore shows three lines radiating from a center pole.\n\nEnvelope-enclosed spore tetrads are taken as the earliest evidence of plant life on land, dating from the mid-Ordovician (early Llanvirn, ~), a period from which no macrofossils have yet been recovered.\nIndividual trilete spores resembling those of modern cryptogamic plants first appeared in the fossil record at the end of the Ordovician period.\n\nIn fungi, both asexual and sexual spores or sporangiospores of many fungal species are actively dispersed by forcible ejection from their reproductive structures. This ejection ensures exit of the spores from the reproductive structures as well as travelling through the air over long distances. Many fungi thereby possess specialized mechanical and physiological mechanisms as well as spore-surface structures, such as hydrophobins, for spore ejection. These mechanisms include, for example, forcible discharge of ascospores enabled by the structure of the ascus and accumulation of osmolytes in the fluids of the ascus that lead to explosive discharge of the ascospores into the air.\n\nThe forcible discharge of single spores termed \"ballistospores\" involves formation of a small drop of water (Buller's drop), which upon contact with the spore leads to its projectile release with an initial acceleration of more than 10,000 g. Other fungi rely on alternative mechanisms for spore release, such as external mechanical forces, exemplified by puffballs. Attracting insects, such as flies, to fruiting structures, by virtue of their having lively colours and a putrid odour, for dispersal of fungal spores is yet another strategy, most prominently used by the stinkhorns.\n\nIn Common Smoothcap moss (\"Atrichum undulatum\"), the vibration of sporophyte has been shown to be an important mechanism for spore release.\n\nIn the case of spore-shedding vascular plants such as ferns, wind distribution of very light spores provides great capacity for dispersal. Also, spores are less subject to animal predation than seeds because they contain almost no food reserve; however they are more subject to fungal and bacterial predation. Their chief advantage is that, of all forms of progeny, spores require the least energy and materials to produce.\n\nIn the spikemoss \"Selaginella lepidophylla\", dispersal is achieved in part by an unusual type of diaspore, a tumbleweed.\n\n"}
{"id": "25816276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25816276", "title": "Sugarscape", "text": "Sugarscape\n\nSugarscape is a model for artificially intelligent agent-based social simulation following some or all rules presented by Joshua M. Epstein & Robert Axtell in their book \"Growing Artificial Societies\".\n\nFundaments of Sugarscape models can be traced back to the University of Maryland where economist Thomas Schelling presented his paper titled \"Models of Segregation\". Written in 1969, Schelling and the rest of the social environment modelling fraternity had their options limited by a lack of adequate computing power and an applicable programming mechanism to fully develop the potential of their model.\n\nJohn Conway's agent-based simulation \"Game of Life\" was enhanced and applied to Schelling's original idea by Joshua M. Epstein and Robert Axtell in their book \"Growing Artificial Societies\". To demonstrate their findings on the field of agent-based simulation, a model was created and distributed with their book on CD-ROM. The concept of this model has come to be known as \"the Sugarscape model\". Since then, the name \"Sugarscape\" has been used for agent-based models using rules similar to those defined by Epstein & Axtell.\n\nAll Sugarscape models include the agents (inhabitants), the environment (a two-dimensional grid) and the rules governing the interaction of the agents with each other and the environment.\n\nThe original model presented by J. Epstein & R. Axtell (considered as the first large scale agent model) is based on a 51x51 cell grid, where every cell can contain different amounts of sugar (or spice). In every step agents look around, find the closest cell filled with sugar, move and metabolize. They can leave pollution, die, reproduce, inherit sources, transfer information, trade or borrow sugar, generate immunity or transmit diseases - depending on the specific scenario and variables defined at the set-up of the model.\n\nSugar in simulation could be seen as a metaphor for resources in an artificial world through which the examiner can study the effects of social dynamics such as evolution, marital status and inheritance on populations.\n\nExact simulation of the original rules provided by J. Epstein & R. Axtell in their book can be problematic and it is not always possible to recreate the same results as those presented in \"Growing Artificial Societies\".\n\nThe Sugarscape model has had several implementations, some of which are available as open source software.\n\nAn original implementation was developed in Ascape, Java software suitable for agent-based social simulation. The Sugarscape model remains part of the built-in library of models distributed with Ascape.\n\nNetLogo has been used to build Sugarscape models. Three Sugarscape scenarios are included in the NetLogo Models Library: \"Immediate Growback\", \"Constant Growback\" and \"Wealth Distribution\". Besides these three scenarios lies Iain Weaver's Sugarscape NetLogo model, which is part of the User Community Models Library. \"It builds on Owen Densmore's NetLogo community model to encompass all rules discussed in \"Growing Artificial Societies\" with the exception of the combat rule (although trivial to include, it adds little value to the model).\" The model is equipped with rich documentation including instructions for successful replication of the original Sugarscape rules.\n\nDue to the emergent nature of agent-based models (ABMs), it is critical that the population sizes in the simulations match the population sizes of the dynamic systems being modelled. However, the performance of contemporary agent simulation frameworks has been inadequate to handle such large population sizes and parallel computing frameworks designed to run on computing clusters has been limited by available bandwidth. As computing power increases with Moore's law, the size and complexity of simulation frameworks can be expected to increase. The team of R. M. D’Souza, M. Lysenko and K Rahmani from Michigan Technological University used a Sugarscape model to demonstrate the power of Graphics processing units (GPU) in ABM simulations with over 50 updates per second with agent populations exceeding 2 millions.\n\nAnother implementation can be found written in Mathematica.\n\nGMU's MASON project, available under the Academic Free License, also includes an implementation of Sugarscape.\n\n"}
