{"id": "29860029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29860029", "title": "Archaeology of religion and ritual", "text": "Archaeology of religion and ritual\n\nThe archaeology of religion and ritual is a growing field of study within archaeology that applies ideas from religious studies, theory and methods, anthropological theory, and archaeological and historical methods and theories to the study of religion and ritual in past human societies from a material perspective.\n\nReligion may be defined as “a set of beliefs concerning the cause, nature, and purpose of the universe, especially when considered as the creation of a superhuman agency or agencies, usually involving devotional and ritual observances, and often containing a moral code governing the conduct of human affairs,” whereas ritual is “an established or prescribed procedure for a religious or other rite.” Archaeologists may study the material traces of religious ritual (for example, the ritual destruction of ceramic vessels during the Aztec New Fire ceremony ) or the material correlates of religion as a totalized worldview (for example, Elizabeth Kyder-Reid’s study of the Southern Redemptorists’ reconfiguration of landscape and artifacts to reflect their ideals of community and poverty in material form ).\n\nAs in religious studies and the Anthropology of religion, many archaeologists differentiate between “world religions,” and “traditional” or “indigenous religions.” “World religions” are defined by Bowie (2000: 26) as:\n\n\nwhile indigenous religions are defined as:\n\n\nHowever, Timothy Insoll (2004: 9) has argued that these categorizations arise from a much-critiqued neo-evolutionary perspective. Strict dichotomies of religious forms may also contribute to skewing research toward state religions, leaving household religious practice, and the relationships between these, under-investigated (a trend noted by Elson and Smith, 2001 ). Insoll (2004:9) argues that archaeologists may contribute to blurring the boundaries of world and indigenous religions.\n\nThe archaeology of religion also incorporates related anthropological or religious concepts and terms such as magic, tradition, symbolism, and the sacred.\n\nTheory within the archaeology of religion borrows heavily from the Anthropology of religion, which encompasses a broad range of perspectives. These include: Émile Durkheim’s functionalist understanding of religion as serving to separate the sacred and the profane; Karl Marx’s idea of religion as “the opium of the masses” or a false consciousness, Clifford Geertz’s loose definition of religion as a “system of symbols” that orders the world, Victor Turner’s work on ritual, including rites of passage and liminality, Max Weber’s religious types and thoughts on the relationship between economics and religion; Claude Lévi-Strauss’ structuralist understandings of totemism and myth; and Mary Douglas’ idea of the division of “purity and danger”.\n\nArchaeological studies of religion increasingly recognize religion as an organizing principle in social life, rather than as a separate sphere of activity. They include religion as an axis of identity that structures social life and personal experience. Therefore, entire artifact assemblages (rather than specifically “religious” artifacts, such as rosary beads) can be interpreted according to the ways that they simultaneously create, display, and constrain notions of self according to religious ideas. For example, John Chenoweth (2009) interpreted ceramic assemblages and burials according to Quaker ideals of plainness and modesty.\n\nBecause social identity is both imposed and negotiated through social practice, including material practice, archaeologies of religion increasingly incorporate practice-based theory. Building upon Anthony Giddens’ idea of structuration and Pierre Bourdieu’s ideas of both practice and cultural capital, theories of material practice posit that people use material goods to negotiate their places within social structures. Examples of the archaeological interpretation of religion and ritual as part of social negotiation, transformation or reinforcement include Chenoweth’s work on Quaker religious practice, Kyder-Reid’s work on the Southern Redemptorists, and Timothy Pauketat’s work on feasting in Cahokia (Pauketat et al., 2002 ).\n\nBecause religion and political power are often intertwined particularly in early states, the archaeology of religion may also engage theories of power and inequality. John Janusek’s study of Tiwanaku religion, for example, explored the ways that religion served to integrate societies within the Andean state. Colonial regimes frequently justified expansion through a commitment to religious conversion; archaeologies of coloniality may therefore intersect with the archaeology of religion. James Delle’s 2001 article on missions and landscape in Jamaica and Barbara Voss’ work on missions, sexuality and empire demonstrate how religion has intersected with colonial regimes.\n\nHistorical archaeologists have made major contributions to the understanding of the religion and ritual of peoples who have remained underrepresented (or misrepresented) in the historical record, such as colonized peoples, indigenous peoples, and enslaved peoples. Mandatory religious conversion was common in many colonial situations (e.g. the Spanish colonization of the Americas), which led to syncretic religious practice, rejection or resistance to new religions, covert practice of indigenous religions, and/or misunderstandings and misinterpretations of both indigenous and colonizer religions (Hanks 2010 Klor de Alva 1982, Wernke 2007).\n\nThis research combines archaeological and anthropological method and theory with historical method and theory. In addition to recovering, recording, and analyzing material culture, historical archaeologists use archives, oral histories, ethnohistorical accounts. Researchers read texts critically, emphasizing the historical context of the documents (especially regarding underrepresented peoples whose voices may be distorted or missing) in order to better understand religious practices that may have been discouraged or even severely punished. Combined archaeological, historical, and anthropological data sets may contradict each other, or the material record may illuminate the details of covert or syncretic religious practice, as well as resistance to dominant religious forms. For example, our understanding of the religious practice of enslaved peoples in the United States (e.g. Leone and Frye 2001, Fennell 2007 ) has increased dramatically thanks to research in historical archaeology.\n\nBecause archaeology studies human history through objects, buildings, bodies, and spaces, archaeologists must engage theories that connect anthropological and sociological theories of religion to material culture and landscapes. Theories of materiality and landscape serve to connect human activities, experiences, and behaviors to social practices, including religion. Theories of embodiment also serve to interpret human remains as they relate to religion and ritual.\n\nThe archaeology of religion makes use of the same material evidence as other branches of archaeology, but certain artifact classes are particularly emphasized in studying religion and ritual in the past:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nContemporary religious groups often claim archaeological sites as part of their heritage, and make use of archaeological sites and artifacts in their religious practice (e.g. Wallis 2003 ). These practices and religious interpretations of sites may clash with archaeological interpretations, leading to disputes about heritage, preservation, use of sites, and the “ownership” of history (Bender 1999 ).\n\nBiblical archaeology is a field of archaeology that seeks to correlate events in the Bible with concrete archaeological sites and artifacts (Meyers 1984, Richardson 1916).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2604638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2604638", "title": "Avunculate", "text": "Avunculate\n\nThe avunculate, sometimes called avunculism or avuncularism, is any social institution where a special relationship exists between an uncle and his sisters' children. This relationship can be formal or informal, depending on the society. Early anthropological research focused on the association between the avunculate and matrilineal descent, while later research has expanded to consider the avunculate in general society.\n\nThe term \"avunculate\" comes from the Latin \"avunculus,\" the maternal uncle.\n\nThe 1989 \"Oxford English Dictionary\" defines \"avunculate\" as follows:\n\nAn avunculocal society is one in which a married couple traditionally lives with the man's mother's eldest brother, which most often occurs in matrilineal societies. The anthropological term \"avunculocal residence\" refers to this convention, which has been identified in about 4% of the world's societies.\n\nThis pattern generally occurs when a man obtains his status, his job role, or his privileges from their nearest elder matrilineal male relative. When a woman's son lives near her brother, he is able to more easily learn how he needs to behave in the matrilineal role he has inherited.\n\nAccording to the Kazakh common law, the avunculate nephews could take anything from the relatives of the mother up to three times. In the Kyrgyz past a nephew, at a feast at his maternal uncle or grandfather, could take any horse from their herd or any delicacy.\n\nIn the Southwest United States, the Apache tribe practices a form of this, where the uncle is responsible for teaching the children social values and proper behavior while inheritance and ancestry is reckoned through the mother's family alone. Modern day influences have somewhat but not completely erased this tradition.\n\nThe Chamorros of the Mariana Islands and the Taíno of Turks and Caicos Islands are examples of societies that have practiced avunculocal residence.\n\nResearch on the avunculate in the early 20th century focused on the association between the avunculate and patrilineal/matrilineal societies. Franz Boas categorized various avunculate arrangements based on the location of residence in 1922. Henri Alexandre Juno made the claim that the avunculate in the Tsonga indicated that society had previously been matrilineal. Alfred Radcliffe-Brown identified the Tsonga (BaThonga) of Mozambique, the Tongans of the Pacific, and the Nama of Namibia as avunculate societies as early as 1924. He also expanded the concept to incorporate other family relationships.\n\nLater research moved beyond the issue of matrilinealism. Claude Lévi-Strauss incorporating the avunculate into his \"atom of kinship\". Jan N. Bremmer argued based on a survey of the Indo-European peoples that the avunculate is explained by the principle of education outside the (extended) family, and does not indicate matrilinealism.\n\nIn historical (not anthropological) terminology, an avunculate marriage is the marriage of a man with the daughter of his sister (not explicitly forbidden by the listings in Leviticus 18). In most cultures with avunculate customs in the sense used by anthropologists, such a marriage would violate incest taboos governing relations between members of the same matrilineal lineage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13404967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13404967", "title": "Bashkeer Aligmani", "text": "Bashkeer Aligmani\n\nBashkeer Alighmani literally means German Towel or more precisely German Hand Towel. It is usually a cotton cloth measuring about 30 cm by 90 cm with black background and very colorful flowery design. It is worn as a head cover for women of some towns in Hauran, specifically Ar Ramtha in North Jordan. \nIt is thought to have been brought back from Germany in the 1970s when many Ramthan used to import used Mercedes-Benz cars from Germany.\n"}
{"id": "2611479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2611479", "title": "Black and red ware culture", "text": "Black and red ware culture\n\nThe black and red ware culture (BRW) is a late Bronze Age Indian and early Iron Age Indian archaeological culture of the northern and central Indian subcontinent, associated with the Vedic civilization.\n\nIn the Western Ganges plain (western Uttar Pradesh) it is dated to c. 1450-1200 BCE, and is succeeded by the Painted Grey Ware culture; whereas in the Central and Eastern Ganges plain (eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Bengal) and Central India (Madhya Pradesh) the BRW appears during the same period but continues for longer, until c. 700-500 BCE, when it is succeeded by the Northern Black Polished Ware culture.\n\nIn the Western Ganges plain, the BRW was preceded by the Ochre Coloured Pottery culture. The BRW sites were characterized by subsistence agriculture (cultivation of rice, barley, and legumes), and yielded some ornaments made of shell, copper, carnelian, and terracotta.\n\nIn some sites, particularly in eastern Punjab and Gujarat, BRW pottery is associated with Late Harappan pottery, and according to some scholars like Tribhuan N. Roy, the BRW may have directly influenced the Painted Grey Ware and Northern Black Polished Ware cultures. BRW pottery is unknown west of the Indus Valley. \n\nUse of iron, although sparse at first, is relatively early, postdating the beginning of the Iron Age in Anatolia (Hittites) by only two or three centuries, and predating the European (Celts) Iron Age by another two to three hundred years. Recent findings in Northern India show Iron working in the 1800-1000 BCE period. According to Shaffer, the \"nature and context of the iron objects involved [of the BRW culture] are very different from early iron objects found in Southwest Asia.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54315587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54315587", "title": "Brexit in popular culture", "text": "Brexit in popular culture\n\nBrexit is the commonly used term for the United Kingdom's intended withdrawal from the European Union, which resulted from a referendum on 23 June 2016. This article details the mostly critical response to this decision in the visual art, novels, theatre, and film.\n\nThe British government led by David Cameron held a referendum on the issue in 2016; a majority voted to leave the European Union. On 29 March 2017, Theresa May's administration invoked Article 50 of the Treaty on the European Union in a letter to the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk. The UK is set to leave by March 2019.\n\nThe response of artists and writers to Brexit has tended to be negative, reflecting a reported overwhelming percentage of people involved in Britain's creative industries voting against leaving the European Union. The claim by one, the visual artist Bob and Roberta Smith, writing in \"The Guardian\" newspaper typifies this response:\n\nOther responses by visual artists to Brexit include a mural, painted in May 2017, by the secretive graffiti artist Banksy near the ferry port at Dover in southern England. It shows a workman using a chisel to chip off one of the stars on the European Union Flag.\n\nIn his 2017 art exhibition at the Serpentine Gallery in London, the artist Grayson Perry showed a series of ceramic, tapestry and other works of art dealing with the divisions in Britain during the Brexit campaign and in its aftermath. This included two large ceramic pots, Perry called his \"Brexit Vases,\" standing on plinths ten feet apart, on the first of which were scenes involving pro-European British citizens, and on the second scenes involving anti-European British citizens. These were derived from what Perry called his 'Brexit tour of Britain.'\n\nOne of the first novels to engage with a post-Brexit Britain was \"Rabbitman\" by Michael Paraskos (published 9 March 2017). \"Rabbitman\" is a dark comic fantasy in which the events that lead to the election of a right-wing populist American president, and Britain's vote to leave the European Union, were the result of a series of Faustian pacts with the Devil. As a result, \"Rabbitman\" is set partly in a post-Brexit Britain in which society has collapsed and people are dependent on European Union food aid. \n\nMark Billingham's \"Love Like Blood\" (published 1 June 2017) is a crime thriller in which Brexit sees a rise in xenophobic hate crime. Post-Brexit Britain is also the setting for Amanda Craig's \"The Lie of the Land\" (published 13 June 2017), a satirical novel set ten years after the vote to leave the European Union, in which an impoverished middle class couple from Islington in north London are forced to move from the heart of the pro-European Union capital to the heart of the pro-Brexit countryside in Devon. \n\nBrexit is also the baseline for Douglas Board's comic political thriller \"Time of Lies\" (published 23 June 2017). In this novel, the first post-Brexit general election in 2020 is won by a violent right-wing former football hooligan called Bob Grant. Board charts the response to this of the hitherto pro-European Union metropolitan political elite.\n\nStanley Johnson's \"Kompromat\" (published 23 July 2017) is a political thriller that suggests the vote to leave the European Union was a result of Russian influence on the referendum, although Johnson has insisted his book is not intended to point the finger at Russia's secret services, but is 'just meant to be fun.'\n\nIn theatre, in June 2017 the National Theatre in London presented a play by Carol Ann Duffy, entitled, \"My Country; a work in progress.\" An allegorical work, the play uses the device of a convention called by the goddess Britannia who is concerned about the future of the British people. The play differs from some artistic responses in that Duffy and the National Theatre-based the attitudes of the characters on stage in part on the responses to interviews, conducted by the regional offices of the UK Arts Councils, with ordinary people, but excluding responses from London and the south-east of England, where most people voted not to leave the European Union. As a result, according to Dominic Cavendish, writing in the \"Daily Telegraph\" newspaper, 'the bias is towards the Leave camp.'\n\nIn 2016, Martin Durkin made a documentary film called \"\" about that year's referendum on EU membership, arguing for a Leave vote. The film had a budget of £100,000, funded by crowdfunding.\n\nIn the football management simulation Football Manager 2017 and its successor Football Manager 2018 Brexit is an event within the game. There are multiple possible outcomes decided by chance reflecting both a Soft Brexit and a Hard Brexit. Consequences of a hard Brexit are, among others, EU football players needing working visa to play in English teams. \n"}
{"id": "54094680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54094680", "title": "Burg Schönburg", "text": "Burg Schönburg\n\nSchönburg Castle is in the municipality of Schönburg 4.5 kilometers east of Naumburg at the heart of Federal Republic of Germany in the State of Saxony-Anhalt. It has been proposed by Germany for inscription in the List of World Heritage. \n\nThe Late Romanesque ruins of Schönburg Castle are on top of a mottled sandstone cliff by the Saale River, which is 40 metres high and declines sharply in the west. The castle was built with the local mottled sandstone.\n\nThe castle on top of the southern slopes of the Saale was erected as the most important castle in the 12th century on commission by the bishops of Naumburg. The bishops owned several castles within their territory to secure their assets. From 1158 at the latest, a free noble family that owned property around Naumburg named itself after the castle. It was first documented in 1137. Schönburg has been preserved to this day and is an example from the time of classical castle construction.\n\nAll the walls, gates and parts of the Palas have retained their original substance from the High Middle Ages, as have parts of the interior like visible chimneys dated to 1220 and decorated windows. The architecture and decorations found here correspond to other monuments in the World Heritage nomination. \n\nSchönburg Castle is one of the eleven components of the cultural landscape “Naumburg Cathedral and the High Medieval Cultural Landscape of the Rivers Saale and Unstrut”. As a landmark the castle is an important part of the lines of sight connecting the cultural landscape as a whole. \nThe World Heritage nomination is representative for the processes that shaped the continent during the High Middle Ages between 1000 and 1300: Christianization, the so-called “Landesausbau” and the dynamics of cultural exchange and transfer characteristic for this very period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "197055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197055", "title": "Catharsis", "text": "Catharsis\n\nCatharsis (from Greek meaning \"purification\" or \"cleansing\") is the purification and purgation of emotions—particularly pity and fear—through art or any extreme change in emotion that results in renewal and restoration. It is a metaphor originally used by Aristotle in the \"Poetics,\" comparing the effects of tragedy on the mind of a spectator to the effect of a cathartic on the body.\n\nCatharsis is a term in dramatic art that describes the effect of tragedy (or comedy and quite possibly other artistic forms) principally on the audience (although some have speculated on characters in the drama as well). Nowhere does Aristotle explain the meaning of \"catharsis\" as he is using that term in the definition of tragedy in the \"Poetics\" (1449b21-28). G. F. Else argues that traditional, widely held interpretations of catharsis as \"purification\" or \"purgation\" have no basis in the text of the \"Poetics\", but are derived from the use of catharsis in other Aristotelian and non-Aristotelian contexts. For this reason, a number of diverse interpretations of the meaning of this term have arisen. The term is often discussed along with Aristotle's concept of anagnorisis.\n\nD. W. Lucas, in an authoritative edition of the \"Poetics\", comprehensively covers the various nuances inherent in the meaning of the term in an Appendix devoted to \"Pity, Fear, and Katharsis\". Lucas recognizes the possibility of catharsis bearing some aspect of the meaning of \"purification, purgation, and 'intellectual clarification'\" although his discussion of these terms is not always, or perhaps often, in the precise form with which other influential scholars have treated them. Lucas himself does not accept any one of these interpretations as his own but adopts a rather different one based on \"the Greek doctrine of Humours\" which has not received wide subsequent acceptance. Purgation and purification, used in previous centuries, as the common interpretations of catharsis are still in wide use today. More recently, in the twentieth century, the interpretation of catharsis as \"intellectual clarification\" has arisen as a rival to the older views in describing the effect of catharsis on members of the audience.\n\nIn his works prior to the \"Poetics,\" Aristotle had used the term \"catharsis\" purely in its medical sense (usually referring to the evacuation of the \"katamenia\"—the menstrual fluid or other reproductive material). Here, however, he employs it as a medical metaphor.\nF. L. Lucas maintains, therefore, that \"purification\" and \"cleansing\" are not proper translations for \"catharsis\"; that it should rather be rendered as \"purgation\". \"It is the human soul that is purged of its excessive passions.\" Gerald F. Else made the following argument against the \"purgation\" theory: \"It presupposes that we come to the tragic drama (unconsciously, if you will) as patients to be cured, relieved, restored to psychic health. But there is not a word to support this in the \"Poetics\", not a hint that the end of drama is to cure or alleviate pathological states. On the contrary it is evident in every line of the work that Aristotle is presupposing 'normal' auditors, normal states of mind and feeling, normal emotional and aesthetic experience.\"\n\nLessing sidesteps the medical attribution. He translates \"catharsis\" as a purification, an experience that brings pity and fear into their proper balance: \"In real life\", he explained, \"men are sometimes too much addicted to pity or fear, sometimes too little; tragedy brings them back to a virtuous and happy mean.\"\nTragedy is then a corrective; through watching tragedy, the audience learns how to feel these emotions at proper levels.\n\nIn the twentieth century a paradigm shift took place in the interpretation of catharsis with a number of scholars contributing to the argument in support of the intellectual clarification concept. The clarification theory of catharsis would be fully consistent, as other interpretations are not, with Aristotle's argument in chapter 4 of the \"Poetics\" (1448b4-17) that the essential pleasure of mimesis is the intellectual pleasure of \"learning and inference\".\n\nIt is generally understood that Aristotle's theory of mimesis and catharsis are responses to Plato's negative view of artistic mimesis on an audience. Plato argued that the most common forms of artistic mimesis were designed to evoke from an audience powerful emotions such as pity, fear, and ridicule which override the rational control that defines the highest level of our humanity and lead us to wallow unacceptably in the overindulgence of emotion and passion. Aristotle's concept of catharsis, in all of the major senses attributed to it, contradicts Plato's view by providing a mechanism that generates the rational control of irrational emotions. All of the commonly held interpretations of catharsis, purgation, purification, and clarification are considered by most scholars to represent a homeopathic process in which pity and fear accomplish the catharsis of emotions like themselves. For an alternate view of catharsis as an allopathic process in which pity and fear produce a catharsis of emotions unlike pity and fear, see E. Belfiore, \"Tragic Pleasures: Aristotle on Plot and Emotion.\" Princeton, 1992, 260 ff.\n\nThe following analysis by E. R. Dodds, directed at the character of Oedipus in the paradigmatic Aristotelian tragedy, \"Oedipus Rex,\" incorporates all three of the aforementioned interpretations of catharsis: purgation, purification, intellectual clarification:\n\nThere have been, for political or aesthetic reasons, deliberate attempts made to subvert the effect of catharsis in theatre.\nFor example, Bertolt Brecht viewed catharsis as a pap (pabulum) for the bourgeois theatre audience, and designed dramas which left significant emotions unresolved, intending to force social action upon the audience. Brecht then identified the concept of catharsis with the notion of identification of the spectator, meaning a complete adhesion of the viewer to the dramatic actions and characters. Brecht reasoned that the absence of a cathartic resolution would require the audience to take political action in the real world, in order to fill the emotional gap they had experienced vicariously. This technique can be seen as early as his agit-prop play \"The Measures Taken,\" and is mostly the source of his invention of an \"epic theatre\", based on a distancing effect (Verfremdungseffekt) between the viewer and the representation or portrayal of characters. \n\nCatharsis before the sixth-century rise of tragedy is, for the Western World, essentially a historical footnote to the Aristotelian conception. The practice of purification had not yet appeared in Homer, as later Greek commentators noted: the \"Aithiopis\", an epic set in the Trojan War cycle, narrates the purification of Achilles after his murder of Thersites. Catharsis describes the result of measures taken to cleanse away blood-guilt—\"blood is purified through blood\", a process in the development of Hellenistic culture in which the oracle of Delphi took a prominent role. The classic example—Orestes—belongs to tragedy, but the procedure given by Aeschylus is ancient: the blood of a sacrificed piglet is allowed to wash over the blood-polluted man, and running water washes away the blood. The identical ritual is represented, Burkert informs us, on a \"krater\" found at Canicattini, wherein it is shown being employed to cure the daughters of Proetus from their madness, caused by some ritual transgression. To the question of whether the ritual obtains atonement for the subject, or just healing, Burkert answers: \"To raise the question is to see the irrelevance of this distinction\".\n\nIn psychology, the term was first employed by Sigmund Freud's colleague Josef Breuer (1842–1925), who developed a cathartic method of treatment using hypnosis for persons suffering from intensive hysteria. While under hypnosis, Breuer's patients were able to recall traumatic experiences, and through the process of expressing the original emotions that had been repressed and forgotten, they were relieved of their hysteric symptoms. Catharsis was also central to Freud's concept of psychoanalysis, but he replaced hypnosis with free association.\n\nThe term \"catharsis\" has also been adopted by modern psychotherapy, particularly Freudian psychoanalysis, to describe the act of expressing, or more accurately, \"experiencing\" the deep emotions often associated with events in the individual's past which had originally been repressed or ignored, and had never been adequately addressed or experienced.\n\nThere has been much debate about the use of catharsis in the reduction of anger. Some scholars believe that \"blowing off steam\" may reduce physiological stress in the short term, but this reduction may act as a reward mechanism, reinforcing the behavior and promoting future outbursts. However, other studies have suggested that using violent media may decrease hostility under periods of stress. Legal scholars have linked \"catharsis\" to \"closure\" (an individual's desire for a firm answer to a question and an aversion toward ambiguity) and \"satisfaction\" which can be applied to affective strategies as diverse as retribution, on one hand, and forgiveness on the other. There's no \"one size fits all\" definition of \"catharsis\", therefore this does not allow a clear definition of its use in therapeutic terms.\n\nEmotional situations can elicit physiological, behavioral, cognitive, expressive, and subjective changes in individuals. Affected individuals often use social sharing as a cathartic release of emotions. Bernard Rimé studies the patterns of social sharing after emotional experiences. His works suggest that individuals seek social outlets in an attempt to modify the situation and restore personal homeostatic balance.\n\nRimé found that 80–95% of emotional episodes are shared. The affected individuals talk about the emotional experience recurrently to people around them throughout the following hours, days, or weeks. These results indicate that this response is irrespective of emotional valence, gender, education, and culture. His studies also found that social sharing of emotion increases as the intensity of the emotion increases.\n\nÉmile Durkheim proposed emotional stages of social sharing:\n\nAffect scientists have found differences in motives for social sharing of positive and negative emotions.\n\n(1) Positive emotion\n\nA study by Langston found that individuals share positive events to capitalize on the positive emotions they elicit. Reminiscing the positive experience augments positive affects like temporary mood and longer-term well-being. A study by Gable et al. confirmed Langston's \"capitalization\" theory by demonstrating that relationship quality is enhanced when partners are responsive to positive recollections. The responsiveness increased levels of intimacy and satisfaction within the relationship. In general, the motives behind social sharing of positive events are to recall the positive emotions, inform others, and gain attention from others. All three motives are representatives of capitalization.\n\n(2) Negative emotion\n\nRimé studies suggest that the motives behind social sharing of negative emotions are to vent, understand, bond, and gain social support. Negatively affected individuals often seek life meaning and emotional support to combat feelings of loneliness after a tragic event.\n\nIf emotions are shared socially and elicits emotion in the listener then the listener will likely share what they heard with other people. Rimé calls this process \"secondary social sharing\". If this repeats, it is then called \"tertiary social sharing\".\n\nCollective emotional events share similar responses. When communities are affected by an emotional event, members repetitively share emotional experiences. After the 2001 New York and the 2004 Madrid terrorist attacks, more than 80% of respondents shared their emotional experience with others. According to Rimé, every sharing round elicits emotional reactivation in the sender and the receiver. This then reactivates the need to share in both. Social sharing throughout the community leads to high amounts of emotional recollection and \"emotional overheating\".\n\nPennebaker and Harber defined three stages of collective responses to emotional events.\n\nIn the first stage, a state of \"emergency\" takes place in the first month after the emotional event. In this stage, there is an abundance of thoughts, talks, media coverage, and social integration based on the event.\n\nIn the second stage, the \"plateau\" occurs in the second month. Abundant thoughts remain, but the amount of talks, media coverage, and social integration decreases.\n\nIn the third stage, the \"extinction\" occurs after the second month. There is a return to normalcy.\n\nThis cathartic release of emotions is often believed to be therapeutic for affected individuals. Many therapeutic mechanisms have been seen to aid in emotional recovery. One example is \"interpersonal emotion regulation\", in which listeners help to modify the affected individual's affective state by using certain strategies. Expressive writing is another common mechanism for catharsis. Joanne Frattaroli published a meta-analysis suggesting that written disclosure of information, thoughts, and feelings enhances mental health.\n\nHowever, other studies question the benefits of social catharsis. Finkenauer and colleagues found that non-shared memories were no more emotionally triggering than shared ones. Other studies have also failed to prove that social catharsis leads to any degree of emotional recovery. Zech and Rimé asked participants to recall and share a negative experience with an experimenter. When compared with the control group that only discussed unemotional topics, there was no correlation between emotional sharing and emotional recovery.\n\nSome studies even found adverse effects of social catharsis. Contrary to the Frattaroli study, Sbarra and colleagues found expressive writing to greatly impede emotional recovery following a marital separation. Similar findings have been published regarding trauma recovery. A group intervention technique is often used on disaster victims to prevent trauma-related disorders. However, meta-analysis showed negative effects of this cathartic \"therapy\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38180", "title": "Clothing", "text": "Clothing\n\nClothing (also known as clothes, apparel and attire) is a collective term for items worn on the body. Clothing can be made of textiles, animal skin, or other thin sheets of materials put together. The wearing of clothing is mostly restricted to human beings and is a feature of all human societies. The amount and type of clothing worn depend on body type, social, and geographic considerations. Some clothing can be gender-specific.\n\nPhysically, clothing serves many purposes: it can serve as protection from the elements and can enhance safety during hazardous activities such as hiking and cooking. It protects the wearer from rough surfaces, rash-causing plants, insect bites, splinters, thorns and prickles by providing a barrier between the skin and the environment. Clothes can insulate against cold or hot conditions, and they can provide a hygienic barrier, keeping infectious and toxic materials away from the body. Clothing also provides protection from ultraviolet radiation.\n\nWearing clothes is also a social norm, and being deprived of clothing in front of others may be embarrassing, or not wearing clothes in public such that genitals, breasts or buttocks are visible could be seen as indecent exposure.\n\nThere is no easy way to determine when clothing was first developed, but some information has been inferred by studying lice which estimates the introduction of clothing at roughly 42,000–72,000 years ago.\n\nThe most obvious function of clothing is to improve the comfort of the wearer, by protecting the wearer from the elements. In hot climates, clothing provides protection from sunburn or wind damage, while in cold climates its thermal insulation properties are generally more important. Shelter usually reduces the functional need for clothing. For example, coats, hats, gloves and other outer layers are normally removed when entering a warm home, particularly if one is living or sleeping there. Similarly, clothing has seasonal and regional aspects, so that thinner materials and fewer layers of clothing are generally worn in warmer regions and seasons than in colder ones.\n\nClothing performs a range of social and cultural functions, such as individual, occupational and gender differentiation, and social status. In many societies, norms about clothing reflect standards of modesty, religion, gender, and social status. Clothing may also function as a form of adornment and an expression of personal taste or style.\n\nClothing can be and has in the past been made from a very wide variety of materials. Materials have ranged from leather and furs to woven materials, to elaborate and exotic natural and synthetic fabrics. Not all body coverings are regarded as clothing. Articles carried rather than worn (such as purses), worn on a single part of the body and easily removed (scarves), worn purely for adornment (jewelry), or those that serve a function other than protection (eyeglasses), are normally considered accessories rather than clothing, except for shoes.\n\nClothing protects against many things that might injure the uncovered human body. Clothes protect people from the elements, including rain, snow, wind, and other weather, as well as from the sun. However, clothing that is too sheer, thin, small, tight, etc., offers less protection. Appropriate clothes can also reduce risk during activities such as work or sport. Some clothing protects from specific hazards, such as insects, noxious chemicals, weather, weapons, and contact with abrasive substances. Conversely, clothing may protect the environment from the clothing wearer: for instance doctors wear medical scrubs.\n\nHumans have been ingenious in devising clothing solutions to environmental or other hazards: such as space suits, air conditioned clothing, armor, diving suits, swimsuits, bee-keeper gear, motorcycle leathers, high-visibility clothing, and other pieces of protective clothing. Meanwhile, the distinction between clothing and protective equipment is not always clear-cut, since clothes designed to be fashionable often have protective value and clothes designed for function often consider fashion in their design. The choice of clothes also has social implications. They cover parts of the body that social norms require to be covered, act as a form of adornment, and serve other social purposes. Someone who lacks the means to procure reasonable clothing due to poverty or affordability, or simply lack of inclination, is sometimes said to be scruffy, ragged, or shabby.\n\nAlthough dissertations on clothing and its functions appear from the 19th century as colonists dealt with new environments, there was concerted scientific research into psycho-social, physiological and other functions of clothing (e.g. protective, cartage) in the first half of the 20th century, with publications such as J.C. Flügel's \"Psychology of Clothes\" in 1930, and Newburgh's seminal \"Physiology of Heat Regulation and The Science of Clothing\" in 1949. By 1968, the field of environmental physiology had advanced and expanded significantly, but the science of clothing in relation to environmental physiology had changed little. There has since been considerable research, and the knowledge base has grown significantly, but the main concepts remain unchanged, and indeed Newburgh's book is still cited by contemporary authors, including those attempting to develop thermoregulatory models of clothing development.\n\nIn most cultures, gender differentiation of clothing is considered appropriate. The differences are in styles, colors, and fabrics.\n\nIn Western societies, skirts, dresses and high-heeled shoes are usually seen as women's clothing, while neckties are usually seen as men's clothing. Trousers were once seen as exclusively male clothing, but can nowadays be worn by both genders. Male clothes are often more practical (that is, they can function well under a wide variety of situations), but a wider range of clothing styles are available for females. Males are typically allowed to bare their chests in a greater variety of public places. It is generally acceptable for a woman to wear clothing perceived as masculine, while the opposite is seen as unusual.\n\nIn some cultures, sumptuary laws regulate what men and women are required to wear. Islam requires women to wear more modest forms of attire, usually hijab. What qualifies as \"modest\" varies in different Muslim societies. However, women are usually required to cover more of their bodies than men are. Articles of clothing Muslim women wear for modesty range from the head-scarf to the burqa.\n\nMen may sometimes choose to wear men's skirts such as togas or kilts in particular cultures, especially on ceremonial occasions. Such garments were (in previous times) often worn as normal daily clothing by men.\n\nClothing designed to be worn by either sex is called unisex clothing. Unisex clothes, such as T-shirts, tend to be cut straighter to fit a wider variety of bodies. The majority of unisex clothing styles have started out as menswear, but some articles, like the fedora, were originally worn by women.\n\nIn some societies, clothing may be used to indicate rank or status. In ancient Rome, for example, only senators could wear garments dyed with Tyrian purple. In traditional Hawaiian society, only high-ranking chiefs could wear feather cloaks and palaoa, or carved whale teeth. In China, before establishment of the republic, only the emperor could wear yellow. History provides many examples of elaborate sumptuary laws that regulated what people could wear. In societies without such laws, which includes most modern societies, social status is instead signaled by the purchase of rare or luxury items that are limited by cost to those with wealth or status. In addition, peer pressure influences clothing choice.\n\nSome religious clothing might be considered a special case of occupational clothing. Sometimes it is worn only during the performance of religious ceremonies. However, it may also be worn every day as a marker for special religious status.\n\nFor example, Jains and Muslim men wear unstitched cloth pieces when performing religious ceremonies. The unstitched cloth signifies unified and complete devotion to the task at hand, with no digression. Sikhs wear a turban as it is a part of their religion.\n\nThe cleanliness of religious dresses in Eastern religions like Hinduism, Sikhism, Buddhism, Islam and Jainism is of paramount importance since it indicates purity.\n\nClothing appears in numerous contexts in the Bible; the most prominent passages are: the story of Adam and Eve who made coverings for themselves out of fig leaves, Joseph's cloak, Judah and Tamar, Mordecai and Esther. Furthermore, the priests officiating in the Temple in Jerusalem had very specific garments, the lack of which made one liable to death.\n\nThe Quran says about husbands and wives, regarding clothing: \"...They are clothing/covering (Libaas) for you; and you for them\" (chapter 2:187).\n\nJewish ritual also requires rending of one's upper garment as a sign of mourning. This practice is found in the Bible when Jacob hears of the apparent death of his son Joseph.\n\nAccording to archaeologists and anthropologists, the earliest clothing likely consisted of fur, leather, leaves, or grass that were draped, wrapped, or tied around the body. Knowledge of such clothing remains inferential, since clothing materials deteriorate quickly compared to stone, bone, shell and metal artifacts. Archeologists have identified very early sewing needles of bone and ivory from about 30,000 BC, found near Kostenki, Russia in 1988. Dyed flax fibers that could have been used in clothing have been found in a prehistoric cave in the Republic of Georgia that date back to 34,000 BC.\n\nScientists are still debating when people started wearing clothes. Ralf Kittler, Manfred Kayser and Mark Stoneking, anthropologists at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, have conducted a genetic analysis of human body lice that suggests clothing originated around 170,000 years ago. Body lice are an indicator of clothes-wearing, since most humans have sparse body hair, and lice thus require human clothing to survive. Their research suggests that the invention of clothing may have coincided with the northward migration of modern \"Homo sapiens\" away from the warm climate of Africa, thought to have begun between 50,000 and 100,000 years ago. However, a second group of researchers using similar genetic methods estimate that clothing originated around 540,000 years ago. For now, the date of the origin of clothing remains unresolved.\n\nSome human cultures, such as the various peoples of the Arctic Circle, traditionally make their clothing entirely of prepared and decorated furs and skins. Other cultures supplemented or replaced leather and skins with cloth: woven, knitted, or twined from various animal and vegetable fibers including wool, linen, cotton, silk, hemp, and ramie.\n\nAlthough modern consumers may take the production of clothing for granted, making fabric by hand is a tedious and labor-intensive process involving fiber making, spinning, and weaving. The textile industry was the first to be mechanized – with the powered loom – during the Industrial Revolution.\n\nDifferent cultures have evolved various ways of creating clothes out of cloth. One approach simply involves draping the cloth. Many people wore, and still wear, garments consisting of rectangles of cloth wrapped to fit – for example, the dhoti for men and the sari for women in the Indian subcontinent, the Scottish kilt and the Javanese sarong. The clothes may simply be tied up (dhoti and sari); or pins or belts hold the garments in place (kilt and sarong). The cloth remains uncut, and people of various sizes can wear the garment.\n\nAnother approach involves measuring, cutting, and sewing the cloth by hand or with a sewing machine. Clothing can be cut from a sewing pattern and adjusted by a tailor to the wearer's measurements. An adjustable sewing mannequin or dress form is used to create form-fitting clothing. If the fabric is expensive, the tailor tries to use every bit of the cloth rectangle in constructing the clothing; perhaps cutting triangular pieces from one corner of the cloth, and adding them elsewhere as gussets. Traditional European patterns for men's shirts and women's chemises take this approach. These remnants can also be reused to make patchwork hats, vests, and skirts.\n\nModern European fashion treats cloth much less conservatively, typically cutting in such a way as to leave various odd-shaped cloth remnants. Industrial sewing operations sell these as waste; home sewers may turn them into quilts.\n\nIn the thousands of years that humans have been making clothing, they have created an astonishing array of styles, many of which have been reconstructed from surviving garments, photos, paintings, mosaics, etc., as well as from written descriptions. Costume history can inspire current fashion designers, as well as costumiers for plays, films, television, and historical reenactment.\n\nThe Western dress code has changed over the past 500+ years. The mechanization of the textile industry made many varieties of cloth widely available at affordable prices. Styles have changed, and the availability of synthetic fabrics has changed the definition of \"stylish\". In the latter half of the 20th century, blue jeans became very popular, and are now worn to events that normally demand formal attire. Activewear has also become a large and growing market.\n\nJeans in the Western dress code are worn by both men and women. There are several unique styles of jeans found which include: high rise jeans, mid rise jeans, low rise jeans, bootcut jeans, straight jeans, cropped jeans, skinny jeans, cuffed jeans, boyfriend jeans, and capri jeans.\n\nThe licensing of designer names was pioneered by designers like Pierre Cardin in the 1960s and has been a common practice within the fashion industry from about the 1970s. Among the more popular include Marc Jacobs and Gucci, named for Marc Jacobs and Guccio Gucci respectively.\n\nBy the early years of the 21st century, western clothing styles had, to some extent, become international styles. This process began hundreds of years earlier, during the periods of European colonialism. The process of cultural dissemination has perpetuated over the centuries as Western media corporations have penetrated markets throughout the world, spreading Western culture and styles. Fast fashion clothing has also become a global phenomenon. These garments are less expensive, mass-produced Western clothing. Donated used clothing from Western countries are also delivered to people in poor countries by charity organizations.\n\nPeople may wear ethnic or national dress on special occasions or in certain roles or occupations. For example, most Korean men and women have adopted Western-style dress for daily wear, but still wear traditional hanboks on special occasions, like weddings and cultural holidays. Items of Western dress may also appear worn or accessorized in distinctive, non-Western ways. A Tongan man may combine a used T-shirt with a Tongan wrapped skirt, or tupenu.\n\nMost sports and physical activities are practiced wearing special clothing, for practical, comfort or safety reasons. Common sportswear garments include shorts, T-shirts, tennis shirts, leotards, tracksuits, and trainers. Specialized garments include wet suits (for swimming, diving or surfing), salopettes (for skiing) and leotards (for gymnastics). Also, spandex materials are often used as base layers to soak up sweat. Spandex is also preferable for active sports that require form fitting garments, such as volleyball, wrestling, track & field, dance, gymnastics and swimming.\n\nParis set the fashion trends for Europe and North America 1900–1940. In the 1920s the goal was all about getting loose. Women wore dresses all day, everyday. Day dresses had a drop waist, which was a sash or belt around the low waist or hip and a skirt that hung anywhere from the ankle on up to the knee, never above. Daywear had sleeves(long to mid-bicep) and a skirt that was straight, pleaded, hank hem, or tired. Jewelry was less conspicuous. Hair was often bobbed, giving a boyish look.\n\nIn the 21st century a diverse range of styles exist in fashion, varying by geography, exposure to modern media, economic conditions, and ranging from expensive haute couture to traditional garb, to thrift store grunge. Fashion shows are events for designers to show off new and often extravagant designs.\n\nAlthough mechanization transformed most aspects of human industry by the mid-20th century, garment workers have continued to labor under challenging conditions that demand repetitive manual labor. Mass-produced clothing is often made in what are considered by some to be sweatshops, typified by long work hours, lack of benefits, and lack of worker representation. While most examples of such conditions are found in developing countries, clothes made in industrialized nations may also be manufactured similarly.\n\nCoalitions of NGOs, designers (including Katharine Hamnett, American Apparel, Veja, Quiksilver, eVocal, and Edun) and campaign groups like the Clean Clothes Campaign (CCC) and the Institute for Global Labour and Human Rights as well as textile and clothing trade unions have sought to improve these conditions as much as possible by sponsoring awareness-raising events, which draw the attention of both the media and the general public to the workers.\n\nOutsourcing production to low wage countries like Bangladesh, China, India and Sri Lanka became possible when the Multi Fibre Agreement (MFA) was abolished. The MFA, which placed quotas on textiles imports, was deemed a protectionist measure. Although many countries recognize treaties like the International Labour Organization, which attempt to set standards for worker safety and rights, many countries have made exceptions to certain parts of the treaties or failed to thoroughly enforce them. India for example has not ratified sections 87 and 92 of the treaty.\n\nDespite the strong reactions that \"sweatshops\" evoked among critics of globalization, the production of textiles has functioned as a consistent industry for developing nations providing work and wages, whether construed as exploitative or not, to many thousands of people.\n\nThe use of animal fur in clothing dates to prehistoric times. It is currently associated in developed countries with expensive, designer clothing, although fur is still used by indigenous people in arctic zones and higher elevations for its warmth and protection. Once uncontroversial, it has recently been the focus of campaigns on the grounds that campaigners consider it cruel and unnecessary. PETA, along with other animal rights and animal liberation groups have called attention to fur farming and other practices they consider cruel.\n\nClothing suffers assault both from within and without. The human body sheds skin cells and body oils, and exudes sweat, urine, and feces. From the outside, sun damage, moisture, abrasion, and dirt assault garments. Fleas and lice can hide in seams. Worn clothing, if not cleaned and refurbished, itches, becomes outworn, and loses functionality (as when buttons fall off, seams come undone, fabrics thin or tear, and zippers fail).\n\nOften, people wear an item of clothing until it falls apart. Some materials present problems. Cleaning leather is difficult, and bark cloth (tapa) cannot be washed without dissolving it. Owners may patch tears and rips, and brush off surface dirt, but materials like these inevitably age.\n\nHowever, most clothing consists of cloth, and most cloth can be laundered and mended (patching, darning, but compare felt).\n\nHumans have developed many specialized methods for laundering, ranging from early methods of pounding clothes against rocks in running streams, to the latest in electronic washing machines and dry cleaning (dissolving dirt in solvents other than water). Hot water washing (boiling), chemical cleaning and ironing are all traditional methods of sterilizing fabrics for hygiene purposes.\n\nMany kinds of clothing are designed to be ironed before they are worn to remove wrinkles. Most modern formal and semi-formal clothing is in this category (for example, dress shirts and suits). Ironed clothes are believed to look clean, fresh, and neat. Much contemporary casual clothing is made of knit materials that do not readily wrinkle, and do not require ironing. Some clothing is permanent press, having been treated with a coating (such as polytetrafluoroethylene) that suppresses wrinkles and creates a smooth appearance without ironing.\n\nOnce clothes have been laundered and possibly ironed, they are usually hung on clothes hangers or folded, to keep them fresh until they are worn. Clothes are folded to allow them to be stored compactly, to prevent creasing, to preserve creases or to present them in a more pleasing manner, for instance when they are put on sale in stores.\n\nA resin used for making non-wrinkle shirts releases formaldehyde, which could cause contact dermatitis for some people; no disclosure requirements exist, and in 2008 the U.S. Government Accountability Office tested formaldehyde in clothing and found that generally the highest levels were in non-wrinkle shirts and pants. In 1999, a study of the effect of washing on the formaldehyde levels found that after 6 months after washing, 7 of 27 shirts had levels in excess of 75 ppm, which is a safe limit for direct skin exposure.\n\nWhen the raw material – cloth – was worth more than labor, it made sense to expend labor in saving it. In past times, mending was an art. A meticulous tailor or seamstress could mend rips with thread raveled from hems and seam edges so skillfully that the tear was practically invisible. Today clothing is considered a consumable item. Mass-manufactured clothing is less expensive than the labor required to repair it. Many people buy a new piece of clothing rather than spend time mending. The thrifty still replace zippers and buttons and sew up ripped hems.\n\nUsed, unwearable clothing can be repurposed for quilts, rags, rugs, bandages, and many other household uses. It can also be recycled into paper. In Western societies, used clothing is often thrown out or donated to charity (such as through a clothing bin). It is also sold to consignment shops, dress agencies, flea markets, and in online auctions. Used clothing is also often collected on an industrial scale to be sorted and shipped for re-use in poorer countries. Globally, used clothes are worth $4 billion with the US as the leading exporter at $575 million.\n\nThere are many concerns about the life cycle of synthetics, which come primarily from petrochemicals. Unlike natural fibers, their source is not renewable and they are not biodegradable.\n\nExcess inventory of clothing is sometimes destroyed to preserve brand value.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38440777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38440777", "title": "Committee for Safety of Foreign Exchange Students", "text": "Committee for Safety of Foreign Exchange Students\n\nThe Committee for Safety of Foreign Exchange Students (CSFES) is a non-profit organization which Danielle Grijalva started in the United States of America in 2004. This committee was created to protect foreign children who could be abused both physically and mentally if not put into a safe home.\n\nGrijalva had worked as an area representative for CCI (Center for Cultural Interchange), a foreign-exchange program for student that is based in Illinois. As an area representative she had the task of ensuring the safe placement of exchange students travelling to the United States. As she gained experience as a representative, Ms. Grijalva learned that not all exchange students were placed with safe host-families.\n\nIn 2004, Danielle Grijalva resigned from CCI in protest when she found that another coordinator in the same agency had knowingly placed two boys from non-English speaking backgrounds in the home of a pederast who immediately began to groom them with gay pornography (which constitutes a crime in California), to provide them alcohol (which is against the law), and to deprive them of bathroom privacy. This was the eighth time that this man had been allowed to host boys.\n\nGrijalva was appalled when she found that her agency was totally disinterested in what had happened to the boys, but threatened her with a lawsuit if she continued her concerns. The agency then concocted the allegations that the boys were expelled from high school for downloading pornography from their host father's computer. The school principal contacted the Police Department and local Child Protective Services. Police, not the agency, removed the boys from the home. Their report claimed that when the officer went to the door, the man who answered stood there with his pants around his legs.\n\nWhen she expressed concerns about future students being placed in this man's home, the manager allegedly said, \"Now, Danielle, we cannot discriminate against homosexuality. Back off!\"\n\nThe president of the agency interfered with law enforcement stating that the boys concocted the allegations; because, they were accustomed to having a swimming pool in their back yard and wanted to be placed in a house that had one. The manager refused to change the placement and, hearing their allegations, notified police that the boys had attempted to steal from their host when they were caught looking for their passports and return tickets to go home. They, in common with most others in this situation, were instructed to sign a statement that the breakdown of the placement was due entirely to their own bad behavior, and they were told that they would be denied future access to the US if they refused to sign. This is sheer bullying; because, agencies do not have the power to prevent return visits. However, the boys did not know that they were being blackmailed and they signed. This of course prevents them from suing their abusers and the agencies.\n\nWhen in Grijalva wrote to inform the German agencies responsible for sending the boys to the US, she received an aggressive response. When she persisted and wrote again, she received a one-sentence reply: \"When we told you we didn't wish to hear from you, we meant it.\"\n\nGrijalva received so many complaints from parents and students that she set up a website which has attracted more and more horror stories. She established the International Committee for Safety of Foreign Exchange Students (CSFES), enlisting the support of others who were aware of the problems. CSFES became a registered charity in 2007, by which time its filing cabinets were full of complaints from parents along with newspaper reports of exchange students raped, molested, and exposed to every type of extortion. CSFES has no power other than its ability to support parents and students, to publicise the actions of unscrupulous agencies using media, to lobby politicians and to lodge complaints with government and exchange agency officials who invariably blame students.\n\nCSFES maintains that every exchange student deserves a safe exchange experience. To ensure this, Ms. Grijalva tries to educate various government agencies, the exchange organizations themselves and potential host-families.\n\nUnfortunately, not all exchange students end up in safe host-families. CSFES then steps in and acts as an advocate for exchange students in the US. Due to the efforts of CSFES, many exchange students who have felt alone in difficult circumstances have been able to achieve their goal of a good experience.\n\nSince the beginning, Ms. Grijalva has gained the attention of the US media.\n\nNot everyone has been happy about this attention. Exchange organizations have filed lawsuits against CSFES because of its work.\nMedia in non-US countries have contacted CSFES to get their take on the way the exchange industry works in the US. CSFES have become the go-to fount of information that has been needed.\n\nCSFES works with other non-profit organizations dedicated to the safety of exchange students:\n\n\nRepresentatives of CSFES operate in various countries around the world.\n\nIn 2013, CSFES joined the social media Facebook.\n"}
{"id": "58564670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58564670", "title": "Cultural footprint", "text": "Cultural footprint\n\nA cultural footprint is the impact that a group or individual has on the cultural environment.\n\n“Cultural footprint” was defined in June 2013, at the initiative of a group of experts from UNESCO, the OECD, the International Organisation of the Francophonie, French ministries, various companies and civil society.\n\nThey explained it as “all of the externalities, both positive and negative, generated in the cultural environment by agents’ actions”. It is considered to be positive when it enriches cultural diversity or fosters cultural intensity.\n\nA second reference document published in 2017 specified that “all actors have the possibility of activating (i.e. exploring and utilizing) available cultural resources. At the same time, it is their responsibility to make a positive contribution” to that sub-stratum, to that creative atmosphere. This means that groups and individuals must “set requirements for themselves, engage based on their own singularities, and be culturally involved and invested”.\n\n“The Cultural Footprint of the Cosmetic Sector” is a document to which Gilles Andrier, Loïc Armand, Francesco Bandarin, Jérôme Bédier, Françoise Benhamou, Fouad Benseddik, Gilles Boëtsch, Dominique Bourg, Jérôme Gouadain, Maria Gravari-Barbas, Marc-Antoine Jamet, François Jullien, Pascal Lamy, Jacques Lévy, Gilles Lipovetsky, Françoise Montenay, Jean Musitelli, Patrick O’Quin, Philippe d’Ornano, Dominique Perrault, Marie-Hélène Plainfossé and Nicole Rouvet contributed. It suggests several aspects of the cultural environment where economics might be able to make a contribution: architecture, art, colours, enjoyment, ethics, heritage, imagination, learning, social skills, singularity, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "4861797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4861797", "title": "Dramatistic pentad", "text": "Dramatistic pentad\n\nThe dramatistic pentad forms the core structure of dramatism, a method for examining motivations that the renowned literary critic Kenneth Burke developed. Dramatism recommends the use of a metalinguistic approach to stories about human action that investigates the roles and uses of five rhetorical elements common to all narratives, each of which is related to a question. These five rhetorical elements form the \"dramatistic pentad.\" Burke argues that an evaluation of the relative emphasis that is given to each of the five elements by a human drama enables a determination of the motive for the behaviour of its characters. A character's stress on one element over the others suggests their world view.\n\nBurke introduced the pentad in his 1945 book \"A Grammar of Motives\". Burke based his pentad on the scholastic hexameter which defines \"questions to be answered in the treatment of a topic: Who, what, where, by what means, why, how, when\". Burke created the pentad by combining several of the categories in the scholastic hexameter. The result was a pentad that has the five categories of: act, scene, agent, agency, and purpose. Burke states, \"The 'who' is obviously covered by agent. Scene covers the 'where' and the 'when'. The 'why' is purpose. 'How' and 'by what means' fall under agency. All that is left to take care of is act in our terms and 'what' in the scholastic formula\".\n\nThe pentad also closely follows the journalistic 'Five Ws': who, what, when, where, why. 'Who' maps to agent. 'What' maps to action. 'When' and 'Where' map to scene. 'Why' maps to purpose. There is no direct mapping from the Five Ws to the pentads category of agency but Geoff Hart states \"Some authorities add a sixth question, “how”, to this list, but “how to” information generally fits under what, where, or when, depending on the nature of the information.\" \n\nThe dramatistic pentad comprises the five rhetorical elements: Act, Scene, Agent, Agency, and Purpose. The “world views” listed below reflect the prominent schools of thought during Burke’s time, “without dismissing any of them,\" to read them \"at once sympathetically and critically in relation to each other,\" and \"in a wider context than any of them recognizes.\"\n\nAct, which is associated with dramatic action verbs and answers the question \"what?\", is related to the world view of realism; What happened? What is the action? What is going on? What action; what thoughts? Burke defines the act as that which “names what took place, in thought or deed.” Since an act is likely composed of many separate actions, Burke states that “any verb, no matter how specific or general, that has connotations of consciousness or purpose falls under this category.”\n\nScene, which is associated with the setting of an act and answers the questions \"when?\" and \"where?\", is related to the world view of materialism and minimal or non-existent free will. Burke defines the scene as “the background of an act, the situation in which it occurred.” \n\nAgent, which answers the question \"by whom?\", reflects the world view of philosophical idealism. Burke defines the agent as “what person or kind of person performed the act.” \n\nAgency (means), which is associated with the person or the organization that committed the deed and answers the question \"how?\", implies a pragmatic point of view. Burke defines agency as “what instrument or instruments he used.”\n\nPurpose, which is associated with meaning and answers the question \"why?\", indicates that the agent seeks unity through identification with an ultimate meaning of life. Reflects the world view of mysticism. Purpose is inextricably linked to the analysis of “Motive” which, derived from the title of A Grammar of Motives, is the main subject of its analysis. Since Purpose is both the subject of analysis and an element of the dramatistic pentad, it is not a common element to be included in a ratio.\n\nIn A Grammar of Motives, Burke provides a system of analysis for the Scene-Act ratio and the Scene-Agent ratio, though his analysis of ratios in the analysis of rhetoric is not limited to these. He states that, “The principles of dramatic consistency would lead one to expect such cases of overlap among the terms; but while being aware of them we should firmly fix in our minds such cases as afford a clear differentiation. Our terms leaning themselves towards merger and division, we are here trying to divide two of them while recognizing their possibilities of merger.” Thus any two dramatistic elements can be analyzed in relation to each other, creating a ratio, and can produce individual, yet separate meanings which are equally valid. However, the rhetor’s selection of elements to compose a ratio should be scrutinized, as it can deflect attention away from or direct attention towards aspects of the rhetor’s desire.\n\nThis is what Burke calls the “Ubiquity of the Ratios,” claiming that the composition of ratios “are at the very centre of motivational assumptions,” For example, “The maxim ‘terrain determines tactics’ is a strict localization of the scene-act ratio, with ‘terrain’ as the casuistic equivalent for ‘scene’ in a military calculus of motives, and ‘tactics’ as the corresponding ‘act.’\" The analysis of a situation as a multi-faceted occurrence is central to Burke’s concept of ratios. \nLikewise, the substitution of a dramatistic element with another can change an interpretation of the motive, allowing the analyst to modify the ratio in order to highlight the importance of a specific factor. For example, “the resistance of the Russian armies to the Nazi invasion could be explained ‘scenically’ in terms of the Soviet political and economic structure; or one could use the act-agent ratio, attributing the power and tenacity to ‘Russian’ traits of character. However, in deriving the act from the scene, one would have to credit socialism as a major scenic factor, whereas a derivation of the act from agents would allow for a much more felicitous explanation from the standpoint of capitalist apologists.”\n\nThe rhetor-agent also has a significant amount of power in crafting the perception of these ratios to their effect, “If an agent acts in keeping with his nature as an agent (act-agent ratio), he may change the nature of the scene accordingly (scene-act ratio) and thereby establish a state of unity between himself and his world (scene-agent ratio).\"\n\nThe scene, or the setting, will contain the act, or the what/actions. The way in which the agent interacts with the scene draws out specific analyses usually related to the atmosphere of the setting. While Burke states that, “It is a principle of drama that the nature of acts and agents should be consistent with the nature of the scene,” some “comic and grotesque works may deliberately set these elements at odds with one another, audiences make allowances for such liberty, which reaffirms the same principle of consistency in its very violation.” This reflects the division of most plays into very literal “acts,” as the agents who construct the scene are very literally “acters” whose work is played against the backdrop of the scene.The actions that a person performs are interpreted through the setting or happenings.\n\nA relationship between the agent (person) and the scene (place or setting). A scene can pose restrictions on the agent; in a narrative, the person and place should have some connection.\n\nWhile requiring the scene to contain them, the agent does not contain the act. Burke states that, “the agent is an author of his acts,” which can “make him or remake him in accordance with their nature.” This is one of the main principles that separates act and agent, producing a linked cycle which constructs the presentation of the agent’s identity.\n\nIn A Grammar of Motives, Burke mentions that attitude is “a state of mind,” remaining exterior from the pentad, as it is often “a preparation for an act, which would make it kind of symbolic act, or incipient act. But in its character as a state of mind that may or may not lead to an act, it is clearly classified under the head of agent.”. Burke also refers to attitude as a variation of agency. Prior to 1969 the term attitude is placed under agency, act or agent and is not considered a sixth element. In 1969, Burke places attitude as a new sixth element, yet he does not refer to the pentad as a hexad. Attitude is defined as \"the preparation for an act, which would make it a kind of symbolic act, or incipient act.\" The attitude, like the agency, would answer the “how?”. There is still some uncertainty over whether attitude is an additional element, and thus makes the dramatistic pentad a hexad, or if it is still a sub-element of the original pentad. While Burke has never directly stated that the pentad is a hexad, he has admitted that the addition of attitude to the pentad is similar to gaining “another soul” or an “extra existence.” Scholars have read this as Burke’s desire not to “dispose of” ambiguity, but rather to “study and clarify the resources of ambiguity.” As a result, many diagrams of the pentad depict attitude as a derivative of agent.\n"}
{"id": "30498454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30498454", "title": "Elegant decay", "text": "Elegant decay\n\nElegant decay is the cultural agreement that some places, and structures, become gradually more elegant, notable, or beautiful as they decay, or fall into ruin, due to their historical, architectural, or cultural significance. Although such reverence is subjective, it is true that certain cities, regions or even countries are more susceptible to the general concept due to past opulence, or their lengthy or enduring history or culture.\n\nContrary to the general interpretation that places or structures are more noteworthy in their newness, or older structures hold more value and interest after being historically restored to their original state, the concept of elegant decay is that in the slow degradation of the structures an inherent elegance, or beauty, emerges due to past historic importance. In recent times, this concept has been exploited by those seeking to stimulate tourism.\n\nWith its rich history, and centuries of past prestige and prominence, Western Europe has many places where elegant decay is notable and celebrated. One of the most salient is Italy, due to its lengthy historic prominence in prehistoric, ancient, medieval, and modern times. The most celebrated of Italian cities in elegant decay is arguably Venice, largely due to the whole city slowly crumbling and sinking into its lagoon.\n\nAlthough Western Europe holds many instances of elegant decay today, the New World also has places of crumbled reverence as well. Most notable in the United States may be the city and region around New Orleans, Louisiana, with its historic fusion of cultures and important contributions to American expansion. In the concept of elegant decay, there sometimes appears to be an element of impending doom to such places and structures, as Venice slowly sinks, and New Orleans is under constant threat from hurricanes.\n\nElegant decay is different in concept and plan than ruin value, in which structures are planned to look beautiful as ruins from the early planning stages. The concept of elegant decay is related to the concept of patina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47069702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47069702", "title": "Epitoge", "text": "Epitoge\n\nAn epitoge is a garment worn over the left shoulder that sometimes forms part of academic or court dress.\n\nThe epitoge is descended from the chaperon, a mediaeval hat that descended from a cloak with a hood with the head tucked into the opening of the cowl, so that the long tail or liripipe and the abbreviated cape hung at opposite sides of the head (wearer's right and wearer's left respectively). Over time, the cape portion was reduced to a small pleated flap and the cowl was curled up into a roundel, and it then became the practice to wear the garment over the left shoulder rather than on the head, with the narrow liripipe in front and the wider cape behind.\n\nThe garment is commonly used in French universities, where bands of ermine trimming are used to indicate the degree (one band for a bachelor, two for a master, and three for a doctor). In the United Kingdom and Ireland, the garment is more commonly used to indicate diplomas rather than degrees; the Irish variant of the epitoge omits the roundel and has a plain cape rather than pleated. Versions of epitoges are also used by some orders of chivalry and on barristers' gowns in some legal systems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30530623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30530623", "title": "Ethnocinema", "text": "Ethnocinema\n\nEthnocinema, from Jean Rouch’s \"cine-ethnography\" and \"ethno-fictions\", is an emerging practice of intercultural filmmaking being defined and extended by Melbourne, Australia-based writer and arts educator, Anne Harris, and others. Originally derived from the discipline of anthropology, ethnocinema is one form of ethnographic filmmaking that prioritises mutuality, collaboration and social change. The practice's ethos claims that the role of anthropologists, and other cultural, media and educational researchers, must adapt to changing communities, transnational identities and new notions of representation for the 21st century.\n\nEthno-cinematographers have also been associated with American historian James Clifford who has asserted that “all ethnographic representations are partial truths”. Collaborative ethnographic film and video projects are created with the intention of going beyond \"preserving\", \"empowering\" or \"giving voice\" to marginalised cultures, ethnicities, communities or individuals. According to theorists, such voices already have agency and share community or agendas with ethnocinematic filmmakers. Ethnocinematic films primarily document \"relationships\" between filmmakers from different cultures, or subcultures, who now share common space of a political, philosophical, geographical or virtual nature.\nEthno-cinematographers include Jean Rouch, Trinh T. Minh-ha, Harald Prins, David and Judith MacDougall, Faye Ginsburg, Timothy Asch and, indigenous filmmakers such as Australian Essie Coffey who collaborating interculturally to create ethnocinematic works.\n\nTobing Rony identifies three modalities in early ethnographic representation including “ethnographic inscription” (Regnault), “taxidermic mode” (Flaherty’s \"Nanook\"), and “self-reflexive” (Rouch’s films of the 1950s). Of these, Rouch’s films are closest to being the forerunners of contemporary ethnocinema. Many film theorists and ethnohistorians have helped to define an evolving ethnographic film in the late 20th century, among them American Bill Nichols.\n\nEthnocinema is typical of a shift toward destabilizing traditional notions of representation, both in the West/North and in cultures and communities which had historically been the subjects of such films, and in which indigenous and diasporic peoples are taking control of their own representations, or working (as in ethnocinema) in intercultural collaboration. In addition to Rouch, this includes the work of such ethnographers and intercultural filmmakers as Trinh T. Minh-ha, Harald Prins, David and Judith MacDougall, Faye Ginsburg, Timothy Asch and others. More recently, indigenous filmmakers such as Essie Coffey (Australia) are collaborating interculturally to create ethnocinematic works. Working against the observational cinema tradition, these filmmakers are all acknowledging and deconstructing Minh-ha’s observation that “Everywhere we go, we become someone’s private zoo”, and theorists like Harris continue to draw on her work.\n\nOther examples of early attempts to define ethnocinema include the 1972 \"ethnocinematic experiment\" of Sol Worth and John Adair documented in \"American Indians and the ethnocinematic complex: From native participation to production control\", in which seven co-participants of Navajo heritage were given video cameras and asked to make films which were ‘Indian’; these films, however, were framed by essentialising notions of Other and did not seek to go beyond the researcher/researched dichotomy. Tobing Rony (1996) and Sam Pack (2000) consider developments in Indigenous media in relation to the anthropological notion of “native authenticity” and why such essentialising notions are increasingly irrelevant in the 21st century’s ethnocinematic context. Yet the ability to truly collaborate in ethnographic research remains a contentious notion in anthropological and other circles, as ethnographic documentary scholar Jay Ruby asserts; what he calls \"Ethnographic Cinema\" must, he claims “be the work of academically educated and academically employed socio-cultural anthropologists”. By Ruby’s reckoning, what is emerging as ethnocinema has almost nothing to do with ethnographic films. By this definition, even Jean Rouch doesn’t qualify.\n\nConversely, Rouch encouraged the potential of ethnographic film as a “celebration of a relationship” between filmmaker and imaged, in which the “rapport and participation” between both parties enhances any end-product that is collectively achieved. Loizos’s claim (like Ruby’s) that contemporary filmmakers blur the lines between \"authentic\" ethnography and general documentary seems increasingly out of place. Traditional ethnographic filmmaking as a tool of anthropological researchers seeking to bring the stories of “distant peoples to audiences in North America and Europe” is increasingly outmoded in a culture of YouTube and social networking sites screaming for video content.\n\nThe confusion continues. By 2006, there are still scant references to ethnocinema and they frequently conflict. One online blog characterises a Burmese festival as “a surrealist anti-documentary, with no voice-over, odd visual juxtapositions, and none of the quasi-academic tone that afflicts so much \"official ethno cinema\"”. An abstract for an academic paper on the ritual branding of Andean cattle in Peru refers to the paper as an “ethnocinematographical study in which we reinterpret, with and in the film” the acts which they have recorded filmically, using the video cameras as “observation instruments”, none of which characterizes contemporary ethnocinematic work.\n\nSeveral recent European film festivals list among their offerings the category of ethnocinema, without giving examples or defining the term. Still other contemporary film festivals appear to use the terms \"ethnographic\" and \"ethnocinematic\" interchangeably, which only adds to the confusion. In 2001, \"Notes From the Underground\", Goran Gocić’s insider look at the filmmaker Emir Kusturica, appeared in which he discusses what he alternatively calls \"ethno-cinema\" and then just \"ethno\". A \"Modern Language Association Review\" article opined, \"The appeal of Kusturica's films … is that of \"ethno\" cinema, a cinema rooted in local traditions but expressed in \"Western\" form. This liberal political engagement with exotic subject matter is nonetheless, argues Gocić, an empowerment of the marginal.\"\n\nand from a far less favourable online book review:\nhe invests considerably more time to embracing instead his own recurring but vague references to 'ethno-cinema' as a base context from which Kusturica is operating (and by which Gocic seems to mean to have it both ways: indulging in exoticism and critiquing others' supposed essentializing). The only specific examples he offers to define this category are a handful of big budget Hollywood films involving Native Americans.\"\n\nGocić himself says that, “inside film history itself, ethno cinema is the most exciting cinematic concept that the world has had to offer in the past two decades: aesthetically, it is difficult to argue against”. However, throughout the text his attempts to define ethnocinema contradict and obscure any practical working definition. Gocić identifies \"ethno\" as having been around since the 1950s and as being typified by a sense of the “local”, including local motifs, but frequently made for a Western audience. Surprisingly, only nine pages later he locates the birth of \"ethno cinema\" “in the late 1970s and early 1980s solely judging by the Cannes winners, which were Italian at the end of the 1970s”.\n\nGocić does attempt to characterise and define his version of \"ethno cinema\" with the following: “nostalgia,” (as a search for the “‘lost ‘authenticity’ of primitivism”), “intertextuality, openness and subjectivity (as postmodern characteristics), incredulity (or denial of ideology), and ‘double coding' or unexpected, surrealist, incongruous elements”.\n\nEthnocinema, then, suggests that the voices/images of \"women/natives/others\" have something in common, and have agency in contributing to ethnographic film, whether independently or collaboratively, interculturally or intra-culturally. Current attempts to offer a working definition of ethnocinema may share more with the more recent movement of intercultural cinema which emerged around 1990. Laura Marks identifies this emergence as connected to three main factors: “the rise of multiculturalism … availability of funding … and an intellectual climate characterised by the disintegration of master narratives and a growing conceptualisation of knowledge as partial and contested”. Whatever its filmic and academic antecedents, ethnocinema is emerging, and – as Rouch has repeatedly shown us – \"the other cannot be denied\" as his/her image and means of production transforms.\n\nIn ethnocinema there is the belief that in the relationship which emerges through the shared project, both self and Other are understood and represented in newly constructed ways. One way of disrupting traditional ethnographic documentary voyeurism is in making transparent the intercultural relationship normally shrouded behind the scenes. Foster’s contention that controlling the means of production is \"foregrounding subjectivity\", is limited. It presumes a one-way relationship between the content and construction of all ethnographic films (including ethnocinematic ones), and assumes that by creating the films the subject is empowered and the gaze is recast. It ignores the complex relationship between reception and production, and classifies films created by marginalised filmmakers as more authentic, or even automatically transgressive in a dominant culture. This cannot be assumed, either in content or reception. We have moved well beyond orientalism and the temporary inability of the Other to represent her or himself, so that \"they must therefore be represented by others\", but similarly it cannot be assumed that self-representation is automatically \"authentic\" or an end in itself. In ethnocinema, relationship and process always take precedence over formal considerations. Obviously, to achieve a wide viewing audience, formal concerns cannot be completely ignored, but these aesthetic concerns are addressed \"together\" in the co-creation of the films. In ethnocinema, there is no perception of a conflict between its ethnographic and popular culture characteristics. It remains ethnographic because it is grounded in cultural specificity, which is not essentialist and can be always-changing. It does not seek to \"document\" a culture, as in ethnocinema culture is understood to be varied, diverse and always emerging.\n\nIn \"Picturing Culture: Explorations of Film and Anthropology\", Ruby calls for places where “critical standards are debated and canons develop”, and the need for ethnographic filmmakers to generate a set of critical standards analogous to those for written ethnographies. Harris agrees, and says that standards are needed, but diverges from Ruby’s definition in two important ways: firstly as a call to ethnocinematic filmmakers (whether academic or non-academic) that films included in this category must prioritise a post-colonial collaborative relationship between makers and imaged; and secondly, that Ruby’s so-called “marketplace considerations” need not pollute the product which is made. Ruby proposed in 2008 that “anthropologists should simply relinquish the term ethnographic to professional documentary filmmakers and seek another term to characterize their efforts”; while Harris proposes that ethnographic is being superseded by \"ethnocinematic\" filmmaking.\n"}
{"id": "1647073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1647073", "title": "Event videography", "text": "Event videography\n\nEvent videography is a video production, the art of capturing social and special events onto video by a videographer. The term is used to describe the videography of any event, aside from weddings and wedding videography.\n\nEvent videography is an offshoot of wedding videography and encompasses the video documentation of social functions, such as First Communions, anniversaries, dance recitals, bar mitzvahs, color guard contests, proms, concerts, etc.\n\nEvent videography started shortly after the introduction of consumer-based video cameras, or camcorders, in the late 1970s, as videographers, who had businesses documenting weddings, began to look for other markets to offer their services.\n\nThe art of event videography is somewhat similar today as it was back when the camcorder was first introduced. The main differences lie in the improved video camera technology and equipment. Advances in high definition technology are being applied to event videography.\n\n"}
{"id": "476499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=476499", "title": "False protagonist", "text": "False protagonist\n\nIn fiction, a false protagonist is a literary technique, often used to make the plot more jarring or more memorable by fooling the audience's preconceptions, that constructs a character who the audience assumes is the protagonist but is later revealed not to be.\n\nA false protagonist is presented at the start of the fictional work as the main character, but then is eradicated, often by killing them (usually for shock value or as a plot twist) or changed in terms of their role in the story (i.e. making them a lesser character, a character who leaves the story, or revealing them to actually be the antagonist).\n\nIn film, a character can be made to seem like the main protagonist based on a number of techniques (beyond just simply focusing the plot on their role). Star power is a very effective method; audience members generally assume that the biggest \"name\" in a movie will have a significant part to play. An abundance of close-ups can also be used as a subliminal method. Generally, the star of a film will get longer-lasting and more frequent close-ups than any other character, but this is rarely immediately apparent to viewers during the film. Alternatively, the false protagonist can serve as a narrator to the movie, encouraging the audience to assume that the character survives to tell their tale later.\n\nMany of the same techniques used in film can also apply to television, but the episodic nature adds an additional possibility. By ending one or more episodes with the false protagonist still in place, the show can reinforce the viewers' belief in the character's protagonist status. Also, because TV shows often have changes of cast between seasons, some series can have unintentional false protagonists: characters who begin the series as the main character but then are replaced early in the show's run by another character entirely. When the series is viewed as a whole, this can lead to the appearance of a false protagonist.\n\nIn video games, a false protagonist may initially be a playable character, only to be killed or revealed to be the antagonist. One key way in which video games employ the method that differs from uses in non-interactive fiction is by granting the player direct control over the false protagonist. Since most video games allow a player to control only the main characters (and their success or failure is based on playing skill, not pre-determined story), the sudden demise of the character that is being controlled serves to surprise the player.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16295500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16295500", "title": "Flower parade", "text": "Flower parade\n\nA flower parade is a parade in which the floats, vehicles, boats, participants, animals and other things are decorated or covered in flowers. Often there are other elements like marching bands and people in costumes. Flower parades are held in several countries.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36675736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36675736", "title": "Free Will Hunting", "text": "Free Will Hunting\n\n\"Free Will Hunting\" is the ninth episode of the seventh season of the animated sitcom \"Futurama\". It originally aired on Comedy Central on August 8, 2012.\n\nThe episode was written by David X. Cohen and directed by Raymie Muzquiz.\n\nEnrolling in college on a whim, Bender gets a questionable student loan from the Robot Mafia and falls in with a bad crowd. He then promptly drops out of college, gets addicted to robot drug \"Spark,\" does dubious acts for Hedonismbot, and ultimately attempts to rob Girl Scouts (only for them to turn the tables on him) to earn money. His downward spiral leads to his arrest and trial, but his lawyer argues that as a robot, Bender lacks free will and that it was his programming that led to the sequence of events. The judge rules Bender not guilty, much to Bender's dismay.\n\nThe Planet Express crew is hired to deliver a package to Chapek 9 (last seen in \"Fear of a Bot Planet\"), requiring a despondent Bender to come along due to the native robots' intense hatred of humans. After delivering the package, Bender decides to stay on the planet, going on a journey of self-discovery. He eventually finds a religious monastery control by robotic monk named Ab-bot who call their religion \"Order of the Binary Singularity\" to take him in. From them, he learns that every Mom Corp. robot has a free will slot, so that they could be upgraded if a corresponding free will unit were ever invented. Bender returns to Earth to find more answers (and walks in on Fry and Leela together in bed).\n\nBender, Fry, and Leela reach the secret laboratory where the module may be kept, but they find Mom waiting for them there. She reveals that a free will unit was designed by Prof. Farnsworth years earlier when he worked at Mom Corp. Farnsworth never completed it after learning of Mom's plan to use the unit to cause a robot uprising that would then be repelled by obedient robots. Bender returns to Planet Express and asks Farnsworth about the module. The Professor admits that he had finished making one complete free will unit, which he has hidden in a talking Bender toy. Bender attempts to use a gun on Farnsworth to force him to hand it over, but Bender discovers that the Professor had programmed a failsafe in all robots that prevents them from taking the unit or attacking Farnsworth. Farnsworth inserts the unit into Bender to give Bender a sample of what free will is like. At first, when Bender attempts to shoot Farnsworth again, it appears the unit is not working. Bender then remembers he forgot to turn off the gun's safety, and shoots the Professor. Bender is taken to court and, now that he has free will, is found guilty of attempted murder. The crew of Planet Express celebrate (except for a severely injured Farnsworth) with Bender as he is taken away.\n\nOver the end credits is a rap video featuring Bender and several floozy-bots from previous episodes (such as Hookerbot 5000 from \"Hell is Other Robots\" and the two Jewish-American princess robots from \"The Bots and the Bees\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44706", "title": "Genre", "text": "Genre\n\nGenre () is any form or type of communication in any mode (written, spoken, digital, artistic, etc.) with socially-agreed upon conventions developed over time. Genre is most popularly known as a category of literature, music, or other forms of art or entertainment, whether written or spoken, audio or visual, based on some set of stylistic criteria, yet genres can be aesthetic, rhetorical, communicative, or functional. Genres form by conventions that change over time as cultures invent new genres and discontinue the use of old ones. Often, works fit into multiple genres by way of borrowing and recombining these conventions. Stand-alone texts, works, or pieces of communication may have individual styles, but genres are amalgams of these texts based on agreed-upon or socially inferred conventions. Some genres may have rigid, strictly adhered-to guidelines, while others may show great flexibility.\n\nGenre began as an absolute classification system for ancient Greek literature. Poetry (odes, epics, etc.), prose, and performance each had a specific and calculated style that related to the theme of the story. Speech patterns for comedy would not be appropriate for tragedy, and even actors were restricted to their genre under the assumption that a type of person could tell one type of story best.\n\nIn later periods genres proliferated and developed in response to changes in audiences and creators. Genre became a dynamic tool to help the public make sense out of unpredictable art. Because art is often a response to a social state, in that people write/paint/sing/dance about what they know about, the use of genre as a tool must be able to adapt to changing meanings.\n\nGenre suffers from the ills of any classification system. It has been suggested that genres resonate with people because of the familiarity, the shorthand communication, as well as because of the tendency of genres to shift with public mores and to reflect the zeitgeist. While the genre of storytelling has been relegated as lesser form of art because of the heavily borrowed nature of the conventions, admiration has grown. Proponents argue that the genius of an effective genre piece is in the variation, recombination, and evolution of the codes.\n\nThe term \"genre\" is much used in the history and criticism of visual art, but in art history has meanings that overlap rather confusingly. Genre painting is a term for paintings where the main subject features human figures to whom no specific identity attachesin other words, figures are not portraits, characters from a story, or allegorical personifications. These are distinguished from staffage: incidental figures in what is primarily a landscape or architectural painting. \"Genre painting\" may also be used as a wider term covering genre painting proper, and other specialized types of paintings such as still-life, landscapes, marine paintings and animal paintings.\n\nThe concept of the \"hierarchy of genres\" was a powerful one in artistic theory, especially between the 17th and 19th centuries. It was strongest in France, where it was associated with the Académie française which held a central role in academic art. The genres in hierarchical order are:\n\nA literary genre is a category of literary composition. Genres may be determined by literary technique, tone, content, or even (as in the case of fiction) length. Genre should not be confused with age category, by which literature may be classified as either adult, young adult, or children's. They also must not be confused with format, such as graphic novel or picture book. The distinctions between genres and categories are flexible and loosely defined, often with subgroups.\n\nThe most general genres in literature are (in loose chronological order) epic, tragedy, comedy, novel, and short story. They can all be in the genres prose or poetry, which shows best how loosely genres are defined. Additionally, a genre such as satire might appear in any of the above, not only as a subgenre but as a mixture of genres. Finally, they are defined by the general cultural movement of the historical period in which they were composed. In popular fiction, which is especially divided by genres, genre fiction is the more usual term.\n\nIn literature, genre has been known as an intangible taxonomy. This taxonomy implies a concept of containment or that an idea will be stable forever.The earliest recorded systems of genre in Western history can be traced back to Plato and Aristotle. Gérard Genette, a French literary theorist and author of \"The Architext\", describes Plato as creating three Imitational genres: dramatic dialogue, pure narrative, and epic (a mixture of dialogue and narrative). Lyric poetry, the fourth and final type of Greek literature, was excluded by Plato as a non-mimetic mode. Aristotle later revised Plato's system by eliminating the pure narrative as a viable mode and distinguishing by two additional criteria: the object to be imitated, as objects could be either superior or inferior, and the medium of presentation such as words, gestures or verse. Essentially, the three categories of mode, object, and medium can be visualized along an XYZ axis.\n\nExcluding the criteria of medium, Aristotle's system distinguished four types of classical genres: tragedy (superior-dramatic dialogue), epic (superior-mixed narrative), comedy (inferior-dramatic dialogue), and parody (inferior-mixed narrative). Genette continues by explaining the later integration of lyric poetry into the classical system during the romantic period, replacing the now removed pure narrative mode. Lyric poetry, once considered non-mimetic, was deemed to imitate feelings, becoming the third leg of a new tripartite system: lyrical, epical, and dramatic dialogue. This system, which came to \"dominate all the literary theory of German romanticism (and therefore well beyond)…\" (38), has seen numerous attempts at expansion or revision. However, more ambitious efforts to expand the tripartite system resulted in new taxonomic systems of increasing scope and complexity.\n\nGenette reflects upon these various systems, comparing them to the original tripartite arrangement: \"its structure is somewhat superior to…those that have come after, fundamentally flawed as they are by their inclusive and hierarchical taxonomy, which each time immediately brings the whole game to a standstill and produces an impasse\" (74). Taxonomy allows for a structured classification system of genre, as opposed to a more contemporary rhetorical model of genre.\n\nThe basic genres of film can be regarded as drama, in the feature film and most cartoons, and documentary. Most dramatic feature films, especially from Hollywood fall fairly comfortably into one of a long list of film genres such as the Western, war film, horror film, romantic comedy film, musical, crime film, and many others. Many of these genres have a number of subgenres, for example by setting or subject, or a distinctive national style, for example in the Indian Bollywood musical.\n\nA music genre is a conventional category that identifies pieces of music as belonging to a shared tradition or set of conventions. It is to be distinguished from \"musical form\" and \"musical style\", although in practice these terms are sometimes used interchangeably. There are numerous genres in Western classical music and popular music, as well as musical theatre and the music of non-Western cultures. The term is now perhaps over-used to describe relatively small differences in musical style in modern rock music, that also may reflect sociological differences in their audiences. Timothy Laurie suggests that in the context of rock and pop music studies, the \"appeal of genre criticism is that it makes narratives out of musical worlds that often seem to lack them\".\n\nMusic can be divided into different genres in several ways. The artistic nature of music means that these classifications are often arbitrary and controversial, and some genres may overlap. There are several academic approaches to genres. In his book \"Form in Tonal Music\", Douglass M. Green lists madrigal, motet, canzona, ricercar, and dance as examples of genres from the Renaissance period. According to Green, \"Beethoven's \"Op. 61\" and Mendelssohn's \"Op. 64\" are identical in genre – both are violin concertos – but different in form. However, Mozart's \"Rondo for Piano, K. 511\", and the \"Agnus Dei\" from his \"Mass, K. 317\" are quite different in genre but happen to be similar in form.\" Some, like Peter van der Merwe, treat the terms \"genre\" and \"style\" as the same, saying that \"genre\" should be defined as pieces of music that share a certain style or \"basic musical language\".\n\nOthers, such as Allan F. Moore, state that \"genre\" and \"style\" are two separate terms, and that secondary characteristics such as subject matter can also differentiate between genres. A music genre or subgenre may be defined by the musical techniques, the styles, the context, and content and spirit of the themes. Geographical origin is sometimes used to identify a music genre, though a single geographical category will often include a wide variety of subgenres.\n\nSeveral music scholars have criticised the priority accorded to genre-based communities and listening practices. For example, Laurie argues that \"music genres do not belong to isolated, self-sufficient communities. People constantly move between environments where diverse forms of music are heard, advertised and accessorised with distinctive iconographies, narratives and celebrity identities that also touch on non-musical worlds.\"\n\nThe concept of genre is often applied, sometimes rather loosely, to other media with an artistic element, such as video game genres. Genre, and numerous minutely divided subgenres, affect popular culture very significantly, not least as they are used to classify it for publicity purposes. The vastly increased output of popular culture in the age of electronic media encourages dividing cultural products by genre to simplify the search for products by consumers, a trend the Internet has only intensified.\n\nIn philosophy of language, genre figures prominently in the works of philosopher and literary scholar Mikhail Bakhtin. Bakhtin's basic observations were of \"speech genres\" (the idea of heteroglossia), modes of speaking or writing that people learn to mimic, weave together, and manipulate (such as \"formal letter\" and \"grocery list\", or \"university lecture\" and \"personal anecdote\"). In this sense, genres are socially specified: recognized and defined (often informally) by a particular culture or community. The work of Georg Lukács also touches on the nature of literary genres, appearing separately but around the same time (1920s–1930s) as Bakhtin. Norman Fairclough has a similar concept of genre that emphasizes the social context of the text: Genres are \"different ways of (inter)acting discoursally\" (Fairclough, 2003: 26).\n\nA text's genre may be determined by its:\n\n\nIn the field of rhetoric, genre theorists usually understand genres as types of actions rather than types or forms of texts. On this perspective, texts are channels through which genres are enacted. Carolyn Miller's work has been especially important for this perspective. Drawing on Lloyd Bitzer's concept of rhetorical situation, Miller reasons that recurring rhetorical problems tend to elicit recurring responses; drawing on Alfred Schütz, she reasons that these recurring responses become \"typified\" – that is, socially constructed as recognizable types. Miller argues that these \"typified rhetorical actions\" (p. 151) are properly understood as genres.\n\nBuilding off of Miller, Charles Bazerman and Clay Spinuzzi have argued that genres understood as actions derive their meaning from other genres – that is, other actions. Bazerman therefore proposes that we analyze genres in terms of \"genre systems\", while Spinuzzi prefers the closely related concept of \"genre ecologies\".\n\nThis tradition has had implications for the teaching of writing in American colleges and universities. Combining rhetorical genre theory with activity theory, David Russell has proposed that standard English composition courses are ill-suited to teach the genres that students will write in other contexts across the university and beyond. Elizabeth Wardle contends that standard composition courses do teach genres, but that these are inauthentic \"mutt genres\" that are often of little use outside of composition courses.\n\nThis concept of genre originated from the classification systems created by Plato. Plato divided literature into the three classic genres accepted in Ancient Greece: poetry, drama, and prose. Poetry is further subdivided into epic, lyric, and drama. The divisions are recognized as being set by Aristotle and Plato; however, they were not the only ones. Many genre theorists added to these accepted forms of poetry.\n\nThe earliest recorded systems of genre in Western history can be traced back to Plato and Aristotle. Gérard Genette explains his interpretation of the history of genre in \"The Architext\". He described Plato as the creator of three imitational, mimetic genres distinguished by mode of imitation rather than content. These three imitational genres include dramatic dialogue, the drama; pure narrative, the dithyramb; and a mixture of the two, the epic. Plato excluded lyric poetry as a non-mimetic, imitational mode. Genette further discussed how Aristotle revised Plato's system by first eliminating the pure narrative as a viable mode. He then uses two additional criteria to distinguish the system. The first of the criteria is the object to be imitated, whether superior or inferior. The second criterion is the medium of presentation: words, gestures, or verse. Essentially, the three categories of mode, object, and medium can be visualized along an XYZ axis. Excluding the criteria of medium, Aristotle's system distinguished four types of classical genres: tragedy, epic, comedy, and parody.\n\nGenette explained the integration of lyric poetry into the classical system by replacing the removed pure narrative mode. Lyric poetry, once considered non-mimetic, was deemed to imitate feelings, becoming the third \"Architext\", a term coined by Gennette, of a new long-enduring tripartite system: lyrical; epical, the mixed narrative; and dramatic, the dialogue. This new system that came to \"dominate all the literary theory of German romanticism\" (Genette 38) has seen numerous attempts at expansion and revision. Such attempts include Friedrich Schlegel's triad of subjective form, the lyric; objective form, the dramatic; and subjective-objective form, the epic. However, more ambitious efforts to expand the tripartite system resulted in new taxonomic systems of increasing complexity. Gennette reflected upon these various systems, comparing them to the original tripartite arrangement: \"its structure is somewhat superior to most of those that have come after, fundamentally flawed as they are by their inclusive and hierarchical taxonomy, which each time immediately brings the whole game to a standstill and produces an impasse\".\n\nGenre is embedded in culture but may clash with it at times. There are occasions in which a cultural group may not be inclined to keep within the set structures of a genre. Anthony Pare's studied Inuit social workers in \"Genre and Identity: Individuals, Institutions and Ideology\". In this study, Pare described the conflict between the genre of Inuit social workers' record keeping forms and the cultural values that prohibited them from fully being able to fulfill the expectations of this genre. Amy Devitt further expands on the concept of culture in her 2004 essay, \"A Theory of Genre\" by adding \"culture defines what situations and genres are likely or possible\" (Devitt 24).\n\nGenre not only coexists with culture but also defines its very components. Genres abound in daily life and people often work within them unconsciously; people often take for granted their prominence and ever present residence in society. Devitt touches on Miller's idea of situation, but expands on it and adds that the relationship with genre and situation is reciprocal. Individuals may find themselves shaping the rhetorical situations, which in turn affect the rhetorical responses that arise out of the situation. Because the social workers worked closely with different families, they did not want to disclose many of the details that are standard in the genre of record keeping related to this field. Giving out such information would violate close cultural ties with the members of their community.\n\nAlthough genres are not always precisely definable, genre considerations are one of the most important factors in determining what a person will see or read. The classification properties of genre can attract or repel potential users depending on the individual's understanding of a genre.\n\nGenre creates an expectation in that expectation is met or not. Many genres have built-in audiences and corresponding publications that support them, such as magazines and websites. Inversely, audiences may call out for change in an antecedent genre and create an entirely new genre.\n\nThe term may be used in categorizing web pages, like \"news page\" and \"fan page\", with both very different layout, audience, and intention (Rosso, 2008). Some search engines like Vivísimo try to group found web pages into automated categories in an attempt to show various genres the search hits might fit.\n\nA subgenre is a subordinate within a genre. Two stories being the same genre can still sometimes differ in subgenre. For example, if a fantasy story has darker and more frightening elements of fantasy, it would belong in the subgenre of dark fantasy; whereas another fantasy story that features magic swords and wizards would belong to the subgenre of sword and sorcery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1877526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1877526", "title": "Godiva's Hymn", "text": "Godiva's Hymn\n\n\"Godiva's Hymn\", \"Engineer's Hymn\" or \"Engineers' Drinking Song\" is a traditional drinking song for engineers. Versions of it have been associated with the Army Corps of Engineers, as well as MIT and various universities, and is now often performed by the MIT a cappella group The Chorallaries. In many university engineering faculties, military engineering corps and other engineering organizations and societies, Lady Godiva is a school icon or mascot.\n\nGodiva's Hymn is sung either to the tune of \"The Battle Hymn of the Republic\" or \"The Son of a Gambolier\". Near Christmas, it is a tradition of the Lady Godiva Memorial Bnad (sic) of the University of Toronto to sing Godiva's Hymn to the tune of Good King Wenceslaus.\n\nOne Version of the Chorus is as follows:\n\n<poem>We are We are We are We are--\nWe are the engineers--\nWe can We can We can We can--\nDemolish forty beers--\nDrink rum Drink rum Drink rum all day--\nand come along with us for--\nWe don't give a damn for any old man--\nWho don't give a damn for us--</poem>\n\nOne of Godiva's Verses:\n\n<poem>Godiva was a lady who through Coventry did ride--\nTo show to all the villagers her fine and lily-white hide--\nThe most observant villager, an engineer of course--\nWas the only one to notice that Godiva rode a horse--</poem>\n\nA bawdy parody of the engineer's song, known as Round and Round Went the Great Big Wheel, was famously recorded during the 1940s by Oscar Brand. It later served as the inspiration for an episode of Dad's Army. \n"}
{"id": "30258456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30258456", "title": "Gosei (Japanese diaspora)", "text": "Gosei (Japanese diaspora)\n\nThe character and uniqueness of the \"Gosei\" is recognized in its social history. The \"Gosei\" are the subject of on-going academic research in the United States and Japan.\n\nThe earliest organized group of Japanese emigrants settled in Mexico in 1897. Today, the four largest populations of Japanese and descendants of Japanese immigrants live in Brazil, the United States, Canada and Peru. \"Gosei\" is a term used in these geographic areas outside Japan. \"Gosei\" characterizes the child of at least one \"Yonsei\" (fourth generation) parent. Differences among these national \"Gosei\" developed because of the varying historical processes throuogh which their Japanese emigrant forebears became Nikkei.\n\nJapanese-Brazilians (\"Nipo-brasileiro\") make up the largest Japanese population outside Japan, numbering an estimate of more than 1.5 million (including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity), more than that of the 1.2 million in the United States. The \"Gosei\" are a small part of the ethnic minority in that South American nation in the last decades of the 20th century. In 1990, 0.8% of the \"Nipo-Brasileiros\" community were \"Gosei.\"\n\nJapanese-Canadian \"Gosei\" are entirely acculturated, as is typical for any ethnic group.\n\nJapanese-Peruvian (\"Nipo-peruano\") \"Gosei\" make up less than 1.0% of the Nikkei population in 2000.\n\nThe lives of Japanese-Americans of earlier generations contrasts with the \"Gosei\" because they have English-speaking grandparents. According to a 2011 columnist in \"The Rafu Shimpo\" of Los Angeles, \"Younger Japanese Americans are more culturally American than Japanese\" and \"other than some vestigial cultural affiliations, a \"Yonsei\" or \"Gosei\" is simply another American.\"\n\nThe term \"Nikkei\" (日系) was coined by a multinational group of sociologists and encompasses all of the world's Japanese immigrants across generations. In North America, the \"Gosei\" are among the heirs of the \"activist generation\" known as the \"Sansei\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51103519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51103519", "title": "Human interactions with fungi", "text": "Human interactions with fungi\n\nHuman interactions with fungi include both beneficial uses, whether practical or symbolic, and harmful interactions such as when fungi damage crops, timber, or food.\n\nYeasts have been used since ancient times to leaven bread and to ferment beer and wine. More recently, mould fungi have been exploited to create a wide range of industrial products, including enzymes and drugs. Medicines based on fungi include antibiotics, immunosuppressants, statins and many anti-cancer drugs. The yeast species \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" is an important model organism in cell biology. The fruiting bodies of some larger fungi are collected as edible mushrooms, including delicacies like the chanterelle, cep, and truffle, while a few species are cultivated. Mould fungi provide the meaty (umami) flavour of fermented soybean products such as tempeh, miso and soy sauce, and contribute flavour and colour to blue cheeses including Roquefort and Stilton. Moulds also yield vegetarian meat substitutes like Quorn. Some fungi, especially the fly agaric and psilocybin mushrooms are used for the psychoactive drugs that they contain; these in particular are the focus of academic study in the field of ethnomycology. Fungi have appeared, too, from time to time, in literature and art.\n\nFungi create harm by spoiling food, destroying timber, and by causing diseases of crops, livestock, and humans. Fungi, mainly moulds like \"Penicillium\" and \"Aspergillus\", spoil many stored foods. Fungi cause the majority of plant diseases, which in turn cause serious economic losses. Sometimes, as in the Great Irish Famine of 1845–1849, fungal diseases of plants, in this case potato blight caused by \"Phytophthora\", result in large-scale human suffering. Fungi are similarly the main cause of economic losses of timber in buildings. Finally, fungi cause many diseases of humans and livestock; Aspergillosis kills some 600,000 people a year, mainly however those with already weakened immune systems.\n\nCulture consists of the social behaviour and norms found in human societies and transmitted through social learning. Cultural universals in all human societies include expressive forms like art, music, dance, ritual, religion, and technologies like tool usage, cooking, shelter, and clothing. The concept of material culture covers physical expressions such as technology, architecture and art, whereas immaterial culture includes principles of social organization, mythology, philosophy, literature, and science. This article describes the roles played by fungi in human culture.\n\nYeasts have been used since ancient times to leaven bread and to ferment beer and wine. More recently, fungi have been used for a wide variety of industrial fermentations, whether working directly for their effects on materials such as processing paper pulp or bioremediating industrial waste, or serving as the source of enzymes for many purposes, such as fading and softening denim for fashionable blue jeans. Fungi yield a wide variety of industrial enzymes including amylases, invertases, cellulases and hemicellulases, pectinases, proteases, laccases, phytases, alpha-glucuronidases, mannanases, and lipases.\n\nThe fruiting bodies of many larger fungi such as the chanterelle and the cep are collected as edible mushrooms.\nSome, such as truffles, are esteemed as costly delicacies. A few species such as \"Agaricus bisporus\" and oyster mushrooms (\"Pleurotus\" spp.) are cultivated.\n\nMould fungi are the source of the meaty (umami) flavour of the soybean products tempeh, miso and soy sauce. Tempeh has been produced in Java since the 13th century. Like tofu, it is made into protein-rich blocks, but these have a firm texture and earthy flavour, since (unlike tofu) the whole beans are retained, providing a higher content of dietary fibre and vitamins. Miso too is rich in protein, vitamins and minerals. It is fermented from a mixture of soybeans and cereals, forming a soft paste used to flavour soups and other Japanese dishes. Soy sauce has been used in China since the 2nd century AD, and is now widespread in Asia. Like miso, it is made by fermenting a mixture of soybeans and cereals with moulds such as \"Aspergillus oryzae\".\n\nThe mould \"Penicillium roqueforti\" contributes the blue coloration and much of the flavour in blue cheeses such as Roquefort and Stilton. Mould fungi are processed to produce vegetarian meat substitutes such as Quorn.\n\nFungi are the sources of many types of medicinal drug including antibiotics, immunosuppressants, and statins. Major classes of antibiotics, the penicillins and the cephalosporins, are derived from substances produced by fungi. So also are the immunosuppressant macrolides, the cyclosporins.\n\nThe cholesterol-lowering drugs, the statins, were initially produced by fungi including \"Penicillium\". The first commercial statin, lovastatin, was fermented by the mould \"Aspergillus terreus\".\n\nNumerous anti-cancer drugs such as the mitotic inhibitors vinblastine, vincristine, podophyllotoxin, griseofulvin, aurantiamine, oxaline, and neoxaline are produced by fungi.\n\nMany fungi have been used as folk medicines around the world, including in Europe and in India where traditions are well documented. Some have been found to have useful active ingredients, though these do not always correspond with traditional uses of the fungi concerned. Ergot and various cereal smuts, such as \"Ustilago tritici\" (wheat grain smut) were used for disorders of pregnancy. Yeasts, made into a boiled paste with wheat flour, were used in India to treat fevers and dysentery. Wounds were treated in Europe with moulds, using for example a slice of mouldy bread or mouldy wheat straw, with active ingredients patulin and other penicillin-like compounds.\n\nThe yeast species \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" has been an important model organism in modern cell biology for much of the twentieth century, and is one of the most thoroughly researched eukaryotic microorganisms. It was the first eukaryote whose genome was sequenced. In the twentyfirst century, the filamentous mould \"Aspergillus\" has been adopted for genome studies.\n\nEntomopathogenic fungi infect and kill insects, including a variety of pest species, so they have been investigated as possible biological control agents. A variety of Ascomycetes, including \"Beauveria\", \"Lecanicillium\", \"Metarhizium\", and \"Paecilomyces\" have promising features for use as biological insecticides. \"Metarhizium\" in particular can help to control outbreaks of locusts.\n\nSome species such as the fly agaric and psilocybin mushrooms are used for the psychoactive drugs that they contain. These are the focus of academic study and intense debate in the field of ethnomycology. In the 1950s, the American banker Robert Gordon Wasson participated in a Mazatec psilocybin mushroom ritual, and wrote an influential but controversial book claiming that the Soma mentioned in the Rigveda was \"Amanita muscaria\", the fly agaric. The mycologist John Ramsbottom however confirmed one element that Allegro later wove into his theory, stating in 1953 that the tree of the knowledge of good and evil fresco in the Plaincourault Chapel depicted \"Amanita muscaria\".\n\nThe ergot fungi whose sclerotia appear as \"black grain\" in rye and other cereals are implicated in the witch trials of 17th century Norway, where the hallucinations caused by ergotism, with visions of Satan as a black dog or cat, caused people to be accused of witchcraft. People in other cultures such as the Aztecs brewed drinks with ergot, which contains alkaloids based on lysergic acid.\n\nFungi have appeared from time to time in literature, both for children and for adults. In Lewis Carroll's 1865 \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\", Alice grows larger if she eats one side of the mushroom, and shrinks if she eats from the other side. Shakespeare has Prospero remark in \"The Tempest\" that elves \"make midnight mushrooms\". Poems and novels about or mentioning fungi have been written by Edmund Spenser, Percy Bysshe Shelley, Keats, Tennyson, Arthur Conan Doyle, D. H. Lawrence, and Emily Dickinson. Tennyson referred to the fairy ring mushroom (\"Marasmius\") with the phrase \"the fairy footings on the grass\".\n\nFungi sometimes feature in works of art, such as by Paolo Porpora in the late 17th century. The children's author Beatrix Potter painted hundreds of accurate watercolour illustrations of fungi. More recently, artists such as Martin Belou, Helen Downie (alias \"Unskilled Worker\"), and Steffen Dam have created installations and paintings of mushrooms.\n\nFungi, especially moulds but also yeasts, are important agents of food spoilage. \n\"Penicillium\" moulds cause soft rot such as of apples, while \"Aspergillus\" moulds create patches on the surface of old bread, yoghurt and many other foods. Yeasts spoil sugary foods such as plums and jams, fermenting the sugars to alcohol. Scientific understanding of spoilage began in the 19th century with works such as Louis Pasteur's 1879 \"Studies on Fermentation\", which investigated the spoilage of beer.\n\nSaprotrophic wood-decay fungi are the primary cause of decomposition of wood, causing billions of dollars of economic damage each year. Fungal decay, while useful in composting, is destructive of timber exposed to the weather, and in the case of dry rot caused by \"Serpula lacrymans\", also of timbers in largely dry houses. Some wood-decay fungi such as the honey fungi, species of \"Armillaria\", are parasites of living trees, attacking their roots and eventually killing them, and continuing to decompose the wood when they are dead. Honey fungus is a serious horticultural pest, as it can spread from tree to tree by long strap-shaped rhizomorphs in the soil.\n\nFungi are important crop pathogens, as they reproduce rapidly, affect a wide range of crops around the world, cause some 85% of plant diseases, and can create serious economic losses. The range of types of fungi involved is also wide, including Ascomycetes such as \"Fusarium\" causing wilt, Basidiomycetes such as \"Ustilago\" causing smuts and \"Puccinia\" causing cereal rusts, and Oomycetes such as \"Phytophthora\" causing potato late blight and the resulting Great Irish Famine of 1845-1849. Where crop diversity is low, and in particular where single varieties of major crops are nearly universal, fungal diseases can cause the loss of an entire crop, as with the potato in Ireland, and as with the monocultured crop of maize (corn) in the USA in 1970, where over a billion dollars' worth of production was lost. Similarly, the 'Gros Michel' seedless banana crop was essentially completely destroyed worldwide in the 1950s by the wild fungus, \"Fusarium oxysporum\". It was replaced by the Cavendish banana, which in turn was in 2015 facing total destruction by the same disease.\n\nPathogenic fungi cause a variety of diseases in humans and livestock. Aspergillosis, most commonly caused by \"Aspergillus fumigatus\", kills some 600,000 people per year, mostly those with already weakened immune systems. \"Pneumocystis\" causes pneumonia, again mainly in people with weakened immune systems. \"Candida\" yeasts are the agents of Candidiasis, causing infections of the mouth, throat, and genital tract, and more seriously of the blood. Ringworm is a skin infection that infects some 20% of the human population; it is caused by some 40 different fungi.\n"}
{"id": "37360538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37360538", "title": "Human interactions with insects", "text": "Human interactions with insects\n\nHuman interactions with insects include both a wide variety of uses, whether practical such as for food, textiles, and dyestuffs, or symbolic, as in art, music, and literature, and negative interactions including serious damage to crops and extensive efforts to eliminate insect pests. \n\nAcademically, the interaction of insects and society has been treated in part as cultural entomology, dealing mostly with \"advanced\" societies, and in part as ethnoentomology, dealing mostly with \"primitive\" societies, though the distinction is weak and not based on theory. Both academic disciplines explore the parallels, connections and influence of insects on human populations, and vice versa. They are rooted in anthropology and natural history, as well as entomology, the study of insects. Other cultural uses of insects, such as biomimicry, do not necessarily lie within these academic disciplines.\n\nMore generally, people make a wide range of uses of insects, both practical and symbolic. On the other hand, attitudes to insects are often negative, and extensive efforts are made to kill them. The widespread use of insecticides has failed to exterminate any insect pest, but has caused resistance to commonly-used chemicals in a thousand insect species.\n\nPractical uses include as food, in medicine, for the valuable textile silk, for dyestuffs such as carmine, in science, where the fruit fly is an important model organism in genetics, and in warfare, where insects were successfully used in the Second World War to spread disease in enemy populations. One insect, the honey bee, provides honey, pollen, royal jelly, propolis and an anti-inflammatory peptide, melittin; its larvae too are eaten in some societies. Medical uses of insects include maggot therapy for wound debridement. Over a thousand protein families have been identified in the saliva of blood-feeding insects; these may provide useful drugs such as anticoagulants, vasodilators, antihistamines and anaesthetics.\n\nSymbolic uses include roles in art, in music (with many songs featuring insects), in film, in literature, in religion, and in mythology. Insect costumes are used in theatrical productions and worn for parties and carnivals.\n\nCulture consists of the social behaviour and norms found in human societies and transmitted through social learning. Cultural universals in all human societies include expressive forms like art, music, dance, ritual, religion, and technologies like tool usage, cooking, shelter, and clothing. The concept of material culture covers physical expressions such as technology, architecture and art, whereas immaterial culture includes principles of social organization, mythology, philosophy, literature, and science. This article describes the roles played by insects in human culture so defined.\n\nEthnoentomology developed from the 19th century with early works by authors such as Alfred Russel Wallace (1852) and Henry Walter Bates (1862). Hans Zinsser's \"classic\" \"Rats, Lice and History\" (1935) showed that insects were an important force in human history. Writers like William Morton Wheeler, Maurice Maeterlinck, and Jean Henri Fabre described insect life and communicated their meaning to people \"with imagination and brilliance\". Frederick Simon Bodenheimer's \"Insects as Human Food\" (1951) drew attention to the scope and potential of entomophagy, and showed a positive aspect of insects. Food is the most studied topic in ethnoentomology, followed by medicine and beekeeping.\n\nIn 1968, claimed cultural entomology as a branch of insect studies, in a review of the roles insects played in folklore and culture including religion, food, medicine and the arts. In 1984, Charles Hogue covered the field in English and from 1994 to 1997, Hogue's \"The Cultural Entomology Digest\" served as a forum on the field. Hogue argued that \"Humans spend their intellectual energies in three basic areas of activity: surviving, using practical learning (the application of technology); seeking pure knowledge through inductive mental processes (science); and pursuing enlightenment to taste a pleasure by aesthetic exercises that may be referred to as the \"humanities.\" Entomology has long been concerned with survival (economic entomology) and scientific study (academic entomology), but the branch of investigation that addresses the influence of insects (and other terrestrial Arthropoda, including arachnids and myriapods) in literature, language, music, the arts, interpretive history, religion, and recreation has only become recognized as a distinct field through Schimitschek's work.\nHogue set out the boundaries of the field by saying: \"The narrative history of the science of entomology is not part of cultural entomology, while the influence of insects on general history would be considered cultural entomology.\" He added: \"Because the term \"cultural\" is narrowly defined, some aspects normally included in studies of human societies are excluded.\"\n\nDarrell Addison Posey, noting that the boundary between cultural entomology and ethnoentomology is difficult to draw, cites Hogue as limiting cultural entomology to the influence of insects on \"the essence of humanity as expressed in the arts and humanities\". Posey notes further that cultural anthropology is usually restricted to the study of \"advanced\", industrialised, and literate societies, whereas ethnoentomology studies \"the entomological concerns of 'primitive' or 'noncivilized' societies\". Posey states at once that the division is artificial, complete with an unjustified us/them bias. Brian Morris similarly criticises the way that anthropologists treat non-Western attitudes to nature as monadic and spiritualist, and contrast this \"in gnostic fashion\" with a simplistic treatment of Western, often 17th century, mechanistic attitude. Morris considers this \"quite unhelpful, if not misleading\", and offers instead his own research into the multiple ways that the people of Malawi relate to insects and other animals: \"pragmatic, intellectual, realist, practical, aesthetic, symbolic and sacramental.\"\n\nThe Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MEA) report 2005 defines ecosystem services as benefits people obtain from ecosystems, and distinguishes four categories, namely provisioning, regulating, supporting, and cultural. A fundamental tenet is that a few species of arthropod are well understood for their influence on humans (such as honeybees, ants, mosquitoes, and spiders). However, insects offer ecological goods and services. The Xerces Society calculates the economic impact of four ecological services rendered by insects: pollination, recreation (i.e. \"the importance of bugs to hunting, fishing, and wildlife observation, including bird-watching\"), dung burial, and pest control. The value has been estimated at $153 billion worldwide. As the ant expert E. O. Wilson observed: \"If all mankind were to disappear, the world would regenerate back to the rich state of equilibrium that existed ten thousand years ago. If insects were to vanish, the environment would collapse into chaos.\" A Nova (TV Series) segment on the American Public Broadcasting Service framed the relationship with insects in an urban context: \"We humans like to think that we run the world. But even in the heart of our great cities, a rival superpower thrives ... These tiny creatures live all around us in vast numbers, though we hardly even notice them. But in many ways, it is they who really run the show. \"The Washington Post\" stated: \"We are flying blind in many aspects of preserving the environment, and that's why we are so surprised when a species like the honeybee starts to crash, or an insect we don't want, the Asian tiger mosquito or the fire ant, appears in our midst. In other words: Start thinking about the bugs.\"\n\n \nHuman attitudes toward insects are often negative, reinforced by sensationalism in the media. This has produced a society that attempts to eliminate insects from daily life. For example, nearly 75 million pounds of broad-spectrum insecticides are manufactured and sold each year for use in American homes and gardens. Annual revenues from insecticide sales to homeowners exceeded $450 million in 2004. Out of the roughly a million species of insects described so far, not more than 1,000 can be regarded as serious pests, and less than 10,000 (about 1%) are even occasional pests. Yet not one species of insect has been permanently eradicated through the use of pesticides. Instead, at least 1,000 species have developed field resistance to pesticides, and extensive harm has been done to beneficial insects including pollinators such as bees.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the Warsaw Pact countries launched a widespread war against the potato beetle, blaming the introduction of the species from America on the CIA, demonising the species in propaganda posters, and urging children to gather the beetles and kill them.\n\nEntomophagy is the eating of insects. Many insects are considered a culinary delicacy in some societies around the world, and Frederick Simon Bodenheimer's \"Insects as Human Food\" (1951) drew attention to the scope and potential of entomophagy, but the practice is uncommon and even taboo in other societies. Sometimes insects are considered suitable only for the poor in the third world, but in 1975 Victor Meyer-Rochow suggested that insects could help ease global future food shortages and advocated a change in western attitudes towards cultures in which insects were appreciated as a food item. P.J. Gullan and P.S. Cranston felt that the remedy for this may be marketing of insect dishes as suitably exotic and costly to make them acceptable. They also note that some societies in sub-Saharan Africa prefer caterpillars to beef, while Chakravorty et al. (2011) point out that food insects (highly appreciated in North-East India) are more expensive than meat. The economics, i.e., the costs involved collecting food insects and the money earned through the sale of such insects, have been studied in a Laotian setting by Meyer-Rochow et al. (2008). In Mexico, ant larvae and Corixid water boatman eggs are sought out as a form of caviar by gastronomes. In Guangdong, water beetles fetch a high enough price for these insects to be farmed. Especially high prices are fetched in Thailand for the giant water bug \"Lethocerus indicus\".\n\nInsects used in food include honey bee larvae and pupae, mopani worms, silkworms, Maguey worms, Witchetty grubs, crickets, grasshoppers and locusts. In Thailand, there are 20,000 farmers rearing crickets, producing some 7,500 tons per year.\n\nInsects have been used medicinally in cultures around the world, often according to the Doctrine of Signatures. Thus, the femurs of grasshoppers, which were said to resemble the human liver, were used to treat liver ailments by the indigenous peoples of Mexico. The doctrine was applied in both Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) and in Ayurveda. TCM uses arthropods for various purposes; for example, centipede is used to treat tetanus, seizures, and convulsions, while the Chinese Black Mountain Ant, \"Polyrhachis vicina\", is used as a cure all, especially by the elderly, and extracts have been examined as a possible anti-cancer agent. Ayurveda uses insects such as Termite for conditions such as ulcers, rheumatic diseases, anaemia, and pain. The Jatropha leaf miner's larvae are used boiled to induce lactation, reduce fever, and soothe the gastrointestinal tract. In contrast, the traditional insect medicine of Africa is local and unformalised. The indigenous peoples of Central America used a wide variety of insects medicinally. Mayans used Army ant soldiers as living sutures. The venom of the Red harvester ant was used to cure rheumatism, arthritis, and poliomyelitis via the immune reaction produced by its sting. Boiled \"silkworm\" pupae were taken to treat apoplexy, aphasy, bronchitis, pneumonia, convulsions, haemorrhages, and frequent urination.\n\nHoney bee products are used medicinally in apitherapy across Asia, Europe, Africa, Australia, and the Americas, despite the fact that the honey bee was not introduced to the Americas until the colonization by Spain and Portugal. They are by far the most common medical insect product both historically and currently, and the most frequently referenced of these is honey. It can be applied to skin to treat excessive scar tissue, rashes, and burns, and as an eye poultice to treat infection. Honey is taken for digestive problems and as a general health restorative. It is taken hot to treat colds, cough, throat infections, laryngitis, tuberculosis, and lung diseases. Apitoxin (honey bee venom) is applied via direct stings to relieve arthritis, rheumatism, polyneuritis, and asthma. Propolis, a resinous, waxy mixture collected by honeybees and used as a hive insulator and sealant, is often consumed by menopausal women because of its high hormone content, and it is said to have antibiotic, anesthetic, and anti-inflammatory properties. Royal jelly is used to treat anaemia, gastrointestinal ulcers, arteriosclerosis, hypo- and hypertension, and inhibition of sexual libido. Finally Bee bread, or bee pollen, is eaten as a generally health restorative, and is said to help treat both internal and external infections. One of the major peptides in bee venom, Melittin, has the potential to treat inflammation in sufferers of Rheumatoid arthritis and Multiple sclerosis.\n\nThe rise of antibiotic resistant infections has sparked pharmaceutical research for new resources, including into arthropods.\n\nMaggot therapy uses blowfly larvae to perform wound-cleaning debridement.\n\nCantharidin, the blister-causing oil found in several families of beetles described by the vague common name Spanish fly has been used as an aphrodisiac in some societies.\n\nBlood-feeding insects like ticks, horseflies, and mosquitoes inject multiple bioactive compounds into their prey. These insects have long been used by practitioners of Eastern Medicine to prevent blood clot formation or thrombosis, suggesting possible applications in scientific medicine. Over 1280 protein families have been associated with the saliva of blood feeding organisms, including inhibitors of platelet aggregation, ADP, arachidonic acid, thrombin, PAF, anticoagulants, vasodilators, vasoconstrictors, antihistamines, sodium channel blockers, complement inhibitors, pore formers, inhibitors of angiogenesis, anaesthetics, AMPs and microbial pattern recognition molecules, and parasite enhancers/activators.\n\nInsects play an important role in biological research. Because of its small size, short generation time and high fecundity, the common fruit fly \"Drosophila melanogaster\" was selected as a model organism for studies of the genetics of higher eukaryotes. \"D. melanogaster\" has been an essential part of studies into principles like genetic linkage, interactions between genes, chromosomal genetics, evolutionary developmental biology, animal behaviour and evolution. Because genetic systems are well conserved among eukaryotes, understanding basic cellular processes like DNA replication or transcription in fruit flies helps scientists to understand those processes in other eukaryotes, including humans. The genome of \"D. melanogaster\" was sequenced in 2000, reflecting the fruit fly's important role in biological research. 70% of the fly genome is similar to the human genome, supporting the Darwinian theory of evolution from a single origin of life.\n\nSome hemipterans are used to produce dyestuffs such as carmine (also called cochineal). The scale insect \"Dactylopius coccus\" produces the brilliant red-coloured carminic acid to deter predators. Up to 100,000 scale insects are needed to make a kilogram (2.2 lbs) of cochineal dye.\n\nA similarly enormous number of lac bugs are needed to make a kilogram of shellac, a brush-on colourant and wood finish. Additional uses of this traditional product include the waxing of citrus fruits to extend their shelf-life, and the coating of pills to moisture-proof them, provide slow-release or mask the taste of bitter ingredients.\n\nKermes is a red dye from the dried bodies of the females of a scale insect in the genus \"Kermes\", primarily \"Kermes vermilio\". \"Kermes\" are native to the Mediterranean region, living on the sap of the Kermes oak. They were used as a red dye by the ancient Greeks and Romans. The kermes dye is a rich red, and has good colour fastness in silk and wool.\n\nInsect attributes are sometimes mimicked in architecture, as at the Eastgate Centre, Harare, which uses passive cooling, storing heat in the morning and releasing it in the warm parts of the day. The target of this piece of biomimicry is the structure of the mounds of termites such as \"Macrotermes michaelseni\" which effectively cool the nests of these social insects. The properties of the Namib desert beetle's exoskeleton, in particular its wing-cases (elytra) which have bumps with hydrophilic (water-attracting) tips and hydrophobic (water-shedding) sides, have been mimicked in a film coating designed for the British Ministry of Defence, to capture water in arid regions.\n\nSilkworms, the caterpillars and pupae of the moth \"Bombyx mori\", have been reared to produce silk in China from the Neolithic Yangshao period onwards, c. 5000 BC. Production spread to India by 140 AD. The caterpillars are fed on mulberry leaves. The cocoon, produced after the fourth moult, is covered with a continuous filament of the silk protein, fibroin, gummed together with sericin. In the traditional process, the gum is removed by soaking in hot water, and the silk is then unwound from the cocoon and reeled. Filaments are spun together to make silk thread. Commerce in silk between China and countries to its west began in ancient times, with silk known from an Egyptian mummy of 1070 BC, and later to the ancient Greeks and Romans. The silk road leading west from China was opened in the second century AD, helping to drive trade in silk and other goods.\n\nThe use of insects for warfare may have been attempted in the Middle Ages or earlier, but was first systematically researched by several nations during the twentieth century. It was put into practice by the Japanese army's Unit 731 in attacks on China during the Second World War, killing almost 500,000 Chinese people with fleas infected with plague and flies infected with cholera. Also in the Second World War, the Germans explored the use of Colorado beetles to destroy enemy potato crops. During the Cold War, the US Army considered using yellow fever mosquitoes to attack Soviet cities.\n\nInsects have appeared in mythology around the world from ancient times. Among the insect groups featuring in myths are the bee, butterfly, cicada, fly, dragonfly, praying mantis and scarab beetle. Scarab beetles held religious and cultural symbolism in Old Egypt, Greece and some shamanistic Old World cultures. The ancient Chinese regarded cicadas as symbols of rebirth or immortality. In the \"Homeric Hymn to Aphrodite\", the goddess Aphrodite retells the legend of how Eos, the goddess of the dawn, requested Zeus to let her lover Tithonus live forever as an immortal. Zeus granted her request, but, because Eos forgot to ask him to also make Tithonus ageless, Tithonus never died, but he did grow old. Eventually, he became so tiny and shriveled that he turned into the first cicada.\n\nIn an ancient Sumerian poem, a fly helps the goddess Inanna when her husband Dumuzid is being chased by \"galla\" demons. Flies also appear on Old Babylonian seals as symbols of Nergal, the god of death and fly-shaped lapis lazuli beads were often worn by many different cultures in ancient Mesopotamia, along with other kinds of fly-jewellery. The Akkadian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" contains allusions to dragonflies, signifying the impossibility of immortality.\n\nAmongst the Arrernte Aborigines of Australia, honey ants and witchety grubs served as personal clan totems. In the case of the San bushmen of the Kalahari, it is the praying mantis which holds much cultural significance including creation and zen-like patience in waiting.\n\nInsects feature in folklore around the world. In China, farmers traditionally regulated their crop planting according to the Awakening of the Insects, when temperature shifts and monsoon rains bring insects out of hibernation. Most \"Awakening\" customs are related to eating snacks like pancakes, parched beans, pears, and fried corn, symbolizing harmful insects in the field.\n\nIn the Great Lakes region of the United States, there is an annual Woollybear Festival that has been celebrated for over 40 years. The larvae of the species \"Pyrrharctia isabella\" (commonly known as the Isabella Tiger moth), with their 13 distinct segments of black and reddish-brown, have the reputation in common folklore of being able to forecast the coming winter weather.\n\nThere is a common misconception that cockroaches are serious vectors of disease, but while they can carry bacteria they do not travel far, and have no bite or sting. Their shells contain a protein, arylphorin, implicated in asthma and other respiratory conditions.\n\nMany people believe the urban myth that the daddy longlegs Opiliones have the most poisonous bite in the spider world, but that the fangs are too small to penetrate human skin. This is untrue on several counts. None of the known species of harvestmen have venom glands; their chelicerae are not hollowed fangs but grasping claws that are typically very small and definitely not strong enough to break human skin.\n\nIn Japan, the emergence of fireflies and rhinoceros beetles signify the anticipated changing of the seasons.\n\nIn the Brazilian Amazon, members of the Tupí–Guaraní language family have been observed using \"Pachycondyla commutata\" ants during female rite-of-passage ceremonies, and prescribing the sting of \"Pseudomyrmex\" spp. for fevers and headaches.\n\nThe red harvester ant \"Pogonomyrmex californicus\" has been widely used by natives of Southern California and Northern Mexico for hundreds of years in ceremonies conducted to help tribe members acquire spirit helpers through hallucination. During the ritual, young men are sent away from the tribe and consume large quantities of live, unmasticated ants under the supervision of an elderly member of the tribe. Ingestion of ants should lead to a prolonged state of unconsciousness, where dream helpers appear and serve as allies to the dreamer for the rest of his life.\n\nBoth the symbolic form and the actual body of insects have been used to adorn humans in ancient and modern times. A recurrent theme for ancient cultures in Europe and the Near East regarded the sacred image of a bee or human with insect features. Often referred to as the bee \"goddess\", these images were found in gems and stones. An onyx gem from Knossos (ancient Crete) dating to approximately 1500 BC illustrates a Bee goddess with bull horns above her head. In this instance, the figure is surrounded by dogs with wings, most likely representing Hecate and Artemis – gods of the underworld, similar to the Egyptian gods Akeu and Anubis.\n\nBeetlewing art is an ancient craft technique using iridescent beetle wings practiced traditionally in Thailand, Myanmar, India, China and Japan. Beetlewing pieces are used as an adornment to paintings, textiles and jewelry. Different species of metallic wood-boring beetle wings were used depending on the region, but traditionally the most valued were those from beetles belonging to the genus Sternocera. The practice comes from across Asia and Southeast Asia, especially Thailand, Myanmar, Japan, India and China. In Thailand beetlewings were preferred to decorate clothing (shawls and Sabai cloth) and jewellery in former court circles.\n\nThe Canadian entomologist C.H. Curran's 1945 book, \"Insects of the Pacific World\", noted women from India and Sri Lanka, who kept 1 1/2 inch long, iridescent greenish coppery beetles of the species \"Chrysochroa ocellata\" as pets. These living jewels were worn on festive occasions, probably with a small chain attached to one leg anchored to the clothing to prevent escape. Afterwards, the insects were bathed, fed, and housed in decorative cages. Living jewelled beetles have also been worn and kept as pets in Mexico.\n\nButterflies have long inspired humans with their life cycle, color, and ornate patterns. The novelist Vladimir Nabokov was also a renowned butterfly expert. He published and illustrated many butterfly species, stating:\n\n\"I discovered in nature the nonutilitarian delights that I sought in art. Both were a form of magic, both were games of intricate enchantment and deception.\"\n\nIt was the aesthetic complexity of insects that led Nabokov to reject natural selection.\n\nThe naturalist Ian MacRae writes of butterflies:\n\n\"... the animal is at once awkward, flimsy, strange, bouncy in flight, yet beautiful and immensely sympathetic; it is painfully transient, albeit capable of extreme migrations and transformations. Images and phrases such as \"kaleidoscopic instabilities,\" \"oxymoron of similarities,\" \"rebellious rainbows,\" \"visible darkness\" and \"souls of stone\" have much in common. They bring together the two terms of a conceptual contradiction, thereby facilitating the mixing of what should be discrete and mutually exclusive categories ... In positing such questions, butterfly science, an inexhaustible, complex, and finely nuanced field, becomes not unlike the human imagination, or the field of literature itself. In the natural history of the animal, we begin to sense its literary and artistic possibilities.\"\n\nThe photographer Kjell Sandved spent 25 years documenting all 26 characters of the Latin alphabet using the wing patterns of butterflies and moths as \"The Butterfly Alphabet\".\n\nIn 2011, the artist Anna Collette created over 10,000 individual ceramic insects at Nottingham Castle, \"Stirring the Swarm.\" Reviews of the exhibit offered a compelling narrative for Cultural Entomology: \"the unexpected use of materials, dark overtones, and the straightforward impact of thousands of tiny multiples within the space. The exhibition was at once both exquisitely beautiful and deeply repulsive, and this strange duality was fascinating.\"\n\nThe Ancient Greek playwright Aeschylus has a gadfly pursue and torment Io, a maiden associated with the moon, watched constantly by the eyes of the herdsman Argus, associated with all the stars: \"Io: Ah! Hah! Again the prick, the stab of gadfly-sting! O earth, earth, hide, the hollow shape—Argus—that evil thing—the hundred-eyed.\" William Shakespeare, inspired by Aeschylus, has Tom o'Bedlam in \"King Lear\", \"Whom the foul fiend hath led through fire and through flame, through ford and whirlpool, o'er bog and quagmire\", driven mad by the constant pursuit. In \"Antony and Cleopatra\", Shakespeare similarly likens Cleopatra's hasty departure from the Actium battlefield to that of a cow chased by a gadfly.\nH. G. Wells introduced giant wasps in his 1904 novel \"The Food of the Gods and How It Came to Earth\", making use of the newly discovered growth hormones to lend plausibility to his science fiction.\nLafcadio Hearn's essay \"Butterflies\" analyses the treatment of the butterfly in Japanese literature, both prose and poetry. He notes that these often allude to Chinese tales, such as of the young woman that the butterflies took to be a flower. He translates 22 Japanese Haiku poems about butterflies, including one by the Haiku master Matsuo Bashō, said to suggest happiness in springtime: \"Wake up! Wake up!—I will make thee my comrade, thou sleeping butterfly.\"\n\nThe novelist Vladimir Nabokov was the son of a professional lepidopterist, and was interested in butterflies himself. He wrote his novel \"Lolita\" while travelling on his annual butterfly-collection trips in the western United States. He eventually became a leading lepidopterist. This is reflected in his fiction, where for example \"The Gift\" devotes two whole chapters (of five) to the tale of a father and son on a butterfly expedition.\n\nHorror films involving insects, sometimes called \"big bug movies\", include the pioneering 1954 \"Them!\", featuring giant ants mutated by radiation, and the 1957 \"The Deadly Mantis\".\n\n\"The Far Side\", a newspaper cartoon, has been used by professor of Michael Burgett as a teaching tool in his entomology class; \"The Far Side\" and its author Gary Larson have been acknowledged by biologist Dale H. Clayton his colleague for \"the enormous contribution\" Larson has made to their field through his cartoons.\n\nThe \"Flight of the Bumblebee\" was written by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, in 1899–1900, as part of his opera, \"The Tale of Tsar of Saltan\". The piece is one of the most recognizable pieces in classical composition. The bumblebee in the story is a prince who has been transformed into an insect so that he can fly off to visit his father. The play upon which the opera was based – written by Alexandr Pushkin – originally had two more insect themes: the Flight of the Mosquito and the Flight of the Fly.\n\nThe Hungarian composer Béla Bartók explained in his diary that he was attempting to depict the desperate attempts to escape of a fly caught in a cobweb in his piece \"From the Diary of a Fly, for piano (Mikrokosmos Vol. 6/142)\".\n\nThe jazz musician and philosophy professor David Rothenberg plays duets with singing insects including cicadas, crickets, and beetles.\n\nIn astronomy, constellations named after arthropods include the zodiacal Scorpius, the scorpion, and Musca, the fly, also known as Apis, the bee, in the deep southern sky. Musca, the only recognised insect constellation, was named by Petrus Plancius in 1597.\n\n\"The Bug Nebula\", also called \"The Butterfly Nebula\", is a more recent discovery. Known as NGC 6302 is one of the brightest and most popular stars in the universe – popular in that its features draw the attention of a lot of researchers. It happens to be located in the Scorpius constellation. It is perfectly bipolar, and until recently, the central star was unobservable, clouded by gas, but estimated to be one of the hottest in the galaxy – 200,000 degrees Fahrenheit, perhaps 35 times hotter than our Sun.\n\nThe honey bee played a central role in the cosmology of the Mayan people. The stucco figure at the temples of Tulum known as \"Ah Mucen Kab\" – the Diving Bee God – bears resemblance to the insect in the Codex Tro-Cortesianus identified as a bee. Such reliefs might have indicated towns and villages that produce honey. Modern Mayan authorities say the figure also have a connection to modern cosmology. Mayan mythology expert Migel Angel Vergara relates that the Mayans held a belief that bees came from Venus, the \"Second Sun.\" The relief might be indicative of another \"insect deity\", that of Xux Ex, the Mayan \"wasp star.\" The Mayan embodied Venus in the form of the god Kukulkán (also known as or related to Gukumatz and Quetzalcoatl in other parts of Mexico), Quetzalcoatl is a Mesoamerican deity whose name in Nahuatl means \"feathered serpent\". The cult was the first Mesoamerican religion to transcend the old Classic Period linguistic and ethnic divisions. This cult facilitated communication and peaceful trade among peoples of many different social and ethnic backgrounds. Although the cult was originally centered on the ancient city of Chichén Itzá in the modern Mexican state of Yucatán, it spread as far as the Guatemalan highlands.\n\nBee and other insect costumes are worn in a variety of countries for parties, carnivals and other celebrations.\n\nOvo is an insect-themed production by the world renowned Canadian entertainment company Cirque du Soleil. The show looks at the world of insects and its biodiversity where they go about their daily lives until a mysterious egg appears in their midst, as the insects become awestruck about this iconic object that represents the enigma and cycles of their lives. The costuming was a fusion of arthropod body types blended with superhero armour. Liz Vandal, the lead costume designer, has a special affinity for the world of the insect:\n\nThe Webby award-winning video series \"Green Porno\" was created to showcase the reproductive habits of insects. Jody Shapiro and Rick Gilbert were responsible for translating the research and concepts that Isabella Rossellini envisioned into the paper and paste costumes which directly contribute to the series' unique visual style. The film series was driven by the creation of costumes to translate scientific research into \"something visual and how to make it comical.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43882452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43882452", "title": "Humanist Generation (Strauss-Howe Theory)", "text": "Humanist Generation (Strauss-Howe Theory)\n\nThe Humanist Generation is the name given by sociologists to describe the generation of people, born 1461–1482. It is an identified cohort within the Strauss–Howe generational theory.\n\nThis generation came of age at the height of the Middle Ages, just prior to the Reformation and Renaissance. For the educated classes life was fairly static, with Renaissance Humanist teaching and a clear career path through the church or State bureaucracy becoming increasingly available for the educated middle classes. Humanist influences took hold across Europe, and in many ways prepared the intellectual landscape for the coming reformation. Their youth coincided with the development of the European Printing press allowing a greater dissemination of knowledge.\n\nSome of the notable persons who influenced this generation include Thomas More, Erasmus, Thomas Linacre, John Colet, Cardinal Wolsey, Michelangelo, Copernicus, Francisco Pizarro and Cesare Borgia.\n\nKing Edward V was also born into this generation, but as he died at only 15 years old, it is difficult to properly place him in this archetype. However, according to the historian Dominic Mancini Edward was very fascinated with science and philosophy, and was very well learned beyond his years.\n"}
{"id": "51547415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51547415", "title": "Interindividual differences in perception", "text": "Interindividual differences in perception\n\nInterindividual differences in perception describes the effect that differences in brain structure or factors such as culture, upbringing and environment have on the perception of humans.\nInterindividual (differing from person to person) variability is usually regarded as a source of noise for research. However, in recent years, it has become an interesting source to study sensory mechanisms and understand human behavior. With the help of modern neuroimaging methods such as fMRI and EEG, individual differences in perception could be related to the underlying brain mechanisms. This has helped to explain differences in behavior and cognition across the population. Common methods include studying the perception of illusions, as they can effectively demonstrate how different aspects such as culture, genetics and the environment can influence human behavior.\n\nA motion quartet is a bistable stimulus - it consists of two dots that change their position from frame to frame. This position change can either be interpreted as horizontal or vertical movement by viewers, and this experience can switch during viewing between interpretations. Depending on the aspect ratio of the two dots' positions, one or the other state is perceived longer or more often. At an aspect ratio of one, the illusion is biased towards the vertical perception. The reason for this might be the way the human brain processes the signals from both eyes in the visual system. The right half of an eye's field of view is processed by the left hemisphere, and the left half by the right hemisphere. A stimulus moving vertically only involves one field of view and so one hemisphere, while a stimulus moving vertically from one field of view to the other involves both hemispheres, and requires communication between them. The delay caused by this additional signalling might be the cause for the bias. There are also individual differences in the way the motion quartet is perceived: Some people require a different aspect ratio to perceive both axes of movement than others.\nA study using diffusion tensor imaging further showed differences in the structure of the corpus callosum, the primary connection between the two hemispheres, might be the origin of these differences.\n\nThere exist a variety of illusions that make objects appear bigger or smaller compared to their real size. Two such illusions are the Ebbinghaus and the Ponzo illusions. The Ebbinghaus illusion makes a dot seem bigger because it is surrounded by smaller dots, while the Ponzo illusion exploits human perspective processing by making a dot appear bigger because it seems farther away. Schwarzkopf et al. found that the size of the primary visual cortex (V1) has an effect on the magnitude of these illusions. The larger the subject's V1 surface area was, the less the subjects fell for the illusion. This is hypothesized to be due to the fact that a larger V1 dedicated to the same portion of the visual field means a lesser effect of later, fixed-size visual areas (which are the ones that are responsible for the illusion effect).\n\nThe McGurk effect is an auditory illusion in which people perceive a different syllable when incongruent audiovisual speech is presented: an auditory syllable \"ba\" is presented while the mouth movement is \"ga\". As a result, the listener perceives the syllable \"da\". However, according to Gentilucci and Cattaneo (2005), not everyone perceives this illusion; only about 26% to 98% of the population are susceptible to this illusion. One of the psychological models that explains the interindividual differences in speech perception is the fuzzy logic model of speech perception According to this model, a categorization process is carried out when processing speech sounds. When listening to a stimulus, the features of the acoustic signal are analyzed. Subsequently, this signal is compared with the features that are stored in the memory; finally the sound is classified into the category that best fits. However, this classification may have a blurred boundary respectively to the category which the sound belongs to. As a result, the final decision may depend on integration of multiple sources of information. When the McGurk effect is presented the auditory and visual components of the speech are separately evaluated before being integrated. In those who perceive the McGurk effect, the visual information has a higher influence on the perception of the ambiguous audiovisual information and thus the sound is classified as \"da\".\n\nMany studies have concluded that the area responsible for the perception of this phenomenon is the left superior temporal sulcus(STS). This area is critical for the multisensory integration of visual and auditory information during speech perception. Moreover, there is a correlation between the activation of the STS and the perception of the McGurk effect. In that sense, if the left STS correctly integrates the mismatched audiovisual information, a McGurk effect is perceived; if the left STS is not active, the visual and auditory information are not integrated and thus a McGurk effect is not perceived.\n\nIn one study blood-oxygen-level dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging (BOLD fMRI) was used to measure the brain activity in perceivers and non-perceivers of the McGurk effect while presented with congruent audiovisual syllables, McGurk audiovisual syllables (auditory \"ba\" + visual \"ga\" producing perception of \"da\"), and non-McGurk incongruent syllables( auditory \"ga\" + visual \"ba\" producing auditory perception of \"ga\"). The researchers found that there was a positive correlation between the amplitude of response in the left STS and the probability of perceiving the McGurk effect. In other words, the subject with the weakest STS activation to incongruent speech had the smallest probability of experiencing a McGurk percept; whereas the subject with the strongest STS response had the highest probability.\n\nBeauchamp et al. (2010) highlight the critical role of the left STS in audiovisual integration. They applied single pulses of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to the STS of McGurk perceivers during presentation of McGurk stimuli. The perception of the McGurk effect decreased from 94% to 43% and the subjects reported perceiving only the auditory syllable. Following from that, Beauchamp et al. conclude that the left STS is crucial for the audiovisual integration and thus for the perception of the McGurk effect.\n\nMoreover, another study suggests that the basis of the interindividual differences in the perception of McGurk effect lies in the eye movements of the subject when viewing the talker’s face. The experimenters carried out an eye tracking study and measured the eye movements of the participants while viewing audiovisual speech. They found that people who spent more time fixating the mouth of the talker were the more likely to perceive the McGurk effect than those who rarely fixated on the mouth of the speaker.\n\nInterindividual differences have also been researched for the Tritone paradox illusion. In this illusion, the subject successively listens to two tones, which are separated by a half octave. Each tone is made of a set of harmonics which have an octave relation. The listener has to decide if the two tones have a descending or ascending relation. According to Diana Deutsch, the perception of the tones is influenced by the language spoken by the listener. The listener has a circular representation of the pitch of sounds that are common in their culture and based on that develops a pitch range of their speaking voice, which determines the orientation of the pitch class with respect to the height; when a given tone is in this range, it is taken as the highest position along the circle and depending on the second tone, the person perceives the pattern as ascending or descending. Deutsch found that for people from California, the tone in the highest position of the pitch-class circle is around C# and D whereas for people from southern England it is around G. According to those results, Deutsch hypothesized that the orientation of the pitch-class circle with respect to the height is similar for individuals from the same linguistic group and varies for individuals from different linguistic groups.\n\nOther illusions found by Deutsch whose interpretation depends on interindividual differences is the phantom words illusion. This illusion consists of the continuous presentation of two meaningless syllables. In order to experience the illusion, it is necessary that the listener sits between two loudspeakers, one to the left and the other to the right. The syllables are presented offset in time, in such a way that while one syllable is coming from the left, the other syllable is coming from the right loudspeaker. It was shown that after a period of time, people start hearing words. According to Deutsch, the perceived words depend on the language spoken by the listener, their knowledge and their expectations. According to Shinn-Cunningham (2008), when the information is incomplete or contradictory, the perceptual system often fills this gaps with plausible interpretations and in that way allows new information to be efficiently processed.\n\nSeveral studies have shown that differences between individuals play a significant role in determining how a stimulus is perceived. These differences among people, in turn, are greatly influenced by one's own socio-cultural contexts. The research indicates that cultural factors influence the process of perception not just on lower-level (such as object perception and attention deployment), but also on the higher-order functions (such as theory of mind and emotion recognition).\n\nThe two major cultures analyzed in these studies were mostly Western and East Asian cultures because of the considerable differences in the social structure and practices. Western culture was referred to as an \"analytical\" culture whereas Eastern culture was referred more as a \"holistic\" culture. More specifically, individualism and freedom are the predominant values in Western societies, which in turn demand interpretation of an object in its absolute terms independent of its context. In contrast, Eastern culture is known for its emphasis on collectivism and interdependence on each other, where interpretation of an object is often in relation with its context\n\nA pioneer study examining these cultural differences in visual perception was conducted by Kitmaya et al. (2003). The findings of that study provide behavioural evidence on how cultural factors affect visual perception and attention deployment. For the study, Americans and Japanese were taken as subjects. The visual stimulus shown to the subjects consisted of a square figure with a line hanging from the centre (the framed line test). First was the absolute condition, where the task was to redraw the line on the centre of the square in its absolute length, to a new square box independent of its size. Second was the relative condition, in which the task was to redraw the line on the centre of the square in proportionally similar to context of the new square box. The results show that Americans perform better in the absolute task which requires analytical processing of stimulus independent of it context, whereas the Japanese performed better at the relative task which demands the holistic processing of the stimulus in relation to its context.\n\nIn line with these findings, Hedden and colleagues (2009) used the same visual stimuli to investigate the neural activity with the help of fMRI. Participants of the study were asked to judge the length of a vertical line, either including the contextual information or ignoring it. The results revealed that separate brain regions were employed while performing the task, either incorporating the contextual information or avoiding it, based on one's own culture. The areas associated with attentional control in the frontal and parietal region of the brain were highly activated when the subjects performed the task which was incongruent to their cultural pattern. That is, the activity in the fronto-parietal region enhanced when East Asians had to ignore the contextual information, while similar enhancement happened for Americans when they had to incorporate the contextual information. These findings illustrate that the function of the neural mechanisms are also modulated to some extent by one's own culture.\n\nA follow-up fMRI study by Gutchess, Welsh, Boduroglu, and Park (2006) confirmed the previous findings by using a rather complex stimulus, which consists of \"only the object\" pictures, \"object with background\" pictures and \"only the background\" pictures without the object. This particular study was done on East-Asian Americans and non-Asian Americans. Though the performance of both subject groups was equally good, the activity of the involved brain areas was significantly different. Non-Asian Americans had a higher activation in the object processing areas in the ventral visual cortex during the object recognition task whereas the East-Asian Americans exhibited higher activity in the left occipital and fusiform areas which are associated with perceptual analysis.\n"}
{"id": "4176073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4176073", "title": "Jamal Watson", "text": "Jamal Watson\n\nJamal Watson is a writer and columnist whose work is regularly featured in \"Diverse: Issues in Higher Education\" and \"The Root\". In 2001, Watson reported that Harvard Law School Professor Charles Ogletree and attorney Johnnie Cochran were planning a lawsuit on behalf of the descendants of African slaves.\n\nWatson has also written for a variety of other publications including the \"Washington City Paper, The Baltimore Sun\" and \"USA Today.\" He holds a teaching appointment in American Studies at the State University of New York.\n\nAs a critic, Watson is frequently a guest on WNYC radio, an affiliate of National Public Radio and has appeared on Fox News' Hannity and Colmes and Nightline. He is featured in Dick Morris' best-selling book, \"Condi vs. Hillary\" and has been quoted in a handful of other books and publications. He is completing a full-length biography of the Reverend Al Sharpton which was scheduled to be published in Fall 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "39730622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39730622", "title": "Journal of Narrative Theory", "text": "Journal of Narrative Theory\n\nThe Journal of Narrative Theory is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal covering narratology in literary fiction. The journal was established in 1971 as the \"Journal of Narrative Technique\" and obtained its current title in 1999. It is published by the Department of English at Eastern Michigan University and the editors-in-chief are Abby Coykendall and Andrea Kaston Tange. In \"An Introduction to Narratology\", Monika Fludernik lists it as one of \"the most important journals in the field\".\n"}
{"id": "488613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=488613", "title": "Kapu", "text": "Kapu\n\nKapu is the ancient Hawaiian code of conduct of laws and regulations. The \"kapu\" system was universal in lifestyle, gender roles, politics and religion. An offense that was \"kapu\" was often a capital offense, but also often denoted a threat to spiritual power, or theft of \"mana\". \"Kapus\" were strictly enforced. Breaking one, even unintentionally, often meant immediate death, \"Koo kapu\". The concept is related to taboo and the \"tapu\" or \"tabu\" found in other Polynesian cultures. The Hawaiian word \"kapu\" is usually translated to English as \"forbidden\", though it also carries the meanings of \"keep out\", \"no trespassing\", \"sacred\", \"consecrated\", or \"holy\".\n\nThe opposite of kapu is \"noa\", meaning \"common\" or \"free\".\n\nThe \"Kapuhili\" were restrictions placed upon contact with chiefs (kings), but these also apply to all people of known spiritual power. \"Kapu Kū mamao\" means prohibited from a place of the chief, while \"Kapu noho\" was to assemble before the chief. It was \"kapu\" when entering a chief's personal area to come in contact with his hair or fingernail clippings, to look directly at him, and to be in sight of him with a head higher than his. Wearing red and yellow feathers (a sign of royalty) was \"kapu\", unless an individual was of the highest rank. Places that are \"kapu\" are often symbolized by \"Pahu Kapu\", two crossed staffs, each with a white ball atop.\n\nThe \"Ai kapu\" was the \"kapu\" system governing contact between men and women. Many \"alii\" obtained their power through this system, and then would give thanks to the god of politics Kū. \"Ai\" means \"to eat\" and \"Kapu\" means sacred. Therefore, it is translated to \"sacred eating\". It first came about because Wākea wanted to marry his daughter, \"Hoohōkūlani\". To do this, his \"kupuna\" advised him to establish the \"Ai kapu\" which allowed him time away from his wife to be alone with his daughter. In this particular practice, men and women could not eat meals together. Furthermore, certain foods such as pork (the body form of the god Lono), most types (67 of the 70 varieties) of bananas (body form of the god Kanaloa), and coconuts (body form of the god Kū) were considered \"kapu\" to women. In fact, women could not even make coconut rope. Taro (body form of the god Kāne) was kapu for women to cook and prepare. Some large fish were also kapu for women to eat. Isabella Abbott, a leading ethnobotanist of Hawaii theorizes that because of the limited \"noa\" (free) diet for Hawaiian women, seaweeds were relied upon more heavily for Hawaiians than other Pacific islands.\n\nThe \"kapu\" system was used in Hawaii until 1819, when King Kamehameha II, acting with his mother Queen Keōpūolani and his father's other queen Kaʻahumanu, abolished it by the symbolic act of sharing a meal of forbidden foods with the women of his court. Abolishing the \"ai kapu\" assured political power to the line of Kamehameha rulers as monarchs because it limited the power of the rulers below them. Originally, it was from this political system that the rulers throughout the island would gain rank, power, and prestige.\n\nThe ambiguities in the Polynesian concept (from the English point of view) are reflected in the different senses of the word in different national Englishes: in modern usage in Hawaii, \"KAPU\" is often substituted for the phrase \"No Trespassing\" on private property signage. Although kapu can be taken to mean \"keep out\", kapu has a larger meaning to most residents of Hawaii. By contrast, in New Zealand, the comparable word \"tapu\" is almost always applied in English as meaning \"sacred\".\n\nSome terms using Kapu:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30779156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30779156", "title": "List of female action heroes and villains", "text": "List of female action heroes and villains\n\nThe following is a list of female action heroes villains who appear in action films, television shows, comic books, and video games and who are \"thrust into a series of challenges requiring physical feats, extended fights, extensive stunts and frenetic chases.\" Elizabeth Abele suggests that \"the key agency of female action protagonists is their ability to draw on the full range of masculine and feminine qualities in ever-evolving combinations.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38305143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38305143", "title": "Malinchism", "text": "Malinchism\n\nMalinchism () or malinchist () is a form of attraction that the foreigner has in the popular imagination, causing individuals to lose the spirit of nationality by moving to the other side, a particular case of cultural cringe. It is derived from the name of Hernán Cortés's Nahua advisor La Malinche, referring to a deep-rooted Mexican inferiority complex or self-hatred for the preference for all things foreign to the point of self-destruction. La Malinche is used as a symbol for being supposed to have assisted the Spaniards in destroying Native Americans' way of life, values, norms and culture and exploit the Native American peoples.\n\n\"Malinchism\" is a pejorative label, expressing disdain for those who are attracted by foreign values, thinking them superior, of better quality and worthy of imitation. In Mexico and in other countries the term \"malinchism\" or \"malinchist\" applies to all those who feel an attraction to foreign cultures and disregard for their own national culture. It also applies to politics, as in El Salvador, in which the leftist political parties call their opponents \"malinchist right-wing\". The myth of Malinche and the force of this feeling of disgust crossed the Mexican border, and malinchism came to be applied as a technical term, political, for giving preference to foreign cultures.\n\nIt has been argued that upper-class consumers in Mexico display malinchism in their preference for American imports, rather than local Mexican brands. As result, American products are sold mostly on the middle class market, and their advertising agencies generally avoid working class and rural areas. They concentrate their efforts on Mexico City, Monterrey, and Guadalajara, which purchase 70 percent of the American imports.\n\nMalinchism is also associated with a societal depiction of women as the source of betrayal and nefarious behavior. In the images of Mexican popular culture, this theme plays out with Malinche often portrayed as both the deceiver and the deceived. In theatrical productions, she is sometimes portrayed as a victim of conquest, and sometimes the manufacturer of her own destiny; almost always, Malinche is portrayed as guilty, in a form of victim blaming. If she was indeed forced to help the conquistadors against her will, it was because she didn't struggle enough; if she was a willing participant, she not only brought her own troubles, but she caused all of her people and her children to suffer. She is represented in art as a figure showing women's inborn deception and guilt — one who used her sexuality and in so doing betrayed her own unwitting children. Even in dance, the dichotomy persists. In \"La Malinche,\" a ballet composed in 1949, by José Limón, Malinche is at first an unwilling victim, then assumes the proud deportment of an aristocrat, and in the end, weighted down by the finery she wears, she gives birth to the mixed-race child who rejects her. In literature, Malinche has been compared to Eve, the temptress who through deception, leads men astray. \n"}
{"id": "355446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355446", "title": "Mikhail Epstein", "text": "Mikhail Epstein\n\nMikhail Naumovich Epstein (; or Epshtein, born April 21, 1950) is a Russian-American literary theorist and critical thinker. Mikhail Epstein is Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of Cultural Theory and Russian Literature at Emory University, USA. He worked as Professor of Russian and Cultural Theory at Durham University, UK, in 2012–2015. He moved from the USSR (Moscow) to the USA (Atlanta) in 1990 and from the USA to England (Durham) in 2012 and then back to Atlanta, to resume teaching at Emory, in 2015. He was founder and director of Centre for Humanities Innovation at Durham University (2012–2015).\n\nHis areas of specialization include postmodernism, cultural and literary theory; the history of Russian literature (particularly Pushkin, Gogol, Dostoevsky, Platonov and 20th century poetry) and intellectual history; contemporary philosophical and religious thought; new methods and interdisciplinary approaches in the humanities; semiotics, language evolution and neologisms; and ideas and electronic media. Professor Epstein is also an expert on Russian philosophy of the 19th and 20th century and on thinkers like Nikolai Berdyaev. He writes essays on cultural, social, ethical and international issues.\n\nEpstein was born in Moscow, of Jewish heritage. He graduated from the philological faculty of Moscow State University in 1972. He was a member of Soviet Writers Union since 1978 and the founder and director of the Laboratory of Contemporary Culture in Moscow (1988–89).\n\nHe moved to the USA in 1990 and was fellow of Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars (Washington D.C.) in 1990–1991. He joined Emory faculty in 1990. In 1992–1994 he received grant from National Council for Soviet and East European Research to work on the history of Russian thought of the late Soviet period. He has authored InteLnet (Intellectual network, 1995) and a number of other interdisciplinary web sites in the humanities.\n\nOne of his major continuing projects is \"On the Future of the Humanities: Paradigmatic Shifts and Emerging Concepts\" on which he worked as an inaugural senior fellow at the Center for Humanistic Inquiry (Emory University, 2002–03)and as a fellow at the Institute of Advanced Study at Durham University (2011). He had visiting professor appointments at Wesleyan University (1990) and University of Oregon at Eugene (2002).\n\nMikhail Epstein has won national and international prizes, including Andrei Bely prize (St. Petersburg, 1991); The Social Innovations Award 1995 from the Institute for Social Inventions (London) for his electronic Bank of New Ideas; the International Essay Contest set up by Lettre International and Weimar – Cultural City of Europe 1999; and Liberty Prize, awarded for his outstanding contribution in the development of Russian-American cultural connections (New York, 2000).\n\nEpstein maintains blogs on \"Facebook\", \"Snob\" and \"Live Journal\" networks, where, in particular, since 2007 he conducts and reports \"СЛОВО ГОДА\" – a Russian-language \"Word of the Year\".\n\nIn the realm of aesthetics, Epstein (together with poet and conceptual artist Dmitry Prigov) is credited with introducing the concept of \"new sincerity\" (\"novaia iskrennost\") as a response to the dominant sense of absurdity in late Soviet and post-Soviet culture. In Epstein's words, \"Postconceptualism, or the New Sincerity, is an experiment in resuscitating \"fallen,\" dead languages with a renewed pathos of love, sentimentality and enthusiasm.\"\n\nIn his exploration of contemporary spirituality, Epstein focuses on the concept of \"post-atheism,\" or \"minimal [or poor] religion,\" discussed in particular in his correspondence with the Protestant thinker Thomas Altizer and extensively examined in Charles Taylor's book \"The Secular Age\" (2007) that refers to Epstein's innovative work.\n\nMikhail Epstein has coined a number of new concepts and terms (in English and in Russian) that now circulate on tens of thousands of websites in various branches of the humanities.\n\nIn library catalogs, publications are listed under the names: Mikhail Epstein, Mikhail Epshtein, Michail Epstein.\n37 books published in English and Russian, and 19 books translated into German, Serbo-Croatian, Slovenian, Hungarian, Lithuanian, Ukrainian, and Korean. Articles and essays have been translated and published in 23 languages. Full list of publications includes more than 700 items.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "175546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175546", "title": "Missionary Generation", "text": "Missionary Generation\n\nThe Missionary Generation was the name given by sociologists to describe the generation of people born in the United States from 1860 to 1882. It is an identified cohort within the Strauss–Howe generational theory.\n\nMembers of the Missionary Generation have been described as the \"home-and-hearth children of the post-Civil War era\". They were an idealist generation and as young adults, their leaders were the first graduates of newly formed black and women's colleges.\n\nThey rejected the strict Victorian values, questioned gender roles and feared society would become soulless, inhumane, and money-driven.\n\nTheir defining characteristics were missionary and social crusades, \"muckrake\" journalism, prohibitionism, workers' rights, trade unionism and women's suffrage. In midlife, they developed Prohibition in the United States, immigration control, and organized vice squads.\n\nBecause the Lost Generation were so decimated by World War I, the leadership of the Missionary Generation lasted longer than previous generations and in the 1930s and 1940s, their elite became the \"Wise Old Men\" who enacted a \"New Deal\", Social Security, led the global war against fascism, and reaffirmed America's highest ideals during a transformative era in world history.\n\nThis generation is fully ancestral, with the last known member of the Missionary Generation, the American Sarah Knauss, having died on December 30, 1999 at 119 years of age.\n\nSociologist Naomi Schaefer Riley believes that a new \"Missionary Generation\" is forming in the children of the 2010s.\n\nThe following list includes some of the notable persons who influenced this generation:\n\nStanley Baldwin, Neville Chamberlain, Winston Churchill, David Lloyd George, Ramsay MacDonald, Joseph Cook, Andrew Fisher, Billy Hughes, Joseph Lyons, Earle Page, James Scullin, Chris Watson, R. B. Bennett, William Lyon Mackenzie King, Arthur Meighen, Gordon Coates, George Forbes, Michael Joseph Savage, Franz von Papen,\nVladimir Ilyich Lenin,\nFranklin Delano Roosevelt, \nMahatma Gandhi, \nDouglas MacArthur, \nJoseph Stalin, \nWarren Harding, \nCalvin Coolidge, \nHerbert Hoover, Charles Curtis, Charles G. Dawes, John Nance Garner,\nWilliam Jennings Bryan, \nKonrad Adenauer,\nLeon Trotsky\n\nAlbert Einstein, \nMadame Curie, \nGuglielmo Marconi, \nAlbert Schweitzer, \nCarl Jung, \nErnest Rutherford,\nRoald Amundsen, \nWillis Carrier,\nW.E.B. DuBois\n\nWilliam Butler Yeats,\nRudyard Kipling,\nBeatrix Potter,\nH.G. Wells,\nEdgar Rice Burroughs,\nA.A. Milne,\nJames Joyce, \nUpton Sinclair, \nThomas Mann,\nAnton Chekhov\n\nGustav Mahler,\nClaude Debussy,\nJean Sibelius,\nIgor Stravinsky, \nEnrico Caruso,\nW.C. Handy,\nArturo Toscanini,\nBéla Bartók,\nNellie Melba,\nPierre Monteux,\nFritz Kreisler,\nPablo Casals\n\nPablo Picasso, \nHenri Matisse,\nGeorges Seurat\n\nMata Hari\n"}
{"id": "18839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18839", "title": "Music", "text": "Music\n\nMusic is an art form and cultural activity whose medium is sound organized in time. In general definitions of music will include common elements such as pitch (which governs melody and harmony), rhythm (and its associated concepts tempo, meter, and articulation), dynamics (loudness and softness), and the sonic qualities of timbre and texture (which are sometimes termed the \"color\" of a musical sound). Different styles or types of music may emphasize, de-emphasize or omit some of these elements. Music is performed with a vast range of instruments and vocal techniques ranging from singing to rapping; there are solely instrumental pieces, solely vocal pieces (such as songs without instrumental accompaniment) and pieces that combine singing and instruments. The word derives from Greek μουσική (\"mousike\"; \"art of the Muses\").\nSee glossary of musical terminology.\n\nIn its most general form, the activities describing music as an art form or cultural activity include the creation of works of music (songs, tunes, symphonies, and so on), the criticism of music, the study of the history of music, and the aesthetic examination of music. Ancient Greek and Indian philosophers defined music as tones ordered horizontally as melodies and vertically as harmonies. Common sayings such as \"the harmony of the spheres\" and \"it is music to my ears\" point to the notion that music is often ordered and pleasant to listen to. However, 20th-century composer John Cage thought that any sound can be music, saying, for example, \"There is no noise, only sound.\"\n\nThe creation, performance, significance, and even the definition of music vary according to culture and social context. Indeed, throughout history, some new forms or styles of music have been criticized as \"not being music\", including Beethoven's \"Grosse Fuge\" string quartet in 1825, early jazz in the beginning of the 1900s and hardcore punk in the 1980s. There are many types of music, including popular music, traditional music, art music, music written for religious ceremonies and work songs such as chanteys. Music ranges from strictly organized compositions–such as Classical music symphonies from the 1700s and 1800s, through to spontaneously played improvisational music such as jazz, and avant-garde styles of chance-based contemporary music from the 20th and 21st centuries.\n\nMusic can be divided into genres (e.g., country music) and genres can be further divided into subgenres (e.g., country blues and pop country are two of the many country subgenres), although the dividing lines and relationships between music genres are often subtle, sometimes open to personal interpretation, and occasionally controversial. For example, it can be hard to draw the line between some early 1980s hard rock and heavy metal. Within the arts, music may be classified as a performing art, a fine art or as an auditory art. Music may be played or sung and heard live at a rock concert or orchestra performance, heard live as part of a dramatic work (a music theater show or opera), or it may be recorded and listened to on a radio, MP3 player, CD player, smartphone or as film score or TV show.\n\nIn many cultures, music is an important part of people's way of life, as it plays a key role in religious rituals, rite of passage ceremonies (e.g., graduation and marriage), social activities (e.g., dancing) and cultural activities ranging from amateur karaoke singing to playing in an amateur funk band or singing in a community choir. People may make music as a hobby, like a teen playing cello in a youth orchestra, or work as a professional musician or singer. The music industry includes the individuals who create new songs and musical pieces (such as songwriters and composers), individuals who perform music (which include orchestra, jazz band and rock band musicians, singers and conductors), individuals who record music (music producers and sound engineers), individuals who organize concert tours, and individuals who sell recordings and sheet music and scores to customers.\n\nThe word derives from Greek μουσική (\"mousike\"; \"art of the Muses\"). In Greek mythology, the nine Muses were the goddesses who inspired literature, science, and the arts and who were the source of the knowledge embodied in the poetry, song-lyrics, and myths in the Greek culture. According to the \"Online Etymological Dictionary\", the term \"music\" is derived from \"mid-13c., musike, from Old French \"musique\" (12c.) and directly from Latin \"musica\" \"the art of music,\" also including poetry (also [the] source of Spanish \"musica\", Italian \"musica\", Old High German \"mosica\", German \"Musik\", Dutch \"muziek\", Danish \"musik\").\" This is derived from the \"...Greek \"mousike (techne)\" \"(art) of the Muses,\" from fem. of mousikos \"pertaining to the Muses,\" from Mousa \"Muse\" (see muse (n.)). Modern spelling [dates] from [the] 1630s. In classical Greece, [the term \"music\" refers to] any art in which the Muses presided, but especially music and lyric poetry.\"\n\nMusic is composed and performed for many purposes, ranging from aesthetic pleasure, religious or ceremonial purposes, or as an entertainment product for the marketplace. When music was only available through sheet music scores, such as during the Classical and Romantic eras, music lovers would buy the sheet music of their favourite pieces and songs so that they could perform them at home on the piano. With the advent of sound recording, records of popular songs, rather than sheet music became the dominant way that music lovers would enjoy their favourite songs. With the advent of home tape recorders in the 1980s and digital music in the 1990s, music lovers could make tapes or playlists of their favourite songs and take them with them on a portable cassette player or MP3 player. Some music lovers create mix tapes of their favorite songs, which serve as a \"self-portrait, a gesture of friendship, prescription for an ideal party... [and] an environment consisting solely of what is most ardently loved.\"\n\nAmateur musicians can compose or perform music for their own pleasure, and derive their income elsewhere. Professional musicians are employed by a range of institutions and organisations, including armed forces (in marching bands, concert bands and popular music groups), churches and synagogues, symphony orchestras, broadcasting or film production companies, and music schools. Professional musicians sometimes work as freelancers or session musicians, seeking contracts and engagements in a variety of settings. There are often many links between amateur and professional musicians. Beginning amateur musicians take lessons with professional musicians. In community settings, advanced amateur musicians perform with professional musicians in a variety of ensembles such as community concert bands and community orchestras.\n\nA distinction is often made between music performed for a live audience and music that is performed in a studio so that it can be recorded and distributed through the music retail system or the broadcasting system. However, there are also many cases where a live performance in front of an audience is also recorded and distributed. Live concert recordings are popular in both classical music and in popular music forms such as rock, where illegally taped live concerts are prized by music lovers. In the jam band scene, live, improvised jam sessions are preferred to studio recordings.\n\n\"Composition\" is the act or practice of creating a song, an instrumental music piece, a work with both singing and instruments, or another type of music. In many cultures, including Western classical music, the act of composing also includes the creation of music notation, such as a sheet music \"score\", which is then performed by the composer or by other singers or musicians. In popular music and traditional music, the act of composing, which is typically called songwriting, may involve the creation of a basic outline of the song, called the lead sheet, which sets out the melody, lyrics and chord progression. In classical music, the composer typically orchestrates his or her own compositions, but in musical theatre and in pop music, songwriters may hire an arranger to do the orchestration. In some cases, a songwriter may not use notation at all, and instead compose the song in her mind and then play or record it from memory. In jazz and popular music, notable recordings by influential performers are given the weight that written scores play in classical music.\n\nEven when music is notated relatively precisely, as in classical music, there are many decisions that a performer has to make, because notation does not specify all of the elements of music precisely. The process of deciding how to perform music that has been previously composed and notated is termed \"interpretation\". Different performers' interpretations of the same work of music can vary widely, in terms of the tempos that are chosen and the playing or singing style or phrasing of the melodies. Composers and songwriters who present their own music are interpreting their songs, just as much as those who perform the music of others. The standard body of choices and techniques present at a given time and a given place is referred to as performance practice, whereas interpretation is generally used to mean the individual choices of a performer.\n\nAlthough a musical composition often uses musical notation and has a single author, this is not always the case. A work of music can have multiple composers, which often occurs in popular music when a band collaborates to write a song, or in musical theatre, when one person writes the melodies, a second person writes the lyrics, and a third person orchestrates the songs. In some styles of music, such as the blues, a composer/songwriter may create, perform and record new songs or pieces without ever writing them down in music notation. A piece of music can also be composed with words, images, or computer programs that explain or notate how the singer or musician should create musical sounds. Examples range from avant-garde music that uses graphic notation, to text compositions such as \"Aus den sieben Tagen\", to computer programs that select sounds for musical pieces. Music that makes heavy use of randomness and chance is called aleatoric music, and is associated with contemporary composers active in the 20th century, such as John Cage, Morton Feldman, and Witold Lutosławski. A more commonly known example of chance-based music is the sound of wind chimes jingling in a breeze.\n\nThe study of composition has traditionally been dominated by examination of methods and practice of Western classical music, but the definition of composition is broad enough to include the creation of popular music and traditional music songs and instrumental pieces as well as spontaneously improvised works like those of free jazz performers and African percussionists such as Ewe drummers.\n\nIn the 2000s, music notation typically means the written expression of music notes and rhythms on paper using symbols. When music is written down, the pitches and rhythm of the music, such as the notes of a melody, are notated. Music notation also often provides instructions on how to perform the music. For example, the sheet music for a song may state that the song is a \"slow blues\" or a \"fast swing\", which indicates the tempo and the genre. To read music notation, a person must have an understanding of music theory, harmony and the performance practice associated with a particular song or piece's genre.\n\nWritten notation varies with style and period of music. In the 2000s, notated music is produced as sheet music or, for individuals with computer scorewriter programs, as an image on a computer screen. In ancient times, music notation was put onto stone or clay tablets. To perform music from notation, a singer or instrumentalist requires an understanding of the rhythmic and pitch elements embodied in the symbols and the performance practice that is associated with a piece of music or a genre. In genres requiring musical improvisation, the performer often plays from music where only the chord changes and form of the song are written, requiring the performer to have a great understanding of the music's structure, harmony and the styles of a particular genre (e.g., jazz or country music).\n\nIn Western art music, the most common types of written notation are scores, which include all the music parts of an ensemble piece, and parts, which are the music notation for the individual performers or singers. In popular music, jazz, and blues, the standard musical notation is the lead sheet, which notates the melody, chords, lyrics (if it is a vocal piece), and structure of the music. Fake books are also used in jazz; they may consist of lead sheets or simply chord charts, which permit rhythm section members to improvise an accompaniment part to jazz songs. Scores and parts are also used in popular music and jazz, particularly in large ensembles such as jazz \"big bands.\" In popular music, guitarists and electric bass players often read music notated in tablature (often abbreviated as \"tab\"), which indicates the location of the notes to be played on the instrument using a diagram of the guitar or bass fingerboard. Tabulature was also used in the Baroque era to notate music for the lute, a stringed, fretted instrument.\n\nMusical improvisation is the creation of spontaneous music, often within (or based on) a pre-existing harmonic framework or chord progression. Improvisation is the act of instantaneous composition by performers, where compositional techniques are employed with or without preparation. Improvisation is a major part of some types of music, such as blues, jazz, and jazz fusion, in which instrumental performers improvise solos, melody lines and accompaniment parts. In the Western art music tradition, improvisation was an important skill during the Baroque era and during the Classical era. In the Baroque era, performers improvised ornaments and basso continuo keyboard players improvised chord voicings based on figured bass notation. In the Classical era, solo performers and singers improvised virtuoso cadenzas during concerts. However, in the 20th and early 21st century, as \"common practice\" Western art music performance became institutionalized in symphony orchestras, opera houses and ballets, improvisation has played a smaller role. At the same time, some modern composers have increasingly included improvisation in their creative work. In Indian classical music, improvisation is a core component and an essential criterion of performances.\n\nMusic theory encompasses the nature and mechanics of music. It often involves identifying patterns that govern composers' techniques and examining the language and notation of music. In a grand sense, music theory distills and analyzes the parameters or elements of music – rhythm, harmony (harmonic function), melody, structure, form, and texture. Broadly, music theory may include any statement, belief, or conception of or about music. People who study these properties are known as music theorists. Some have applied acoustics, human physiology, and psychology to the explanation of how and why music is perceived.\n\nMusic has many different fundamentals or elements. Depending on the definition of \"element\" being used, these can include: pitch, beat or pulse, tempo, rhythm, melody, harmony, texture, style, allocation of voices, timbre or color, dynamics, expression, articulation, form and structure. The elements of music feature prominently in the music curriculums of Australia, UK and US. All three curriculums identify pitch, dynamics, timbre and texture as elements, but the other identified elements of music are far from universally agreed. Below is a list of the three official versions of the \"elements of music\":\n\nIn relation to the UK curriculum, in 2013 the term: \"appropriate musical notations\" was added to their list of elements and the title of the list was changed from the \"elements of music\" to the \"inter-related dimensions of music\". The inter-related dimensions of music are listed as: pitch, duration, dynamics, tempo, timbre, texture, structure and appropriate musical notations.\n\nThe phrase \"the elements of music\" is used in a number of different contexts. The two most common contexts can be differentiated by describing them as the \"rudimentary elements of music\" and the \"perceptual elements of music\".\n\nIn the 1800s, the phrases \"the elements of music\" and \"the rudiments of music\" were used interchangeably. The elements described in these documents refer to aspects of music that are needed in order to become a musician, Recent writers such as Estrella seem to be using the phrase \"elements of music\" in a similar manner. A definition which most accurately reflects this usage is: \"the rudimentary principles of an art, science, etc.: the elements of grammar.\" The UK's curriculum switch to the \"inter-related dimensions of music\" seems to be a move back to using the rudimentary elements of music.\n\nSince the emergence of the study of psychoacoustics in the 1930s, most lists of elements of music have related more to how we \"hear\" music than how we learn to play it or study it. C.E. Seashore, in his book \"Psychology of Music\", identified four \"psychological attributes of sound\". These were: \"pitch, loudness, time, and timbre\" (p. 3). He did not call them the \"elements of music\" but referred to them as \"elemental components\" (p. 2). Nonetheless these elemental components link precisely with four of the most common musical elements: \"Pitch\" and \"timbre\" match exactly, \"loudness\" links with dynamics and \"time\" links with the time-based elements of rhythm, duration and tempo. This usage of the phrase \"the elements of music\" links more closely with \"Webster's New 20th Century Dictionary\" definition of an element as: \"a substance which cannot be divided into a simpler form by known methods\" and educational institutions' lists of elements generally align with this definition as well.\n\nAlthough writers of lists of \"rudimentary elements of music\" can vary their lists depending on their personal (or institutional) priorities, the perceptual elements of music should consist of an established (or proven) list of discrete elements which can be independently manipulated to achieve an intended musical effect. It seems at this stage that there is still research to be done in this area.\n\nSome styles of music place an emphasis on certain of these fundamentals, while others place less emphasis on certain elements. To give one example, while Bebop-era jazz makes use of very complex chords, including altered dominants and challenging chord progressions, with chords changing two or more times per bar and keys changing several times in a tune, funk places most of its emphasis on rhythm and groove, with entire songs based around a vamp on a single chord. While Romantic era classical music from the mid- to late-1800s makes great use of dramatic changes of dynamics, from whispering pianissimo sections to thunderous fortissimo sections, some entire Baroque dance suites for harpsichord from the early 1700s may use a single dynamic. To give another example, while some art music pieces, such as symphonies are very long, some pop songs are just a few minutes long.\n\nPitch is an aspect of a sound that we can hear, reflecting whether one musical sound, note or tone is \"higher\" or \"lower\" than another musical sound, note or tone. We can talk about the highness or lowness of pitch in the more general sense, such as the way a listener hears a piercingly high piccolo note or whistling tone as higher in pitch than a deep thump of a bass drum. We also talk about pitch in the precise sense associated with musical melodies, basslines and chords. Precise pitch can only be determined in sounds that have a frequency that is clear and stable enough to distinguish from noise. For example, it is much easier for listeners to discern the pitch of a single note played on a piano than to try to discern the pitch of a crash cymbal that is struck.\nA melody (also called a \"tune\") is a series of pitches (notes) sounding in succession (one after the other), often in a rising and falling pattern. The notes of a melody are typically created using pitch systems such as scales or modes. Melodies also often contain notes from the chords used in the song. The melodies in simple folk songs and traditional songs may use only the notes of a single scale, the scale associated with the tonic note or key of a given song. For example, a folk song in the key of C (also referred to as C major) may have a melody that uses only the notes of the C major scale (the individual notes C, D, E, F, G, A, B and C; these are the \"white notes\" on a piano keyboard. On the other hand, Bebop-era jazz from the 1940s and contemporary music from the 20th and 21st centuries may use melodies with many chromatic notes (i.e., notes in addition to the notes of the major scale; on a piano, a chromatic scale would include all the notes on the keyboard, including the \"white notes\" and \"black notes\" and unusual scales, such as the whole tone scale (a whole tone scale in the key of C would contain the notes C, D, E, F, G and A). A low, deep musical line played by bass instruments such as double bass, electric bass or tuba is called a bassline.\n\nHarmony refers to the \"vertical\" sounds of pitches in music, which means pitches that are played or sung together at the same time to create a chord. Usually this means the notes are played at the same time, although harmony may also be implied by a melody that outlines a harmonic structure (i.e., by using melody notes that are played one after the other, outlining the notes of a chord). In music written using the system of major-minor tonality (\"keys\"), which includes most classical music written from 1600 to 1900 and most Western pop, rock and traditional music, the key of a piece determines the scale used, which centres around the \"home note\" or tonic of the key. Simple classical pieces and many pop and traditional music songs are written so that all the music is in a single key. More complex Classical, pop and traditional music songs and pieces may have two keys (and in some cases three or more keys). Classical music from the Romantic era (written from about 1820–1900) often contains multiple keys, as does jazz, especially Bebop jazz from the 1940s, in which the key or \"home note\" of a song may change every four bars or even every two bars.\n\nRhythm is the arrangement of sounds and silences in time. Meter animates time in regular pulse groupings, called measures or bars, which in Western classical, popular and traditional music often group notes in sets of two (e.g., 2/4 time), three (e.g., 3/4 time, also known as Waltz time, or 3/8 time), or four (e.g., 4/4 time). Meters are made easier to hear because songs and pieces often (but not always) place an emphasis on the first beat of each grouping. Notable exceptions exist, such as the backbeat used in much Western pop and rock, in which a song that uses a measure that consists of four beats (called 4/4 time or common time) will have accents on beats two and four, which are typically performed by the drummer on the snare drum, a loud and distinctive-sounding percussion instrument. In pop and rock, the rhythm parts of a song are played by the rhythm section, which includes chord-playing instruments (e.g., electric guitar, acoustic guitar, piano, or other keyboard instruments), a bass instrument (typically electric bass or for some styles such as jazz and bluegrass, double bass) and a drum kit player.\n\nMusical texture is the overall sound of a piece of music or song. The texture of a piece or sing is determined by how the melodic, rhythmic, and harmonic materials are combined in a composition, thus determining the overall nature of the sound in a piece. Texture is often described in regard to the density, or thickness, and range, or width, between lowest and highest pitches, in relative terms as well as more specifically distinguished according to the number of voices, or parts, and the relationship between these voices (see common types below). For example, a thick texture contains many 'layers' of instruments. One of these layers could be a string section, or another brass. The thickness also is affected by the amount and the richness of the instruments. Texture is commonly described according to the number of and relationship between parts or lines of music:\n\nMusic that contains a large number of independent parts (e.g., a double concerto accompanied by 100 orchestral instruments with many interweaving melodic lines) is generally said to have a \"thicker\" or \"denser\" texture than a work with few parts (e.g., a solo flute melody accompanied by a single cello).\n\nTimbre, sometimes called \"color\" or \"tone color\" is the quality or sound of a voice or instrument. Timbre is what makes a particular musical sound different from another, even when they have the same pitch and loudness. For example, a 440 Hz A note sounds different when it is played on oboe, piano, violin or electric guitar. Even if different players of the same instrument play the same note, their notes might sound different due to differences in instrumental technique (e.g., different embouchures), different types of accessories (e.g., mouthpieces for brass players, reeds for oboe and bassoon players) or strings made out of different materials for string players (e.g., gut strings versus steel strings). Even two instrumentalists playing the same note on the same instrument (one after the other) may sound different due to different ways of playing the instrument (e.g., two string players might hold the bow differently).\n\nThe physical characteristics of sound that determine the perception of timbre include the spectrum, envelope and overtones of a note or musical sound. For electric instruments developed in the 20th century, such as electric guitar, electric bass and electric piano, the performer can also change the tone by adjusting equalizer controls, tone controls on the instrument, and by using electronic effects units such as distortion pedals. The tone of the electric Hammond organ is controlled by adjusting drawbars.\n\nExpressive qualities are those elements in music that create change in music without changing the main pitches or substantially changing the rhythms of the melody and its accompaniment. Performers, including singers and instrumentalists, can add musical expression to a song or piece by adding phrasing, by adding effects such as vibrato (with voice and some instruments, such as guitar, violin, brass instruments and woodwinds), dynamics (the loudness or softness of piece or a section of it), tempo fluctuations (e.g., ritardando or accelerando, which are, respectively slowing down and speeding up the tempo), by adding pauses or fermatas on a cadence, and by changing the articulation of the notes (e.g., making notes more pronounced or accented, by making notes more legato, which means smoothly connected, or by making notes shorter).\n\nExpression is achieved through the manipulation of pitch (such as inflection, vibrato, slides etc.), volume (dynamics, accent, tremolo etc.), duration (tempo fluctuations, rhythmic changes, changing note duration such as with legato and staccato, etc.), timbre (e.g. changing vocal timbre from a light to a resonant voice) and sometimes even texture (e.g. doubling the bass note for a richer effect in a piano piece). Expression therefore can be seen as a manipulation of all elements in order to convey \"an indication of mood, spirit, character etc.\" and as such cannot be included as a unique perceptual element of music, although it can be considered an important rudimentary element of music.\n\nIn music, form describes how the overall structure or plan of a song or piece of music, and it describes the layout of a composition as divided into sections. In the early 20th century, Tin Pan Alley songs and Broadway musical songs were often in AABA 32 bar form, in which the A sections repeated the same eight bar melody and the B section provided a contrasting melody and/or harmony for 8 bars. From the 1960s onward, Western pop and rock songs are often in verse-chorus form, which is based around a sequence of verse and chorus (\"refrain\") sections, with new lyrics for most verses and repeating lyrics for the choruses. Popular music often makes use of strophic form, sometimes in conjunction with the twelve bar blues.\n\nIn the tenth edition of \"The Oxford Companion to Music\", Percy Scholes defines musical form as \"a series of strategies designed to find a successful mean between the opposite extremes of unrelieved repetition and unrelieved alteration.\" Examples of common forms of Western music include the fugue, the invention, sonata-allegro, canon, strophic, theme and variations, and rondo.\nScholes states that European classical music had only six stand-alone forms: simple binary, simple ternary, compound binary, rondo, air with variations, and fugue (although musicologist Alfred Mann emphasized that the fugue is primarily a method of composition that has sometimes taken on certain structural conventions.)\n\nWhere a piece cannot readily be broken down into sectional units (though it might borrow some form from a poem, story or programme), it is said to be through-composed. Such is often the case with a fantasia, prelude, rhapsody, etude (or study), symphonic poem, Bagatelle, impromptu, etc. Professor Charles Keil classified forms and formal detail as \"sectional, developmental, or variational.\"\n\nThis form is built from a sequence of clear-cut units that may be referred to by letters but also often have generic names such as introduction and coda, exposition, development and recapitulation, verse, chorus or refrain, and bridge. Introductions and codas, when they are no more than that, are frequently excluded from formal analysis. All such units may typically be eight measures long. Sectional forms include:\n\nThis form is defined by its \"unrelieved repetition\" (AAAA...).\n\n\nMedley, potpourri is the extreme opposite, that of \"unrelieved variation\": it is simply an indefinite sequence of self-contained sections (ABCD...), sometimes with repeats (AABBCCDD...). Examples include orchestral overtures, which are sometimes no more than a string of the best tunes of the musical theatre show or opera to come.\n\nThis form uses two sections (AB...), each often repeated (AABB...). In 18th-century Western classical music, \"simple binary\" form was often used for dances and carried with it the convention that the two sections should be in different musical keys but same rhythm, duration and tone. The alternation of two tunes gives enough variety to permit a dance to be extended for as long as desired.\nb\nThis form has three parts. In Western classical music a simple ternary form has a third section that is a recapitulation of the first (ABA). Often, the first section is repeated (AABA). This approach was popular in the 18th-century operatic aria, and was called \"da capo\" (i.e. \"repeat from the top\") form. Later, it gave rise to the 32-bar song, with the B section then often referred to as the \"middle eight\". A song has more need than a dance of a self-contained form with a beginning and an end of course.\n\nThis form has a recurring theme alternating with different (usually contrasting) sections called \"episodes\". It may be asymmetrical (ABACADAEA) or symmetrical (ABACABA). A recurring section, especially the main theme, is sometimes more thoroughly varied, or else one episode may be a \"development\" of it. A similar arrangement is the ritornello form of the Baroque concerto grosso. Arch form (ABCBA) resembles a symmetrical rondo without intermediate repetitions of the main theme. It is normally used in a round.\n\nVariational forms are those in which variation is an important formative element.\n\nTheme and Variations: a theme, which in itself can be of any shorter form (binary, ternary, etc.), forms the only \"section\" and is repeated indefinitely (as in strophic form) but is varied each time (A, B, A, F, Z, A), so as to make a sort of sectional chain form. An important variant of this, much used in 17th-century British music and in the Passacaglia and Chaconne, was that of the ground bass – a repeating bass theme or \"basso ostinato\" over and around which the rest of the structure unfolds, often, but not always, spinning polyphonic or contrapuntal threads, or improvising divisions and descants. This is said by Scholes (1977) to be the form \"par excellence\" of unaccompanied or accompanied solo instrumental music. The Rondo is often found with sections varied (AABACABA) or (ABACABA).\n\nDevelopmental forms are built directly from smaller units, such as motifs. A well-known Classical piece with a motif is Beethoven's fifth symphony, which starts with three short repeated notes and then a long note. In Classical pieces that are based on motifs, the motif is usually combined, varied and worked out in different ways, perhaps having a symmetrical or arch-like underpinning and a progressive development from beginning to end. By far the most important developmental form in Western classical music is Sonata form.\nThis form, also known as \"sonata\" form, first movement form, compound binary, ternary and a variety of other names, developed from the binary-formed dance movement described above but is almost always cast in a greater ternary form having the nominal subdivisions of \"Exposition, Development\" and \"Recapitulation\". Usually, but not always, the \"A\" parts (Exposition and Recapitulation, respectively) may be subdivided into two or three themes or theme groups which are taken asunder and recombined to form the \"B\" part (the development) – thus e. g. (AabB[dev. of a and/or b]Aab+coda). This developmental form is generally confined to certain sections of the piece, as to the middle section of the first movement of a sonata, though 19th-century composers such as Berlioz, Liszt and Wagner made valiant efforts to derive large-scale works purely or mainly from the motif.\n\nPrehistoric music can only be theorized based on findings from paleolithic archaeology sites. Flutes are often discovered, carved from bones in which lateral holes have been pierced; these are thought to have been blown at one end like the Japanese shakuhachi. The Divje Babe flute, carved from a cave bear femur, is thought to be at least 40,000 years old. Instruments such as the seven-holed flute and various types of stringed instruments, such as the Ravanahatha, have been recovered from the Indus Valley Civilization archaeological sites. India has one of the oldest musical traditions in the world—references to Indian classical music (\"marga\") are found in the Vedas, ancient scriptures of the Hindu tradition. The earliest and largest collection of prehistoric musical instruments was found in China and dates back to between 7000 and 6600 BC. The \"Hurrian Hymn to Nikkal\", found on clay tablets that date back to approximately 1400 BC, is the oldest surviving notated work of music.\n\nThe ancient Egyptians credited one of their gods, Thoth, with the invention of music, with Osiris in turn used as part of his effort to civilize the world. The earliest material and representational evidence of Egyptian musical instruments dates to the Predynastic period, but the evidence is more securely attested in the Old Kingdom when harps, flutes and double clarinets were played. Percussion instruments, lyres and lutes were added to orchestras by the Middle Kingdom. Cymbals frequently accompanied music and dance, much as they still do in Egypt today. Egyptian folk music, including the traditional Sufi \"dhikr\" rituals, are the closest contemporary music genre to ancient Egyptian music, having preserved many of its features, rhythms and instruments.\n\nIndian classical music is one of the oldest musical traditions in the world. The Indus Valley civilization has sculptures that show dance and old musical instruments, like the seven holed flute. Various types of stringed instruments and drums have been recovered from Harappa and Mohenjo Daro by excavations carried out by Sir Mortimer Wheeler. The Rigveda has elements of present Indian music, with a musical notation to denote the metre and the mode of chanting. Indian classical music (marga) is monophonic, and based on a single melody line or raga rhythmically organized through talas. \"Silappadhikaram\" by Ilango Adigal provides information about how new scales can be formed by modal shifting of the tonic from an existing scale. Hindi music was influenced by the Persian performance practices of the Afghan Mughals. Carnatic music, popular in the southern states, is largely devotional; the majority of the songs are addressed to the Hindu deities. There are also many songs emphasising love and other social issues.\n\nAsian music covers the music cultures of Arabia, Central Asia, East Asia, South Asia, and Southeast Asia. Chinese classical music, the traditional art or court music of China, has a history stretching over around three thousand years. It has its own unique systems of musical notation, as well as musical tuning and pitch, musical instruments and styles or musical genres. Chinese music is pentatonic-diatonic, having a scale of twelve notes to an octave (5 + 7 = 12) as does European-influenced music. Persian music is the music of Persia and Persian language countries: \"musiqi\", the science and art of music, and \"muzik\", the sound and performance of music (Sakata 1983).\n\nMusic and theatre scholars studying the history and anthropology of Semitic and early Judeo-Christian culture have discovered common links in theatrical and musical activity between the classical cultures of the Hebrews and those of later Greeks and Romans. The common area of performance is found in a \"social phenomenon called litany,\" a form of prayer consisting of a series of invocations or supplications. \"The Journal of Religion and Theatre\" notes that among the earliest forms of litany, \"Hebrew litany was accompanied by a rich musical tradition:\"\n\nMusic was an important part of social and cultural life in ancient Greece. Musicians and singers played a prominent role in Greek theater. Mixed-gender choruses performed for entertainment, celebration, and spiritual ceremonies. Instruments included the double-reed \"aulos\" and a plucked string instrument, the \"lyre\", principally the special kind called a \"kithara\". Music was an important part of education, and boys were taught music starting at age six. Greek musical literacy created a flowering of music development. Greek music theory included the Greek musical modes, that eventually became the basis for Western religious and classical music. Later, influences from the Roman Empire, Eastern Europe, and the Byzantine Empire changed Greek music. The Seikilos epitaph is the oldest surviving example of a complete musical composition, including musical notation, from anywhere in the world. The oldest surviving work written on the subject of music theory is \"Harmonika Stoicheia\" by Aristoxenus.\n\nThe medieval era (476 to 1400), which took place during the Middle Ages, started with the introduction of monophonic (single melodic line) chanting into Roman Catholic Church services. Musical notation was used since Ancient times in Greek culture, but in the Middle Ages, notation was first introduced by the Catholic church so that the chant melodies could be written down, to facilitate the use of the same melodies for religious music across the entire Catholic empire. The only European Medieval repertory that has been found in written form from before 800 is the monophonic liturgical plainsong chant of the Roman Catholic Church, the central tradition of which was called Gregorian chant. Alongside these traditions of sacred and church music there existed a vibrant tradition of secular song (non-religious songs). Examples of composers from this period are Léonin, Pérotin, Guillaume de Machaut, and Walther von der Vogelweide.\n\nRenaissance music (c. 1400 to 1600) was more focused on secular (non-religious) themes, such as courtly love. Around 1450, the printing press was invented, which made printed sheet music much less expensive and easier to mass-produce (prior to the invention of the printing press, all notated music was hand-copied). The increased availability of sheet music helped to spread musical styles more quickly and across a larger area. Musicians and singers often worked for the church, courts and towns. Church choirs grew in size, and the church remained an important patron of music. By the middle of the 15th century, composers wrote richly polyphonic sacred music, in which different melody lines were interwoven simultaneously. Prominent composers from this era include Guillaume Dufay, Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina, Thomas Morley, and Orlande de Lassus. As musical activity shifted from the church to the aristocratic courts, kings, queens and princes competed for the finest composers. Many leading important composers came from the Netherlands, Belgium, and northern France. They are called the Franco-Flemish composers. They held important positions throughout Europe, especially in Italy. Other countries with vibrant musical activity included Germany, England, and Spain.\n\nThe Baroque era of music took place from 1600 to 1750, as the Baroque artistic style flourished across Europe; and during this time, music expanded in its range and complexity. Baroque music began when the first operas (dramatic solo vocal music accompanied by orchestra) were written. During the Baroque era, polyphonic contrapuntal music, in which multiple, simultaneous independent melody lines were used, remained important (counterpoint was important in the vocal music of the Medieval era). German Baroque composers wrote for small ensembles including strings, brass, and woodwinds, as well as for choirs and keyboard instruments such as pipe organ, harpsichord, and clavichord. During this period several major music forms were defined that lasted into later periods when they were expanded and evolved further, including the fugue, the invention, the sonata, and the concerto. The late Baroque style was polyphonically complex and richly ornamented. Important composers from the Baroque era include Johann Sebastian Bach, George Frideric Handel, Georg Philipp Telemann and Antonio Lucio Vivaldi.\n\nThe music of the Classical period (1730 to 1820) aimed to imitate what were seen as the key elements of the art and philosophy of Ancient Greece and Rome: the ideals of balance, proportion and disciplined expression. (Note: the music from the Classical period should not be confused with Classical music in general, a term which refers to Western art music from the 5th century to the 2000s, which includes the Classical period as one of a number of periods). Music from the Classical period has a lighter, clearer and considerably simpler texture than the Baroque music which preceded it. The main style was homophony, where a prominent melody and a subordinate chordal accompaniment part are clearly distinct. Classical instrumental melodies tended to be almost voicelike and singable. New genres were developed, and the fortepiano, the forerunner to the modern piano, replaced the Baroque era harpsichord and pipe organ as the main keyboard instrument.\n\nImportance was given to instrumental music. It was dominated by further development of musical forms initially defined in the Baroque period: the sonata, the concerto, and the symphony. Others main kinds were the trio, string quartet, serenade and divertimento. The sonata was the most important and developed form. Although Baroque composers also wrote sonatas, the Classical style of sonata is completely distinct. All of the main instrumental forms of the Classical era, from string quartets to symphonies and concertos, were based on the structure of the sonata. The instruments used chamber music and orchestra became more standardized. In place of the basso continuo group of the Baroque era, which consisted of harpsichord, organ or lute along with a number of bass instruments selected at the discretion of the group leader (e.g., viol, cello, theorbo, serpent), Classical chamber groups used specified, standardized instruments (e.g., a string quartet would be performed by two violins, a viola and a cello). The Baroque era improvised chord-playing of the continuo keyboardist or lute player was gradually phased out between 1750 and 1800.\n\nOne of the most important changes made in the Classical period was the development of public concerts. The aristocracy still played a significant role in the sponsorship of concerts and compositions, but it was now possible for composers to survive without being permanent employees of queens or princes. The increasing popularity of classical music led to a growth in the number and types of orchestras. The expansion of orchestral concerts necessitated the building of large public performance spaces. Symphonic music including symphonies, musical accompaniment to ballet and mixed vocal/instrumental genres such as opera and oratorio became more popular.\n\nThe best known composers of Classicism are Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach, Christoph Willibald Gluck, Johann Christian Bach, Joseph Haydn, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Ludwig van Beethoven and Franz Schubert. Beethoven and Schubert are also considered to be composers in the later part of the Classical era, as it began to move towards Romanticism.\n\nRomantic music (c. 1810 to 1900) from the 19th century had many elements in common with the Romantic styles in literature and painting of the era. Romanticism was an artistic, literary, and intellectual movement was characterized by its emphasis on emotion and individualism as well as glorification of all the past and nature. Romantic music expanded beyond the rigid styles and forms of the Classical era into more passionate, dramatic expressive pieces and songs. Romantic composers such as Wagner and Brahms attempted to increase emotional expression and power in their music to describe deeper truths or human feelings. With symphonic tone poems, composers tried to tell stories and evoke images or landscapes using instrumental music. Some composers promoted nationalistic pride with patriotic orchestral music inspired by folk music. The emotional and expressive qualities of music came to take precedence over tradition.\n\nRomantic composers grew in idiosyncrasy, and went further in the syncretism of exploring different art-forms in a musical context, (such as literature), history (historical figures and legends), or nature itself. Romantic love or longing was a prevalent theme in many works composed during this period. In some cases the formal structures from the classical period continued to be used (e.g., the sonata form used in string quartets and symphonies), but these forms were expanded and altered. In many cases, new approaches were explored for existing genres, forms, and functions. Also, new forms were created that were deemed better suited to the new subject matter. Composers continued to develop opera and ballet music, exploring new styles and themes.\n\nIn the years after 1800, the music developed by Ludwig van Beethoven and Franz Schubert introduced a more dramatic, expressive style. In Beethoven's case, short motifs, developed organically, came to replace melody as the most significant compositional unit (an example is the distinctive four note figure used in his Fifth Symphony). Later Romantic composers such as Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, Antonín Dvořák, and Gustav Mahler used more unusual chords and more dissonance to create dramatic tension. They generated complex and often much longer musical works. During the late Romantic period, composers explored dramatic chromatic alterations of tonality, such as extended chords and altered chords, which created new sound \"colours\". The late 19th century saw a dramatic expansion in the size of the orchestra, and the industrial revolution helped to create better instruments, creating a more powerful sound. Public concerts became an important part of well-to-do urban society. It also saw a new diversity in theatre music, including operetta, and musical comedy and other forms of musical theatre.\n\nIn the 19th century, one of the key ways that new compositions became known to the public was by the sales of sheet music, which middle class amateur music lovers would perform at home on their piano or other common instruments, such as violin. With 20th-century music, the invention of new electric technologies such as radio broadcasting and the mass market availability of gramophone records meant that sound recordings of songs and pieces heard by listeners (either on the radio or on their record player) became the main way to learn about new songs and pieces. There was a vast increase in music listening as the radio gained popularity and phonographs were used to replay and distribute music, because whereas in the 19th century, the focus on sheet music restricted access to new music to the middle class and upper-class people who could read music and who owned pianos and instruments, in the 20th century, anyone with a radio or record player could hear operas, symphonies and big bands right in their own living room. This allowed lower-income people, who would never be able to afford an opera or symphony concert ticket to hear this music. It also meant that people could hear music from different parts of the country, or even different parts of the world, even if they could not afford to travel to these locations. This helped to spread musical styles.\n\nThe focus of art music in the 20th century was characterized by exploration of new rhythms, styles, and sounds. The horrors of World War I influenced many of the arts, including music, and some composers began exploring darker, harsher sounds. Traditional music styles such as jazz and folk music were used by composers as a source of ideas for classical music. Igor Stravinsky, Arnold Schoenberg, and John Cage were all influential composers in 20th-century art music. The invention of sound recording and the ability to edit music gave rise to new subgenre of classical music, including the acousmatic and Musique concrète schools of electronic composition. Sound recording was also a major influence on the development of popular music genres, because it enabled recordings of songs and bands to be widely distributed. The introduction of the multitrack recording system had a major influence on rock music, because it could do much more than record a band's performance. Using a multitrack system, a band and their music producer could overdub many layers of instrument tracks and vocals, creating new sounds that would not be possible in a live performance.\n\nJazz evolved and became an important genre of music over the course of the 20th century, and during the second half of that century, rock music did the same. Jazz is an American musical artform that originated in the beginning of the 20th century in African American communities in the Southern United States from a confluence of African and European music traditions. The style's West African pedigree is evident in its use of blue notes, improvisation, polyrhythms, syncopation, and the swung note.\n\nRock music is a genre of popular music that developed in the 1960s from 1950s rock and roll, rockabilly, blues, and country music. The sound of rock often revolves around the electric guitar or acoustic guitar, and it uses a strong back beat laid down by a rhythm section of electric bass guitar, drums, and keyboard instruments such as organ, piano, or, since the 1970s, analog synthesizers and digital ones and computers since the 1990s. Along with the guitar or keyboards, saxophone and blues-style harmonica are used as soloing instruments. In its \"purest form,\" it \"has three chords, a strong, insistent back beat, and a catchy melody.\"\n\nPerformance is the physical expression of music, which occurs when a song is sung or when a piano piece, electric guitar melody, symphony, drum beat or other musical part is played by musicians. In classical music, a musical work is written in music notation by a composer and then it is performed once the composer is satisfied with its structure and instrumentation. However, as it gets performed, the interpretation of a song or piece can evolve and change. In classical music, instrumental performers, singers or conductors may gradually make changes to the phrasing or tempo of a piece. In popular and traditional music, the performers have a lot more freedom to make changes to the form of a song or piece. As such, in popular and traditional music styles, even when a band plays a cover song, they can make changes to it such as adding a guitar solo to or inserting an introduction.\n\nA performance can either be planned out and rehearsed (practiced)—which is the norm in classical music, with jazz big bands and many popular music styles–or improvised over a chord progression (a sequence of chords), which is the norm in small jazz and blues groups. Rehearsals of orchestras, concert bands and choirs are led by a conductor. Rock, blues and jazz bands are usually led by the bandleader. A rehearsal is a structured repetition of a song or piece by the performers until it can be sung and/or played correctly and, if it is a song or piece for more than one musician, until the parts are together from a rhythmic and tuning perspective. Improvisation is the creation of a musical idea–a melody or other musical line–created on the spot, often based on scales or pre-existing melodic riffs.\n\nMany cultures have strong traditions of solo performance (in which one singer or instrumentalist performs), such as in Indian classical music, and in the Western art-music tradition. Other cultures, such as in Bali, include strong traditions of group performance. All cultures include a mixture of both, and performance may range from improvised solo playing to highly planned and organised performances such as the modern classical concert, religious processions, classical music festivals or music competitions. Chamber music, which is music for a small ensemble with only a few of each type of instrument, is often seen as more intimate than large symphonic works.\n\nMany types of music, such as traditional blues and folk music were not written down in sheet music; instead, they were originally preserved in the memory of performers, and the songs were handed down orally, from one musician or singer to another, or aurally, in which a performer learns a song \"by ear\". When the composer of a song or piece is no longer known, this music is often classified as \"traditional\" or as a \"folk song\". Different musical traditions have different attitudes towards how and where to make changes to the original source material, from quite strict, to those that demand improvisation or modification to the music. A culture's history and stories may also be passed on by ear through song.\n\nIn music, an \"ornament\" is a decoration to a melody, bassline or other musical part. The detail included explicitly in the music notation varies between genres and historical periods. In general, art music notation from the 17th through the 19th centuries required performers to have a great deal of contextual knowledge about performing styles. For example, in the 17th and 18th centuries, music notated for solo performers typically indicated a simple, unadorned melody. However, performers were expected to know how to add stylistically appropriate ornaments to add interest to the music, such as trills and turns.\n\nIn the 19th century, art music for solo performers may give a general instruction such as to perform the music expressively, without describing in detail how the performer should do this. The performer was expected to know how to use tempo changes, accentuation, and pauses (among other devices) to obtain this \"expressive\" performance style. In the 20th century, art music notation often became more explicit and used a range of markings and annotations to indicate to performers how they should play or sing the piece.\n\nPhilosophy of music is a subfield of philosophy. The philosophy of music is the study of fundamental questions regarding music. The philosophical study of music has many connections with philosophical questions in metaphysics and aesthetics.\nSome basic questions in the philosophy of music are:\n\nIn ancient times, such as with the Ancient Greeks, the aesthetics of music explored the mathematical and cosmological dimensions of rhythmic and harmonic organization. In the 18th century, focus shifted to the experience of hearing music, and thus to questions about its beauty and human enjoyment (\"plaisir\" and \"jouissance\") of music. The origin of this philosophic shift is sometimes attributed to Baumgarten in the 18th century, followed by Kant. Through their writing, the ancient term 'aesthetics', meaning sensory perception, received its present-day connotation. In the 2000s, philosophers have tended to emphasize issues besides beauty and enjoyment. For example, music's capacity to express emotion has been a central issue.\n\nIn the 20th century, important contributions were made by Peter Kivy, Jerrold Levinson, Roger Scruton, and Stephen Davies. However, many musicians, music critics, and other non-philosophers have contributed to the aesthetics of music. In the 19th century, a significant debate arose between Eduard Hanslick, a music critic and musicologist, and composer Richard Wagner regarding whether music can express meaning. Harry Partch and some other musicologists, such as Kyle Gann, have studied and tried to popularize microtonal music and the usage of alternate musical scales. Also many modern composers like La Monte Young, Rhys Chatham and Glenn Branca paid much attention to a scale called just intonation.\n\nIt is often thought that music has the ability to affect our emotions, intellect, and psychology; it can assuage our loneliness or incite our passions. The philosopher Plato suggests in \"the Republic\" that music has a direct effect on the soul. Therefore, he proposes that in the ideal regime music would be closely regulated by the state. (Book VII)\n\nThere has been a strong tendency in the aesthetics of music to emphasize the paramount importance of compositional structure; however, other issues concerning the aesthetics of music include lyricism, harmony, hypnotism, emotiveness, temporal dynamics, resonance, playfulness, and color (see also musical development).\n\nModern music psychology aims to explain and understand musical behavior and experience. Research in this field and its subfields are primarily empirical; their knowledge tends to advance on the basis of interpretations of data collected by systematic observation of and interaction with human participants. In addition to its focus on fundamental perceptions and cognitive processes, music psychology is a field of research with practical relevance for many areas, including music performance, composition, education, criticism, and therapy, as well as investigations of human aptitude, skill, intelligence, creativity, and social behavior.\n\nCognitive neuroscience of music is the scientific study of brain-based mechanisms involved in the cognitive processes underlying music. These behaviours include music listening, performing, composing, reading, writing, and ancillary activities. It also is increasingly concerned with the brain basis for musical aesthetics and musical emotion. The field is distinguished by its reliance on direct observations of the brain, using such techniques as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), magnetoencephalography (MEG), electroencephalography (EEG), and positron emission tomography (PET).\n\nCognitive musicology is a branch of cognitive science concerned with computationally modeling musical knowledge with the goal of understanding both music and cognition. The use of computer models provides an exacting, interactive medium in which to formulate and test theories and has roots in artificial intelligence and cognitive science.\n\nThis interdisciplinary field investigates topics such as the parallels between language and music in the brain. Biologically inspired models of computation are often included in research, such as neural networks and evolutionary programs. This field seeks to model how musical knowledge is represented, stored, perceived, performed, and generated. By using a well-structured computer environment, the systematic structures of these cognitive phenomena can be investigated.\n\nPsychoacoustics is the scientific study of sound perception. More specifically, it is the branch of science studying the psychological and physiological responses associated with sound (including speech and music). It can be further categorized as a branch of psychophysics.\n\nEvolutionary musicology concerns the \"origins of music, the question of animal song, selection pressures underlying music evolution\", and \"music evolution and human evolution\". It seeks to understand music perception and activity in the context of evolutionary theory. Charles Darwin speculated that music may have held an adaptive advantage and functioned as a protolanguage, a view which has spawned several competing theories of music evolution. An alternate view sees music as a by-product of linguistic evolution; a type of \"auditory cheesecake\" that pleases the senses without providing any adaptive function. This view has been directly countered by numerous music researchers.\n\nAn individual's culture or ethnicity plays a role in their music cognition, including their preferences, emotional reaction, and musical memory. Musical preferences are biased toward culturally familiar musical traditions beginning in infancy, and adults' classification of the emotion of a musical piece depends on both culturally specific and universal structural features. Additionally, individuals' musical memory abilities are greater for culturally familiar music than for culturally unfamiliar music.\n\nMany ethnographic studies demonstrate that music is a participatory, community-based activity. Music is experienced by individuals in a range of social settings ranging from being alone to attending a large concert, forming a music community, which cannot be understood as a function of individual will or accident; it includes both commercial and non-commercial participants with a shared set of common values. Musical performances take different forms in different cultures and socioeconomic milieus. In Europe and North America, there is often a divide between what types of music are viewed as a \"high culture\" and \"low culture.\" \"High culture\" types of music typically include Western art music such as Baroque, Classical, Romantic, and modern-era symphonies, concertos, and solo works, and are typically heard in formal concerts in concert halls and churches, with the audience sitting quietly in seats.\n\nOther types of music—including, but not limited to, jazz, blues, soul, and country—are often performed in bars, nightclubs, and theatres, where the audience may be able to drink, dance, and express themselves by cheering. Until the later 20th century, the division between \"high\" and \"low\" musical forms was widely accepted as a valid distinction that separated out better quality, more advanced \"art music\" from the popular styles of music heard in bars and dance halls.\n\nHowever, in the 1980s and 1990s, musicologists studying this perceived divide between \"high\" and \"low\" musical genres argued that this distinction is not based on the musical value or quality of the different types of music. Rather, they argued that this distinction was based largely on the socioeconomics standing or social class of the performers or audience of the different types of music. For example, whereas the audience for Classical symphony concerts typically have above-average incomes, the audience for a rap concert in an inner-city area may have below-average incomes. Even though the performers, audience, or venue where non-\"art\" music is performed may have a lower socioeconomic status, the music that is performed, such as blues, rap, punk, funk, or ska may be very complex and sophisticated.\n\nWhen composers introduce styles of music that break with convention, there can be a strong resistance from academic music experts and popular culture. Late-period Beethoven string quartets, Stravinsky ballet scores, serialism, bebop-era jazz, hip hop, punk rock, and electronica have all been considered non-music by some critics when they were first introduced. Such themes are examined in the sociology of music. The sociological study of music, sometimes called sociomusicology, is often pursued in departments of sociology, media studies, or music, and is closely related to the field of ethnomusicology.\n\nWomen have played a major role in music throughout history, as composers, songwriters, instrumental performers, singers, conductors, music scholars, music educators, music critics/music journalists and other musical professions. As well, it describes music movements, events and genres related to women, women's issues and feminism. In the 2010s, while women comprise a significant proportion of popular music and classical music singers, and a significant proportion of songwriters (many of them being singer-songwriters), there are few women record producers, rock critics and rock instrumentalists. Although there have been a huge number of women composers in classical music, from the Medieval period to the present day, women composers are significantly underrepresented in the commonly performed classical music repertoire, music history textbooks and music encyclopedias; for example, in the \"Concise Oxford History of Music\", Clara Schumann is one of the only female composers who is mentioned.\n\nWomen comprise a significant proportion of instrumental soloists in classical music and the percentage of women in orchestras is increasing. A 2015 article on concerto soloists in major Canadian orchestras, however, indicated that 84% of the soloists with the Orchestre Symphonique de Montreal were men. In 2012, women still made up just 6% of the top-ranked Vienna Philharmonic orchestra. Women are less common as instrumental players in popular music genres such as rock and heavy metal, although there have been a number of notable female instrumentalists and all-female bands. Women are particularly underrepresented in extreme metal genres. In the 1960s pop-music scene, \"[l]ike most aspects of the...music business, [in the 1960s,] songwriting was a male-dominated field. Though there were plenty of female singers on the radio, women ...were primarily seen as consumers:... Singing was sometimes an acceptable pastime for a girl, but playing an instrument, writing songs, or producing records simply wasn't done.\" Young women \"...were not socialized to see themselves as people who create [music].\"\n\nWomen are also underrepresented in orchestral conducting, music criticism/music journalism, music producing, and sound engineering. While women were discouraged from composing in the 19th century, and there are few women musicologists, women became involved in music education \"...to such a degree that women dominated [this field] during the later half of the 19th century and well into the 20th century.\"\n\nAccording to Jessica Duchen, a music writer for London's \"The Independent\", women musicians in classical music are \"...too often judged for their appearances, rather than their talent\" and they face pressure \"...to look sexy onstage and in photos.\" Duchen states that while \"[t]here are women musicians who refuse to play on their looks...the ones who do tend to be more materially successful.\"\nAccording to the UK's Radio 3 editor, Edwina Wolstencroft, the music industry has long been open to having women in performance or entertainment roles, but women are much less likely to have positions of authority, such as being the leader of an orchestra. In popular music, while there are many women singers recording songs, there are very few women behind the audio console acting as music producers, the individuals who direct and manage the recording process. One of the most recorded artists is Asha Bhosle, an Indian singer best known as a playback singer in Hindi cinema.\n\nThe music that composers make can be heard through several media; the most traditional way is to hear it live, in the presence of the musicians (or as one of the musicians), in an outdoor or indoor space such as an amphitheatre, concert hall, cabaret room or theatre. Since the 20th century, live music can also be broadcast over the radio, television or the Internet, or recorded and listened to on a CD player or Mp3 player. Some musical styles focus on producing a sound for a performance, while others focus on producing a recording that mixes together sounds that were never played \"live.\" Recording, even of essentially live styles such as rock, often uses the ability to edit and splice to produce recordings that may be considered \"better\" than the actual performance.\n\nTechnology has had an influence on music since prehistoric times, when cave people used simple tools to bore holes into bone flutes 41,000 years ago. Technology continued to influence music throughout the history of music, as it enabled new instruments and music notation reproduction systems to be used, with one of the watershed moments in music notation being the invention of the printing press in the 1400s, which meant music scores no longer had to be hand copied. In the 19th century, music technology led to the development of a more powerful, louder piano and led to the development of new valves brass instruments. In the early 20th century (in the late 1920s), as talking pictures emerged in the early 20th century, with their prerecorded musical tracks, an increasing number of moviehouse orchestra musicians found themselves out of work. During the 1920s, live musical performances by orchestras, pianists, and theater organists were common at first-run theaters. With the coming of the talking motion pictures, those featured performances were largely eliminated. The American Federation of Musicians (AFM) took out newspaper advertisements protesting the replacement of live musicians with mechanical playing devices. One 1929 ad that appeared in the \"Pittsburgh Press\" features an image of a can labeled \"Canned Music / Big Noise Brand / Guaranteed to Produce No Intellectual or Emotional Reaction Whatever\"\n\nSince legislation introduced to help protect performers, composers, publishers and producers, including the Audio Home Recording Act of 1992 in the United States, and the 1979 revised Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works in the United Kingdom, recordings and live performances have also become more accessible through computers, devices and Internet in a form that is commonly known as Music-On-Demand.\n\nIn many cultures, there is less distinction between performing and listening to music, since virtually everyone is involved in some sort of musical activity, often communal. In industrialized countries, listening to music through a recorded form, such as sound recording or watching a music video, became more common than experiencing live performance, roughly in the middle of the 20th century.\n\nSometimes, live performances incorporate prerecorded sounds. For example, a disc jockey uses disc records for scratching, and some 20th-century works have a solo for an instrument or voice that is performed along with music that is prerecorded onto a tape. Computers and many keyboards can be programmed to produce and play Musical Instrument Digital Interface (MIDI) music. Audiences can also \"become\" performers by participating in karaoke, an activity of Japanese origin centered on a device that plays voice-eliminated versions of well-known songs. Most karaoke machines also have video screens that show lyrics to songs being performed; performers can follow the lyrics as they sing over the instrumental tracks.\n\nThe advent of the Internet and widespread high-speed broadband access has transformed the experience of music, partly through the increased ease of access to recordings of music via streaming video and vastly increased choice of music for consumers. Chris Anderson, in his book \"\", suggests that while the traditional economic model of supply and demand describes scarcity, the Internet retail model is based on abundance. Digital storage costs are low, so a company can afford to make its whole recording inventory available online, giving customers as much choice as possible. It has thus become economically viable to offer music recordings that very few people are interested in. Consumers' growing awareness of their increased choice results in a closer association between listening tastes and social identity, and the creation of thousands of niche markets.\n\nAnother effect of the Internet arose with online communities and social media websites like YouTube and Facebook, a social networking service. These sites make it easier for aspiring singers and amateur bands to distribute videos of their songs, connect with other musicians, and gain audience interest. Professional musicians also use YouTube as a free publisher of promotional material. YouTube users, for example, no longer only download and listen to MP3s, but also actively create their own. According to Don Tapscott and Anthony D. Williams, in their book \"Wikinomics\", there has been a shift from a traditional consumer role to what they call a \"prosumer\" role, a consumer who both creates content and consumes. Manifestations of this in music include the production of mashes, remixes, and music videos by fans.\n\nThe music industry refers to the businesses connected with the creation and sale of music. It consists of songwriters and composers who create new songs and musical pieces, music producers and sound engineers who record songs and pieces, record labels and publishers that distribute recorded music products and sheet music internationally and that often control the rights to those products. Some music labels are \"independent,\" while others are subsidiaries of larger corporate entities or international media groups. In the 2000s, the increasing popularity of listening to music as digital music files on MP3 players, iPods, or computers, and of trading music on file sharing websites or buying it online in the form of digital files had a major impact on the traditional music business. Many smaller independent CD stores went out of business as music buyers decreased their purchases of CDs, and many labels had lower CD sales. Some companies did well with the change to a digital format, though, such as Apple's iTunes, an online music store that sells digital files of songs over the Internet.\n\nIn spite of some international copyright treaties, determining which music is in the public domain is complicated by of national copyright laws that may be applicable. US copyright law formerly protected printed music published after 1923 for 28 years and with renewal for another 28 years, but the Copyright Act of 1976 made renewal automatic, and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act changed the calculation of the copyright term to 70 years after the death of the creator. Recorded sound falls under mechanical licensing, often covered by a confusing patchwork of state laws; most cover versions are licensed through the Harry Fox Agency. Performance rights may be obtained by either performers or the performance venue; the two major organizations for licensing are BMI and ASCAP. Two online sources for public domain music are IMSLP (International Music Score Library Project) and Choral Public Domain Library (CPDL).\n\nThe incorporation of some music or singing training into general education from preschool to post secondary education is common in North America and Europe. Involvement in playing and singing music is thought to teach basic skills such as concentration, counting, listening, and cooperation while also promoting understanding of language, improving the ability to recall information, and creating an environment more conducive to learning in other areas. In elementary schools, children often learn to play instruments such as the recorder, sing in small choirs, and learn about the history of Western art music and traditional music. Some elementary school children also learn about popular music styles. In religious schools, children sing hymns and other religious music. In secondary schools (and less commonly in elementary schools), students may have the opportunity to perform in some types of musical ensembles, such as choirs (a group of singers), marching bands, concert bands, jazz bands, or orchestras. In some school systems, music lessons on how to play instruments may be provided. Some students also take private music lessons after school with a singing teacher or instrument teacher. Amateur musicians typically learn basic musical rudiments (e.g., learning about musical notation for musical scales and rhythms) and beginner- to intermediate-level singing or instrument-playing techniques.\n\nAt the university level, students in most arts and humanities programs can receive credit for taking a few music courses, which typically take the form of an overview course on the history of music, or a music appreciation course that focuses on listening to music and learning about different musical styles. In addition, most North American and European universities have some types of musical ensembles that students in arts and humanities are able to participate in, such as choirs, marching bands, concert bands, or orchestras. The study of Western art music is increasingly common outside of North America and Europe, such as the Indonesian Institute of the Arts in Yogyakarta, Indonesia, or the classical music programs that are available in Asian countries such as South Korea, Japan, and China. At the same time, Western universities and colleges are widening their curriculum to include music of non-Western cultures, such as the music of Africa or Bali (e.g. Gamelan music).\n\nIndividuals aiming to become professional musicians, singers, composers, songwriters, music teachers and practitioners of other music-related professions such as music history professors, sound engineers, and so on study in specialized post-secondary programs offered by colleges, universities and music conservatories. Some institutions that train individuals for careers in music offer training in a wide range of professions, as is the case with many of the top U.S. universities, which offer degrees in music performance (including singing and playing instruments), music history, music theory, music composition, music education (for individuals aiming to become elementary or high school music teachers) and, in some cases, conducting. On the other hand, some small colleges may only offer training in a single profession (e.g., sound recording).\n\nWhile most university and conservatory music programs focus on training students in classical music, there are a number of universities and colleges that train musicians for careers as jazz or popular music musicians and composers, with notable U.S. examples including the Manhattan School of Music and the Berklee College of Music. Two important schools in Canada which offer professional jazz training are McGill University and Humber College. Individuals aiming at careers in some types of music, such as heavy metal music, country music or blues are less likely to become professionals by completing degrees or diplomas in colleges or universities. Instead, they typically learn about their style of music by singing and/or playing in many bands (often beginning in amateur bands, cover bands and tribute bands), studying recordings available on CD, DVD and the Internet and working with already-established professionals in their style of music, either through informal mentoring or regular music lessons. Since the 2000s, the increasing popularity and availability of Internet forums and YouTube \"how-to\" videos have enabled many singers and musicians from metal, blues and similar genres to improve their skills. Many pop, rock and country singers train informally with vocal coaches and singing teachers.\n\nUndergraduate university degrees in music, including the Bachelor of Music, the Bachelor of Music Education, and the Bachelor of Arts (with a major in music) typically take about four years to complete. These degrees provide students with a grounding in music theory and music history, and many students also study an instrument or learn singing technique as part of their program. Graduates of undergraduate music programs can seek employment or go on to further study in music graduate programs. Bachelor's degree graduates are also eligible to apply to some graduate programs and professional schools outside of music (e.g., public administration, business administration, library science, and, in some jurisdictions, teacher's college, law school or medical school).\n\nGraduate music degrees include the Master of Music, the Master of Arts (in musicology, music theory or another music field), the Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) (e.g., in musicology or music theory), and more recently, the Doctor of Musical Arts, or DMA. The Master of Music degree, which takes one to two years to complete, is typically awarded to students studying the performance of an instrument, education, voice (singing) or composition. The Master of Arts degree, which takes one to two years to complete and often requires a thesis, is typically awarded to students studying musicology, music history, music theory or ethnomusicology.\n\nThe PhD, which is required for students who want to work as university professors in musicology, music history, or music theory, takes three to five years of study after the master's degree, during which time the student will complete advanced courses and undertake research for a dissertation. The DMA is a relatively new degree that was created to provide a credential for professional performers or composers that want to work as university professors in musical performance or composition. The DMA takes three to five years after a master's degree, and includes advanced courses, projects, and performances. In Medieval times, the study of music was one of the Quadrivium of the seven Liberal Arts and considered vital to higher learning. Within the quantitative Quadrivium, music, or more accurately harmonics, was the study of rational proportions.\n\nMusicology, the academic study of the subject of music, is studied in universities and music conservatories. The earliest definitions from the 19th century defined three sub-disciplines of musicology: systematic musicology, historical musicology, and comparative musicology or ethnomusicology. In 2010-era scholarship, one is more likely to encounter a division of the discipline into music theory, music history, and ethnomusicology. Research in musicology has often been enriched by cross-disciplinary work, for example in the field of psychoacoustics. The study of music of non-Western cultures, and the cultural study of music, is called ethnomusicology. Students can pursue the undergraduate study of musicology, ethnomusicology, music history, and music theory through several different types of degrees, including bachelor's degrees, master's degrees and PhD degrees.\n\nMusic theory is the study of music, generally in a highly technical manner outside of other disciplines. More broadly it refers to any study of music, usually related in some form with compositional concerns, and may include mathematics, physics, and anthropology. What is most commonly taught in beginning music theory classes are guidelines to write in the style of the common practice period, or tonal music. Theory, even of music of the common practice period, may take many other forms. Musical set theory is the application of mathematical set theory to music, first applied to atonal music. \"Speculative music theory\", contrasted with \"analytic music theory\", is devoted to the analysis and synthesis of music materials, for example tuning systems, generally as preparation for composition.\n\nZoomusicology is the study of the music of non-human animals, or the musical aspects of sounds produced by non-human animals. As George Herzog (1941) asked, \"do animals have music?\" François-Bernard Mâche's \"Musique, mythe, nature, ou les Dauphins d'Arion\" (1983), a study of \"ornitho-musicology\" using a technique of Nicolas Ruwet's \"Langage, musique, poésie\" (1972) paradigmatic segmentation analysis, shows that bird songs are organised according to a repetition-transformation principle. Jean-Jacques Nattiez (1990), argues that \"in the last analysis, it is a human being who decides what is and is not musical, even when the sound is not of human origin. If we acknowledge that sound is not organised and conceptualised (that is, made to form music) merely by its producer, but by the mind that perceives it, then music is uniquely human.\"\n\nIn the West, much of the history of music that is taught deals with the Western civilization's art music, which is known as classical music. The history of music in non-Western cultures (\"world music\" or the field of \"ethnomusicology\"), which typically covers music from\nAfrica and Asia is also taught in Western universities. This includes the documented classical traditions of Asian countries outside the influence of Western Europe, as well as the folk or indigenous music of various other cultures. Popular or folk styles of music in non-Western countries varied widely from culture to culture, and from period to period. Different cultures emphasised different instruments, techniques, singing styles and uses for music. Music has been used for entertainment, ceremonies, rituals, religious purposes and for practical and artistic communication. Non-Western music has also been used for propaganda purposes, as was the case with Chinese opera during the Cultural Revolution.\n\nThere is a host of music classifications for non-Western music, many of which are caught up in the argument over the definition of music. Among the largest of these is the division between classical music (or \"art\" music), and popular music (or commercial music – including non-Western styles of rock, country, and pop music-related styles). Some genres do not fit neatly into one of these \"big two\" classifications, (such as folk music, world music, or jazz-related music).\n\nAs world cultures have come into greater global contact, their indigenous musical styles have often merged with other styles, which produces new styles. For example, the United States bluegrass style contains elements from Anglo-Irish, Scottish, Irish, German and African instrumental and vocal traditions, which were able to fuse in the United States' multi-ethnic \"melting pot\" society. Some types of world music contain a mixture of non-Western indigenous styles with Western pop music elements. Genres of music are determined as much by tradition and presentation as by the actual music. Some works, like George Gershwin's \"Rhapsody in Blue\", are claimed by both jazz and classical music, while Gershwin's \"Porgy and Bess\" and Leonard Bernstein's \"West Side Story\" are claimed by both opera and the Broadway musical tradition. Many current music festivals for non-Western music include bands and singers from a particular musical genre, such as world music.\n\nIndian music, for example, is one of the oldest and longest living types of music, and is still widely heard and performed in South Asia, as well as internationally (especially since the 1960s). Indian music has mainly three forms of classical music, Hindustani, Carnatic, and Dhrupad styles. It has also a large repertoire of styles, which involve only percussion music such as the talavadya performances famous in South India.\n\nMusic therapy is an interpersonal process in which a trained therapist uses music and all of its facets—physical, emotional, mental, social, aesthetic, and spiritual—to help clients to improve or maintain their health. In some instances, the client's needs are addressed directly through music; in others they are addressed through the relationships that develop between the client and therapist. Music therapy is used with individuals of all ages and with a variety of conditions, including: psychiatric disorders, medical problems, physical disabilities, sensory impairments, developmental disabilities, substance abuse issues, communication disorders, interpersonal problems, and aging. It is also used to improve learning, build self-esteem, reduce stress, support physical exercise, and facilitate a host of other health-related activities. Music therapists may encourage clients to sing, play instruments, create songs, or do other musical activities.\n\nOne of the earliest mentions of music therapy was in Al-Farabi's (c. 872–950) treatise \"Meanings of the Intellect\", which described the therapeutic effects of music on the soul. Music has long been used to help people deal with their emotions. In the 17th century, the scholar Robert Burton's \"The Anatomy of Melancholy\" argued that music and dance were critical in treating mental illness, especially melancholia. He noted that music has an \"excellent power ...to expel many other diseases\" and he called it \"a sovereign remedy against despair and melancholy.\" He pointed out that in Antiquity, Canus, a Rhodian fiddler, used music to \"make a melancholy man merry, ...a lover more enamoured, a religious man more devout.\" In the Ottoman Empire, mental illnesses were treated with music. In November 2006, Dr. Michael J. Crawford and his colleagues also found that music therapy helped schizophrenic patients.\n\nAlbert Einstein had a lifelong love of music (particularly the works of Bach and Mozart), once stating that life without playing music would be inconceivable to him. In some interviews Einstein even attributed much of his scientific intuition to music, with his son Hans recounting that \"whenever he felt that he had come to the end of the road or into a difficult situation in his work, he would take refuge in music, and that would usually resolve all his difficulties.\" Something in the music, according to Michele and Robert Root-Bernstein in \"Psychology Today\", \"would guide his thoughts in new and creative directions.\" It has been said that Einstein considered Mozart's music to reveal a universal harmony that Einstein believed existed in the universe, \"as if the great Wolfgang Amadeus did not 'create' his beautifully clear music at all, but simply discovered it already made. This perspective parallels, remarkably, Einstein’s views on the ultimate simplicity of nature and its explanation and statement via essentially simple mathematical expressions.\" A review suggests that music may be effective for improving subjective sleep quality in adults with insomnia symptoms. Music is also being used in clinical rehabilitation of cognitive and motor disorders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43252033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43252033", "title": "Mustafa Emirbayer", "text": "Mustafa Emirbayer\n\nMustafa Emirbayer is an American sociologist and professor of sociology at University of Wisconsin-Madison. He is known for his theoretical contributions to social network analysis, and is \"one of the most vocal advocates of the relational approach in the social sciences.\" In 2009 he won the Lewis A. Coser Award for Theoretical Agenda-Setting from the American Sociological Association.\n\nEmirbayer was born in Detroit, Michigan, to parents of Turkish and Crimean Tatar descent. He also spent part of his childhood in Santa Barbara, California, and his high school years in Mexico City, Mexico. He attended the University of California, Davis and received his BA in psychology (with minors in English and History) in 1980. He originally enrolled in the graduate program in psychology at the University of Michigan, where he first took coursework from the sociologist Charles Tilly. He soon realized that he wanted to study sociology as he felt psychology at the time neglected culture, institutions and history. Emirbayer went on to receive his MA in 1985 and PhD in 1989 from Harvard University, both in sociology. His dissertation was \"Moral Education in American, 1830–1990\" under the direction of Nathan Glazer (chair), Daniel Bell, David Riesman, and Theda Skocpol.\n\nEmirbayer attended Harvard shortly after the \"revolution\" in social network analysis, and later at The New School, along with colleagues Charles Tilly and Harrison White, he played a key role in The New York School of relational sociology. In 2015, he became the editor-in-chief of the journal \"Sociological Theory\".\n\nWhen he was at the New School for Social Research, along with co-author Jeff Goodwin, Emirbayer won the 1994 Clifford Geertz Award for Best Article in Cultural Sociology for the article \"“Network Analysis, Culture, and the Problem of Agency”\".\n\nInspired by discussions at a series of mini-conferences organized by Harrison White at the Lazarsfeld Center, Emirbayer began to write a systematic statement regarding the \"relational turn\" he felt was necessary for sociology. In 1997 he published the \"Manifesto for Relational Sociology\" in the \"American Journal of Sociology\", which brought various social theorists together under one label.\n\nHis most-cited publication, with Ann Mische, is their 1998 article \"What is Agency?\" In the article, the authors apply \"relational pragmatics\" to demonstrate the \"dynamic interplay\" of routine, purpose and judgement in explaining human agency.\n\nIn 2009 he was elected to the Chair of the Sociological Theory Section of the American Sociological Association. Also in 2009 he won the Lewis A. Coser Award for Theoretical Agenda-Setting.\n\nIn 2014, Emirbayer was a keynote speaker at Yale's Center for Cultural Sociology special conference on \"Advancing Cultural Sociology\".\n"}
{"id": "2234191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234191", "title": "Narrative paradigm", "text": "Narrative paradigm\n\nNarrative paradigm is a communication theory conceptualized by 20th-century communication scholar Walter Fisher. The paradigm claims that all meaningful communication occurs via storytelling or reporting of events. Humans participate as storytellers and observers of narratives. This theory further claims that stories are more persuasive than arguments. Essentially the narrative paradigm helps us to explain how humans are able to understand complex information through narrative.\n\nThe Narrative Paradigm is a theory that suggests that human beings are natural storytellers and that a good story is more convincing than a good argument. Walter Fisher developed this theory as a solution making cohesive arguments. Fisher conceptualized the paradigm as a way to combat issues in the public sphere. The issue was that human beings were unable to make cohesive traditional arguments. At the time, rational world paradigm was the theory used to satisfy public controversies. He believed that stories have the power to include beginning, middle, and end of an argument and that the rational world paradigm fails to be effective in sensemaking.\n\nFisher uses the term paradigm rather than theory, meaning a paradigm is broader than a theory. Fisher stated, \"There is no genre, including technical communication, that is not an episode in the story of life.\"\n\nFisher believed that humans are not rational and proposed that narrative is the basis of communication. According to this viewpoint, people communicate by telling/observing a persuasive story rather than by producing evidence or constructing a logical argument. The narrative paradigm is purportedly all-encompassing, allowing all communication to be looked at as a narrative even though it may not conform to the traditional literary requirements of a narrative. He states:\nStorytelling is one of the first language skills that children develop. It is universal across cultures and time.\n\nWalter Fisher conceptualized the Narrative Paradigm in direct contrast to the Rational World Paradigm. \"Fisher's interest in narrative developed out of his conclusion that the dominant model for explaining human communication—the rational-world paradigm—was inadequate.\" Rational World Paradigm suggest that an argument is most persuasive when it is logical. This theory is based in the teachings of Plato and Aristotle. \nAccording to Aristotle, some statements are superior to others by virtue of their relationship to true knowledge. This view claims that:\n\nNarrative rationality requires coherence and fidelity, which contribute to judgments about reasons.\n\nNarrative coherence is the degree to which a story makes sense. Coherent stories are internally consistent, with sufficient detail, reliable characters, and free of major surprises. The ability to assess coherence is learned and improves with experience. Individuals assess a story's coherence by comparing it with similar stories. The ultimate test of narrative coherence is whether the characters act in a reliable way. If characters show continuity throughout their thoughts, motives and actions, acceptance increases. However, characters behaving uncharacteristically destroys acceptance.\n\nNarrative fidelity is the degree to which a story fits into the observer's prior understanding. Stories with fidelity may influence their beliefs and values.\n\nFisher set five criteria that affect a story's narrative fidelity:\n\nFisher's narrative paradigm offers an alternative to Aristotelian analysis, which dominates the field of rhetorical thinking. Narratives do not require training or expertise to evaluate. Common sense assesses narrative coherence and fidelity. Busselle and Bilandzic distinguish narrative rationality from realism, writing \"It is remarkable that the power of narrative is not diminished by readers’ or viewers’ knowledge that the story is invented. On the contrary, successful stories—those that engage us most—often are both fictional and unrealistic.\"\n\nAlternatively, Foucault claimed that communications systems are formed through the \"savoir\" and \"pouvoir\" (knowledge and power) of the hierarchies that control access to the discourses. Hence, criteria for assessing the \"reliability\" and \"completeness\" of evidence, and whether the pattern of reasoning is sound are not absolutes but defined over time by those in positions of authority. This is particularly significant when the process of reasoning includes values and policy in addition to empirical data.\n\nThe narrative paradigm instead asserts that any individual can judge a story's merits as a basis for belief and action.\n\nNarration affects every aspect of each individual's life in verbal and nonverbal bids for someone to believe or act in a certain way. Even when a message appears abstract—i.e., the language is literal and not figurative—it is narration. This is because it is embedded in the storyteller's ongoing story and it invites observers to assess its value for their own lives.\n\nNarrative rationality and narrative emotion are complementary within a narrative theory. The former considers how effectively the story conveys its meaning, as well as its implications. The latter considers the emotional reactions of the story's observers. Narrative emotion is an emotion felt for the sake of someone, or something, else.\n\nNarrative theory is an assessment framework within various fields of communication. Those who use narrative theory within their research refer to it as a general way of viewing communication. The narrative paradigm is generally considered an interpretative theory of communication. It is an especially useful theory for teaching qualitative research methods.\n\nFisher’s theory has been considered for domains ranging from organizational communication to family interaction, to racism, and to advertising. McNamara proposed that the narrative paradigm can be used with military storytelling to enhance the perception of the United States armed services. Stutts and Barker, of Virginia Commonwealth University, proposed that the Narrative Paradigm can be used to evaluate if a company's brand will be well received by consumers, by determining if the created narrative has coherence and fidelity. Other researchers proposed using the narrative paradigm to evaluate ethical standards in advertising. Roberts used the narrative paradigm as a way to better understand the use of narrative in folklore. Hobart proposed using narrative theory as a way to interpret urban legends and other kinds of hoaxes.\n\nNarrative paradigm is also applicable when assessing multinational working relationships. Global interactions between groups with different backgrounds have the tendency to hinder group progress and building relationships. Over the past two decades, scholars conceptualize diversity in the workplace using several different theories. As companies continue to diversify, businesses look for communication models to help manage the complex structure of human relationships. Narrative paradigm serves as a communication technique that shows companies how the application of a good story could provide benefits in the workforce. Storytelling is a cross-cultural solution that establishes credibility and trust in relationships between workers.\n\nOne example of a study that used narrative theory more directly was conducted by Smith in 1984. Smith looked at the fidelity and coherence of narratives presented as Republican and Democratic Party platforms in the United States and found that despite obvious differences, each party was able to maintain coherence and fidelity by remaining consistent in both structure and overarching party values.\n\nA study claimed that narrative features can be strategically altered by health communicators to affect the reader's identification. It found that similarities between the reader and the narrative's protagonist, but not the narrator's point of view, has a direct impact on the narrative's persuasiveness.\n\nNarrative processing can create or enhance connections between a brand and an audience. Companies and business use stories or brands that suggest a story to produce brand loyalty. Businesses invest heavily in creating a good story through advertising and public relations. In brand development, many marketers focus on defining a brand persona (typical user) before constructing a narrative for that brand. Character traits such as honesty, curiosity, flexibility and determination become embedded in the persona. Commitment to the associated behavioral implications can help the brand maintain consistency with its narrative.\n\nCritics of the narrative paradigm mainly contend that it is not as universally applicable as Fisher suggests. For example, Rowland asserted that it should be applied strictly to communication that fits classic narrative patterns to avoid undermining its credibility.\n\nOther critiques include issues of conservative bias. Kirkwood stated that Fisher's logic of good reasons focuses only on prevailing issues but does not see all the ways that stories can promote social change. In some ways, both Kirkwood and Fisher agree that this observation is more of an extension to the theory than a critique.\n\nStroud considered \"multivalent\" narratives that include seemingly contradictory values or positions that force a reader to reconstruct their meaning, thereby enabling positive judgments of narrative fidelity and the adoption of new values.\n\nSome forms of communication are not narrative in the way that Fisher maintains. Many science fiction and fantasy novels/movies challenge rather than conform to common values.\n\nThe narrative approach does not provide a more democratic structure compared to the one imposed by the rational world paradigm. Nor does it offer a complete alternative to that paradigm.\nThe narrative paradigm gained attention from poststructuralist education theorists for appealing to notions of truth.\n\nThe narrative paradigm incorporates both the pathos and logos form of rhetoric theory. Rhetoric theory was formulated by Aristotle. He defines rhetoric as: the available means of persuasion. It includes two assumptions.\nAristotle divided public speaking into three parts: the speaker, the subject and the audience. He considered the audience the most important, determining the speech’s end and object. Therefore, audience analysis, which is the process of evaluating an audience and its background is essential.\n\nIn the second assumption, Aristotle’s proof refers to the means of persuasion. And these three proof types are Ethos, Pathos and Logos.\nRhetoric theory can be applied in multiple areas, such as in the social/environmental report, Facebook post, etc.\n\nWhen people experience a story, the comprehension phase is where they form a mental representation of the text. Such a mental representation is called a situation model. Situation models are representations of the state of affairs described in a text rather than of the text itself. Much of the research suggests that observers behave as though they are in the story rather than outside of it. This supports Fisher’s model that narrative components supported by good reasons are related to components in situation models.\n\nSituation models represent relevant aspects of the narrative's environment. Objects that are spatially close to observers are generally more relevant than more distant objects. The same holds for situation models. Observers are similarly slower to recognize words denoting objects distant from a protagonist than those close to the protagonist. When observers have extensive knowledge of the spatial layout of the story setting (e.g., a building), they update their representations according to the location and goals of the protagonist. They have the fastest mental access to the room that the protagonist is close to. For example, they can more readily say whether two objects are in the same room if the room mentioned is close to the protagonist. The interpretation of the meaning of a verb denoting the movement of people or objects in space, such as to approach, depends on their situation models. The interpretation of observers also depends on the size of the landmark and the speed of the figure. Observers behave as if they are actually present in the situation.\n\nIn one study observers recognized goals yet to be accomplished by the protagonist more quickly than goals that had just been accomplished. When Keefe and McDaniel presented subjects with sentences such as \"after standing through a 3-hour debate, the tired speaker walked over to his chair (and sat down)\" and then with probe words (e.g., \"sat\"). Subjects took about the same amount of time to name sat when the clause about the speaker sitting down was omitted and when it was included. Moreover, naming times were significantly faster in both of these conditions than in a control condition, in which it was implied that the speaker remained standing.\n\n"}
{"id": "27724306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27724306", "title": "Nonsense word", "text": "Nonsense word\n\nA nonsense word, unlike a sememe, may have no definition. Nonsense words can be classified depending on their orthographic and phonetic similarity with (meaningful) words. If it can be pronounced according to a language's phonotactics, it is a pseudoword. Nonsense words are used in literature for poetic or humorous effect. Proper names of real or fictional entities are sometimes nonsense words.\n\nA stunt word is a nonsense word used for a special effect, or to attract attention, as part of a performance. Such words are a feature of the work of Dr. Seuss (\"Sometimes I am quite certain there's a Jertain in the curtain\").\n\nThe ability to infer the (hypothetical) meaning of a nonsense word from context is used to test for brain damage.\n"}
{"id": "20082214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20082214", "title": "Obsessive–compulsive disorder", "text": "Obsessive–compulsive disorder\n\nObsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD) is a mental disorder where people feel the need to check things repeatedly, perform certain routines repeatedly (called \"rituals\"), or have certain thoughts repeatedly (called \"obsessions\"). People are unable to control either the thoughts or the activities for more than a short period of time. Common activities include hand washing, counting of things, and checking to see if a door is locked. Some may have difficulty throwing things out. These activities occur to such a degree that the person's daily life is negatively affected. This often takes up more than an hour a day. Most adults realize that the behaviors do not make sense. The condition is associated with tics, anxiety disorder, and an increased risk of suicide.\nThe cause is unknown. There appear to be some genetic components with both identical twins more often affected than both non-identical twins. Risk factors include a history of child abuse or other stress-inducing event. Some cases have been documented to occur following infections. The diagnosis is based on the symptoms and requires ruling out other drug related or medical causes. Rating scales such as the Yale–Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS) can be used to assess the severity. Other disorders with similar symptoms include anxiety disorder, major depressive disorder, eating disorders, tic disorders, and obsessive–compulsive personality disorder.\nTreatment involves counseling, such as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), and sometimes antidepressants such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or clomipramine. CBT for OCD involves increasing exposure to what causes the problems while not allowing the repetitive behavior to occur. While clomipramine appears to work as well as SSRIs, it has greater side effects so is typically reserved as a second line treatment. Atypical antipsychotics may be useful when used in addition to an SSRI in treatment-resistant cases but are also associated with an increased risk of side effects. Without treatment, the condition often lasts decades.\nObsessive–compulsive disorder affects about 2.3% of people at some point in their life. Rates during a given year are about 1.2%, and it occurs worldwide. It is unusual for symptoms to begin after the age of 35, and half of people develop problems before 20. Males and females are affected about equally. In English, the phrase \"obsessive–compulsive\" is often used in an informal manner unrelated to OCD to describe someone who is excessively meticulous, perfectionistic, absorbed, or otherwise fixated.\nOCD can present with a wide variety of symptoms. Certain groups of symptoms usually occur together. These groups are sometimes viewed as dimensions or clusters that may reflect an underlying process. The standard assessment tool for OCD, the Yale–Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS), has 13 predefined categories of symptoms. These symptoms fit into three to five groupings. A meta analytic review of symptom structures found a four factor structure (grouping) to be most reliable. The observed groups included a \"symmetry factor\", a \"forbidden thoughts factor\", a \"cleaning factor\", and a \"hoarding factor\". The \"symmetry factor\" correlated highly with obsessions related to ordering, counting, and symmetry, as well as repeating compulsions. The \"forbidden thoughts factor\" correlated highly with intrusive and distressing thoughts of a violent, religious, or sexual nature. The \"cleaning factor\" correlated highly with obsessions about contamination and compulsions related to cleaning. The \"hoarding factor\" only involved hoarding related obsessions and compulsions, and was identified as being distinct from other symptom groupings.\n\nWhile OCD has been considered a homogenous disorder from a neuropsychological perspective, many of the putative neuropsychological deficits may be due to comorbid disorders. Furthermore, some subtypes have been associated with improvement in performance on certain tasks such as pattern recognition (washing subtype) and spatial working memory (obsessive thought subtype). Subgroups have also been distinguished by neuroimaging findings and treatment response. Neuroimaging studies on this have been too few, and the subtypes examined have differed too much to draw any conclusions. On the other hand, subtype dependent treatment response has been studied, and the hoarding subtype has consistently responded least to treatment.\n\nObsessions are thoughts that recur and persist, despite efforts to ignore or confront them. People with OCD frequently perform tasks, or compulsions, to seek relief from obsession-related anxiety. Within and among individuals, the initial obsessions, or intrusive thoughts, vary in their clarity and vividness. A relatively vague obsession could involve a general sense of disarray or tension accompanied by a belief that life cannot proceed as normal while the imbalance remains. A more intense obsession could be a preoccupation with the thought or image of someone close to them dying or intrusions related to \"relationship rightness\". Other obsessions concern the possibility that someone or something other than oneself—such as God, the Devil, or disease—will harm either the person with OCD or the people or things that the person cares about. Other individuals with OCD may experience the sensation of invisible protrusions emanating from their bodies, or have the feeling that inanimate objects are ensouled.\n\nSome people with OCD experience sexual obsessions that may involve intrusive thoughts or images of \"kissing, touching, fondling, oral sex, anal sex, intercourse, incest, and rape\" with \"strangers, acquaintances, parents, children, family members, friends, coworkers, animals, and religious figures\", and can include \"heterosexual or homosexual content\" with persons of any age. As with other intrusive, unpleasant thoughts or images, some disquieting sexual thoughts at times are normal, but people with OCD may attach extraordinary significance to the thoughts. For example, obsessive fears about sexual orientation can appear to the person with OCD, and even to those around them, as a crisis of sexual identity. Furthermore, the doubt that accompanies OCD leads to uncertainty regarding whether one might act on the troubling thoughts, resulting in self-criticism or self-loathing.\n\nMost people with OCD understand that their notions do not correspond with reality; however, they feel that they must act as though their notions are correct. For example, an individual who engages in compulsive hoarding might be inclined to treat inorganic matter as if it had the sentience or rights of living organisms, while accepting that such behavior is irrational on a more intellectual level. There is a debate as to whether or not hoarding should be considered with other OCD symptoms.\n\nOCD sometimes manifests without overt compulsions, referred to as Primarily Obsessional OCD. OCD without overt compulsions could, by one estimate, characterize as many as 50 percent to 60 percent of OCD cases.\n\nSome people with OCD perform compulsive rituals because they inexplicably feel they have to, while others act compulsively so as to mitigate the anxiety that stems from particular obsessive thoughts. The person might feel that these actions somehow either will prevent a dreaded event from occurring or will push the event from their thoughts. In any case, the individual's reasoning is so idiosyncratic or distorted that it results in significant distress for the individual with OCD or for those around them. Excessive skin picking, hair-pulling, nail biting, and other body-focused repetitive behavior disorders are all on the obsessive–compulsive spectrum. Some individuals with OCD are aware that their behaviors are not rational, but feel compelled to follow through with them to fend off feelings of panic or dread.\n\nSome common compulsions include hand washing, cleaning, checking things (e.g., locks on doors), repeating actions (e.g., turning on and off switches), ordering items in a certain way, and requesting reassurance. Compulsions are different from tics (such as touching, tapping, rubbing, or blinking) and stereotyped movements (such as head banging, body rocking, or self-biting), which usually aren't as complex and aren't precipitated by obsessions. It can sometimes be difficult to tell the difference between compulsions and complex tics. About 10% to 40% of individuals with OCD also have a lifetime tic disorder.\n\nPeople rely on compulsions as an escape from their obsessive thoughts; however, they are aware that the relief is only temporary, that the intrusive thoughts will soon return. Some people use compulsions to avoid situations that may trigger their obsessions. Although some people do certain things over and over again, they do not necessarily perform these actions compulsively. For example, bedtime routines, learning a new skill, and religious practices are not compulsions. Whether or not behaviors are compulsions or mere habit depends on the context in which the behaviors are performed. For example, arranging and ordering DVDs for eight hours a day would be expected of one who works in a video store, but would seem abnormal in other situations. In other words, habits tend to bring efficiency to one's life, while compulsions tend to disrupt it.\n\nIn addition to the anxiety and fear that typically accompanies OCD, sufferers may spend hours performing such compulsions every day. In such situations, it can be hard for the person to fulfil their work, family, or social roles. In some cases, these behaviors can also cause adverse physical symptoms. For example, people who obsessively wash their hands with antibacterial soap and hot water can make their skin red and raw with dermatitis.\n\nPeople with OCD can use rationalizations to explain their behavior; however, these rationalizations do not apply to the overall behavior but to each instance individually. For example, a person compulsively checking the front door may argue that the time taken and stress caused by one more check of the front door is much less than the time and stress associated with being robbed, and thus checking is the better option. In practice, after that check, the person is \"still\" not sure and deems it is \"still\" better to perform one more check, and this reasoning can continue as long as necessary.\n\nThe DSM-V contains three specifiers for the level of insight in OCD. Good or fair insight is characterized by the acknowledgment that obsessive-compulsive beliefs are or may not be true. Poor insight is characterized by the belief that obsessive-complsive beliefs are probably true. Absence of insight make obsessive-compulsive beliefs delusional thoughts, and occurs in about 4% of people with OCD.\n\nSome people with OCD exhibit what is known as \"overvalued ideas\". In such cases, the person with OCD will truly be uncertain whether the fears that cause them to perform their compulsions are irrational or not. After some discussion, it is possible to convince the individual that their fears may be unfounded. It may be more difficult to do ERP therapy on such people because they may be unwilling to cooperate, at least initially. There are severe cases in which the person has an unshakeable belief in the context of OCD that is difficult to differentiate from psychotic disorders.\n\nA 2013 meta-analysis reported that people with OCD to have mild but wide-ranging cognitive deficits; significantly regarding spatial memory, to a lesser extent with verbal memory, fluency, executive function, and processing speed, while auditory attention was not significantly affected. People with OCD show impairment in formulating an organizational strategy for coding information, set-shifting, and motor and cognitive inhibition.\n\nSpecific subtypes of symptom dimensions in OCD have been associated with specific cognitive deficits. For example, the results of one meta-analysis comparing washing and checking symptoms reported that washers outperformed checkers on eight out of ten cognitive tests. The symptom dimension of contamination and cleaning may be associated with higher scores on tests of inhibition and verbal memory.\n\nApproximately 1–2% of children are affected by OCD. Obsessive–compulsive disorder symptoms tend to develop more frequently in children that are 10–14 years of age, with males displaying symptoms at an earlier age and a more severe level than the females. In children, symptoms can be grouped into at least 4 types.\n\nThe cause is unknown. Both environmental and genetic factors are believed to play a role. Risk factors include a history of child abuse or other stress-inducing event.\n\nThere appear to be some genetic components with identical twins more often affected than non-identical twins. Further, individuals with OCD are more likely to have first-degree family members exhibiting the same disorders than do matched controls. In cases where OCD develops during childhood, there is a much stronger familial link in the disorder than cases in which OCD develops later in adulthood. In general, genetic factors account for 45–65% of the variability in OCD symptoms in children diagnosed with the disorder. A 2007 study found evidence supporting the possibility of a heritable risk for OCD.\n\nA mutation has been found in the human serotonin transporter gene, hSERT, in unrelated families with OCD.\n\nA systematic review found that while neither allele was associated with OCD overall, in caucasians the L allele was associated with OCD. Another meta analysis observed an increased risk in those with the homozygous S allele, but found the LS genotype to be inversely associated with OCD.\n\nA genome wide association study found OCD to be linked with SNPs near BTBD3 and two SNPs in DLGAP1 in a trio-based analysis, but no SNP reached significance when analyzed with case-control data.\n\nOne meta analysis found a small but significant association between a polymorphism in SLC1A1 and OCD.\n\nThe relationship between OCD and COMT has been inconsistent, with one meta analysis reporting a significant association, albeit only in men, and another meta analysis reporting no association.\n\nIt has been postulated by evolutionary psychologists that moderate versions of compulsive behavior may have had evolutionary advantages. Examples would be moderate constant checking of hygiene, the hearth or the environment for enemies. Similarly, hoarding may have had evolutionary advantages. In this view OCD may be the extreme statistical \"tail\" of such behaviors, possibly due to a high amount of predisposing genes.\n\nA controversial hypothesis is that some cases of rapid onset of OCD in children and adolescents may be caused by a syndrome connected to Group A streptococcal infections, known as pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infections (PANDAS).\n\nA review of studies examining anti-basal ganglia antibodies in OCD found an increased risk of having anti-basal ganglia antibodies in those with OCD versus the general population.\n\nFunctional neuroimaging during symptom provocation has observed abnormal activity in the orbitofrontal cortex, left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, right premotor cortex, left superior temporal gyrus, globus pallidus externus, hippocampus and right uncus. Weaker foci of abnormal activity were found in the left caudate, posterior cingulate cortex and superior parietal lobule. However, an older meta analysis of functional neuroimaging in OCD reported the only consistent functional neuroimaging findings have been increased activity in the orbital gyrus and head of the caudate nucleus, while ACC activation abnormalities were too inconsistent. A meta analysis comparing affective and non affective tasks observed differences with controls in regions implicated in salience, habit, goal ditected behavior, self-referential thinking and cognitive control. For non affective tasks, hyperactivity was observed in the insula, ACC, and head of the caudate/putamen, while hypoactivity was observed in the medial prefrontal cortex(mPFC) and posterior caudate. Affective tasks were observed to relate to increased activation in the precuneus and posterior cingulate cortex(PCC), while decreased activation was found in the pallidum, ventral anterior thalamus and postetior caudate. The involvement of the cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical loop in OCD as well as the high rates of comorbidity between OCD and ADHD have led some to draw a link in their mechanism. Observed similarities include dysfunction of the anterior cingulate cortex, and prefrontal cortex, as well as shared deficits in executive functions. The involvement of the orbitofrontal cortex and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in OCD is shared with Bipolar Disorder and may explain their high degree of comorbidity. Decreased volumes of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex related to executive function has also been observed in OCD.\n\nPeople with OCD evince increased grey matter volumes in bilateral lenticular nuclei, extending to the caudate nuclei, with decreased grey matter volumes in bilateral dorsal medial frontal/anterior cingulate gyri. These findings contrast with those in people with other anxiety disorders, who evince decreased (rather than increased) grey matter volumes in bilateral lenticular / caudate nuclei, as well as decreased grey matter volumes in bilateral dorsal medial frontal/anterior cingulate gyri. Increased white matter volume and decreased fractional anisotropy in anterior midline tracts has been observed in OCD, possibly indicating increased fiber crossings.\n\nGenerally two categories of models for OCD have been postulated, the first involving deficits in executive function, and the second involving deficits in modulatory control. The first category of executive dysfunction is based on the observed structural and functional abnormalities in the dlPFC, striatum, and thalamus. The second category involving dysfunctional modulatory control primarily relies on observed functional and structural differences in the ACC, mPFC and OFC.\n\nOne proposed model suggests that dysfunction in the OFC leads to improper valuation of behaviors and decreased behavioral control, while the observed alterations in amygdala activations leads to exaggerated fears and representations of negative stimuli.\n\nDue to the heterogeneity of OCD symptoms, studies differentiating between symptoms have been performed. Symptom specific neuroimaging abnormalities include the hyperactivity of caudate and ACC in checking rituals, while finding increased activity of cortical and cerebellar regions in contamination related symptoms. Neuroimaging differentiating between content of intrusive thoughts have found differences between aggressive as opposed to taboo thoughts, finding increased connectivity of the amygdala, ventral striatum, and ventromedial prefrontal cortex in aggressive symptoms, while observing increased connectivity between the ventral striatum and insula in sexual/religious intrusive thoughts.\n\nAnother model proposes that affective dysregulation links excessive reliance on habit based action selection with compulsions. This is supported by the observation that those with OCD demonstrate decreased activation of the ventral striatum when anticipating monetary reward, as well as increase functional connectivity between the VS and the OFC. Furthermore, those with OCD demonstrate reduced performance in pavlovian fear extinction tasks, hyper responsiveness in the amygdala to fearful stimuli, and hypo-resonsiveness in the amygdala when exposed to positively valanced stimuli. Stimulation of the nucleus accumbens has also been observed to effectively alleviate both obsessions and compulsions, supporting the role of affective dysregulation in generating both.\n\nFrom the observation of the efficacy of antidepressants in OCD, a serotonin hypothesis of OCD has been formulated. Studies of peripheral markers of serotonin, as well as challenges with proserotonergic compounds have yielded inconsistent results, including evidence pointing towards basal hyperactivity of serotonergic systems. Serotonin receptor and transporter binding studies have yielded conflicting results, including higher and lower serotonin receptor 5-HT2A and serotonin transporter binding potentials that were normalized by treatment with SSRIs. Despite inconsistencies in the types of abnormalities found, evidence points towards dysfunction of serotonergic systems in OCD. Orbitofrontal cortex overactivity is attenuated in people who have successfully responded to SSRI medication, a result believed to be caused by increased stimulation of serotonin receptors 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C. A complex relationship between dopamine and OCD has been observed. Although antipsychotics, which act by antagonizing dopamine receptors may improve some cases of OCD, they frequently exacerbate others. Antipsychotics, in the low doses used to treat OCD, may actually increased the release of dopamine in the prefrontal cortex, through inhibiting autoreceptors. Further complicating things is the efficacy of amphetamines, decreased dopamine transporter activity observed in OCD, and low levels of D2 binding in the striatum. Furthermore, increased dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens after deep brain stimulation correlates with improvement in symptoms, pointing to reduced dopamine release in the striatum playing a role in generating symptoms.\n\nAbnormalities in glutaminergic neurotransmission have implicated in OCD. Findings such as increased cerebrospinal glutamate, less consistent abnormalities observed in neuroimaging studies, and the efficacy of some glutaminergic drugs such as riluzole have implicated glutamate in OCD. OCD has been associated with reduced N-Acetylaspartic acid in the mPFC, which is thought to reflect neuron density or functionality, although the exact interpretation has not been established.\n\nFormal diagnosis may be performed by a psychologist, psychiatrist, clinical social worker, or other licensed mental health professional. To be diagnosed with OCD, a person must have obsessions, compulsions, or both, according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). The Quick Reference to the 2000 edition of the DSM states that several features characterize clinically significant obsessions and compulsions. Such obsessions, the DSM says, are recurrent and persistent thoughts, impulses or images that are experienced as intrusive and that cause marked anxiety or distress. These thoughts, impulses or images are of a degree or type that lies outside the normal range of worries about conventional problems. A person may attempt to ignore or suppress such obsessions, or to neutralize them with some other thought or action, and will tend to recognize the obsessions as idiosyncratic or irrational.\n\nCompulsions become clinically significant when a person feels driven to perform them in response to an obsession, or according to rules that must be applied rigidly, and when the person consequently feels or causes significant distress. Therefore, while many people who do not suffer from OCD may perform actions often associated with OCD (such as ordering items in a pantry by height), the distinction with clinically significant OCD lies in the fact that the person who suffers from OCD \"must\" perform these actions, otherwise they will experience significant psychological distress. These behaviors or mental acts are aimed at preventing or reducing distress or preventing some dreaded event or situation; however, these activities are not logically or practically connected to the issue, or they are excessive. In addition, at some point during the course of the disorder, the individual must realize that their obsessions or compulsions are unreasonable or excessive.\n\nMoreover, the obsessions or compulsions must be time-consuming (taking up more than one hour per day) or cause impairment in social, occupational or scholastic functioning. It is helpful to quantify the severity of symptoms and impairment before and during treatment for OCD. In addition to the peron's estimate of the time spent each day harboring obsessive-compulsive thoughts or behaviors, concrete tools can be used to gauge the people’s condition. This may be done with rating scales, such as the Yale–Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS). With measurements like these, psychiatric consultation can be more appropriately determined because it has been standardized.\n\nOCD is sometimes placed in a group of disorders called the obsessive–compulsive spectrum.\n\nOCD is often confused with the separate condition obsessive–compulsive personality disorder (OCPD). OCD is egodystonic, meaning that the disorder is incompatible with the sufferer's self-concept. Because ego dystonic disorders go against a person's self-concept, they tend to cause much distress. OCPD, on the other hand, is egosyntonic—marked by the person's acceptance that the characteristics and behaviours displayed as a result are compatible with their self-image, or are otherwise appropriate, correct or reasonable.\n\nAs a result, people with OCD are often aware that their behavior is not rational, are unhappy about their obsessions but nevertheless feel compelled by them. By contrast people with OCPD are not aware of anything abnormal; they will readily explain why their actions are rational, it is usually impossible to convince them otherwise, and they tend to derive pleasure from their obsessions or compulsions.\n\nA form of psychotherapy called \"cognitive behavioral therapy\" (CBT) and psychotropic medications are first-line treatments for OCD. Other forms of psychotherapy, such as psychodynamic and psychoanalysis may help in managing some aspects of the disorder, but in 2007 the American Psychiatric Association (APA) noted a lack of controlled studies showing their effectiveness \"in dealing with the core symptoms of OCD\". The fact that many individuals do not seek treatment may be due in part to stigma associated with OCD.\n\nThe specific technique used in CBT is called exposure and response prevention (ERP) which involves teaching the person to deliberately come into contact with the situations that trigger the obsessive thoughts and fears (\"exposure\"), without carrying out the usual compulsive acts associated with the obsession (\"response prevention\"), thus gradually learning to tolerate the discomfort and anxiety associated with not performing the ritualistic behavior. At first, for example, someone might touch something only very mildly \"contaminated\" (such as a tissue that has been touched by another tissue that has been touched by the end of a toothpick that has touched a book that came from a \"contaminated\" location, such as a school.) That is the \"exposure\". The \"ritual prevention\" is not washing. Another example might be leaving the house and checking the lock only once (exposure) without going back and checking again (ritual prevention). The person fairly quickly habituates to the anxiety-producing situation and discovers that their anxiety level drops considerably; they can then progress to touching something more \"contaminated\" or not checking the lock at all—again, without performing the ritual behavior of washing or checking.\n\nERP has a strong evidence base, and it is considered the most effective treatment for OCD. However, this claim was doubted by some researchers in 2000 who criticized the quality of many studies.\n\nIt has generally been accepted that psychotherapy, in combination with psychiatric medication, is more effective than either option alone.\n\nThe medications most frequently used are the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Clomipramine, a medication belonging to the class of tricyclic antidepressants, appears to work as well as SSRIs but has a higher rate of side effects.\n\nSSRIs are a second line treatment of adult obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) with mild functional impairment and as first line treatment for those with moderate or severe impairment. In children, SSRIs can be considered as a second line therapy in those with moderate-to-severe impairment, with close monitoring for psychiatric adverse effects. SSRIs are efficacious in the treatment of OCD; people treated with SSRIs are about twice as likely to respond to treatment as those treated with placebo. Efficacy has been demonstrated both in short-term (6–24 weeks) treatment trials and in discontinuation trials with durations of 28–52 weeks.\n\nIn 2006, the National Institute of Clinical and Health Excellence (NICE) guidelines recommended antipsychotics for OCD that does not improve with SSRI treatment. For OCD there is tentative evidence for risperidone and insufficient evidence for olanzapine. Quetiapine is no better than placebo with regard to primary outcomes, but small effects were found in terms of YBOCS score. The efficacy of quetiapine and olanzapine are limited by the insufficient number of studies. A 2014 review article found two studies that indicated that aripiprazole was \"effective in the short-term\" and found that \"[t]here was a small effect-size for risperidone or anti-psychotics in general in the short-term\"; however, the study authors found \"no evidence for the effectiveness of quetiapine or olanzapine in comparison to placebo.\" While quetiapine may be useful when used in addition to an SSRI in treatment-resistant OCD, these drugs are often poorly tolerated, and have metabolic side effects that limit their use. None of the atypical antipsychotics appear to be useful when used alone. Another review reported that no evidence supports the use of first generation antipsychotics in OCD.\n\nA guideline by the APA suggested that dextroamphetamine may be considered by itself after more well supported treatments have been tried.\n\nElectroconvulsive therapy (ECT) has been found to have effectiveness in some severe and refractory cases.\n\nSurgery may be used as a last resort in people who do not improve with other treatments. In this procedure, a surgical lesion is made in an area of the brain (the cingulate cortex). In one study, 30% of participants benefitted significantly from this procedure. Deep-brain stimulation and vagus nerve stimulation are possible surgical options that do not require destruction of brain tissue. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration approved deep-brain stimulation for the treatment of OCD under a humanitarian device exemption requiring that the procedure be performed only in a hospital with specialist qualifications to do so.\n\nIn the United States, psychosurgery for OCD is a treatment of last resort and will not be performed until the person has failed several attempts at medication (at the full dosage) with augmentation, and many months of intensive cognitive–behavioral therapy with exposure and ritual/response prevention. Likewise, in the United Kingdom, psychosurgery cannot be performed unless a course of treatment from a suitably qualified cognitive–behavioral therapist has been carried out.\n\nTherapeutic treatment may be effective in reducing ritual behaviors of OCD for children and adolescents. Similar to the treatment of adults with OCD, CBT stands as an effective and validated first line of treatment of OCD in children. Family involvement, in the form of behavioral observations and reports, is a key component to the success of such treatments. Parental interventions also provide positive reinforcement for a child who exhibits appropriate behaviors as alternatives to compulsive responses. In a recent meta-analysis of evidenced-based treatment of OCD in children, family-focused individual CBT was labeled as \"probably efficacious\", establishing it as one of the leading psychosocial treatments for youth with OCD. After one or two years of therapy, in which a child learns the nature of his or her obsession and acquires strategies for coping, that child may acquire a larger circle of friends, exhibit less shyness, and become less self-critical.\n\nAlthough the causes of OCD in younger age groups range from brain abnormalities to psychological preoccupations, life stress such as bullying and traumatic familial deaths may also contribute to childhood cases of OCD, and acknowledging these stressors can play a role in treating the disorder.\n\nObsessive–compulsive disorder affects about 2.3% of people at some point in their life. Rates during a given year are about 1.2% and it occurs worldwide. It is unusual for symptoms to begin after the age of thirty five and half of people develop problems before twenty. Males and females are affected about equally.\n\nPeople with OCD may be diagnosed with other conditions, as well as or instead of OCD, such as the aforementioned obsessive–compulsive personality disorder, major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, anorexia nervosa, social anxiety disorder, bulimia nervosa, Tourette syndrome, autism spectrum disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, dermatillomania (compulsive skin picking), body dysmorphic disorder and trichotillomania (hair pulling). More than 50 percent of people experience suicidal tendencies, and 15 percent have attempted suicide. Depression, anxiety and prior suicide attempts increase the risk of future suicide attempts.\n\nIndividuals with OCD have also been found to be affected by delayed sleep phase syndrome at a substantially higher rate than the general public. Moreover, severe OCD symptoms are consistently associated with greater sleep disturbance. Reduced total sleep time and sleep efficiency have been observed in people with OCD, with delayed sleep onset and offset and an increased prevalence of delayed sleep phase disorder.\n\nBehaviorally, there is some research demonstrating a link between drug addiction and the disorder as well. For example, there is a higher risk of drug addiction among those with any anxiety disorder (possibly as a way of coping with the heightened levels of anxiety), but drug addiction among people with OCD may serve as a type of compulsive behavior and not just as a coping mechanism. Depression is also extremely prevalent among people with OCD. One explanation for the high depression rate among OCD populations was posited by Mineka, Watson and Clark (1998), who explained that people with OCD (or any other anxiety disorder) may feel depressed because of an \"out of control\" type of feeling.\n\nSomeone exhibiting OCD signs does not necessarily have OCD. Behaviors that present as (or seem to be) obsessive or compulsive can also be found in a number of other conditions as well, including obsessive–compulsive \"personality\" disorder (OCPD), autism spectrum disorder, disorders where perseveration is a possible feature (ADHD, PTSD, bodily disorders or habit problems) or sub-clinically.\n\nSome with OCD present with features typically associated with Tourette's syndrome, such as compulsions that may appear to resemble motor tics; this has been termed \"tic-related OCD\" or \"Tourettic OCD\".<ref name=\"10.1176/appi.neuropsych.21.1.59\"></ref>\n\nA myth propagated by Sigmund Freud regarding above-average intelligence in OCD was recently refuted.\n\nOCD frequently co-occurs with both bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder. Between 60–80% of those with OCD experience a major depressive episode in their lifetime. Comorbidity rates have been reported at between 19–90% due to methodological differences. Between 9–35% of those with bipolar disorder also have OCD, compared to the 1–2% in the general population. Around 50% of those with OCD experience cyclothymic traits or hypomanic episodes. OCD is also associated with anxiety disorders. Lifetime comorbidity for OCD has been reported at 22% for specific phobia, 18% for social anxiety disorder, 12% for panic disorder, and 30% for generalized anxiety disorder. The comorbidity rate for OCD and ADHD has been reported as high as 51%.\n\nQuality of life is reduced across all domains in OCD. While psychological or pharmacological treatment can lead to a reduction of OCD symptoms and an increase in QoL, symptoms may persist at moderate levels even following adequate treatment courses, and completely symptom-free periods are uncommon. In pediatric OCD, around 40% still have the disorder in adulthood, and around 40% qualify for remission.\n\nIn the seventh century AD, John Climacus records an instance of a young monk plagued by constant and overwhelming \"temptations to blasphemy\" consulting an older monk, who told him, \"My son, I take upon myself all the sins which these temptations have led you, or may lead you, to commit. All I require of you is that for the future you pay no attention to them whatosever.\" \"The Cloud of Unknowing\", a Christian mystical text from the late fourteenth century, recommends dealing with recurring obsessions by first attempting to ignore them, and, if that fails, \"cower under them like a poor wretch and a coward overcome in battle, and reckon it to be a waste of your time for you to strive any longer against them\", a technique now known as \"emotional flooding\".\n\nFrom the 14th to the 16th century in Europe, it was believed that people who experienced blasphemous, sexual or other obsessive thoughts were possessed by the Devil. Based on this reasoning, treatment involved banishing the \"evil\" from the \"possessed\" person through exorcism. The vast majority of people who thought they were possessed by the Devil did not suffer from hallucinations or other \"spectacular symptoms\", but \"complained of anxiety, religious fears, and evil thoughts.\" In 1584, a woman from Kent, England named Mrs. Davie, described by a justice of the peace as \"a good wife\", was nearly burned at the stake after she confessed that she experienced constant, unwanted urges to murder her family.\n\nThe English term obsessive-compulsive comes from the translated term used to describe the first conceptions of OCD by Carl Westphal, \"zwangsvorstellung\". Westphal's description went on to influence Pierre Janet who further documented features of OCD. In the early 1910s, Sigmund Freud attributed obsessive–compulsive behavior to unconscious conflicts that manifest as symptoms. Freud describes the clinical history of a typical case of \"touching phobia\" as starting in early childhood, when the person has a strong desire to touch an item. In response, the person develops an \"external prohibition\" against this type of touching. However, this \"prohibition does not succeed in abolishing\" the desire to touch; all it can do is repress the desire and \"force it into the unconscious\". Freudian psychoanalysis remained the dominant treatment for OCD until the mid-1980s, even though medicinal and therapeutical treatments were known and available, because it was widely thought that these treatments would be detrimental to the effectiveness of the psychotherapy. In the mid-1980s, psychiatry made a sudden \"about-face\" on the subject and began treating OCD primarily through medicine and practical therapy rather than psychoanalysis.\n\nJohn Bunyan (1628–1688), the author of \"The Pilgrim's Progress\", displayed symptoms of OCD (which had not yet been named). During the most severe period of his condition, he would mutter the same phrase over and over again to himself while rocking back and forth. He later described his obsessions in his autobiography \"Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners\", stating, \"These things may seem ridiculous to others, even as ridiculous as they were in themselves, but to me they were the most tormenting cogitations.\" He wrote two pamphlets advising those suffering from similar anxieties. In one of them, he warns against indulging in compulsions: \"Have care of putting off your trouble of spirit in the wrong way: by promising to reform yourself and lead a new life, by your performances or duties\".\n\nBritish poet, essayist and lexicographer Samuel Johnson (1709–1784) also suffered from OCD. He had elaborate rituals for crossing the thresholds of doorways, and repeatedly walked up and down staircases counting the steps. He would touch every post on the street as he walked past, only step in the middles of paving stones, and repeatedly perform tasks as though they had not been done properly the first time. The American aviator and filmmaker Howard Hughes is known to have had OCD. Friends of Hughes have also mentioned his obsession with minor flaws in clothing. This was conveyed in \"The Aviator\" (2004), a film biography of Hughes.\n\nMovies and television shows often portray idealized representations of disorders such as OCD. These depictions may lead to increased public awareness, understanding and sympathy for such disorders.\n\n\nThe naturally occurring sugar inositol has been suggested as a treatment for OCD.\n\nNutrition deficiencies may also contribute to OCD and other mental disorders. Vitamin and mineral supplements may aid in such disorders and provide nutrients necessary for proper mental functioning.\n\nμ-Opioids, such as hydrocodone and tramadol, may improve OCD symptoms. Administration of opiate treatment may be contraindicated in individuals concurrently taking CYP2D6 inhibitors such as fluoxetine and paroxetine.\n\nMuch current research is devoted to the therapeutic potential of the agents that affect the release of the neurotransmitter glutamate or the binding to its receptors. These include riluzole, memantine, gabapentin, N-acetylcysteine, topiramate and lamotrigine.\n\n"}
{"id": "27702479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27702479", "title": "Pizza effect", "text": "Pizza effect\n\nThe pizza effect is a term used especially in religious studies and sociology for the phenomenon of elements of a nation or people's culture being transformed or at least more fully embraced elsewhere, then re-imported back to their culture of origin, or the way in which a community's self-understanding is influenced by (or imposed by, or imported from) foreign sources. It is named after the idea that modern pizza toppings were developed among Italian immigrants in the United States (rather than in native Italy, where in its simpler form it was originally looked down upon), and was later exported back to Italy to be interpreted as a delicacy in Italian cuisine.\n\nRelated phrases include \"hermeneutical feedback loop\", \"re-enculturation\", and \"self-orientalization\". The term \"pizza effect\" was coined by the Austrian-born Hindu monk and professor of Anthropology at Syracuse University, Agehananda Bharati in 1970.\n\nThe original examples given by Agehananda Bharati mostly had to do with popularity and status:\n\nAnalyst Mark Sedgwick wrote that Islamist terrorism, and specifically suicide bombing, can be seen as examples, beginning as isolated interpretations of the concept of shahid, or martyrdom, then being re-exported to the greater Muslim world.\n\nThe Day of the Dead parade in Mexico City was inspired by an event in the James Bond film \"Spectre\", which was fictional at the time of the film's production. \n\nThe founders of the Theosophical Society, Helena Blavatsky and Henry Steel Olcott, were influenced by Eastern religions, then placed their headquarters in Adyar, Chennai, from where they spread their views within India.\n\nSimilarly, Buddhist modernism or \"Protestant Buddhism\" was developed by Westerners, who according to scholar Stephen Jenkins, \"mistook it for an indigenous Sri Lankan product\", and they in turn influenced Sri Lankan Buddhist Anagarika Dharmapala, who, along with the Theosophical Society, was instrumental in spreading Buddhism in both India and the West.\n\nAccording to scholar Kim Knott, Mahatma Gandhi \"was not very interested in religion until he went to London to study law, where he studied the Bhagavad Gita in English in Sir Edwin Arnold's translation, and this deeply influenced his spiritual outlook.\"\n\nThe influence of translations by the British-based Pali Text Society on South Asian Buddhism.\n\nThe religious thought of Ibn Rushd (Averroes), which was taken up by 19th-century Europeans such as Ernest Renan, and thereby regained popularity during the Nahda, the Islamic renaissance.\n\nChicken tikka masala, a dish created in Britain, based on Indian cooking, which then became popular in India.\n\nTeppanyaki, a Western-influenced style created in Japan, popular in the U.S.\n\nSalsa music: the first salsa bands were mainly Puerto Ricans who moved to New York in the 1930s.\n\nHaoqiu zhuan, a Chinese novel. James St. André, author of \"Modern Translation Theory and Past Translation Practice: European Translations of the \"Haoqiu zhuan\"\", wrote that in China the novel was originally \"considered second-rate fiction and stood in danger of being completely forgotten with changes in literary taste in the early twentieth century.\" He stated that the fact there had been interest in translating the novel into English \"gave life and fame\" to \"Haoqiu zhuan\" and therefore affected its standing in China.\n\nScholar David Miller wrote that Westerners were responsible for \"…the renewed interest in the four Vedas and the Upanishads, as texts in themselves apart from the endless number of commentaries that have been written by Indians to interpret and to systematize the texts,\" and that due to this interest, \"Indian scholars have also served up that menu, often in a less appetizing way than their Western counterparts. In so doing they have missed the very life force or essence of Indian ethical traditions.\"\n\nScholar Jørn Borup wrote about an \"inverted pizza-effect\", when a society's modification of another culture gets further re-modified by that same society, such as European philosophers including Martin Heidegger \"appear to have been significantly inspired by Eastern thought - an Eastern thought itself presented through \"Protestant\" or \"Western\" eyes. This transformation is naturally not a unique phenomenon in religious studies, where interpretations, re-interpretations and inventions are seen as common characteristics of religion.\"\n\nStephen Jenkins noted that the feedback phenomenon could continue; in the case of pizza, he wrote that the return of pizza to Italy again influenced American cuisine: \"...pizza-loving American tourists, going to Italy in the millions, sought out authentic Italian pizza. Italians, responding to this demand, developed pizzerias to meet American expectations. Delighted with their discovery of \"authentic\" Italian pizza, Americans subsequently developed chains of \"authentic\" Italian brick-oven pizzerias. Hence, Americans met their own reflection in the other and were delighted.\"\n\nJim Douglas, familiar with Bharati's thesis, applied it to black blues originating in the United States before 1960. The music of Robert Johnson, Muddy Waters, etc. went over to England, where it was embraced by other musicians (especially white men playing electric guitar). Then, this re-packaged blues came back to the US presented by the Rolling Stones, Cream, Led Zeppelin, etc. in the late 1960s where it was embraced by baby boomers (who had never heard of Robert Johnson, etc.). Later, some of these American baby boomers discovered the roots of the British blues-rock in the recordings of the original American blues artists.\n\n"}
{"id": "6070611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6070611", "title": "Radical chic", "text": "Radical chic\n\n\"Radical chic\" is a term coined by journalist Tom Wolfe in his 1970 essay \"Radical Chic: That Party at Lenny's\" to describe the adoption and promotion of radical political causes by celebrities, socialites, and high society. The concept has been described as \"an exercise in double-tracking one's public image: on the one hand, defining oneself through committed allegiance to a radical cause, but on the other, vitally, demonstrating this allegiance because it is the fashionable, \"au courant\" way to be seen in moneyed, name-conscious Society.\" Unlike dedicated activists, revolutionaries, or dissenters, those who engage in \"radical chic\" remain frivolous political agitators. They are ideologically invested in their cause of choice only so far as it advances their social standing.\n\n\"Terrorist chic\" is a modern expression with similar connotations. This derivative, however, de-emphasizes the class satire of Wolfe's original term, instead accentuating concerns over the semiotics of radicalism (such as the aestheticization of violence).\n\nIn languages such as American English, French and Italian the term has become widely used to indicate people identifying themselves as socialists or radical leftists while conducting upper-class lifestyles.\n\nThe phrase \"radical chic\" originated in a 1970 \"New York\" article by Tom Wolfe, titled \"Radical Chic: That Party at Lenny's\", which was later reprinted in his books \"Radical Chic & Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers\" and \"The Purple Decades\". In the essay, Wolfe used the term to satirize composer Leonard Bernstein and his friends for their absurdity in hosting a fundraising party for the Black Panthers—an organization whose members, activities, and goals were clearly incongruous with those of Bernstein's elite circle. Wolfe's concept of radical chic was intended to lampoon individuals (particularly social elites like the jet set) who endorsed leftist radicalism merely to affect worldliness, assuage white guilt, or garner prestige, rather than to affirm genuine political convictions.\n\nThe concept of \"fashionable\" espousal of radical causes by members of wealthy society in this case had been argued against by Bernstein's wife, Felicia Montealegre, prior to the publication of \"Radical Chic: That Party at Lenny's\", a fact Wolfe details in it. The essay appeared in the June 8, 1970 issue of \"New York\", 20 weeks after the actual fund raiser at the Bernstein residence was held on January 14. The first report of the event appeared the following day in a piece by \"The New York Times\" style reporter Charlotte Curtis, who was in attendance. Curtis wrote in part: \"Leonard Bernstein and a Black Panther leader argued the merits of the Black Panther party's philosophy before nearly 90 guests last night in the Bernsteins' elegant Park Avenue duplex.\" According to Wolfe, the release of the story worldwide was followed by strong criticism of the event: \"The English, particularly, milked the story for all it was worth and seemed to derive one of the great cackles of the year from it.\"\n\nThe negative reaction prompted publication of an op-ed in the \"Times\" on January 16 entitled \"False Note on Black Panthers\" that was severely critical of the Black Panther Party and Bernstein:\n\nFelicia Montealegre wrote and personally delivered a response to this op-ed to the \"Times\" offices. In her response she wrote:\n\nTerrorist chic (also known as \"terror chic\" or \"militant chic\") is a more recent and specific variation of the term. It refers to the appropriation of symbols, objects, and aesthetics related to radical militants, usually in the context of pop culture or fashion. When such imagery is deployed subversively, the process exemplifies aestheticization of propaganda. Regardless, because terrorist chic derives its iconography from groups and individuals often associated with violent conflict or terrorism, the term carries a greater pejorative tone than \"radical chic.\"\n\nInstances of terrorist chic have variously been interpreted as morally irresponsible, earnestly counter-cultural, ironically hip, or benignly apolitical. According to Henry K. Miller of the \"New Statesman\", the most well-known example is the ubiquitous appearance of Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara in popular culture. Other cases that have been labeled terrorist chic include: the Prada-Meinhof fashion line (a pun on Prada and the Baader-Meinhof Gang) and the fashion of combining keffiyehs and military-style clothing such as camo prints and heavy boots, outside the Arab World.\n\nIn his 1996 \"Bangor Daily News\" article \"Libertarian chic hits country,\" Roland Nethaway compared libertarians to \"John Wayne on steroids,\" writing they were \"anti-government before anti-government was cool\". In a 2013 Reuters article, Nicholas Wapshott used the term to describe those who use radical statements to add a \"dangerous edge to their otherwise humdrum personas.\"\n\nLos Angeles Times journalist suggested that Alberto Korda's iconic March 1960 photograph of revolutionary Ernesto Che Guevara is possibly \"the most-reproduced photograph in the world,\" a ubiquitous countercultural symbol of rebellion and global insignia within popular culture.\n\nShortly after the October 17, 1997 burial with military honors in Santa Clara, Cuba of Guevara's disinterred and identified remains, found in the Bolivian jungle by forensic anthropologists, \"New York Times\" columnist Richard Bernstein argued that the third-world revolution that Che embodied was no longer even a \"drawing-room, radical-chic hope.\" Concurrent with his re-burial, three major Guevara biographies were published in 1997. Noting the sustained interest in Che, Bernstein suggested that \"the end of the cold war and the failure of the third-world revolution\" allowed for the \"scrutiny of Guevara, [as] a symbol of both the idealism and the moral blindness of the decade of protest\" to take place free in a context free \"of ideological partisanship and rancor.\"\n\nOn 1 April 2008 the documentary \"Chevolution\", on the mass dissemination of Korda's iconic photograph taken at a memorial service in Havana in March 1960 of revolutionary Ernesto Che Guevara entitled \"Guerillero Heroico\" by Trisha Ziff and Luis Lopez starring Antonio Banderas and Gael García Bernal, was launched. This documentary is a critical work about propaganda, \"communism and capitalism, idealism and opportunism, art and commerce\" from the 1960s to the first decade of the 21st century.\n\nOn 21 May 2008 Steven Soderbergh's long-anticipated and highly acclaimed film premiered at Cannes starring Benicio Del Toro. The film followed most other pop-culture trends by showing a glamorized and romanticized portrayal of Che as a 'heroic liberator'. Del Toro won the Best Actor Award, and the film received mostly positive reviews. \"Che\" was released on December 12, 2008 in New York City and Los Angeles to qualify for the year's Academy Awards.\n\nTed Balaker, editor-in-chief of Reason TV, an American libertarian website, wrote and produced \"Killer Chic\" in 2008, a libertarian, anti-Communist documentary, in which he deconstructed the use of images of Che Guevara and Mao Zedong in popular culture. In his blog entry on 11 December 2008, Reason journalist Nick Gillespie used the term \"killer chic\" in his review of Steven Soderbergh's film.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14566697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14566697", "title": "Repugnancy costs", "text": "Repugnancy costs\n\nRepugnancy costs are costs borne by an individual or entity as a result of a stimulus that goes against that individual or entity's cultural mores. The cost could be emotional, physical, mental or figurative. The stimulus could be anything from food to people to an idea. \n\nThese costs are perspective-dependent and individual. These costs may be different for different groups of people; countries, states, ethnicities, etc. The term allows for a clear and understandable way of representing the concept of contextual stigma in a literal and applicable sense.\n\nRepugnancy costs were first mentioned in a debate between Alvin Roth and Julio Elias on whether there should be an official market for kidneys. The act of buying and selling organs may be against one's cultural mores; it may be repugnant. Hence, this is an additional costs one must bear if such a market was deemed repugnant in the context of one's culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "6032086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6032086", "title": "See-through clothing", "text": "See-through clothing\n\nSee-through clothing is any garment of clothing made with lace, mesh or sheer fabric that allows the wearer's body or undergarments to be seen through its fabric. See-through fabrics were fashionable in Europe in the eighteenth century. There was a \"sheer fashion trend\" starting with designer clothing from 2008. See-through or sheer fabric, particularly in skintone (called \"nude\") colours, is sometimes called illusion, as in 'illusion bodice' (or sleeve) due to giving the impression of exposed flesh.\n\nMesh, web, or net fabric may have many connected or woven pieces with a large number of closely spaced holes, frequently used for modern sports jerseys.\n\nA sheer fabric is a thin cloth which is semi-transparent. These include chiffon, georgette, and gauze. Some are fine-denier knits used in tights and stockings, dancewear, and lingerie. It can also be used in tops, pants, skirts, dresses, and gowns.\n\nLatex rubber, which is naturally translucent, or plastics can be made into clothing material of any level of transparency. Clear plastic is typically only found in over-garments, such as raincoats. The use of translucent latex rubber for clothing can also be found in fetish clothing. Some materials become transparent when wet or when extreme light is shone on it, such as by a flashbulb.\n\nDuring the 1770s and 1780s, there was a fad for wrap-over dresses which were sometimes worn by actresses in Oriental roles. These were criticised by Horace Walpole among others for resembling dressing gowns too closely, while others objected to their revealingly thin materials, such as silk gauze and muslin. In the 1780s the chemise a la Reine, as worn by Marie Antoinette in a notorious portrait of 1783 by Vigée Le Brun, became very popular. It was a filmy white muslin dress similar to the undergarment also called a chemise. In 1784 Abigail Adams visited Paris, where she was shocked to observe that fashionable Frenchwomen, including Madame Helvétius, favoured the more revealing and sheer versions of this gown.\n\nBy the end of the 1790s, Louis-Sébastien Mercier, observing the dress of Frenchwomen, noted that demi-mondaines were dressing in a manner he described as \"a la sauvage\", comprising a semi-sheer muslin gown worn only over a flesh-coloured bodystocking, with the breasts, arms and feet bare. Mercier blamed the public display of nude or lightly-draped statues for encouraging this immodesty.\n\nIn the very late 18th century and for the first decade of the 19th, neoclassical gowns made of lightweight translucent muslin were fashionable. As the fabric clung to the body revealing what was beneath, it made nudity \"à la grecque\" a centrepiece of public spectacle. The concept of transparency in women's dress was often satirised by caricaturists of the day such as Isaac Cruikshank.\n\nThroughout the 19th century women's dresses, particularly for summer or evening wear, often featured transparent fabrics. However, these were almost always lined or worn over opaque undergarments or an underdress so that the wearer's modesty was preserved.\n\n\nA fashionable garment in the early 20th century was the \"peekaboo waist\", a blouse made from broderie anglaise or sheer fabric, which led to complaints that flesh could be seen through the eyelets in the embroidery or through the thin fabric. In 1913 the so-called \"x‑ray dress\", defined as a woman's dress that was considered to be too sheer or revealing, caused similar consternation. In August that year the Chief of Police of Los Angeles stated his intention to recommend a law banning women from wearing the \"diaphanous\" x‑ray dress on the streets. H. Russell Albee, the Mayor of Portland, Oregon, ordered the arrest of any woman caught wearing an x‑ray dress on the street, which was defined as a gown cut too low at the neck or split to the knee. The following year in 1914, Jean-Philippe Worth, designer for the renowned Paris couture House of Worth, had a client object to the thickness of the taffeta lining of her dress, which was described as \"thinner than a cigarette paper\". Worth stated that using an even thinner, sheerer lining fabric would have had the effect of an \"x‑ray dress\".\n\nSee-through and transparent clothing became very fashionable in the latter part of the 1960s. In 1967, Missoni presented a show at the Palazzo Pitti in Florence, where Rosita Missoni noticed the models' bras showed through their knit dresses and requested they remove them. However, under the catwalk lights, the garments became unexpectedly transparent, revealing nude breasts beneath. The see-through look was subsequently presented by Yves Saint Laurent the following year, and in London, Ossie Clark presented sheer chiffon dresses intended to be worn without underwear. The trend led to jewellery designers such as Daniel Stoenescu at Cadoro creating \"body jewellery\" to be worn with sheer blouses and low-cut dresses. Stoenescu designed metal filigree \"breastplates\" inspired by a statue of Venus found at Pompeii, which functioned like a brassiere and were designed to be visible through the transparent shirts while preserving the wearer's modesty.\n\nPunk rock artist Patti Smith wears a see-through slip inside-out on the cover of her 1978 album \"Easter\".\n\nA see-through dress worn by Kate Middleton, the future Duchess of Cambridge, to a charity fashion show in 2002 was sold at auction on 17 March 2011 for $127,500.\n\nSee-through materials of various kinds continue to be available for a wide range of clothing styles. See-through fabrics have been featured heavily on high-fashion runways since 2006. This use of see-through fabrics as a common element in designer clothing resulted in the \"sheer fashion trend\" that has been predominant in fashion circles since 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "40483092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40483092", "title": "Seeing Anthropology", "text": "Seeing Anthropology\n\nSeeing Anthropology: Cultural Anthropology Through Film by Karl G. Heider introduces cultural anthropology with the use of both text and audiovisual media. First published in 1997, the work uses the tools of the ethnographic film discipline to inform its audience of the various cultural anthropology topics. Also, the text covers 14 different cultures in 17 chapters, which are also represented in 21 different short film clips ranging from two to twelve minutes.\n"}
{"id": "35291011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35291011", "title": "Semiotics of culture", "text": "Semiotics of culture\n\nSemiotics of culture is a research field within semiotics that attempts to define culture from semiotic perspective and as a type of human symbolic activity, creation of signs and a way of giving meaning to everything around. Therefore, here culture is understood as a system of symbols or meaningful signs. Because the main sign system is the linguistic system, the field is usually referred to as semiotics of culture and language. Under this field of study symbols are analyzed and categorized in certain class within the hierarchal system. With postmodernity, metanarratives are no longer as pervasive and thus categorizing these symbols in this postmodern age is more difficult and rather critical.\n\nThe research field was of particular interest for the Tartu–Moscow Semiotic School (USSR). Linguists and semioticians by the Tartu School viewed culture as a hierarchical semiotic system consisting of set of functions correlated to it, and linguistic codes that are used by social groups to maintain coherence. These codes are viewed as superstructures based on natural language, and here the ability of humans to symbolize is central.\n\nThe study received a research ground also in Japan where the idea that culture and nature should not be contrasted and contradicted but rather harmonized was developed.\n\n"}
{"id": "41548741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41548741", "title": "Sightsmap", "text": "Sightsmap\n\nSightsmap is a sightseeing popularity heatmap overlaid on Google Maps, \nbased on crowdsourcing: the number of Panoramio photos taken at each place in the world.\n\nThe goal of the site is to find and explore places interesting for tourism and sightseeing.\nThe most popular places are shown on the map with an appropriate crowd-sourced name, attached links, tagcloud \nand colour-coded markers in the order of the relative popularity in the currently visible map area.\n\nUsers can filter popular places by their estimated population, type and tags. The site offers also\ntools for travel planning, adding bookmarks and personal notes to places.\n\nThe place names are selected by the Wikipedia readership numbers and Foursquare checkins, \naugmented using the automated analysis of photo titles. \nA tag cloud of weighted categories is computed from the photo titles and attached to a place.\n\nThe data sources have been harvested using public web API-s (Panoramio and\nFoursquare) or downloaded in the already converted semantic format: Wikipedia\ndownloaded in the form of the DBpedia RDF database, complemented with the Wikipedia public logfiles, and the Geonames database.\n\nThe site was created in 2012 by Tanel Tammet, with significant contributions in 2012 and 2013 by\nPriit Järv and Ago Luberg.\n\n"}
{"id": "725885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=725885", "title": "Studio", "text": "Studio\n\nA studio is an artist or worker's workroom. This can be for the purpose of acting, architecture, painting, pottery (ceramics), sculpture, origami, woodworking, scrapbooking, photography, graphic design, filmmaking, animation, industrial design, radio or television production broadcasting or the making of music. The term is also used for the workroom of dancers, often specified to dance studio.\n\nThe word \"studio\" is derived from the , from , from \"studere\", meaning to or zeal.\n\nThe French term for studio, atelier, in addition to designating an artist's studio is used to characterize the studio of a fashion designer. Atelier also has the connotation of being the home of an alchemist or wizard.\n\n\"Studio\" is also a metonym for the group of people who work within a particular studio. \n\nThe studio of any artist, especially from the 15th to the 19th centuries, characterized all the assistants, thus the designation of paintings as \"from the workshop of...\" or \"studio of...\"\nAn art studio is sometimes called an atelier, especially in earlier eras. In contemporary, English language use, \"atelier\" can also refer to the Atelier Method, a training method for artists that usually takes place in a professional artist's studio. \n\nThe above-mentioned \"method\" calls upon that zeal for study to play a significant role in the production which occurs in a studio space. A studio is more or less artful to the degree that the artist who occupies it is committed to the continuing education in his or her formal discipline. Academic curricula categorize studio classes in order to prepare students for the rigors of building sets of skills which require a continuity of practice in order to achieve growth and mastery of their artistic expression. A versatile and creative mind will embrace the opportunity of such practice to innovate and experiment, which develops uniquely individual qualities of each artist's expression. Thus the method raises and maintains an art studio space above the level of a mere production facility or workshop.\n\nSafety is or may be a concern in studios, with some painting materials required to be handled, stored, or used properly to prevent poisoning, chemical burns, or fire.\n\nIn educational studios, students learn to develop skills related to design, ranging from architecture to product design. In specific, educational studios are studio settings where large numbers of students learn to draft and design with instructional help at a college. Educational studios are colloquially referred to as \"studio\" by students, who are known for staying up late hours into the night doing projects and socializing.\n\nThe studio environment is characterized by 2 types in education:\n\nStudio pottery is made by an individual potter working on his own in his studio, rather than in a ceramics factory (although there may be a design studio within a larger manufacturing site).\n\nProduction studios are those studios which act as centres for the production in any of the arts; alternatively they can also be the financial and commercial entity behind such endeavours. In radio and television production studio is the place where programs and radio commercial and television advertising are recorded for further emission.\n\nAnimation studios, like movie studios, may be production facilities, or financial entities. In some cases, especially in anime, they continue the tradition of a studio where a master or group of talented individuals oversee the work of lesser artists and crafts persons in realising their vision. Animation studios are a fast rising entity and they include established firms such as Walt Disney and Pixar.\n\nArtists or writers, predominantly those producing comics, still employ small studios of staff to assist in the creation of a comic strip, comic book or graphic novel. In the early days of Dan Dare, Frank Hampson employed a number of staff at his studio to help with the production of the strip. Eddie Campbell is another creator who has assembled a small studio of colleagues to help him in his art, and the comic book industry of the United States has based its production methods upon the studio system employed at its beginnings.\n\nMany universities are creating studio settings for courses outside the artist's realm. There are several different projects along these lines, most notably the SCALE-UP (Student-Centered Active Learning Environment for Undergraduate Programs) initiated at NC State.\n\nIn audio, a mastering studio is a facility specialised in audio mastering. Tasks may include but not be limited to audio restoration, corrective and tone-shaping EQ, dynamic control, stereo or 5.1 surround editing, vinyl and tape transfers, vinyl cutting, and CD compilation. Depending on the quality of the original mix, the mastering engineer's role can change from small corrections to improving the overall sound of a mix drastically. Typically studios contain a combination of high-end analogue equipment with low-noise circuitry and digital hardware and plug-ins. Some may contain tape machines and vinyl lathes. They may also contain full-range monitoring systems and be acoustically tuned to provide an accurate reproduction of the sound information contained in the original medium. The mastering engineer must prepare the file for its intended destination, which may be radio, CD, vinyl or digital distribution.\n\nIn video production, a mastering studio is a facility specialized in the post-production of video recordings. Tasks may include but not be limited to: video editing, colour grading correction, mixing, DVD authoring and audio mastering. The mastering engineer must prepare the file for its intended destination, which may be broadcast, DVD or digital distribution.\n\nAn \"acting studio\" is an institution or workspace (similar to a dance studio) in which actors rehearse and refine their craft. The Neighborhood Playhouse and Actors Studio are legendary acting studios in New York.\n\nA movie studio is a company which develops, equips and maintains a controlled environment for filmmaking. This environment may be interior (sound stage), exterior (backlot) or both.\n\nA photographic studio is both a workspace and a corporate body. As a workspace it provides space to take, develop, print and duplicate photographs.\n\nA radio studio is a room in which a radio program or show is produced, either for live broadcast or for recording for a later broadcast. The room is soundproofed to avoid unwanted noise being mixed into the broadcast.\n\nA recording studio is a facility for sound recording which generally consists of at least two rooms: the studio or live room, and the control room, where the sound from the studio is recorded and manipulated. They are designed so that they have good acoustics and so that there is good isolation between the rooms.\n\nA television studio is an installation in which television or video productions take place, for live television, for recording video tape, or for the acquisition of raw footage for post-production. The design of a studio is similar to, and derived from, movie studios, with a few amendments for the special requirements of television production. A professional television studio generally has several rooms, which are kept separate for noise and practicality reasons.\n\nMany of the healing arts and activities such as yoga, judo, karate are \"studied\" in a studio. It is very common to see yoga studios and martial arts studios established in settings that might previously have been for other uses, described as studios. These are not really recreation centers, or gyms in the traditional sense, but places where students of these activities practice or study their art.\n\n"}
{"id": "178693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=178693", "title": "Transculturation", "text": "Transculturation\n\nTransculturation is a term coined by Cuban anthropologist Fernando Ortiz in 1947 to describe the phenomenon of merging and converging cultures.\n\nTransculturation encompasses more than transition from one culture to another; it does not consist merely of acquiring another culture (acculturation) or of losing or uprooting a previous culture (deculturation). Rather, it merges these concepts and additionally carries the idea of the consequent creation of new cultural phenomena (neoculturation). Ortiz also referred to the devastating impact of Spanish colonialism on Cuba's indigenous peoples as a \"failed transculturation\". Transculturation can often be the result of colonial conquest and subjugation, especially in a postcolonial era as native peoples struggle to regain their own sense of identity.\n\nIn simple terms, transculturation reflects the natural tendency of people (in general) to resolve conflicts over time, rather than exacerbating them. (In the modern context, both conflicts and resolutions are amplified by communication and transportation technology—the ancient tendency of cultures drifting or remaining apart has been replaced by stronger forces for bringing societies together.) Where transculturation impacts ethnicity and ethnic issues the term \"ethnoconvergence\" is sometimes used.\n\nIn one general sense, transculturation covers war, ethnic conflict, racism, multiculturalism, cross-culturalism, interracial marriage, and any other of a number of contexts that deal with more than one culture. In the other general sense, transculturation is one aspect of global phenomena and human events.\n\nThe general processes of transculturation are extremely complex—steered by powerful forces at the macrosocial level, yet ultimately resolved at the interpersonal level. The driving force for conflict is simple proximity—boundaries, once separating people (providing for a measure of isolation) become the issue of a conflict when societies encroach upon one another territorially. If a means to co-exist cannot be immediately found, then conflicts can be hostile, leading to a process by which contact between individuals leads to some resolution. Often, history shows us, the processes of co-existence begins with hostilities, and with the natural passing of polarist individuals, comes the passing of their polarist sentiments, and soon some resolution is achieved. Degrees of hostile conflict vary from outright genocidal conquest, to lukewarm infighting between differing political views within the same ethnic community.\n\nThese changes often represent differences between homeland pons, and their diasporic communities abroad. Nevertheless, obstacles to ethnoconvergence are not great. The primary issue; language, (\"hence, communication and education\") can be overcome within a single generation—as is evident in the easy acclimation of children of foreign parents. English, for example, is spoken by more non-Anglo-American people than Anglo-Americans, making it the current lingua-franca, the worldwide de facto standard international language.\n\nProcesses of transculturation become more complex within the context of globalization, given the multiple layers of abstraction that permeate everyday experiences. Elizabeth Kath argues that in the global era we can no longer consider transculturation only in relation to the face-to-face, but that we need to take into account the many layers of abstracted interactions that are interwoven through face-to-face encounters, a phenomenon that she describes as \"layers of transculturation\". Kath draws upon the concept of constitutive abstraction as seen in the work of Australian social theorists Geoff Sharp and Paul James.\n\nIt has been observed that even in monolingual, industrial societies like urban North America, some individuals do cling to a \"modernized\" primordial identity, apart from others. Some intellectuals, such as Michael Ignatieff, argue that convergence of a general culture does not directly entail a similar convergence in ethnic identities. This can become evident in social situations, where people divide into separate groups, despite being of an identical \"super-ethnicity\", such as nationality.\n\nWithin each smaller ethnicity, individuals may tend to see it perfectly justified to assimilate with other cultures, and some others view assimilation as wrong and incorrect for their culture. This common theme, representing dualist opinions of ethnoconvergence itself, within a single ethnic group is often manifested in issues of sexual partners and marriage, employment preferences, etc. These varied opinions of ethnoconvergence represent themselves in a spectrum; assimilation, homogenization, acculturation, and cultural compromise are commonly used terms for ethnoconvegence which flavor the issues to a bias.\n\nOften it's in a secular, multi-ethnic environment that cultural concerns are both minimised and exacerbated; Ethnic prides are boasted, hierarchy is created (\"center\" culture versus \"periphery\") but on the other hand, they will still share a common \"culture\", and common language and behaviours. Often the elderly, more conservative-in-association of a clan, tend to reject cross-cultural associations, and participate in ethnically similar community-oriented activities. Xenophobes tend to think of cross-cultural contact as a component of assimilation, and see this as harmful.\n\nThe obstacle to ethnoconvergence is ethnocentrism, which is the view that one's culture is of greater importance than another's. Ethnocentrism often takes different forms, as it is a highly personal bias, and manifests itself in countless aspects of culture. Religion, or belief, is the prime ethnocentric divider. Second is custom, which may overlap religion. With the adherence to each distinct component, comes the repulsion of the other. In most regions, ethnic divides are binary, meaning only two distinct cultures are present, each seeing the other as foreign. Many, however make the point that the binary example is the exception, and the norm is far more dynamic.\n\nEthnicity can be divided into two distinct areas, as they relate to ethnoconvergence: Utilitarian traits, and traditional customs.\n\nReligion, on the other hand, is a highly personal and attached part of culture. However, religion does not neatly correspond with ethnic identity. In many cosmopolitan societies, religion is everything—social, utilitarian, intellectual, political; from the point of view of people of immersed cultures; The very concept of ethnicity and its distinctions is incongruous to their immersed concepts.\n\nIn many societies, such as in those in Europe, languages are considered a significant component of ethnic values. This does not mean that most Europeans reject learning other languages. Quite the contrary, Europeans are often polyglots, and may label other individuals by their ethnicities; practical means of distinguishing cultures may resemble tendencies similar to ethnocentrism.\n\nHowever, the political and cultural significance of regional or national languages are retained because these polyglots conform to the linguistic norms of the place they visit—doing \"as the Romans do\". Thus, conforming to the \"ethnic integrity\" of the region.\n\nIt has even become a cliché that \"to learn a new language is to adopt a new soul\". There are many other examples of the essential significance of language. In pre-Russian Siberia, Tatar-Mongol colonists in the Taiga often recognized indigenous speakers of Turkic languages as their \"own people\" and non-Turkic groups as \"foreigners\", despite these indigenous groups having a similar level of material culture, and sharing much of a primitive culture with tribes foreign to the Muslim-Buddhist Tatar-Mongols.\n\nIn October 2011, U.S. communications agency Bromley launched a new model/strategy utilizing transcultural sociological theory as a means to segment and 'make sense' of the changing American cultural landscape. Returning to classic social science as a solution, Bromley has embraced the anthropological approach put forward by thinkers like Fernando Ortiz as a way to account for ethnicity and language without being limited by them as a way for viewing the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2400868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2400868", "title": "Twelve Tribes of Israel", "text": "Twelve Tribes of Israel\n\nAccording to the Hebrew Bible, the Twelve Tribes of Israel or Tribes of Israel () descended from the 12 sons of the patriarch Jacob (who was later named Israel) by two wives, Leah and Rachel, and two concubines, Zilpah and Bilhah.\n\n lists the twelve tribes:\n\nJacob elevated the descendants of Ephraim and Manasseh (the two sons of Joseph and his Egyptian wife Asenath) to the status of full tribes in their own right, replacing the tribe of Joseph.\n\nIn the biblical narrative, the period from the conquest of Canaan under the leadership of Joshua until the formation of the first Kingdom of Israel, passed with the tribes forming a loose confederation, described in the Book of Judges. Modern scholarship has called into question the beginning, middle, and end of this picture and the account of the conquest under Joshua has largely been abandoned. The Bible's depiction of the 'period of the Judges' is widely considered doubtful. The extent to which a united Kingdom of Israel ever existed is also a matter of ongoing dispute.\n\nLiving in exile in the sixth century BCE, the prophet Ezekiel has a vision for the restoration of Israel, of a future utopia in which the twelve tribes of Israel are living in their land again.\n\nIn the Christian New Testament, the twelve tribes of Israel are referred to twice in the gospels and twice in the Book of Revelation. In Matthew, paralleled by Luke, Jesus anticipates that in the Kingdom of God, his followers will \"sit on [twelve] thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel\". In the vision of the writer of the Book of Revelation, 144,000 of all the tribes of the children of Israel were \"sealed\", 12,000 from each tribe and in his vision of the New or Heavenly Jerusalem, the tribes' names were written on the city gates:\n\nAttributed arms are Western European coats of arms given retrospectively to persons real or fictitious who died before the start of the age of heraldry in the latter half of the 12th century.\n\nAttributed arms of the Twelve Tribes by Thesouro de Nobreza, 1675\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11199842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11199842", "title": "Umbrella title", "text": "Umbrella title\n\nAn umbrella title is a formal or informal name connecting a number of individual items with a common theme. It is most often used in lieu of listing separately the separate components or providing a convenient \"label\" for a collection of disciplines.\n\nNonspecific fields of study are identified by umbrella titles such as \"physics\", \"physical education\", and \"medicine\", to distinguish them from specialized fields of study such as exercise physiology.\n\nMany scientific and academic conferences use umbrella titles as unifying themes for the activities scheduled in the course of the conference.\n\nUmbrella titles in common use involve either general job descriptions of a group of workers with similar responsibilities (like \"teacher\") or rank (military or nonmilitary).\n\nCollections of organizations with a common legal or legislative interest are often \"united\" under an umbrella title for the purposes of lobbying or participating in a lawsuit.\n\nUmbrella titles are widely used in music, literature, television, and theater. Uses of umbrella titles vary widely in the arts, to a much greater spectrum of use than in other fields of study.\n\nUmbrella titles are used to demarcate the music field into general trends or styles: classical music, jazz, rock music, hip hop, rhythm and blues and other labels which each cover more specialized musical styles. A similar \"structure\" can be found in the field of dance.\n\nPrior to the sale of the long playing record in 1950, albums containing several 78 revolutions-per-minute records were often sold under umbrella titles (a collection of recordings from \"Oklahoma\", for example). It can be argued that titles of all long-playing records and compact discs are \"umbrella\" titles—and several such recordings with a common theme often have an umbrella title (such as Chip Davis' \"Day Parts\" series) as well.\n\nWhile it can be argued that every title of a televised series, especially those primarily used to designate a time period rather than actual programming (like \"NBC Monday Night at the Movies\") is an umbrella, the term is more appropriately applied to names of anthology series, series that combine together to provide a common theme (such as the three components of \"90 Bristol Court\"), wheel series, and other series under a common heading (such as \"Crimetime After Primetime\" and \"Four in One\").\n\nWhile it was common practice in the 1950s and early 1960s for series to alternate or otherwise share a time slot in American broadcast network television (for example, \"The Jack Benny Show\" shared a time slot with, first \"Private Secretary\" and then \"The George Gobel Show\"), umbrella titles were not used by United States' networks until 1964, when NBC presented three half-hour programs on Monday nights as a programming block centered at a southern California apartment complex, \"90 Bristol Court\".\n\nWhile the 1964 programming experiment did not succeed (two of the series were cancelled; the third lasted the broadcast season but was not renewed for the 1965-1966 season), NBC was not dissuaded from further programming experimentation. Within a decade, the network then experimented with wheel series, first with \"Four in One\" and \"The Bold Ones\", then with \"NBC Mystery Movie\". Afterwards additional wheel series were presented by American broadcast networks, to varying degrees of success. The expirement was revived in 1979 with \"Cliffhangers\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, umbrella titles were used in varying degrees in their programming as well. The long-running \"Doctor Who\" used umbrella titles on several levels, first with individual named episodes under the umbrella of the title of an overall story (the first four episodes were commonly called \"An Unearthly Child\" even though none of them actually showed it to be the title of the story); even after the naming of individual episodes ceased, umbrella titles were often used to collect stories with a common enemy or theme (Daleks stories, Cybermen stories, UNIT stories, and season-long \"Key to Time\" and \"Trial of a Time Lord\").\n\nThe use of umbrella titles in motion pictures parallels their use in literature. Movie trilogies such as \"Lord of the Rings\" and the \"Three Colors\" trilogy (\"a.k.a.\" \"Red, White, and Blue trilogy\") commonly are called by umbrella titles, as was the case for their literary cousins (such as John Dos Passos' \"U.S.A.\"). Umbrella titles were often used to cover longer sequences of motion pictures or novels (such as the James Bond and \"Star Wars\" films and Marcel Proust's multi-volume \"Remembrance of Things Past\"). Often umbrella titles are used to collect motion pictures with common stars (\"Marx Brothers movies\") or common characters (\"Dirty Harry movies\"), as is the case for novels or comics (\"Perry Mason novels\", for example). In literature, sometimes an umbrella title is used for a collection of stories with a common locality, such as the Wessex novels of Thomas Hardy.\n"}
{"id": "31614367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31614367", "title": "Values (heritage)", "text": "Values (heritage)\n\nThe values embodied in cultural heritage are identified in order to assess significance, prioritize resources, and inform conservation decision-making. It is recognised that values may compete and change over time, and that heritage may have different meanings for different stakeholders.\n\nAlois Riegl is credited with developing Ruskin's concept of 'voicefulness' into a systematic categorization of the different values of a monument. In his 1908 essay \"Der moderne Denkmalkultus\" (The modern cult of monuments) he describes historical value, artistic value, age value, commemorative value, use value, and newness value. Riegl demonstrates that some of these values conflict and argues that they may be culturally contingent.\n\nThe UNESCO World Heritage Convention addresses cultural sites of outstanding universal value, from a historical, aesthetic, scientific, ethnological or anthropological perspective, and highlights the need for authenticity. Discussed in the 1964 Venice Charter, values and the question 'why conserve?' are the focus of the 1979 Burra Charter (last revised 1999). Cultural significance is said to be 'embodied' in the fabric, setting, use, associations, and meanings of a place, and includes aesthetic, historic, scientific, social and spiritual values for past, present and future generations. In order to preserve such values a 'cautious approach' of minimum intervention is advocated.\n\nSignificance assessment typically includes consideration of the rarity, representativeness, and communicative power of assets and their values. These are then managed in order to sustain and valorize that significance. Engagement with the economic value of heritage may help promote its preservation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35922455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35922455", "title": "Water marble nail", "text": "Water marble nail\n\nWater marble nails are a nail art technique involving dropping nail lacquers into clear water and creating a pattern on the water surface, the pattern is then transferred to the nails.\n\nThe water marble nail technique was originally developed by professional nail technicians in Japanese nail salons. In the 1990s, it was popularized by commercial publications released by shopping centers in Chiba, Japan. In 2010, water marble nail art was adapted to use acrylic artificial nails and gels.\n\nThe water marble nail technique has gained popularity across the globe through features in magazines, websites, polish makers and videos.\n\nThere are two main types of water marble nail art methods: free-dragging and free-dropping. Free-dragging is more common.\n\nDragged patterns range from simple circular shapes to complicated drawings. Patterns such as marble, hearts/peacocks, animals, flowers, leaves, parallel lines, psychedelics, spiderwebs, and random patterns in the style of designer Emilio Pucci are generally performed with nail lacquers and some kind of tool.\n\nDropped patterns range from colored shapes to complicated drawings such as spirals and geometric designs. The free patterns are created by colored drops of nail lacquer. For free-dropping, lacquer colors are dropped straight or diagonally onto the water. The pattern floats on the surface of the water.\n\nWater marble nail art requires clean water, nail lacquers for free-dropping, and a stick for drawing patterns. Before patterns are created, the nails are painted with a light-colored nail polish that establishes a good contrast with the colors chosen to create the water marble. Some techniques use a matte coat to provide contrast and maintain an even look.\n\nAfter the base coat has dried, tape is put around the fingers to gather the excess nail polish after the marbling. One or two drops of colored lacquer are chosen for the design and are added to a cup of clean water. The drops will create a circle on the water surface. The next color is added on top of the circle created by the previous drop. The resulting pattern is ready for application to the nail, but it can still be modified with a stick or toothpick to create different shapes. The nail is dipped into the pattern on the water and kept under water as a Q-tip is used to \"grab\" the remaining polish.\n"}
