{"id": "49742724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49742724", "title": "21st century skills", "text": "21st century skills\n\n21st century skills comprise skills, abilities, and learning dispositions that have been identified as being required for success in 21st century society and workplaces by educators, business leaders, academics, and governmental agencies. This is part of a growing international movement focusing on the skills required for students to master in preparation for success in a rapidly changing, digital society. Many of these skills are also associated with deeper learning, which is based on mastering skills such as analytic reasoning, complex problem solving, and teamwork. These skills differ from traditional academic skills in that they are not primarily content knowledge-based.\n\nDuring the latter decades of the 20th century and into the 21st century, society has undergone an accelerating pace of change in economy and technology. Its effects on the workplace, and thus on the demands on the educational system preparing students for the workforce, have been significant in several ways. Beginning in the 1980s, government, educators, and major employers issued a series of reports identifying key skills and implementation strategies to steer students and workers towards meeting the demands of the changing workplace and society.\n\nThe current workforce is significantly more likely to change career fields or jobs. Those in the Baby Boom generation entered the workforce with a goal of stability; subsequent generations are more concerned with finding happiness and fulfillment in their work lives. Young workers in North America are now likely to change jobs at a much higher rate than previously, as much as once every 4.4 years on average. With this employment mobility comes a demand for different skills, ones that enable people to be flexible and adaptable in different roles or in different career fields.\n\nAs western economies have transformed from industrial-based to service-based, trades and vocations have smaller roles. However, specific hard skills and mastery of particular skill sets, with a focus on digital literacy, are in increasingly high demand. People skills that involve interaction, collaboration, and managing others are increasingly important. Skills that enable people to be flexible and adaptable in different roles or in different fields, those that involve processing information and managing people more than manipulating equipment—in an office or a factory—are in greater demand. These are also referred to as \"applied skills\" or \"soft skills\", including personal, interpersonal, or learning-based skills, such as life skills (problem-solving behaviors), people skills, and social skills. The skills have been grouped into three main areas: \n\nMany of these skills are also identified as key qualities of progressive education, a pedagogical movement that began in the late nineteenth century and continues in various forms to the present.\n\nSince the early 1980s, a variety of governmental, academic, non-profit, and corporate entities have conducted considerable research to identify key personal and academic skills and competencies they determined were needed for the current and next generation. The identification and implementation of 21st century skills into education and workplaces began in the United States but has spread to Canada, the United Kingdom, New Zealand, and through national and international organizations such as APEC and the OECD.\n\nIn 1981, the US Secretary of Education created the National Commission on Excellence in Education to examine the quality of education in the United States.\" The commission issued its report \"A Nation at Risk: The Imperative for Educational Reform\" in 1983. A key finding was that \"educational reform should focus on the goal of creating a Learning Society.\" The report's recommendations included instructional content and skills:\n\nFive New Basics: English, Mathematics, Science, Social Studies, Computer Science\nOther Curriculum Matters: Develop proficiency, rigor, and skills in Foreign Languages, Performing Arts, Fine Arts, Vocational Studies, and the pursuit of higher level education.\nSkills and abilities (consolidated):\n\nUntil the dawn of the 21st century, education systems across the world focussed on preparing their students to accumulate content and knowledge. As a result, schools focussed on providing literacy and numeracy skills to their students, as these skills were perceived as necessary to gain content and knowledge. Recent developments in technology and telecommunication have made information and knowledge ubiquitous and easily accessible in the 21st century. Therefore, while skills such as literacy and numeracy are still relevant and necessary, they are no longer sufficient. In order to respond to technological, demographic and socio-economic changes, education systems began to make the shift toward providing their students with a range of skills that relied not only on cognition but also on the interdependencies of cognitive, social, and emotional characteristics. \n\nNotable efforts were conducted by the US Secretary of Labor's Commission on Achieving Necessary Skills (SCANS), a national coalition called the Partnership for 21st Century Skills (P21), the international Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the American Association of College and Universities, researchers at MIT and other institutions of higher learning, and private organizations.\n\nAdditional research has found that the top skills demanded by U.S. Fortune 500 companies by the year 2000 had shifted from traditional reading, writing and arithmetic to teamwork, problem solving, and interpersonal skills. A 2006 Conference Board survey of some 400 employers revealed that the most important skills for new workforce entrants included oral and written communications and critical thinking/problem solving, ahead of basic knowledge and skills, such as the reading comprehension and mathematics. While the ‘three Rs’ were still considered foundational to new workforce entrants’ abilities, employers emphasized that applied skills like collaboration/teamwork and critical thinking were ‘very important’ to success at work.\"\n\nA 2006 report from MIT researchers countered the suggestion that students acquire critical skills and competencies independently by interacting with popular culture, noting three continuing trends that suggest the need for policy and pedagogical interventions:\"\n\nAccording to labor economists at MIT and Harvard’s Graduate School of Education, the economic changes brought about over the past four decades by emerging technology and globalization, employers’ demands for people with competencies like complex thinking and communications skills has increased greatly. They argue that the success of the U.S. economy will rely on the nation’s ability to give students the \"foundational skills in problem-solving and communications that computers don’t have.\"\n\nIn 2010, the Common Core State Standards Initiative, an effort sponsored by the National Governors Association (NGA) and the Council of Chief State School Officers (CCSSO), issued the Common Core Standards, calling for the integration of 21st century skills into K-12 curricula across the United States.\n\nThe skills and competencies that are generally considered \"21st Century skills\" are varied but share some common themes. They are based on the premise that effective learning, or deeper learning, a set of student educational outcomes including acquisition of robust core academic content, higher-order thinking skills, and learning dispositions. This pedagogy involves creating, working with others, analyzing, and presenting and sharing both the learning experience and the learned knowledge or wisdom, including to peers and mentors as well as teachers. This contrasts with more traditional learning methodology that involves learning by rote and regurgitating info/knowledge back to the teacher for a grade. The skills are geared towards students and workers to foster engagement; seeking, forging, and facilitating connections to knowledge, ideas, peers, instructors, and wider audiences; creating/producing; and presenting/publishing. The classification or grouping has been undertaken to encourage and promote pedagogies that facilitate deeper learning through both traditional instruction as well as active learning, project-based learning, problem based learning, and others. A 2012 survey conducted by the American Management Association (AMA) identified three top skills necessary for their employees: critical thinking, communication and collaboration. Below are some of the more readily identifiable lists of 21st century skills.\n\nThe Common Core Standards issued in 2010 were intended to support the \"application of knowledge through higher-order thinking skills.\" The initiative's stated goals are to promote the skills and concepts required for college and career readiness in multiple disciplines and life in the global economy. Skills identified for success in the areas of literacy and mathematics:\n\nFollowing the release of \"A Nation at Risk\", the U.S. Secretary of Labor appointed the Secretary's Commission on Achieving Necessary Skills (SCANS) to determine the skills needed for young people to succeed in the workplace to foster a high-performance economy. SCANS focused on what they called \"learning a living\" system. In 1991, they issued their initial report, \"What Work Requires of Schools\". The report concluded that a high-performance workplace requires workers who have key fundamental skills: basic skills and knowledge, thinking skills to apply that knowledge, personal skills to manage and perform; and five key workplace competencies.\n\nFundamental Skills\n\nWorkplace Competencies\n\nIn 2002 the Partnership for 21st Century Skills (now the Partnership for 21st Century Learning, or P21) was founded as a non-profit organization by a coalition that included members of the national business community, education leaders, and policymakers: the National Education Association (NEA), United States Department of Education, AOL Time Warner Foundation, Apple Computer, Inc., Cable in the Classroom, Cisco Systems, Inc., Dell Computer Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, SAP, Ken Kay (President and Co-Founder), and Dins Golder-Dardis. To foster a national conversation on \"the importance of 21st century skills for all students\" and \"position 21st century readiness at the center of US K-12 education\", P21 identified six key skills:\n\n7C Skills have been identified by P21 senior fellows at P21, Bernie Trilling and Charles Fadel:\n\nThe P21 organization also conducted research that identified deeper learning competencies and skills they called the Four Cs of 21st century learning:\n\nThe University of Southern California's Project New Literacies website list four different \"C\" skills: \n\nIn 2008, author and Harvard Graduate School of Education researcher Tony Wagner identified what he termed the \"7 Survival Skills\" needed for the modern workplace:\n\n\nResearchers at MIT, led by Henry Jenkins, Director of the Comparative Media Studies Program, in 2006 issued a white paper (\"Confronting the Challenges of a Participatory Culture: Media Education for the 21st Century\"), that examined digital media and learning. To address this Digital Divide, they recommended an effort be made to develop the cultural competencies and social skills required to participate fully in modern society instead of merely advocating for installing computers in each classroom. What they term participatory culture shifts this literacy from the individual level to a broader connection and involvement, with the premise that networking and collaboration develop social skills that are vital to new literacies. These in turn build on traditional foundation skills and knowledge taught in school: traditional literacy, research, technical, and critical analysis skills.\n\nParticipatory culture is defined by this study as having: low barriers to artistic expression and civic engagement, strong support for creating and sharing one’s creations, informal mentorship, belief that members' own contributions matter, and social connection (caring what other people think about their creations).\nForms of participatory culture include:\n\nThe skills identified were:\n\nA 2005 study (Lenhardt & Madden) found that more than one-half of all teens have created media content, and roughly one third of teens who use the Internet have shared content they produced, indicating a high degree of involvement in participatory cultures. Such digital literacies emphasize the intellectual activities of a person working with sophisticated information communications technology, not on proficiency with the tool.\n\nIn 2003 the North Central Regional Educational Laboratory and the Metiri Group issued a report entitled \"enGauge® 21st Century Skills: Literacy in the Digital Age\" based on two years of research. The report called for policymakers and educators to define 21st century skills, highlight the relationship of those skills to conventional academic standards, and recognize the need for multiple assessments to measure and evaluate these skills within the context of academic standards and the current technological and global society. To provide a common understanding of, and language for discussing, the needs of students, citizens, and workers in a modern digital society, the report identified four \"skill clusters\":\n\nIn 1997, member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development launched the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) to monitor \"the extent to which students near the end of compulsory schooling have acquired the knowledge and skills essential for full participation in society\". In 2005 they identified three \"Competency Categories:\" \n\nThe AAC&U conducted several studies and surveys of their members. In 2007 they recommended that graduates of higher education attain four skills - The Essential Learning Outcomes:\n\nThey found that skills most widely addressed in college and university goals are:\n\nA 2015 survey of AAC&U member institutions added the following goals:\n\nThe ISTE Educational Technology Standards (formerly National Educational Technology Standards (NETS)) are a set of standards published by the International Society for Technology in Education (ISTE) to leverage the use of technology in K-12 education. These are sometimes intermixed with information and communication technologies (ICT) skills. In 2007 NETS issued a series of six performance indicators (only the first four are on their website as of 2016):\n\n\nIn 2007 the Educational Testing Service (ETS) ICT Literacy Panel released its digital literacy standards:\nInformation and Communication Technologies (ICT) proficiencies:\n\nA person possessing these skills would be expected to perform these tasks for a particular set of information: access, manage, integrate, evaluate, create/publish/present. The emphasis is on proficiency with digital tools.\n\nIn 2005, Chris Dede of the Harvard Graduate School of Education developed a framework based on new digital literacies entitled\nNeomillennial Learning Styles:\n\nDede category system\nWith the exponential expansion of personal access to Internet resources, including social media, information and content on the Internet has evolved from being created by website providers to individuals and communities of contributors. The 21st century Internet centered on material created by a small number of people, Web 2.0 tools (e.g. Wikipedia) foster online communication, collaboration, and creation of content by large numbers of people (individually or in groups) in online communities.\n\nIn 2009, Dede created a category system for Web 2.0 tools: \n\nIn 2015, the World Economic Forum published a report titled ‘New Vision for Education: Unlocking the Potential of Technology’ that focused on the pressing issue of the 21st-century skills gap and ways to address it through technology. In the report, they defined a set of 16 crucial proficiencies for education in the 21st century. Those skills include six “foundational literacies”, four “competencies” and six “character qualities” listed below.\n\nFoundation Literacies\n\nCompetencies\n\n\nCharacter Qualities\n\nIn a paper titled ‘Education for Life and Work: Developing Transferable Knowledge and Skills in the 21st Century’ produced by the National Research Council of National Academies, the National Research defines 21st century skills, describes how the skills relate to each other and summaries the evidence regarding 21st century skills. \n\nAs a first step toward describing “21st century skills,” the National Research Council identified three domains of competence: cognitive, interpersonal, and intrapersonal while recognizing that the three domains while different, are intertwined in human development and learning. These three domains represent distinct facets of human thinking and build on previous efforts to identify and organize dimensions of human behaviour. The committee produced the following cluster of 21st century skills in the above mentioned 3 domains. \n\nCognitive Competencies\n\n\nIntrapersonal Competencies\n\n\nInterpersonal Competencies\n\n\nMultiple agencies and organizations have issued guides and recommendation for implementation of 21st century skills in a variety of learning environments and learning spaces. These include five separate educational areas: standards, assessment, professional development, curriculum & instruction, and learning environments.\n\nThe designs of learning environments and curricula have been impacted by the initiatives and efforts to implement and support 21st century skills with a move away from the factory model school model and into a variety of different organizational models. Hands-on learning project-based learning have resulted in the development of programs and spaces such as STEM and makerspaces. Collaborative learning environments have fostered flexibility in furniture and classroom layout as well as differentiated spaces, such as small seminar rooms near classrooms. Literacy with, and access to, digital technology has impacted the design of furniture and fixed components as students and teachers use tablets, interactive whiteboards and interactive projectors. Classroom sizes have grown to accommodate a variety of furniture arrangements and grouping, many of which are less space-efficient than traditional configurations of desks in rows.\n\n\nBellanca, J. (Ed.) (2010) 21st Century Skills: Rethinking How Students Learn. Solution Tree Press, Bloomington, In. \nBellanca, J (Ed.) (2014) Deeper Learning: Beyond 21st Century Skills. Solution Tree Press, Bloomington, In. (Ben Franklin Award, Independent Publishers. Asso. 2016)\n\n"}
{"id": "21490880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21490880", "title": "Academic specialization", "text": "Academic specialization\n\nIn academia, specialization (or specialisation) may be a course of study or major at an academic institution or may refer to the field that a specialist practices in. In the case of an educator, academic specialization pertains to the subject that he specializes in and teaches. It is considered a precondition of objective truth and works by restricting the mind's propensity for eclecticism through methodological rigor and studious effort. It is also employed as an information-management strategy, which operates by fragmenting an issue into different aspective fields or areas of expertise to obtain truth. \n\nAs the volume of knowledge accumulated by humanity became too great, increasing specialization in academia appeared in response. There are also cases when this concept emerged out of state policy-making to pursue goals such as national competitiveness. For instance, there is the case of Britain who began coordinating academic specialization - through the founding of the Imperial College - to catch up to the United States and Germany, particularly in the fields of scientific and technical education.\n"}
{"id": "9819436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9819436", "title": "Actionbioscience", "text": "Actionbioscience\n\nAction Bioscience is a non-commercial, educational web site sponsored by the American Institute of Biological Sciences (AIBS) . It was created to promote bioscience literacy and bring attention to seven bioscience issues of critical current importance: 1) Biodiversity, 2) Environment, 3) Genomics, 4) Biotechnology, 5) Evolution, 6) New Frontiers, and 7) Science Education\n\nThe organization seeks to:\n\n\nTo meet these goals, the web site provides articles by scientists, science educators, and science students on issues related to seven bioscience challenges: environment, biodiversity, genomics, biotechnology, evolution, new frontiers in science, and bioscience education. In addition, the web site provides educators with original lessons and resources to enhance bioscience teaching. Up-to-date external links are provided at the bottom of each article to help the reader \"learn more\" about or \"get involved\" in the issue. Selected articles are translated into Spanish.\n\nIt won an award as one of the best sci-tech web sites by Scientific American.\n"}
{"id": "1983995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1983995", "title": "Adobe Captivate", "text": "Adobe Captivate\n\nAdobe Captivate is an authoring tool that is used for creating elearning content such as software demonstrations, software simulations, branched scenarios, and randomized quizzes in Small Web Formats (.swf) and HTML5 formats.\n\nIt can also convert Adobe Captivate-generated file formats (.swf) to digital MP4 (.mp4) formats which can be played with media players or uploaded to video hosting websites. For software simulations, Captivate can use left or right mouse clicks, key presses and rollover images.\n\nIt can also be used to create screencasts, and to convert Microsoft PowerPoint presentations to .swf and HTML5 formats.\n\nWhile the product started out as a pure screen recording utility known as Flashcam (Nexus Concepts 2002), it evolved into an E-learning authoring tool after San Diego-based eHelp Corporation acquired Flashcam and released it as RoboDemo. Eventually, software firm Macromedia acquired eHelp to gain RoboDemo. Shortly before Adobe Systems acquired Macromedia, they changed the name of the product to Captivate.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36073594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36073594", "title": "Adventures of the Mind", "text": "Adventures of the Mind\n\nAdventures of the Mind is an achievement-focused mentoring camp for talented high school students. Educators from across the nation nominate students whom they believe, with guidance and nurture, can maximize their potential and make important contributions to society. Honored guests share their life stories that can serve as a road map to the students on their own personal paths to success.\n\nFounded in 2003, the \"Adventures of the Mind\" achievement mentoring camp brings together, on a college campus, high potential teens from across the country with accomplished mentors from a variety of fields: artists, astronauts, athletes, entrepreneurs, inventors, journalists, Nobel laureates, novelists, poets, poker players, programmers, public servants, Pulitzer prize winners, scholars, and more. Adventures of the Mind provides the students — who are the great thinker and achievers of tomorrow — with an opportunity to interact with some of the great thinkers and achievers of today. The camp runs for 7 days and is developed by student achievement and advocacy services. Murray Gell-Mann who was awarded the 1969 Nobel Prize in Physics and a Mentor at the 2011 summit, is quoted as saying:\n\nStudent attendees are selected through a highly personalized and rigorous search that goes beyond traditional measures of achievement — grades and test scores — by asking teachers to personally nominate an exceptional teen. Attendees are chosen regardless of learning disabilities, socioeconomic factors, or other obstacles that may obscure real potential. Additionally, participants are chosen from runners-up in national competitions ranging from the Presidential Scholars Program to the Intel Science Talent Search to the National Poetry Slam. \"Adventures of the Mind\" targets high potential students who may not yet garner the same level of recognition as their peers, but would benefit just as much from the experience the camp provides.\n\nMentors represent a wide variety of backgrounds and fields including arts, business, literature, public service, philanthropy, science and more.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "261128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=261128", "title": "Bloom's taxonomy", "text": "Bloom's taxonomy\n\nBloom's taxonomy is a set of three hierarchical models used to classify educational learning objectives into levels of complexity and specificity. The three lists cover the learning objectives in cognitive, affective and sensory domains. The cognitive domain list has been the primary focus of most traditional education and is frequently used to structure curriculum learning objectives, assessments and activities.\n\nThe models were named after Benjamin Bloom, who chaired the committee of educators that devised the taxonomy. He also edited the first volume of the standard text, \"Taxonomy of Educational Objectives: The Classification of Educational Goals\".\n\nAlthough named after Bloom, the publication of \"Taxonomy of Educational Objectives\" followed a series of conferences from 1949 to 1953, which were designed to improve communication between educators on the design of curricula and examinations.\n\nThe first volume of the taxonomy, \"Handbook I: Cognitive\" was published in 1956, and in 1964 the second volume \"Handbook II: Affective\" was published. A revised version of the taxonomy for the cognitive domain was created in 2001.\n\nIn the original version of the taxonomy, the cognitive domain is broken into the following six levels of objectives. In the 2001 revised edition of Bloom's taxonomy, the levels are slightly different: Remember, Understand, Apply, Analyze, Evaluate, Create (rather than Synthesize).\n\nKnowledge involves recognizing or remembering facts, terms, basic concepts, or answers without necessarily understanding what they mean. Its characteristics may include:\n\n\"Example\": Name three common varieties of apple.\n\nComprehension involves demonstrating understanding of facts and ideas by organizing, comparing, translating, interpreting, giving descriptions, and stating the main ideas.\n\n\"Example\": Compare the identifying characteristics of a Golden Delicious apple with a Granny Smith apple.\n\nApplication involves using acquired knowledge—solving problems in new situations by applying acquired knowledge, facts, techniques and rules. Learners should be able to use prior knowledge to solve problems, identify connections and relationships and how they apply in new situations.\n\n\"Example\": Would apples prevent scurvy, a disease caused by a deficiency in vitamin C?\n\nAnalysis involves examining and breaking information into component parts, determining how the parts relate to one another, identifying motives or causes, making inferences, and finding evidence to support generalizations. Its characteristics include:\n\n\"Example\": List four ways of serving foods made with apples and explain which ones have the highest health benefits. Provide references to support your statements.\n\nSynthesis involves building a structure or pattern from diverse elements; it also refers to the act of putting parts together to form a whole. Its characteristics include:\n\n\"Example\": Convert an \"unhealthy\" recipe for apple pie to a \"healthy\" recipe by replacing your choice of ingredients. Explain the health benefits of using the ingredients you chose vs. the original ones.\n\nEvaluation involves presenting and defending opinions by making judgments about information, the validity of ideas, or quality of work based on a set of criteria. Its characteristics include:\n\n\"Example\": Which kinds of apples are best for baking a pie, and why?\n\nSkills in the affective domain describe the way people react emotionally and their ability to feel other living things' pain or joy. Affective objectives typically target the awareness and growth in attitudes, emotion, and feelings.\n\nThere are five levels in the affective domain moving through the lowest-order processes to the highest.\n\nThe lowest level; the student passively pays attention. Without this level, no learning can occur. Receiving is about the student's memory and recognition as well.\n\nThe student actively participates in the learning process, not only attends to a stimulus; the student also reacts in some way.\n\nThe student attaches a value to an object, phenomenon, or piece of information. The student associates a value or some values to the knowledge they acquired.\n\nThe student can put together different values, information, and ideas, and can accommodate them within his/her own schema; the student is comparing, relating and elaborating on what has been learned.\n\nThe student at this level tries to build abstract knowledge.\n\nSkills in the psychomotor domain describe the ability to physically manipulate a tool or instrument like a hand or a hammer. Psychomotor objectives usually focus on change and/or development in behavior and/or skills.\n\nBloom and his colleagues never created subcategories for skills in the psychomotor domain, but since then other educators have created their own psychomotor taxonomies. Simpson (1972) proposed the following levels:\n\nThe ability to use sensory cues to guide motor activity: This ranges from sensory stimulation, through cue selection, to translation.\n\n\"Examples\": Detects non-verbal communication cues. Estimate where a ball will land after it is thrown and then moving to the correct location to catch the ball. Adjusts heat of the stove to correct temperature by smell and taste of food. Adjusts the height of the forks on a forklift by comparing where the forks are in relation to the pallet.\n\n\"Key words\": chooses, describes, detects, differentiates, distinguishes, identifies, isolates, relates, selects.\n\nReadiness to act: It includes mental, physical, and emotional sets. These three sets are dispositions that predetermine a person's response to different situations (sometimes called mindsets). This subdivision of psychomotor is closely related with the \"responding to phenomena\" subdivision of the affective domain.\n\n\"Examples\": Knows and acts upon a sequence of steps in a manufacturing process. Recognizes his or her abilities and limitations. Shows desire to learn a new process (motivation).\n\n\"Keywords\": begins, displays, explains, moves, proceeds, reacts, shows, states, volunteers.\n\nThe early stages of learning a complex skill that includes imitation and trial and error: Adequacy of performance is achieved by practicing.\n\n\"Examples\": Performs a mathematical equation as demonstrated. Follows instructions to build a model. Responds to hand-signals of the instructor while learning to operate a forklift.\n\n\"Keywords\": copies, traces, follows, react, reproduce, responds.\n\nThe intermediate stage in learning a complex skill: Learned responses have become habitual and the movements can be performed with some confidence and proficiency.\n\n\"Examples\": Use a personal computer. Repair a leaking tap. Drive a car.\n\n\"Key words\": assembles, calibrates, constructs, dismantles, displays, fastens, fixes, grinds, heats, manipulates, measures, mends, mixes, organizes, sketches.\n\nThe skillful performance of motor acts that involve complex movement patterns: Proficiency is indicated by a quick, accurate, and highly coordinated performance, requiring a minimum of energy. This category includes performing without hesitation and automatic performance. For example, players will often utter sounds of satisfaction or expletives as soon as they hit a tennis ball or throw a football because they can tell by the feel of the act what the result will produce.\n\n\"Examples\": Maneuvers a car into a tight parallel parking spot. Operates a computer quickly and accurately. Displays competence while playing the piano.\n\n\"Key words\": assembles, builds, calibrates, constructs, dismantles, displays, fastens, fixes, grinds, heats, manipulates, measures, mends, mixes, organizes, sketches. (Note: The key words are the same as in mechanism, but will have adverbs or adjectives that indicate that the performance is quicker, better, more accurate, etc.)\n\nSkills are well developed and the individual can modify movement patterns to fit special requirements.\n\n\"Examples\": Responds effectively to unexpected experiences. Modifies instruction to meet the needs of the learners. Performs a task with a machine that was not originally intended for that purpose (the machine is not damaged and there is no danger in performing the new task).\n\n\"Key words\": adapts, alters, changes, rearranges, reorganizes, revises, varies.\n\nCreating new movement patterns to fit a particular situation or specific problem: Learning outcomes emphasize creativity based upon highly developed skills.\n\n\"Examples\": Constructs a new set or pattern of movements organized around a novel concept or theory. Develops a new and comprehensive training program. Creates a new gymnastic routine.\n\n\"Key words\": arranges, builds, combines, composes, constructs, creates, designs, initiate, makes, originates.\n\nIn the appendix to \"Handbook I\", there is a definition of knowledge which serves as the apex for an alternative, summary classification of the educational goals. This is significant as the taxonomy has been called upon significantly in other fields such as knowledge management, potentially out of context. \"Knowledge, as defined here, involves the recall of specifics and universals, the recall of methods and processes, or the recall of a pattern, structure, or setting.\"\n\nThe taxonomy is set out as follows:\n\nAs pointed out on the publication of the second volume, the classification was not a properly constructed taxonomy, as it lacked a systemic rationale of construction.\n\nThis was subsequently acknowledged in the discussion of the original taxonomy in its 2001 revision, and the taxonomy was reestablished on more systematic lines. \n\nSome critiques of the taxonomy's cognitive domain admit the existence of these six categories but question the existence of a sequential, hierarchical link. Often, educators view the taxonomy as a hierarchy and may mistakenly dismiss the lowest levels as unworthy of teaching. The learning of the lower levels enables the building of skills in the higher levels of the taxonomy, and in some fields, the most important skills are in the lower levels (such as identification of species of plants and animals in the field of natural history). Instructional scaffolding of higher-level skills from lower-level skills is an application of Vygotskian constructivism.\n\nSome consider the three lowest levels as hierarchically ordered, but the three higher levels as parallel. Others say that it is sometimes better to move to Application before introducing concepts, the idea is to create a learning environment where the real world context comes first and the theory second to promote the student's grasp of the phenomenon, concept or event. This \nthinking would seem to relate to the method of problem-based learning.\n\nFurthermore, the distinction between the categories can be seen as artificial since any given cognitive task may entail a number of processes. It could even be argued that any attempt to nicely categorize cognitive processes into clean, cut-and-dried classifications undermines the holistic, highly connective and interrelated nature of cognition. This is a criticism that can be directed at taxonomies of mental processes in general.\n\nBloom's taxonomy serves as the backbone of many teaching philosophies, in particular, those that lean more towards skills rather than content. These educators view content as a vessel for teaching skills. The emphasis on higher-order thinking inherent in such philosophies is based on the top levels of the taxonomy including analysis, evaluation, synthesis and creation. Bloom's taxonomy can be used as a teaching tool to help balance assessment and evaluative questions in class, assignments and texts to ensure all orders of thinking are exercised in students' learning, including aspects of information searching.\n\nThe skill development that takes place at these higher orders of thinking interacts well with a developing global focus on multiple literacies and modalities in learning and the emerging field of integrated disciplines. The ability to interface with and create media would draw upon skills from multiple levels of the taxonomy including analysis, application and creation. Bloom's taxonomy (and the revised taxonomy) continues to be a source of inspiration for educational philosophy and for developing new teaching strategies.\n\n"}
{"id": "9486045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9486045", "title": "Career Clusters", "text": "Career Clusters\n\nCareer Clusters provide students with a context for studying traditional academics and learning the skills specific to a career, and provide U.S. schools with a structure for organizing or restructuring curriculum offerings and focusing class make-up by a common theme such as interest.\n\nIn the U.S. Department of Education model, 16 Career Clusters link to 70+ more specific Career Pathways – each have their own knowledge and skills requirements. Within the 70+ career pathways, 1800 Career Specialties are defined. The structure has evolved over time and may vary by state. The U.S. DOE Career Clusters framework is useful for connecting students with courses of study and careers via Career Assessments, and allows them to learn general, more transferable skills at the cluster level, with more specific skills and knowledge acquired at the career pathways and specialty levels. The nonprofit Vocational Research Institute adapted an interest and aptitude assessment, Careerscope, to help students choose curriculum and careers for which they have both interest and aptitude - at the cluster, pathway and career specialty levels. A concept related to Career Clusters, Small Learning Community is primarily concerned with restructuring secondary schools, in many cases using a career clusters framework.\n\nThe Career Cluster initiative began in 1996 in the U.S. as the Building Linkages Initiative and was a collaborative effort between the U.S. Department of Education, the Office of Vocational and Adult Education (OVAE), the National School-to-Work Office (NSTWO) and the National Skill Standards Board (NSSB). The purpose of the Initiative was to establish linkages among State educational agencies, secondary and post-secondary educational institutions, employers, industry groups, other stakeholders and Federal agencies. The goal was to create curricular frameworks in broad career clusters, designed to prepare students to transition successfully from high school to post-secondary education and employment in a career area.\n\nThe creation of curricular models within the context of broad career clusters ensures the alignment of academic and technical instructional strategies with the requirements of post-secondary education and the expectations of employers in increasingly academic and technologically demanding careers. The vocational education field has historically responded to the needs of the national economy by preparing individuals for in-demand jobs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38522836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38522836", "title": "Collaborative pedagogy", "text": "Collaborative pedagogy\n\nCollaborative pedagogy stems from the process theory of rhetoric and composition. Collaborative pedagogy believes that students will better engage with writing, critical thinking, and revision if they engage with others. Collaborative pedagogy pushes back against the Current-Traditional model of writing, as well as other earlier theories explaining rhetoric and composition; earlier theories of writing, especially current-traditional, emphasizes writing as a final product (completed individually). In contrast, collaborative pedagogy rejects the notion that students think, learn, and write in isolation. Collaborative pedagogy strives to maximize critical thinking, learning, and writing skills through interaction and inter-personal engagement. Collaborative pedagogy also connects to the broader theory of collaborative learning, which encompasses other disciplines including, but not limited to, education, psychology, and sociology.\n\nIn the rhetoric and composition discourse community, there exists much support for and debate about the use of collaborative learning in the classroom. Although collaborative pedagogy deals with the strategies associated with promoting engagement, critical thinking, and inclusivity, these theorists underscore collaborative pedagogy’s link to cultural studies, argumentation, community literacy, academic discourse, and university standards and policy connected with first-year composition.\n\nDiscussions of collaborative pedagogy also emerge in the technical communication field, a subset of rhetoric and composition. Technical communication incorporates collaborative pedagogy by attempting to bridge real work environments with university classrooms through group assignments.\n\nThere are many rhetoric and composition theorists who explore collaborative pedagogy in their body of work. These theorists include, but are not limited to, Kenneth A. Bruffee, John Trimbur, Joseph Harris, and Wayne Campbell Peck, Linda Flower, and Lorraine Higgins. Kenneth Bruffee sees collaborative pedagogical strategies as natural to the learning process, more than individual thinking and learning. John Trimbur defines collaboration as admitting both dissent and agreement, and thinks that collaboration should not aim only for agreement. Joseph Harris thinks that the university sometimes adversarial to collaborative pedagogy, since individual product is more highly valued. Peck, Flower, and Higgins champion collaborative pedagogy as pivotal to reconciling various cultural, social, and socioeconomic difference.\n\nIn “Collaboration and the ‘Conversation of Mankind’,” Kenneth A. Bruffee cites thinking out loud and collaborating as natural states of learning, because they mimic the process of earlier stages of development. Citing Michael Oakeshott, Bruffee argues that “[w]e first experience and learn ‘the skill and partnership of conversation,’ in the external arena of direct social exchange with other people. Only then do we learn to displace that ‘skill and partnership by playing silently with ourselves, in imagination, the parts of all the participants in the conversation”. In other words, he believes that the concepts of independent learning and thinking are more like social constructs than a natural state of being. Despite believing in Oakeshott’s theories about collaborative learning being natural, he acknowledges the difficulty of blending this with the independent and authoritative environment of the classroom, especially the college first-year composition classroom. Bruffee confronts the overarching fact that “[h]umanistic study, we have been led to believe, is a solitary life, and the vitality of the humanities lies in the talents and endeavors of each of us as individuals”. On a more minute level, collaborative pedagogy becomes problematic for instructors who worry that classrooms will spiral out of control, in “…an adversarial activity pitting individual against individual”. However, Bruffee thinks that if composition instructors and scholars believe in writing and learning as a process from which everyone can benefit, then it is important to forge community through collaboration, despite the individualist discourse of the university.\n\nWayne Campbell Peck et al. view collaborative pedagogy in a positive light, due to its success at the Community Literacy Center (CLC), which pairs inner-city high school students with student mentors from Carnegie Mellon University. They describe a curriculum encouraging students to write responses to the real world situations they face, such as writing their school administrators about detention policies. Peck et al. justify the need for their program by positing that, “…beyond cultural appreciation, we believe that the next, more difficult step in community-building is to create an intercultural dialogue that allows people to confront and solve problems across racial and economic boundaries”. Their program attempts to reach this goal of inter-cultural dialogue by promoting multiple levels of interaction and understanding. First, the mentors from Carnegie Mellon and the inner-city youth must reach mutual understanding to promote clearer communication. Next, the students and administrators need to remain open to the others’ perspectives to develop stronger community. Last, the program coordinators need to view all parties involved as equal stakeholders. Overall, they argue that their program, while often fraught with conflict, helps stakeholders in different positions understand varying perspectives about issues in their local community, and that this learning process is both necessary and beneficial.\n\nA critique of collaborative pedagogy is that it juxtaposes the individual work production valued within the university. In “The Idea of Community in the Study of Writing,” Joseph Harris echoes Bruffee’s sentiments that the community and individual work at cross-purposes within the university setting. He claims that although the term \"collaborative\" usually connotes a positive sense of belonging, community in reality often creates an “us versus them” mentality, and also creating a dichotomy between individual and group, or in this case, student versus university. He wonders, “If to enter the academic community a student must ‘learn to speak our language’ [in reference to David Bartholomae’s “Inventing the University”], and become accustomed and reconciled to our ways of doing things with words, then how exactly is she to do this?”. Issues of inclusion, exclusion, community, and individual relate to collaborative pedagogy, because first-year composition instructors struggle to promote critical thinking and collaborative learning, while also meeting the demands of college-level writing. Harris does not provide much consolation to this problem, except to say that students need to learn to navigate the complexities of individual and community identity.\n\nJohn Trimbur both supports and critiques collaborative pedagogy, but his support is predicated upon adjusting the views of both conflict and resolution. His article, “Consensus and Difference in Collaborative Learning,\" focuses on redefining the definition of “consensus” as it applies to collaborative pedagogy the first-year composition classroom. He argues that,\n\nAfter he links collaborative learning with his notion of the roll of consensus, he claims that “The revised notion of consensus I am proposing here depends paradoxically on its deferral, not its realization. I am less interested in students achieving consensus…as their using consensus as a critical to open gaps in the conversation through which differences may emerge”. This notion of consensus helps students build community and collaboration by grappling with issues that do not lend themselves so easily to consensus as agreement.\n\nThere are many technical communication scholars who explore collaborative pedagogy in their body of work. These theorists include, but are not limited to, Aviva Freedman, Christine Adam, Ann M. Blakeslee, and Robert J. Johnson. Aviva Freedman and Christine Adam view the traditional classroom model as detrimental to students/future employees, because the classroom prevents critical thinking, independence, collaboration, and cooperation between coworkers. Ann M. Blakeslee believes that the classroom and the workplace can blend together for new learning, as long as both parties remain open to communication. Robert J. Johnson thinks that writing is inherently collaborative, because technical writers have to acknowledge live audiences to accomplish real and necessary tasks.\n\nThe works of the scholars listed above and in the references section primarily deal with the conundrum of preparing students for collaborative work environments, when most of their work occurs individually and in a classroom environment. Freedman and Adam worry that the classroom creates trained in capacities in students, preventing them from adapting to a work world where authoritative boundaries are blurred and most stakeholders are equal. Blakeslee notes that even when instructors try to bring the “real world” into the classroom, businesses and students still struggle to communicate clearly. Robert J. Johnson makes the theoretical claim that audience awareness is central to technical communication as a practice, but that the university purposefully separates writer from audience, which does not promote collaborative pedagogy or learning. However, he further argues that for communication to succeed in any setting, audience must be “involved” rather than removed from the process of communicating.\n\n\n\"Technical Communication Quarterly\" 2.1 (1993): 23–35.\ncritique.” \"College Composition and Communication\" 47.2 (1996): 167–179.\nwriting.\" Carbondale, IL: Southern Illinois University Press, 1990.\n"}
{"id": "10457002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10457002", "title": "Contextual learning", "text": "Contextual learning\n\nContextual learning is based on a constructivist theory of teaching and learning. Learning takes place when teachers are able to present information in a way that students are able to construct meaning based on their own experiences. Contextual learning experiences include internships, service learning, and study abroad programs, among others.\n\nContextual learning has the following characteristics:\n\nCurrent perspectives on what it means for learning to be contextualized include\n\nConstructivist learning theory maintains that learning is a process of constructing meaning from experience \n\n\nOne of the main goals of contextual learning is to develop an authentic task to assess performance. Creating an assessment in a context can help to guide the teacher to replicate a real world experiences and make necessary inclusive design decisions. Contextual learning can be used as a form of formative assessment and can help give educators a stronger profile on how the intended learning goals, standards and benchmarks fit the curriculum. It is essential to establish and align the intended learning goals of the contextual task at the beginning to create a shared understanding of what success looks like. Self-directed theory states that humans by nature seek purpose and the desire to make a contribution and to be part of a cause greater and more enduring then oneself. Contextual learning can help bring relevance and meaning to the learning, helping students relate to the world they live in. \n\n"}
{"id": "45218019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45218019", "title": "Cultural-historical activity theory", "text": "Cultural-historical activity theory\n\nCultural-historical activity theory (CHAT) is a theoretical framework which helps to understand and analyse the relationship between the human mind (what people think and feel) and activity (what people do). It traces its origins to the founders of the cultural-historical school of Russian psychology L. S. Vygotsky and Aleksei N. Leontiev. Vygotsky's important insight into the dynamics of consciousness was that it is essentially subjective and shaped by the history of each individual's social and cultural experience. Especially since the 1990s, CHAT has attracted a growing interest among academics worldwide. Elsewhere CHAT has been defined as \"a cross-disciplinary framework for studying how humans purposefully transform natural and social reality, including themselves, as an ongoing culturally and historically situated, materially and socially mediated process\". Core ideas are: 1) humans act collectively, learn by doing, and communicate in and via their actions; 2) humans make, employ, and adapt tools of all kinds to learn and communicate; and 3) community is central to the process of making and interpreting meaning – and thus to all forms of learning, communicating, and acting.\n\nThe term CHAT was coined by Michael Cole and popularized by Yrjö Engeström to promote the unity of what, by the 1990s, had become a variety of currents harking back to Vygotsky's work.\n\nCHAT traces its lineage to dialectical materialism, classical German philosophy, and the work of Lev Vygotsky, Aleksei N. Leontiev and Aleksandr Luria, known as \"the founding troika\" of the cultural-historical approach to Social Psychology. In a radical departure from the behaviorism and reflexology that dominated much of psychology in the early 1920s, they formulated, in the spirit of Karl Marx's Theses on Feuerbach, the concept of activity, i.e., \"artifact-mediated and object-oriented action\". By bringing together the notion of history and culture in the understanding of human activity, they were able to transcend the Cartesian dualism between subject and object, internal and external, between people and society, between individual inner consciousness and the outer world of society. Lev Vygotsky, who created the foundation of cultural-historical psychology, based on the concept of mediation, published six books on psychology topics during a working life which spanned only ten years. He died of TB in 1934 at the age of 37. A.N. Leont'ev worked with Lev Vygotsky and Alexandr Luria from 1924 to 1930, collaborating on the development of a Marxist psychology. Leontiev left Vygotsky's group in Moscow in 1931, to take up a position in Kharkov. There he was joined by local psychologists, including Pyotr Galperin and Pyotr Zinchenko. He continued to work with Vygotsky for some time but, eventually, there was a split, although they continued to communicate with one another on scientific matters. Leontiev returned to Moscow in 1934. Contrary to popular belief, Vygotsky's work per se was never banned in Stalinist Soviet Russia. In 1950 A.N.Leontiev became the Head of the Psychology Department at the Faculty of Philosophy of the Lomonosov Moscow State University (MGU). This department became an independent Faculty in 1966 due mainly to his hard work. He remained there until his death in 1979. Leontiev's formulation of activity theory, post 1962, had become the new \"official\" basis for Soviet psychology. In the two decades between a thaw in the suppression of scientific enquiry in Russia and the death of the Vygotsky's continuers, contact was made with the West.\n\nMichael Cole, then a young Indiana University psychology post-graduate exchange student, arrived in Moscow in 1962 for a one-year stint of research under Alexandr Luria. Keenly aware of the gulf between Soviet and American psychology, he was one for the first Westerners to present Luria's and Vygotsky's idea to an Anglo-Saxon public. This, and a steady flow of books translated from the Russian ensured the gradual establishment of a solid Cultural Psychology base in the west. Another American scholar, James V. Wertsch, after completing his PhD at the University of Chicago in 1975, spent a year as a postdoctoral fellow in Moscow to study linguistics and neuropsychology. Wertsch subsequently became one of the leading Western experts on Soviet Psychology. Principal among the groups promoting CHAT-related research is Yjrö Engeström's Helsinki-based CRADLE. In 1982 an Activity Conference, claimed to have been the first of its kind in Europe, organized by Yrjö Engeström to concentrate on teaching and learning issues, took place in Espoo (Fl), with the participation of experts from both Eastern and Western European countries. This was followed by the Aarhus (Dk) Conference in 1983 and the Utrecht (Nl) conference in 1984. In October 1986, West Berlin's College of Arts hosted the first ISCAR International Congress on Activity Theory. This was also the first effort to bring together under one roof researchers, theorists and philosophers working in the tradition of the Soviet psychologists Leontiev and Vygotsky. The second ISCRAT congress took place in Lahti, (Fl) in 1990. ISCRAT became a formal legal organization with its own by-laws in Amsterdam, 1992. Other ISCRAT conferences: Rome (1993), Moscow (1995), Aarhus (1998) and Amsterdam (2002), when ISCRAT and the Conference for Socio Cultural Research merged into ISCAR. From here on, ISCAR organizes an international Congress every three years: Sevilla (Es) 2005; San Diego (USA) 2008; Rome (It) 2011; Sydney (Au) 2014; Quebec, Canada (2017).\n\nIn more recent years the implications of activity theory in organizational development have been promoted by the work Yrjö Engeström's team at the Centre for Activity Theory and Developmental Work Research (CATDWR) at the University of Helsinki, and Mike Cole at the Laboratory of Comparative Human Cognition (LCHC) at the University of California San Diego campus.\n\nIn his 1987 \"Learning by expanding\", Engeström offers a very detailed account of the diverse sources, philosophical and psychological, that inform activity theory. In subsequent years, however, a simplified picture has emerged from his and other researchers' work, namely the idea that (to date) there are three principal 'stages' or 'generations' of activity theory, or \"cultural-historical activity theory (CHAT). Whilst the first generation built on Vygotsky's notion of mediated action, from the individual's perspective, and the second generation built on Leont'ev's notion of activity system, with emphasis on the collective, the third generation, which appeared in the mid-nineties, builds on the idea of multiple interacting activity systems focused on a partially shared object, and boundary-crossings between them.\n\nThe first generation emerges from Vygotsky's theory of cultural mediation, which was a response to behaviorism's explanation of consciousness, or the development of the human mind, by reducing \"mind\" to a series of atomic components or structures associated primarily with the brain as \"stimulus – response\" (S-R) processes. Vygotsky argued that the relationship between a human subject and an object is never direct but must be sought in society and culture as they evolve historically, rather than in the human brain or individual mind unto itself. His cultural-historical psychology attempted to account for the social origins of language and thinking. To Vygotsky, consciousness emerges from human activity mediated by artifacts (tools) and signs. This idea of semiotic mediation is embodied in Vygotsky's famous triangular model which features the Subject (S), Object (O), and Mediating Artifact triad: in mediated action the Subject, Object, and Artifact stand in a dialectical relationship whereby each affects the other and the activity as a whole. Vygotsky argues that the use of signs leads to a specific structure of human behavior, which breaks away from mere biological development allowing the creation of new forms of culturally-based psychological processes – hence the importance of (cultural-historical) context: individuals could no longer be understood without their cultural environment, nor society without the \"agency\" of the individuals who use and produced these artifacts. The objects became cultural entities, and action oriented towards the objects became the key to understanding the human psyche. In the Vygotskyan framework the unit of analysis, however, remains principally the individual. First-generation activity theory has been used to understand individual behavior by examining the ways in which a person's objectivized actions are culturally \"mediated\". Besides a strong focus on material and symbolic mediation, internalization of external (social, societal, and cultural) forms of mediation, another important, aspect of first generation CHAT is the concept of the zone of proximal development (ZPD), meaning, as advanced in \"Mind in Society\" (1978), \"the distance between the actual developmental level as determined by independent problem solving and the level of potential development as determined through problem solving under adult guidance or in collaboration with more capable peers\". ZDP is one of the major legacies of Vygotsky's work in the social sciences.\n\nWhile Vygotsky formulated practical human activity as the general explanatory category in human psychology, he did not fully clarify its precise nature. The second generation moves, beyond Vygotsky's individually-focused to A.N. Leontiev's collective model. In Engeström's now famous graphic depiction of second-generation activity, the unit of analysis has been expanded to include collective motivated activity toward an object, making room for understanding how collective action by social groups mediates activity. Hence the inclusion of \"community\", \"rules\", \"division of labor\" and the importance of analyzing their interactions with each other. Rules may be explicit or implicit. Division of labor refers to the explicit and implicit organization of the community involved in the activity. Engeström articulated the clearest distinction between classic Vygotskian psychology, which emphasizes the way semiotic and cultural systems mediate human \"action\", and Leontiev's second-generation CHAT, which is focused on the meditational effects of the systemic organization of human \"activity\". In insisting that activity only exists in relation to rules, community and division of labor, Engeström expands \"the unit of analysis\" for studying human behavior from that of individual activity to a collective \"activity system\". The collective \"activity system\" includes the social, psychological, cultural and institutional perspectives in the analysis. In this conceptualization context or activity systems are inherently related to what Engeström argues are the deep-seated material practices and socioeconomic structures of a given culture. These societal dimensions had not been taken sufficiently into account by Vygotsky's, earlier, more 'simple' triadic model: in Leontiev's understanding, thought and cognition should be understood as a part of social life – as a part of the means of production and systems of social relations on one hand, and the intentions of individuals in certain social conditions on the other.\n\nIn his famous example of the 'primeval collective hunt', Leontiev clarifies the crucial difference between an individual \"action\" (\"the beater frightening game\") and a collective \"activity\" (\"the hunt\"). While individuals' actions (frightening game) are different from the overall \"goal\" of the activity (hunt), they all share in the same \"motive\" (obtaining food). \"Operations\", on the other hand, are driven by the conditions and tools at hand, i.e. the objective circumstances under which the hunt is taking place. To understand the separate actions of the individuals, one needs to understand the broader \"motive\" behind the activity as a whole: this accounts for the three hierarchical levels of human functioning: \"object\"-related motives drive the collective activity (top); \"goals\" drive individual/group action(s) (middle); \"conditions\" and \"tools\" drive automated operations (lower level).\n\nAfter Vygotsky's foundational work on the individual's higher psychological functions and Leontiev's extension of these insights to collective activity systems, questions of diversity and dialogue between different traditions or perspectives became increasingly serious challenges, when, especially in the post-1990s, activity theory 'went international'. The work of Michael Cole and Yrjö Engeström in the 1970s and 1980s – mostly in parallel, but occasionally in collaboration – brought activity theory to a much wider audience of scholars in Scandinavia and North America. Once the lives and biographies of all the participants and the history of the wider community are taken into account, \"multiple activity systems\" need to be considered, positing, according to Engeström, the need for a \"third generation\" to \"\"develop conceptual tools to understand dialogue, multiple perspectives, and networks of interacting activity Systems\". This larger canvas of active individuals (and researchers) embedded in organizational, political, and discursive practices constitutes a tangible advantage of second- and third-generation CHAT over its earlier Vygotskian ancestor, which focused on mediated action in relative isolation Third generation activity theory is the application of \"Activity Systems Analysis\" (ASA) in developmental research where investigators take a participatory and interventionist role in the participants' activities and change their experiences. Engeström's now famous diagram, or \"basic activity triangle\", – (which adds rules/norms, intersubjective community relations, and division of labor, as well as multiple activity systems sharing an object) – has become the principal third generation model among the research community for analysing individuals and groups. Engeström summarizes the current state of CHAT with five principles:\nMost often, learning technologists have used third-generation CHAT as a guiding theoretical framework to understand how technologies are adopted, adapted, and configured through use in complex social situations.\n\nFrom the 1960s onwards, starting in the global South, and independently from the mainstream \"European\" developmental line, Leontiev's core \"Objective Activity\" concept has been used in a Social Development context. In the Organization Workshop's Large Group Capacitation-method, \"objective/ized activity\" acts as the core causal principle which postulates that, in order to change the mind-set of (large groups of) individuals, we need to start with changes to their activity – and/or to the object that \"suggests\" their activity. In Leontievian vein, the Organization Workshop is all about semiotically-mediated activities through which (large groups of) participants \"learn how to manage themselves and the organizations they create to perform tasks that require a complex division of labor\".\n\nEspecially over the last two decades, CHAT has offered a theoretical lens informing research and practice, in that it posits that learning takes place through collective activities that are purposefully conducted around a common object. Starting from the premise that learning is a social and cultural process that draws on historical achievements, its systems thinking-based perspectives allow insights into the real world.\n\nChange Laboratory (CL) is a CHAT-based method for formative intervention in activity systems and for research on their developmental potential as well as processes of expansive learning, collaborative concept-formation, and transformation of practices, elaborated in the mid-nineties by the Finnish Developmental Work Research (DWR) group.\nThe CL method relies on collaboration between the practitioners of the activity being analyzed and transformed, and academic researchers or interventionists supporting and facilitating collective developmental processes. On the basis of Engeström's theory of \"expansive learning\", the foundation of an interventionist research approach at DWR was elaborated in the 1980s, and developed further in the 1990s as an intervention method now known as \"Change Laboratory\". CL interventions are used both to study the conditions of change and to help those working in organizations to develop their work, drawing on participant observation, interviews, and the recording and videotaping of meetings and work practices. Initially, with the help of an external interventionist, the first stimulus that \"is beyond the actors' present capabilities\", is produced in the Change Laboratory by collecting first-hand empirical data on problematic aspects of the activity. This data may comprise difficult client cases, descriptions of recurrent disturbances and ruptures in the process of producing the outcome. Steps in the CL process: Step 1 Questioning; Step 2 Analysis; Step 3 Modeling; Step 4 Examining; Step 5 Implementing; Step 6 Reflecting; Step 7 Consolidating. These seven action steps for increased understanding are described by Engeström as \"expansive learning\", or phases of an outwardly expanding spiral, while multiple kinds of actions can take place at any time. The phases of the model simply allow for the identification and analysis of the dominant action type during a particular period of time. These learning actions are provoked by contradictions. CL is used by a team or work unit or by collaborating partners across the organizational boundaries, initially with the help of an interventionist-researcher. The CL method has been used in agricultural contexts, educational and media settings, health care and learning support.\n\n\"Activity systems analysis\" is a CHAT-based method, discussed in / and in Cole & Engeström, 1993, for understanding human activity in real-world situations with data collection, analysis, and presentation methods that address the complexities of human activity in natural settings aimed to advance both theory and practice. It is based on Vygotsky's concept of mediated action and captures human activity in a triangle model that includes the subject, tool, object, rule, community, and division of labor. Subjects are participants in an activity, motivated toward a purpose or attainment of the object. The object can be the goal of an activity, the subject's motives for participating in an activity, and the material products that subjects gain through an activity. Tools are socially shared cognitive and/or material resources that subjects can use to attain the object. Informal or formal rules regulate the subject's participation while engaging in an activity. The community is the group or organization to which subjects belong. The division of labor is the shared participation responsibilities in the activity determined by the community. Finally, the outcome is the consequences that the subject faces because of his/her actions driven by the object. These outcomes can encourage or hinder the subject's participation in future activities. In Part 2 of her video \"Using Activity Theory to understand human behaviour\", shows how activity theory is applied to the problem of behavior change and HIV and AIDs (in South Africa). The video focuses on sexual activity as the activity of the system, and illustrates how an \"Activity System Analysis\", through a historical and current account of the activity, provides a way of understanding lack of behavior change in response to HIV and AIDS. In her eponymous book \"Activity Systems Analysis Methods.\", describes seven ASA case studies which fall \"into four distinct work clusters. These clusters include works that help (a) understand developmental work research (DWR), (b) describe real-world learning situations, (c) design human computer interaction systems, and (d) plan solutions to complicated work-based problems\". Other uses of ASA: Summarizing organizational change; Identifying guidelines for designing Constructivist Learning Environments; Identifying contradictions and tensions that shape developments in educational settings; Demonstrating historical developments in organizational learning., and Evaluating K–12 school and university partnership relations.\n\nWhen HCI first appeared on the scene as a separate field of study in the early 1980s, HCI adopted the information processing paradigm of computer science as the model for human cognition, predicated on prevalent cognitive psychology criteria, which, it was soon realized, failed to account for individuals' interests, needs and frustrations involved, nor of the fact that the technology critically depends on complex, meaningful, social, and dynamic contexts in which it takes place. Adopting a CHAT theoretical perspective had important implications for understanding how people use interactive technologies: the realization, for example, that a computer is typically an object of activity rather than a mediating artefact means that people interact with the world through computers, rather than with computer 'objects'. A number of diverse methodologies outlining techniques for human–computer interaction design have emerged since the rise of the field in the 1980s. Most design methodologies stem from a model for how users, designers, and technical systems interact. Bonnie Nardi produced the – hitherto – most applicable collection of activity theoretical HCI literature.\n\nSSAT builds on the general theory of activity to provide an effective basis for both experimental and analytic methods of studying human performance, using carefully developed units of analysis SSAT approaches cognition both as a process and as a structured system of actions or other functional information-processing units, developing a taxonomy of human activity through the use of structurally organized units of analysis. The systemic-structural approach to activity design and analysis involves identifying the available means of work, tools and objects; their relationship with possible strategies of work activity; existing constraints on activity performance; social norms and rules; possible stages of object transformation; and changes in the structure of activity during skills acquisition.This method is demonstrated by applying it to the study of a human–computer interaction task.\n\nThe strengths of CHAT are grounded both in its long historical roots and extensive contemporary use: it offers a philosophical and cross-disciplinary perspective for analyzing diverse human practices as development processes in which both individual and social levels are interlinked, as well as interactions and boundary-crossings. between activity systems More recently, the focus of studies of organizational learning has increasingly shifted away from learning within single organizations or organizational units, towards learning in multi‐organizational or inter‐organizational networks, as well as to the exploration and better understanding of interactions in their social context, multiple contexts and cultures, and the dynamics and development of particular activities. This shift has generated, among others, such concepts as \"networks of learning\" and \"networked learning\", coworking, and knotworking. Industry of late has seen strong growth in nonemployer firms (NEFs), thanks to changes in long-term employment trends and developments in mobile technology which have led to more work from remote locations, more distance collaboration, and more work organized around temporary projects. Developments such as these and new forms of social production or commons-based peer production, such as e.g. open source development and cultural production in peer-to-peer (P2P) networks, have become a key focus in Engeström's more recent work.\n\nThe rapid rise of new forms of activities characterised by web-based social and participatory practices, \n, phenomena such as distributed workforce and the dominance of knowledge work, prompts a rethink of the third generation model, bringing with it the need, as suggested by Engestrōm, for a new, \"fourth generation\" activity system model. which activity theorists indeed have been working on in recent years. In fourth generation CHAT, the object(ive) will typically comprise multiple perspectives and contexts and be inherently transient; collaborations between actors, too, are likely to be temporary, with multiple boundary crossings between interrelated activities. Fourth-generation activity theorists have specifically developed activity theory to better accommodate Castells's (and others') insights into how work organization has shifted in the network society: they hence will focus less on the workings of individual activity systems (often represented by triangles) and more on the interactions across activity systems functioning in networks. The 2017 ISCAR congress (August, Quebec City) has the following theme: \"\"Taking a 360° view of the landscape of cultural-historical activity research:The state of our scholarship in practice\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56667230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56667230", "title": "Department of Education (Federated States of Micronesia)", "text": "Department of Education (Federated States of Micronesia)\n\nFederated States of Micronesia Department of Education (FSM NDOE or FSMED) is the national education department of the Federated States of Micronesia. It is headquartered in Palikir, Pohnpei, Pohnpei State.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49014763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49014763", "title": "Deutscher Lehrerpreis", "text": "Deutscher Lehrerpreis\n\nThe Deutscher Lehrerpreis is a teacher award in Germany. It is awarded in two major categories: the first category awards teachers who exhibit innovative teaching practices, and the second category allows students to nominate their teachers for responsible student-teacher collaboration. The award was created and is organized by the Vodafone Foundation and the German Philological Association.\nIt is supported by German education researchers, such as Professor Dr. Jürgen Baumert who is the vice-president of the Max Planck Institute for Human Development in Berlin and who conducted the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) study, and German politicians such as Chancellor Angela Merkel.\n\nThe award was created by the Vodafone Foundation, the German Philological Foundation, German politicians and education professors, intending to reward the work of teachers and improve public appreciation of teachers. At the 2011 award ceremony, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said: \"We need teachers with a passion. They are the ones that are responsible for the quality of a school.\"\n\nThe Deutscher Lehrerpreis is awarded in two major categories. The first category is awarded for innovative teaching practices. Teachers from German secondary schools can apply with their projects, and a total of 13,000 Euros are awarded. The second category is awarded for responsible cooperation between students and teachers. Students who are about to graduate or have already graduated may nominate their teachers for the second category.\n\nThe German teaching award always finds a wide media coverage in the German media each year. These articles describe the competition and discuss the importance of good teachers in Germany. The winning teachers and teaching projects are portrayed and the teachers interviewed. Media coverage regarding the Deutscher Lehrerpreis has appeared in the Süddeutsche Zeitung, die Zeit, Hannoversche Allgemeine Zeitung, Spiegel Online, Focus (German magazine) Online, the Westdeutscher Rundfunk, Abendzeitung München, the Berliner Morgenpost, Deutschlandfunk, radio stations such as the Bayerischer Rundfunk, the Deutschlandradio, and Südwestrundfunk2. Television reports regarding the Lehrerpreis and individual award recipients appear on large TV stations such as the ARD (broadcaster), Südwestrundfunk, and the Norddeutscher Rundfunk and Bayerischer Rundfunk.\n"}
{"id": "1625372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1625372", "title": "Double deficit (education)", "text": "Double deficit (education)\n\nThe double-deficit theory of dyslexia proposes that a deficit in two essential skills gives rise to the lowest level of reading performances, constituting the most severe form of dyslexia.\n\nThe ability to read is believed to depend on two skills:\n\n"}
{"id": "2925542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2925542", "title": "Dropping out", "text": "Dropping out\n\nDropping out means leaving high school, college, university or another group for practical reasons, necessities, or disillusionment with the system from which the individual in question leaves.\n\nIn Canada, most individuals graduate grade 12 by the age of 18, according to Jason Gilmore who collects data of employment and education using the Labour Force Survey. The LFS is the official survey used to collect unemployment data in Canada (2010). Using this tool, assessing educational attainment and school attendance can calculate a dropout rate (Gilmore, 2010). It was found by the LFS that by 2009, 1 in 12 20-24-year-old adults did not have a high school diploma (Gilmore, 2010). It was also found by the study that men still have higher drop out rates than women, and that students outside of major cities and in the northern territories also have a higher risk of dropping out. Although since 1990, dropout rates have gone down from 20% to a low of 9% in 2010, it does not seem to be dropping since this time (2010).\n\nThe average Canadian dropout earns $70 less per week than their peers with a high school diploma. Graduates (without post-secondary) earned an average of $621 per week, whereas dropout students earned an average of $551 (Gilmore, 2010).\n\nEven though dropout rates have gone down in the last 20–25 years, the concerns of the impact dropping out has on the labor market is very real (Gilmore, 2010). One in four students without a high school diploma who were in the labor market in 2009-2010 had less likelihood of finding a job due to economic, downturn (Gilmore, 2010).\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a dropout is anyone who leaves school, college or university without either completing their course of study or transferring to another educational institution. Dropping out of school is not allowed. Attendance at a school is mandatory until age 16 (GCSE exams) and students must be in some form of education or training (either full-time or part-time) until age 18.\n\nDropout rate benchmarks are set for each higher education institution and monitored by the Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE), the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales (HEFCW) and the Scottish Funding Council (SFC). Dropout rates are often one of the factors assessed when ranking UK universities in league tables.\n\nIn November 2014, a report from the Institute for Fiscal Studies found that students from poorer home backgrounds were 8.4 percentage points more likely to drop out of university in the first two years of an undergraduate course than those from the richest homes; they were also 22.9 percentage points less likely to obtain a or first degree. For students studying on the same course and who arrived at university with similar grades, the differences fell but remained significant. The report concluded that more should be done both to raise the attainment levels of poorer students prior to their arrival at university and to provide additional support to them at university.\n\nIn the United States, dropping out most commonly refers to a student quitting school before he or she graduates or avoiding entering a university or college. It cannot always be ascertained that a student has dropped out, as he or she may stop attending without terminating enrollment. It is estimated 1.2 million students annually drop out of high school in the United States, where high school graduation rates rank 19th in the world. Reasons are varied and may include: to find employment, avoid bullying, family emergency, poor grades, depression and other mental illnesses, unexpected pregnancy, bad environment, lack of freedom, and boredom. \"The Silent Epidemic: Perspectives of High School Dropouts\" by Civic Enterprises explores reasons students leave school without \ngraduating. The consequences of dropping out of school can have long-term economic and social repercussions. Students who drop out of school in the United States are more likely to be \nunemployed, homeless, receiving welfare and incarcerated. A four-year study in San Francisco found that 94 percent of young murder victims were high school dropouts.\n\nThe United States Department of Education's measurement of the \"status\" dropout rate is the percentage of 16-24-year-olds who are not enrolled in school and have not earned a high school credential. This rate is different from the event dropout rate and related measures of the status completion and average freshman completion rates. The status high school dropout rate in 2009 was 8.1%. There are many risk factors for high school dropout. These can be categorized into social and academic risk factors. Members of racial and ethnic minority groups drop out at higher rates than white students, as do those from low-income families, from single-parent households, and from families in which one or both parents also did not complete high school. Students at risk for dropout based on academic risk factors are those who often have a history of absenteeism and grade retention, academic trouble, and more general disengagement from school life.\n\nIn Australia, dropping out most commonly refers to a student quitting school before he or she graduates. Reasons for students dropping out vary but usually include: Avoiding bullies, finding employment, family problems, depression and other mental illnesses, teenage pregnancy, substance abuse and in some cases even boredom. Researchers at Melbourne's Mitchell Institute has found that a quarter of Australian high school students are not graduating year 12, and that completion rates are much worse in remote or economically disadvantaged communities. Professor Teese believes the segregation of students in schools through geography as well as in the private and public systems means student disadvantage is stronger in Australia than other western nations such as New Zealand and Canada. Drop out rates vary throughout different locations in Australia. Students that attend school in remote communities have a higher chance of not completing year 12 (56.6%), whereas students that come from a wealthy background share an average completion rate of 90%. These remote schooling programs serve primarily indigenous students. Geography and lack of resources cause indigenous students to have lower rates of completion: the gap between indigenous and non-indigenous year 12 graduates is over 40 percentage points. As a result of this substantial difference, lower socioeconomic students who drop out are considered at-risk-students and are ultimately prone to unemployment, incarceration, low-paying employment and having children at early ages.\n\nWhen analysing the household surveys of some countries in the Latin American region – notably, those of Bolivia, Chile, Panama, Costa Rica, Nicaragua and Paraguay – researching the opinions of boys, girls, adolescents, young people as well as their families on the reasons they drop out of school, some recurring features surface that enable us to group the analyses into two main categories. The first is directly related to 'the material dimension' of education. In this case, financial difficulties are the main reason why families do not manage to keep their children and adolescents in school. The other major group of factors for school drop out falls into the 'subjective dimension' of the educational experience. Surveys revealed that 22% of out-of-school boys and girls aged 10 or 11 years state that they are in this situation because they have no interest in studying. This percentage jumps to 38% in adolescents aged 15 to 17 years who also provided this reason for their disengagement with the education system.\n\nA \"dropout recovery\" initiative is any community, government, non-profit or business program in which students who have previously left school are sought out for the purpose of re-enrollment. In the U.S., such initiatives are often focused on former high school students who are still young enough to have their educations publicly subsidized, generally those 22 years of age and younger. In Rwanda, dropout recovery is often focused on primary and ordinary level students who are still young to have their educations.\nDropout recovery programs can be initiated in traditional \"brick-and-mortar\" institutions of learning, in community centers or online.\n\nDropping out of high school can have drastic long-term economic and social repercussions, especially in Australia which has a less equitable education system than many other western countries. Therefore, different pathways and courses of study are being implemented by the government, non for profit organizations and private companies to offer a selection of education recovery plans for young adults around the age of 22 and below.\n\nStudents that drop out of high-school are generally those that struggle to engage behaviorally and/or academically. Although, it is not entirely clear whether different types of contextual or self-system variables affect students' engagement or contribute to their decision to drop out. According to data collected by the national education longitudinal study of 1988, Rumberger found that students with moderate to high absenteeism, behavior problems and having no school or outside activities were highly predictive of dropping out.\n\nUnder the pact of educational inclusion at the secondary level, how families organize themselves internally to produce well-being is an unavoidable topic for countries to address when seeking to broaden the effective opportunities of access to, retention in and graduation from the secondary education. Therefore, the construction of a new policy, the adolescent and the young person at school, is an acknowledgement of what is happening in reality and shapes a mutually beneficial alliance between the state and families to generate dynamics where young people can become exclusive recipients of care – at least until completion of their secondary schooling.\n\n"}
{"id": "49289326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49289326", "title": "Everett Dean Martin", "text": "Everett Dean Martin\n\nEverett Dean Martin (July 5, 1880 – May 10, 1941) was an American minister, writer, journalist, instructor, lecturer, social psychologist, social philosopher, and an advocate of adult education. He was an instructor and lecturer at The New School for Social Research in New York City from 1921-1929, and served on the Board of Directors of The New School from 1925-1932. He was the final Director of the People's Institute of Cooper Union in New York City from 1922-1934. Martin was born in Jacksonville, Illinois on July 5, 1880. Graduating with honors at the age of 24 from Illinois College in Jacksonville, he moved on to Chicago, attending McCormick Theological Seminary from 1904 until his ordination as a Congregational Minister in 1907. Martin received a Litt.D (Doctor of Letters) degree from Illinois College in 1907. He was best known for his advocacy of the liberal education of adults, which he saw as “an antidote to both the irrationality of the crowd and the power of propaganda.”\n\nIn 1907, he married Esther W. Kirk of Jacksonville, Illinois. They had three children: Mary, Margaret, and Elizabeth.\n\nFrom 1906-1908, Martin was Pastor of the First Congregational Church (now called The First Church of Lombard) of Lombard, Illinois. From 1908-1911, Martin was Pastor of the People’s Church in Dixon, Illinois. Martin was minister of the First Unitarian Church of Des Moines, Iowa, 1911-1915\nMartin was a featured columnist for the Des Moines Register during the years 1914-1915.\n\nIn 1915, his successful life took a radical shift in course. He divorced his wife of eight years and left the professional ministry. He moved to New York and began writing for the New York Globe. Over the next 20 years, Martin developed into a successful writer and forged a national reputation as a charismatic public lecturer, often attracting a crowd of a thousand or more at the People's Institute, a major center for adult education in New York City. Martin's second marriage in 1915 to Persis Eastman Rowell also ended in divorce, they had one son, Everett Eastman.\n\nIn \"The Behavior of Crowds\" (1920), his first nationally reviewed book, he posed what he saw as the dilemma of the modern age: a technological information revolution that made it possible, in the absence of an adequate educational system, to influence ignorant men and women with propaganda and half-truths. Unscrupulous demagogues, corrupt politicians, manipulative advertisers, and revolutionary ideologues found ready-made audiences when they appealed to the baser (a subconscious urge, behavior, or intuition directed by primeval, animalistic, self-serving, and/or ignoble motivations) instincts.\n\nMartin was a classical, individualistic liberal, in the tradition of the Renaissance humanists and the authors of The Federalist Papers. He believed in restrained government and in the self-selection of intellectually promising students through appropriate programs of adult education.\n\nHis most famous and widely read work, \"The Meaning of a Liberal Education\", appeared in 1926, the same year he helped found the American Association for Adult Education. When his book, \"The Meaning of a Liberal Education\" was released in 1926, Frederick Paul Keppel, the president of the Carnegie Corporation proclaimed it as “the most important contribution to the understanding of adult education… this far in the United States.” In March 1928, John Dewey responded to a request from Marie Mattingly Meloney, editor of the New York Herald-Tribune Sunday Magazine, and offered his recommendations on recently published texts on education. Dewey wrote, “I think the best educational books of recent publication are…Martin, \"The Meaning of a Liberal Education\". This was not the first time Dewey recommended Everett Dean Martin’s book. In 1927, the editors of the Journal of the National Education Association approached Dewey and asked, “What book have you recently found especially worthwhile? Something that you have read easily, eagerly, and with profit, either in the field of education or out of it.” Dewey identified two books; one of them was Martin’s \"The Meaning of a Liberal Education\".\n\nFrom 1919-1922, Martin served as chairman of The National Board of Review of Motion Pictures.\n\nMartin was an instructor and lecturer at The New School for Social Research in New York City from 1921-1929, and served on the Board of Directors of The New School from 1925-1932. He taught classes in sociology, psychology, social behavior, and adult education. At The New School, Martin taught alongside other prominent intellectuals of the day including, Alfred Adler, Norman Angell, Harry Elmer Barnes, Charles Austin Beard, Edwin Grant Conklin, Herbert J. Davenport, John Dewey, Lawrence K. Frank, Felix Frankfurter, Alexander Goldenweiser, Joseph Jastrow, Alvin Saunders Johnson, Horace Kallen, Alfred Kreymborg, Eduard C. Lindeman, Walter Lippmann, Frederick Macaulay, Wesley Clair Mitchell, Gorham Munson, Moissaye Joseph Olgin, Harry Allen Overstreet, James Harvey Robinson, Mark Van Doren, Thorstein Veblen, and Leo Wolman.\n\nAmong the courses Martin taught at The New School between 1921 and 1929 were: Introduction to Social Psychology, Fundamental Problems in Adult Education, The Process of Adult Learning, Psychology and the Problems of Social Behavior, Some Applications of Social Psychology, Studies on Social Behavior, and Psychological Problems of Social Reconstruction. An example of Martin’s lecture topics in from a 1925 course on social philosophy taught at The New School include: The Psychology of the Crowd; The So-Called Group Mind; Has Man a Social or ”Herd” Instinct?; The Psychology of Mass Appeal; Leadership in the Crowd; Reform Legislation; The Present Industrial Transition.\n\nWhy is this seminal individual virtually ignored amidst the ranks of the founders of the adult education movement? Apparently Martin’s wholehearted commitment to liberal education has placed him in juxtaposition with the early proponents of practical education in the eyes of contemporary scholars. Here is an individual virtually dismissed not only in the history of adult education, but also in the contemporary exploration of adult education.”\n\nAmong those recruited to the programs of the People's Institute of Cooper Union during Martin’s tenure as Director (1926-1934) had been Mortimer Adler, Scott Buchanan, Will Durant, Clifton Fadiman, and Hilda Worthington Smith, all soon to surpass Martin in fame and influence. Yet, in his heyday, Martin was regarded as one of the leading figures in adult education in the United States.\n\nMorse A. Cartwright, who was the Executive Director of the American Association for Adult Education from its founding in 1926 to its ultimate dissolution and transformation in 1949, considered Martin to be the \"spiritual father\" of the association in particular and of the entire movement in general. Cartwright went on to say in his eulogy for Martin, published in the Journal of Adult Education, that:\n\n“. . . Thousands who had heard him lecture in all parts of the United States, more thousands who had read his numerous books and articles on philosophical and psychological subjects, and the large audience which for years listened to his notable Friday night addresses and discussions in the Great Hall of Cooper Union in New York, all attested to the challenging qualities of his mind and heart.”\n\nIn 1934 Martin was asked to direct the Department of Social Philosophy at the Cooper Union in New York through a $15,000 per year grant from the Carnegie Corporation through his long-time friend Frederick Paul Keppel. Martin remained in this position until 1936 when he accepted an opportunity to move to California and direct an experimental program in teaching at Claremont Colleges.\n\nMartin was a Professor of Social Psychology at Scripps College in Claremont, California from 1936 up until his death in 1941.\n\nMartin died on May 10, 1941 of a heart attack in Claremont, California at the age of 60. Martin's third wife, Daphne Crane Drake, whom he married in 1931, survived him. Mrs. Everett Dean Martin (Daphne Crane Drake) was a former President of the Child Study Association of America (1934).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2568706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2568706", "title": "Forest school (learning style)", "text": "Forest school (learning style)\n\nForest school, is a outdoor education delivery model in which children (or adults) visit natural spaces to learn personal, social and technical skills. It has been defined as \"an inspirational process that offers children, young people and adults regular opportunities to achieve and develop confidence through hands-on learning in a woodland environment\". Forest school is both a pedagogy and a physical entity, with the use often being interchanged. The plural \"schools\" is often used when referring to a number of groups or sessions. There is no single definition of \"forest school\", and as of 2018 known attempts to commercialize the term via trademark or copyright have been unsuccessful.\n\nForest school uses the woods and forests as a means to build independence and self-esteem in children and young adults.Topics are cross-curriculum (broad in subject) including the natural environment, for example the role of trees in society, the complex ecosystem supported by a wilderness, and recognition of specific plants and animals. However, the personal skills are considered highly valuable, such as teamwork and problem solving. The woodland environment may be used to learn about more abstract concepts such as mathematics and communication. Forest school provision is also called \"nature schools\".\n\nIn the UK Model schedules within forest schools vary, but one approach is to take school learners to woodland for once a week, with an initial 6 week observation and assessment period, where a baseline is produced for each child in terms of areas of their holistic development, with particular emphasis on their social and emotional aspects of learning (SEAL). Once the baseline assessment has been produced the Forest School Leader / Practitioner will then continue with the long term programme over the course of the learning period in order to support the child in their development and learning. The practitioner will provide opportunities for each child to develop in areas that have been identified as requiring interventions or support of any kind The duration and frequency of visits influences the degree of outcome; more time spent in forest school brings greater benefits. Visits should ideally continue throughout the year, allowing children to experience all weathers and the changing seasons.\n\nForest schools are for all learners, of any age, often \"led by the learner`s interests\" (learner initiated learning) by comparison to other outdoor education which \"starts with an issue agenda or problem for the learner to investigate\". The main goals of forest school in primary age children includes encouraging curiosity and exploration with all of the senses, empowering children in the natural environment, and encouraging spatial awareness and motor development. Forest schools usually provide a higher adult to child ratio than some learning styles, in order to ensure children are supported sufficiently in a higher risk environment.\n\nBeyond primary school age children, forest school is frequently used to further develop social skills and explore creative learning and focuses on developing firm foundations for continued personal and education development. In particular it has been used as an alternative curriculum provision to support continued mainstream education involvement, or as a temporary/transitional approach back into school.\n\nConsistent with attention restoration theory, children taking part in forest school have been described as more relaxed. Relationships between the children and each other, with adults, and with the environment, are important\n\nForest school is part of the broader area of outdoor education. Outside the school curriculum, this extends to summer holiday camps, Scouting, Outward Bound projects and many other activities. Before children reach school age, Forest kindergartens provide a similar service.\n\nForest school is currently taking place in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, USA, Malaysia, Switzerland, Spain, Ireland, Germany and United Kingdom.\n\nThe combination of freedom and responsibility has been particularly beneficial to children who suffer from lack of confidence or whose behaviour is challenging. With high adult:child ratios, children can safely experience activities that are often prohibited, such as climbing trees or lighting fires.Children have the freedom to explore the area within the forest, this helps the child to learn to manage their own safety and move around comfortably. The programme allows children to grow in confidence and independence and extend their abilities.\n\nSome children do not perform well in classrooms. They are encouraged to develop their innate curiosity and develop the motivation to learn. They may come from a non-academic family background, may have a short attention span, or may just not be comfortable with the organisation of a teacher standing in front of a group of pupils. Boys in general, prefer to be outside, and learn better in this way.\n\nIn a major study in the USA, students with behavioural problems in \"Environment as an Integrating Context for Learning\" (EIC) programmes caused fewer discipline problems than their traditionally educated peers. Similarly, Forest schools have been found to help children with additional support needs, including Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and autistic children.\n\n\nIn the 1950s the idea was created in Denmark and shortly there after in Sweden. In Denmark it became an embedded part of the curriculum for pre-school children (under seven years) stemming from their småbørnspædagogik, or 'Early childhood education'. Children attending Forest kindergartens were in most cases arriving at school with strong social skills, the ability to work in groups effectively, high self-esteem, and confidence in their own capabilities.\n\nIn 1957, a Swedish man, Goesta Frohm, created the \"Skogsmulle\" concept to promote learning about nature, water, mountains and pollution. With an increasing focus on measurable outcomes, forest schools have gained acceptance as an educational method in their own right. In Denmark, nature schools as well as forest kindergartens are popular with both school teachers and children.\n\nThe biophilia hypothesis argues that a love of nature is instinctive. The term nature deficit disorder, coined by Richard Louv in his 2005 book \"Last Child in the Woods\", recognises the erosion of this by the urbanisation of human society. Attention restoration theory and related psychological work has proven health benefits in reduced stress, improved concentration and improved medical outcomes from surgery. Scandinavian countries, rich in woodland, have maintained the human link more closely. Forest schools practice is based on up-to date pedagogy and andragogy.\n\nThis ethos was introduced to the UK during the 1990s from Denmark. The growth of forest school has been unprecedented throughout the UK developing into a separate and distinct model called the UK Model. Bridgwater College in Somerset was the pioneer of the forest school concept in the UK in 1994 after traveling to Denmark to observe the Danish/Nordic Model of Forest Kindergartens for a few days.\n\nVarious government and NGO agencies propose the use of woodland as part of the school educational curriculum; for example the Forest Education Initiative and the Forestry Commission. By 2006, there were approximately 140 forest schools in Britain.\n\nThe governmental agencies have in some cases been set targets for the use of their resources for education or health benefits, or are focused on the educational outcomes and see forestry as a step towards them.\n\nMany businesses and non-profit organizations facilitate forest school long term programmes. In Wales, training and strategic oversight is provided by Forest Schools Wale] and government agencies such as the Forestry Commission who have supported research and the development of practical experience for forest school practitioners. In England, support has been provided by the Forest Education Network (which has replaced the Forest Education Initiative) to those initiating forest school provision. Such provision is provided within schools using their own trained staff or by external independent forest school providers.\n\nMany organisations now offer training courses designed for the UK to enable practitioners to deliver forest school in their own settings and ensure children and teachers work within rich natural experiences. The OCN Level 3 training course is most widely recognised within the UK.\n\nDeveloping from the Institute of Outdoor Learning's (IOL) Forest School Special Interest Group, in June 2012 The Forest School Association was established as an independent UK body.\n\nInspired by international developments, the first Canadian forest school was created by Marlene Power in 2007. It was named Carp Ridge Preschool and was located near Ottawa. In 2012, Power founded and became the executive director of Forest School Canada, an educational initiative of the Child and Nature Alliance of Canada. Forest School Canada is focused on being a \"network for support, education, and accreditation for concepts associated with the FS movement in Canada.\"\n\nThe movement has spread into Canada's provinces and is primary associated with private schools. However, there is emerging support from public schools such as the Nature Kindergarten pilot which is a partnership between the Sooke District School Board and the University of Victoria’s Centre for Early Childhood Research and Policy, Royal Roads University, and Camosun College’s Early Learning and Care Program.\n\nAttempts have been made to copyright and trademark generic terms related to forest school. There is no known protection of the term \"forest school\" or \"forest schools\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6518342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6518342", "title": "Formative assessment", "text": "Formative assessment\n\nFormative assessment, including \"diagnostic testing\", is a range of formal and informal assessment procedures conducted by teachers during the learning process in order to modify teaching and learning activities to improve student attainment. It typically involves qualitative feedback (rather than scores) for both student and teacher that focuses on the details of content and performance. It is commonly contrasted with summative assessment, which seeks to monitor educational outcomes, often for purposes of external accountability.\n\nPractice in a classroom is formative to the extent that evidence about student achievement is elicited, interpreted, and used by teachers, learners, or their peers, to make decisions about the next steps in instruction that are likely to be better, or better founded, than the decisions they would have taken in the absence of the evidence that was elicited.\n\nMichael Scriven coined the terms formative and summative evaluation in 1967, and emphasized their differences both in terms of the goals of the information they seek and how the information is used. For Scriven, formative evaluation gathered information to assess the effectiveness of a curriculum and guide school system choices as to which curriculum to adopt and how to improve it. Benjamin Bloom took up the term in 1968 in the book \"Learning for Mastery\" to consider formative assessment as a tool for improving the teaching-learning process for students. His subsequent 1971 book \"Handbook of Formative and Summative Evaluation\", written with Thomas Hasting and George Madaus, showed how formative assessments could be linked to instructional units in a variety of content areas. It is this approach that reflects the generally accepted meaning of the term today. For both Scriven and Bloom, an assessment, whatever its other uses, is only formative if it is used to alter\nsubsequent educational decisions. Subsequently, however, Black and Wiliam have suggested this definition is too restrictive, since formative assessments may be used to provide evidence that the intended course of action was indeed appropriate. They propose that:\n\nPractice in a classroom is formative to the extent that evidence about student achievement is elicited, interpreted, and used by teachers, learners, or their peers, to make decisions about the next steps in instruction that are likely to be better, or better founded, than the decisions they would have taken in the absence of the evidence that was elicited.\n\nThe type of assessment that people may be more familiar with is summative assessment. The table below shows some basic differences between the two types of assessment.\nFormative assessment serves several purposes:\n\nCharacteristics of formative assessment:\n\nAccording to Harlen and James (1997), formative assessment:\n\nFeedback is the central function of formative assessment. It typically involves a focus on the detailed content of what is being learnt, rather than simply a test score or other measurement of how far a student is falling short of the expected standard. Nicol and Macfarlane-Dick, synthesising from the literature, list seven principles of good feedback practice:\n\nThe time between formative assessment and adjustments to learning can be a matter of seconds or a matter of months. Some examples of formative assessment are:\n\nMeta-analysis of studies into formative assessment have indicated significant learning gains where formative assessment is used, across all content areas, knowledge and skill types, and levels of education. Educational researcher Robert J. Marzano states:\nRecall the finding from Black and Wiliam's (1998) synthesis of more than 250 studies that formative assessments, as opposed to summative ones, produce the more powerful effect on student learning. In his review of the research, Terrance Crooks (1988) reports that effects sizes for summative assessments are consistently lower than effect sizes for formative assessments. In short, it is formative assessment that has a strong research base supporting its impact on learning.\n\nWhile empirical evidence has shown the substantial impact formative assessment has in raising student achievement, it is also \"recognized as one of the most powerful ways to enhance student motivation\". Believing in their ability to learn, contributing learning successes to individual efforts and abilities, emphasizing progress toward learning goals rather than letter grades, and evaluating \"the nature of their thinking to identify strategies that improve understanding\" are all manners in which motivation is enhanced through an effective use of formative assessment. However, for these gains to become evident formative assessment must (1) Clarify and share learning goals and success criteria; (2) Create effective classroom discussions and other tasks which demonstrate evidence of student understanding; (3) provide feedback which can and will be acted upon; (4) allow students to become instructional resources for one another; and (5) stimulate students to become owners of their own learning.\n\nSome researchers have concluded that standards-based assessments may be an effective way to \"prescribe instruction and to ensure that no child is left behind\".\n\nThe strongest evidence of improved learning gains comes from short-cycle (over seconds or minutes within a single lesson) formative assessment, and medium to long-term assessment where assessment is used to change the teacher's regular classroom practice.\n\nIt is important for students to understand the goals and the criteria for success when learning in the classroom. Often teachers will introduce learning goals to their students before a lesson, but will not do an effective job in distinguishing between the end goals and what the students will be doing to achieve those goals. \"When teachers start from what it is they want students to know and design their instruction backward from that goal, then instruction is far more likely to be effective\". In a study done by Gray and Tall, they found that 72 students between the ages of 7 and 13 had different experiences when learning in mathematics. The study showed that higher achieving students looked over mathematical ambiguities, while the lower achieving students tended to get stuck on these misunderstandings. An example of this can be seen in the number formula_1. Although it is not explicitly stated, the operation between these two numbers is addition. If we look at the number formula_2, here the implied operation between formula_3 and formula_4 is multiplication. Finally if we take a look at the number formula_5, there is a completely different operation between the 6 and 1. The study showed that higher achieving students were able to look past this while other students were not.\n\nAnother study done by White and Frederiksen showed that when twelve 7th grade science classrooms were given time to reflect on what they deemed to be quality work, and how they thought they would be evaluated on their work, the gap between the high achieving students and the low achieving students was decreased.\n\nOne way to help with this is to offer students different examples of other students' work so they can evaluate the different pieces. By examining the different levels of work, students can start to differentiate between superior and inferior work.\n\nThere has been extensive research done on studying how students are affected by feedback. Kluger and DeNisi (1996) reviewed over three thousand reports on feedback in schools, universities, and the workplace. Of these, only 131 of them were found to be scientifically rigorous and of those, 50 of the studies shows that feedback actually has negative effects on its recipients. This is due to the fact that feedback is often \"ego-involving\", that is the feedback focuses on the individual student rather than the quality of the student's work. Feedback is often given in the form of some numerical or letter grade and that perpetuates students being compared to their peers. The studies previously mentioned showed that the most effective feedback for students is when they are not only told in which areas they need to improve, but also how to go about improving it.\n\nIt has been shown that leaving comments alongside grades is just as ineffective as giving solely a numerical/letter grade (Butler 1987, 1989). This is due to the fact that students tend to look at their grade and disregard any comments that are given to them. The next thing students tend to do is to ask other students in the class for their grade, and they compare the grade to their own grade.\n\nQuestioning is an important part of the learning process and an even more important part is asking the right types of questions. Questions that promote discussion and student reflection make it easier for students to go on the right path to end up completing their learning goals. Here are some types of questions that are good to ask students:\n\nWait time is the amount of time that is given to a student to answer a question that was posed and the time allowed for the student to answer. Mary Budd Rowe went on to look at the outcomes of having longer wait times for students. These included:\n\nHaving students assess each other's work has been studied to have numerous benefits:\n\nFormative assessment is valuable for day-to-day teaching when used to adapt instructional methods to meet students' needs and for monitoring student progress toward learning goals. Further, it helps students monitor their own progress as they get feedback from the teacher and/or peers, allowing the opportunity to revise and refine their thinking. Formative assessment is also known as educative assessment, classroom assessment, or assessment for learning.\n\nThere are many ways to integrate formative assessment into K–12 classrooms. Although the key concepts of formative assessment such as constant feedback, modifying the instruction, and information about students' progress do not vary among different disciplines or levels, the methods or strategies may differ. For example, researchers developed generative activities (Stroup et al., 2004) and model-eliciting activities (Lesh et al., 2000) that can be used as formative assessment tools in mathematics and science classrooms. Others developed strategies computer-supported collaborative learning environments (Wang et al., 2004b). More information about implication of formative assessment in specific areas is given below.\n\nFormative assessment, or \"diagnostic testing\" as the National Board of Professional Teaching Standards argues, serves to create effective teaching curricula and classroom-specific evaluations. By focusing on student-centered activities, a student is able to relate the material to his life and experiences. Students are encouraged to think critically and to develop analytical skills. This type of testing allows for a teacher's lesson plan to be clear, creative, and reflective of the curriculum (T.P Scot et al., 2009).\n\nBased on the Appalachian Education Laboratory (AEL), \"diagnostic testing\" emphasizes effective teaching practices while \"considering learners' experiences and their unique conceptions\" (T.P Scot et al., 2009). Furthermore, it provides the framework for \"efficient retrieval and application\"(T.P Scot et al., 2009). by urging students to take charge of their education. The implications of this type of testing,is developing a knowledgeable student with deep understanding of the information and then be able to account for a students' comprehension on a subject.\n\nThe following are examples of application of formative assessment to content areas:\n\nIn math education, it is important for teachers to see how their students approach the problems and how much mathematical knowledge and at what level students use when solving the problems. That is, knowing how students think in the process of learning or problem solving makes it possible for teachers to help their students overcome conceptual difficulties and, in turn, improve learning. In that sense, formative assessment is diagnostic. To employ formative assessment in the classrooms, a teacher has to make sure that each student participates in the learning process by expressing their ideas; there is a trustful environment in which students can provide each other with feedback; s/he (the teacher) provides students with feedback; and the instruction is modified according to students' needs. In math classes, thought revealing activities such as model-eliciting activities (MEAs) and generative activities provide good opportunities for covering these aspects of formative assessment.\n\nHere are some examples of possible feedback for students in math education:\nDifferent approaches for feedback encourage pupils to reflect:\nAnother method has students looking to each other to gain knowledge.\n\nAs an ongoing assessment it focuses on the process, it helps teachers to check the current status of their students' language ability, that is, they can know what the students know and what the students do not know. It also gives chances to students to participate in modifying or planning the upcoming classes (Bachman & Palmer, 1996). Participation in their learning grows students' motivation to learn the target language. It also raises students' awareness on their target languages, which results in resetting their own goals. In consequence, it helps students to achieve their goals successfully as well as teachers be the facilitators to foster students' target language ability.\n\nIn classroom, short quizzes, reflectionals journals, or portfolios could be used as a formative assessment (Cohen, 1994).\n\nIn primary schools, it is used to inform the next steps of learning. Teachers and students both use formative assessments as a tool to make decisions based on data. Formative assessment occurs when teachers feed information back to students in ways that enable the student to learn better, or when students can engage in a similar, self-reflective process. The evidence shows that high quality formative assessment does have a powerful impact on student learning. Black and Wiliam (1998) report that studies of formative assessment show an effect size on standardized tests of between 0.4 and 0.7, larger than most known educational interventions. (The effect size is the ratio of the average improvement in test scores in the innovation to the range of scores of typical groups of pupils on the same tests; Black and Wiliam recognize that standardized tests are very limited measures of learning.) Formative assessment is particularly effective for students who have not done well in school, thus narrowing the gap between low and high achievers while raising overall achievement. Research examined by Black and Wiliam supports the conclusion that summative assessments tend to have a negative effect on student learning.\n\nModel-eliciting activities are based on real-life situations where students, working in small groups, present a mathematical model as a solution to a client's need (Zawojewski & Carmona, 2001). The problem design enables students to evaluate their solutions according to the needs of a client identified in the problem situation and sustain themselves in productive, progressively effective cycles of conceptualizing and problem solving. Model-eliciting activities (MEAs) are ideally structured to help students build their real-world sense of problem solving towards increasingly powerful mathematical constructs. What is especially useful for mathematics educators and researchers is the capacity of MEAs to make students' thinking visible through their models and modeling cycles. Teachers do not prompt the use of particular mathematical concepts or their representational counterparts when presenting the problems. Instead, they choose activities that maximize the potential for students to develop the concepts that are the focal point in the curriculum by building on their early and intuitive ideas. The mathematical models emerge from the students' interactions with the problem situation and learning is assessed via these emergent behaviors.\n\nIn a generative activity, students are asked to come up with outcomes that are mathematically same. Students can arrive at the responses or build responses from this sameness in a wide range of ways. The sameness gives coherence to the task and allows it to be an \"organizational unit for performing a specific function.\" (Stroup et al., 2004)\n\nOther activities can also be used as the means of formative assessment as long as they ensure the participation of every student, make students' thoughts visible to each other and to the teacher, promote feedback to revise and refine thinking. In addition, as a complementary to all of these is to modify and adapt instruction through the information gathered by those activities.\n\nMany academics are seeking to diversify assessment tasks, broaden the range of skills assessed and provide students with more timely and informative feedback on their progress. Others are wishing to meet student expectations for more flexible delivery and to generate efficiencies in assessment that can ease academic staff workloads. The move to on-line and computer based assessment is a natural outcome of the increasing use of information and communication technologies to enhance learning. As more students seek flexibility in their courses, it seems inevitable there will be growing expectations for flexible assessment as well. When implementing online and computer-based instruction, it is recommended that a structured framework or model be used to guide the assessment.\n\nIn the UK education system, formative assessment (or assessment for learning) has been a key aspect of the agenda for personalised learning. The Working Group on 14–19 Reform led by Sir Mike Tomlinson, recommended that assessment of learners be refocused to be more teacher-led and less reliant on external assessment, putting learners at the heart of the assessment process.\n\nThe UK government has stated that personalised learning depends on teachers knowing the strengths and weaknesses of individual learners, and that a key means of achieving this is through formative assessment, involving high quality feedback to learners included within every teaching session.\n\nThe Assessment Reform Group has set out the following 10 principles for formative assessment.\n\nLearning should:\n\n\n\n\nThe practice of common formative assessments is a way for teachers to use assessments to beneficially adjust their teaching pedagogy. The concept is that teachers who teach a common class can provide their classes with a common assessment. The results of that assessment could provide the teachers with valuable information, the most important being who on that teacher team is seeing the most success with his or her students on a given topic or standard. It is essential to note that the purpose of this practice is to provide feedback for teachers, not necessarily students, so an assignment could be considered formative for teachers, but summative for students. Researchers Kim Bailey and Chris Jakicic have stated that common formative assessments \"Promote efficiency for teachers, promote equity for students, provide an effective strategy for determining whether the guaranteed curriculum is being taught and, more importantly, learned, inform the practice of individual teachers, build a team's capacity to improve its program, facilitate a systematic, collective response to students who are experiencing difficulty, [and] offer the most powerful tool for changing adult behavior and practice.\"\n\nDeveloping common formative assessments on a teacher team helps educators to address what Bailey and Jakicic lay out as the important questions to answer when reflecting on student progress. These include:\n\n\nCommon formative assessments are a way to address the second question. Teachers can collect data on how students are doing to gain understanding and insight on whether students are learning, and how they are making sense of the lessons being taught. After gathering this data, teachers can proceed to develop systems and plans to address the third and fourth questions and, over several years, modify the first question to fit the learning needs of their specific students.\n\nWhen utilizing common formative assessments to collect data on student progress, teachers can compare their students' results. In tandem, they can also share the strategies they used in the classroom to teach that particular concept. With these things in mind, the teacher team can make some evaluations on what tasks and explanations seemed to produce the best student outcomes. Teachers who used alternate strategies now have new ideas for interventions and for when they teach the topic in upcoming years. Teacher teams can also use common formative assessments to review and calibrate their scoring practices. Teachers of a common class should aim to be as consistent as possible in evaluating their students. Comparing formative assessments, or having all teachers evaluate them together, is a way for teachers to adjust their grading criteria before the summative assessment. Through this practice, teachers are presented with an opportunity to grow professionally with the people who know them and understand their school environment.\n\nTo make the practice of teacher teams, common formative assessments, and power standards the most advantageous, the practice of backwards design should be utilized. Backwards design is the idea in education that the summative assessment should be developed first and that all formative work and lessons leading up to that specific assessment should be created second. Tomlinson and McTighe wrote, “Although not a new idea, we have found that the deliberate use of backwards design for planning courses, units, and individual lessons results in more clearly defined goals, more appropriate assessments, and more purposeful teaching.\" More specifically, intervention and re-teaching time must be factored into the schedule. It is unrealistic to think that every student will get every topic perfect and ready to take the summative assessment on a prescribed schedule.\n\nassessment\n\n"}
{"id": "31590773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31590773", "title": "Fronimo Dialogo", "text": "Fronimo Dialogo\n\nThe Fronimo Dialogo di Vincentio Galilei (Vincenzo Galilei) is an instructional book on playing, composing and intabulating vocal music for the lute.\n\nThe first edition was printed by Girolamo Scotto in Venice with the full title \"FRONIMO DIALOGO / DI VINCENTIO GALILEI FIORENTINO, / NEL QUALE SI CONTENGONO LE VERE, / et necessarie regole del Intavolare la Musica nel Liuto\". While the title page bears the date 1568, the final page confusingly bears the date 1569. Apparently, although the manuscript was completed by Galilei in the Autumn of 1568, the official letter of privilege allowing the publication of the book was received only in December, and the printing actually took place in 1569. In addition, still in 1569, Girolamo Scotto broke the book into two parts, selling a collection of 30 musical selections from near the end of the book and the Dialogo separately. A second edition of the complete Dialogo, with significant revisions, was printed in 1584 by the “heir of Girolamo Scotto,” under the title \"FRONIMO / DIALOGO / DI VINCENTIO GALILEI / NOBILE FIORENTINO, / SOPRA L'ARTE DEL BENE INTAVOLARE, / ET RETTAMENTE SONARE LA MUSICA / Negli strumenti artificiali si di corde come di fiato, & in particulare nel Liuto\".\n\nUnlike other lute instruction manuals of the 16th century, each of the editions of Fronimo contains quite a large amount of music. Galilei provided examples in order to illustrate how he believed compositions should be structured and how intabulations should be made from existing compositions. The examples range from a few notes or measures in length up to complete compositions in either mensural notation or lute tablature. In the 1584 edition, for example, there are 48 pieces in tablature form sprinkled throughout the text (including a set of 24 ricercars in all the possible tonalities) and a collection of 60 more pieces placed all together at the end. The 1568 edition includes a total of 96 complete pieces, many of which are different from those chosen for the 1584 edition.\n\n"}
{"id": "346643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=346643", "title": "Graduate Record Examinations", "text": "Graduate Record Examinations\n\nThe Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) is a standardized test that is an admissions requirement for most graduate schools in the United States. The GRE is owned and administered by Educational Testing Service (ETS). The test was established in 1936 by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.\n\nAccording to ETS, the GRE aims to measure verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning, analytical writing, and critical thinking skills that have been acquired over a long period of learning. The content of the GRE consists of certain specific algebra, geometry, arithmetic, and vocabulary. The GRE General Test is offered as a computer-based exam administered at Prometric testing centers. In the graduate school admissions process, the level of emphasis that is placed upon GRE scores varies widely between schools and departments within schools. The importance of a GRE score can range from being a mere admission formality to an important selection factor.\n\nThe GRE was significantly overhauled in August 2011, resulting in an exam that is not adaptive on a question-by-question basis, but rather by section, so that the performance on the first verbal and math sections determine the difficulty of the second sections presented. Overall, the test retained the sections and many of the question types from its predecessor, but the scoring scale was changed to a 130 to 170 scale (from a 200 to 800 scale).\n\nThe cost to take the test is US$205, although ETS will reduce the fee under certain circumstances. They also promote financial aid to those GRE applicants who prove economic hardship. ETS does not release scores that are older than 5 years, although graduate program policies on the acceptance of scores older than 5 years will vary.\n\nThe Graduate Record Examinations was \"initiated in 1936 as a joint experiment in higher education by the graduate school deans of four eastern universities and the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.\"\n\nThe first universities to experiment the test on their students were Harvard University, Yale University, Princeton University and Columbia University. The University of Wisconsin was the first public university to ask their students to take the test in 1938. It was first given to students at the University of Iowa in 1940, where it was analysed by psychologist Dewey Stuit. It was first taken by students at Texas Tech University in 1942. In 1943, it was taken by students at Michigan State University, where it was analyzed by Paul Dressel. It was taken by over 45,000 students applying to 500 colleges in 1948.\n\n\"Until the Educational Testing Service was established in January, 1948, the Graduate Record Examination remained a project of the Carnegie Foundation.\"\n\nThe computer-based GRE General Test consists of six sections. The first section is always the analytical writing section involving separately timed issue and argument tasks. The next five sections consist of two verbal reasoning sections, two quantitative reasoning sections, and either an experimental or research section. These five sections may occur in any order. The experimental section does not count towards the final score but is not distinguished from the scored sections. Unlike the computer adaptive test before August 2011, the GRE General Test is a multistage test, where the examinee's performance on earlier sections determines the difficulty of subsequent sections. This format allows the examined person to freely move back and forth between questions within each section, and the testing software allows the user to \"mark\" questions within each section for later review if time remains. The entire testing procedure lasts about 3 hours 45 minutes. One-minute breaks are offered after each section and a 10-minute break after the third section.\n\nThe paper-based GRE General Test also consists of six sections. The analytical writing is split up into two sections, one section for each issue and argument task. The next four sections consist of two verbal and two quantitative sections in varying order. There is no experimental section on the paper-based test. This version is only available in areas where the computer-based version is unavailable.\n\nThe computer-based verbal sections assess reading comprehension, critical reasoning, and vocabulary usage. The verbal test is scored on a scale of 130–170, in 1-point increments. (Before August 2011, the scale was 200–800, in 10-point increments.) In a typical examination, each verbal section consists of 20 questions to be completed in 30 minutes. Each verbal section consists of about 6 text completion, 4 sentence equivalence, and 10 critical reading questions. The changes in 2011 include a reduced emphasis on rote vocabulary knowledge and the elimination of antonyms and analogies. Text completion items have replaced sentence completions and new reading question types allowing for the selection of multiple answers were added.\n\nThe computer-based quantitative sections assess basic high school level mathematical knowledge and reasoning skills. The quantitative test is scored on a scale of 130–170, in 1-point increments (Before August 2011 the scale was 200–800, in 10-point increments). In a typical examination, each quantitative section consists of 20 questions to be completed in 35 minutes. Each quantitative section consists of about 8 quantitative comparisons, 9 problem solving items, and 3 data interpretation questions. The changes in 2011 include the addition of numeric entry items requiring the examinee to fill in the blank and multiple-choice items requiring the examinee to select multiple correct responses.\n\nThe analytical writing section consists of two different essays, an \"issue task\" and an \"argument task\". The writing section is graded on a scale of 0–6, in half-point increments. The essays are written on a computer using a word processing program specifically designed by ETS. The program allows only basic computer functions and does not contain a spell-checker or other advanced features. Each essay is scored by at least two readers on a six-point holist scale. If the two scores are within one point, the average of the scores is taken. If the two scores differ by more than a point, a third reader examines the response.\n\nThe test taker is given 30 minutes to write an essay about a selected topic. Issue topics are selected from a pool of questions, which the GRE Program has published in its entirety. Individuals preparing for the GRE may access the pool of tasks on the ETS website.\n\nThe test taker will be given an argument (i.e. a series of facts and considerations leading to a conclusion) and asked to write an essay that critiques the argument. Test takers are asked to consider the argument's logic and to make suggestions about how to improve the logic of the argument. Test takers are expected to address the logical flaws of the argument and not provide a personal opinion on the subject. The time allotted for this essay is 30 minutes. The Arguments are selected from a pool of topics, which the GRE Program has published in its entirety. Individuals preparing for the GRE may access the pool of tasks on the ETS website.\n\nThe experimental section, which can be either verbal or quantitative, contains new questions ETS is considering for future use. Although the experimental section does not count towards the test-taker's score, it is unidentified and appears identical to the scored sections. Because test takers have no definite way of knowing which section is experimental, it is typically advised that test takers try their best and be focused on every section. Sometimes an identified research section at the end of the test is given instead of the experimental section. There is no experimental section on the paper-based GRE.\n\nAn examinee can miss one or more questions on a multiple-choice section and still receive a perfect score of 170. Likewise, even if no question is answered correctly, 130 is the lowest possible score.\n\nThe percentiles for the current General test and the concordance with the prior format are as follows. Means and standard deviations for the measures on the new score scale are not yet available:\n\n\"Field-wise distribution\" of test takers is \"limited to those who earned their college degrees up to two years before the test date.\" ETS provides no score data for \"non-traditional\" students who have been out of school more than two years, although its own report \"RR-99-16\" indicated that 22% of all test takers in 1996 were over the age of 30.\n\nMany graduate schools in the United States require GRE results as part of the admissions process. The GRE is a standardized test intended to measure all graduates' abilities in tasks of general academic nature (regardless of their fields of specialization) and the extent to which undergraduate education has developed their verbal skills, quantitative skills, and abstract thinking.\n\nIn addition to GRE scores, admission to graduate schools depends on several other factors, such as GPA, letters of recommendation, and statements of purpose. Furthermore, unlike other standardized admissions tests (such as the SAT, LSAT, and MCAT), the use and weight of GRE scores vary considerably not only from school to school, but also from department to department and program to program. For instance, most business schools and economics programs require very high GRE or GMAT scores for entry, while engineering programs are known to allow more score variation. Liberal arts programs may only consider the applicant's verbal score, while mathematics and science programs may only consider quantitative ability. Some schools use the GRE in admissions decisions, but not in funding decisions; others use it for selection of scholarship and fellowship candidates, but not for admissions. In some cases, the GRE may be a general requirement for graduate admissions imposed by the university, while particular departments may not consider the scores at all. Graduate schools will typically provide the average scores of previously admitted students and information about how the GRE is considered in admissions and funding decisions. In some cases programs have hard cut off requirements for the GRE; for example, the Yale Economics PhD program requires a minimum quantitative score of 160 to apply. The best way to ascertain how a particular school or program evaluates a GRE score in the admissions process is to contact the person in charge of graduate admissions for the specific program in question.\n\nIn February 2016, the University of Arizona James E. Rogers College of Law became the first law school to accept either the GRE or the Law School Admissions Test (LSAT) from all applicants. The college made the decision after conducting a study showing that the GRE is a valid and reliable predictor of students' first-term law school grades.\n\nIn the spring of 2017, Harvard Law School announced it was joining University of Arizona Law in accepting the GRE in addition to the LSAT from applicants to its three-year J.D. program.\n\nIn addition to the General Test, there are also six GRE Subject Tests testing knowledge in the specific areas of Biology; Chemistry; Literature in English; Mathematics; Physics; and Psychology. The length of each exam is 170 minutes.\n\nIn the past, subject tests were also offered in the areas of Computer Science, Economics, Revised Education, Engineering, Geology, History, Music, Political Science, Sociology, and Biochemistry, Cell and Molecular Biology. In April 1998, the Revised Education and Political Science exams were discontinued. In April 2000, the History and Sociology exams were discontinued; with Economics, Engineering, Music, and Geology being discontinued in April 2001. The Computer Science exam was discontinued after April 2013. Biochemistry, Cell and Molecular Biology was discontinued in December 2016.\n\nThe GMAT (Graduate Management Admission Test) is a computer-adaptive standardized test in mathematics and the English language for measuring aptitude to succeed academically in graduate business studies.\nBusiness schools commonly use the test as one of many selection criteria for admission into an MBA program. Starting in 2009, many business schools began accepting the GRE in lieu of a GMAT score. Policies varied widely for several years. However, as of the 2014–2015 admissions season, most business schools accept both tests equally. Either a GMAT score, or a GRE score, can be submitted for an application to an MBA program. Business schools also accept either score for their other (non-MBA) Master's and PhD programs.\n\nThe primary issue on which business school test acceptance policies vary is in how old a GRE or GMAT score can be before it is no longer accepted. The standard is that scores cannot be more than 5 years old (e.g., Wharton, MIT Sloan, Columbia Business School).\n\nA variety of resources are available for those wishing to prepare for the GRE. ETS provides preparation software called PowerPrep, which contains two practice tests of retired questions, as well as further practice questions and review material. Since the software replicates both the test format and the questions used, it can be useful to predict the actual GRE scores. ETS does not license their past questions to any other company, making them the only source for official retired material. ETS used to publish the \"BIG BOOK\" which contained a number of actual GRE questions; however, this publishing was abandoned. Several companies provide courses, books, and other unofficial preparation materials.\n\nSome students taking the GRE use a test preparation company. Students who do not use these courses often rely on material from university text books, GRE preparation books, sample tests, and free web resources.\n\nWhile the general and subject tests are held at many undergraduate institutions, the computer-based general test is only held at test centers with appropriate technological accommodations. In the United States, students in major cities or from large universities will usually find a nearby test center, while those in more isolated areas may have to travel a few hours to an urban or university location. Many industrialized countries also have test centers, but at times test-takers must cross country borders.\n\nAn analysis of the GRE's validity in predicting graduate school success found a correlation of .30 to .45 between the GRE and both first year and overall graduate GPA. The correlation between GRE score and graduate school completion rates ranged from .11 (for the now defunct analytical section) to .39 (for the GRE subject test). Correlations with faculty ratings ranged from .35 to .50.\n\nCritics have claimed that the computer-adaptive methodology may discourage some test takers since the question difficulty changes with performance. For example, if the test-taker is presented with remarkably easy questions halfway into the exam, they may infer that they are not performing well, which will influence their abilities as the exam continues, even though question difficulty is subjective. By contrast, standard testing methods may discourage students by giving them more difficult items earlier on.\n\nCritics have also stated that the computer-adaptive method of placing more weight on the first several questions is biased against test takers who typically perform poorly at the beginning of a test due to stress or confusion before becoming more comfortable as the exam continues. On the other hand, standard fixed-form tests could equally be said to be \"biased\" against students with less testing stamina since they would need to be approximately twice the length of an equivalent computer adaptive test to obtain a similar level of precision.\n\nThe GRE has also been subjected to the same racial bias criticisms that have been lodged against other admissions tests. In 1998, \"The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education\" noted that the mean score for black test-takers in 1996 was 389 on the verbal section, 409 on the quantitative section, and 423 on the analytic, while white test-takers averaged 496, 538, and 564, respectively. The National Association of Test Directors Symposia in 2004 stated a belief that simple mean score differences may not constitute evidence of bias unless the populations are known to be equal in ability. A more effective, accepted, and empirical approach is the analysis of differential test functioning, which examines the differences in item response theory curves for subgroups; the best approach for this is the DFIT framework.\n\nThe GREs are criticized for not being a true measure of whether a student will be successful in graduate school. Robert Sternberg (now of Oklahoma State University–Stillwater; working at Yale University at the time of the study), a long-time critic of modern intelligence testing in general, found the GRE general test was weakly predictive of success in graduate studies in psychology. The strongest relationship was found for the now-defunct analytical portion of the exam.\n\nThe ETS published a report (\"What is the Value of the GRE?\") that points out the predictive value of the GRE on a student's index of success at the graduate level. The problem with earlier studies is the statistical phenomena of restriction of range. A correlation coefficient is sensitive to the range sampled for the test. Specifically, if only students accepted to graduate programs are studied (in Sternberg & Williams and other research), the relationship is occluded. Validity coefficients range from .30 to .45 between the GRE and both first year and overall graduate GPA in ETS' study.\n\nKaplan and Saccuzzo state that the criterion that the GRE best predicts is first-year grades in graduate school. However, this correlation is only in the high tens to low twenties. \"If the test correlates with a criterion at the .4 level, then it accounts for 16% of the variability in that criterion, with the other 84% resulting from unknown factors and errors\" (p. 303). Graduate schools may be placing too much importance on standardized tests rather than on factors that more fully account for graduate school success, such as prior research experience, GPAs, or work experience. While graduate schools do consider these areas, many times schools will not consider applicants that score below a current score of roughly 314 (1301 prior score). Kaplan and Saccuzzo also state that \"the GRE predict[s] neither clinical skill nor even the ability to solve real-world problems\" (p. 303).\n\nIn May 1994, Kaplan, Inc warned ETS, in hearings before a New York legislative committee, that the small question pool available to the computer-adaptive test made it vulnerable to cheating. ETS assured investigators that it was using multiple sets of questions and that the test was secure. This was later discovered to be incorrect.\n\nIn December 1994, prompted by student reports of recycled questions, then Director of GRE Programs for Kaplan, Inc and current CEO of Knewton, Jose Ferreira led a team of 22 staff members deployed to 9 U.S. cities to take the exam. Kaplan, Inc then presented ETS with 150 questions, representing 70–80% of the GRE. According to early news releases, ETS appeared grateful to Stanley H. Kaplan, Inc for identifying the security problem. However, on December 31, ETS sued Kaplan, Inc for violation of a federal electronic communications privacy act, copyright laws, breach of contract, fraud, and a confidentiality agreement signed by test-takers on test day. On January 2, 1995, an agreement was reached out of court.\n\nAdditionally, in 1994, the scoring algorithm for the computer-adaptive form of the GRE was discovered to be insecure. ETS acknowledged that Kaplan, Inc employees, led by Jose Ferreira, reverse-engineered key features of the GRE scoring algorithms. The researchers found that a test taker's performance on the first few questions of the exam had a disproportionate effect on the test taker's final score. To preserve the integrity of scores, ETS revised its scoring and uses a more sophisticated scoring algorithm.\n\nIn 2006, ETS announced plans to enact significant changes in the format of the GRE. Planned changes for the revised GRE included a longer testing time, a departure from computer-adaptive testing, a new grading scale, and an enhanced focus on reasoning skills and critical thinking for both the quantitative and qualitative sections.\n\nOn April 2, 2007, ETS announced the decision to cancel plans for revising the GRE. The announcement cited concerns over the ability to provide clear and equal access to the new test after the planned changes as an explanation for the cancellation. The ETS stated, however, that they do plan \"to implement many of the planned test content improvements in the future\", although specific details regarding those changes were not initially announced.\n\nChanges to the GRE took effect on November 1, 2007, as ETS started to include new types of questions in the exam. The changes mostly centered on \"fill in the blank\" type answers for the mathematics section that requires the test-taker to fill in the blank directly, without being able to choose from a multiple choice list of answers. ETS announced plans to introduce two of these new types of questions in each quantitative section, while the majority of questions would be presented in the regular format.\n\nSince January 2008, the Reading Comprehension within the verbal sections has been reformatted, passages' \"line numbers will be replaced with highlighting when necessary in order to focus the test taker on specific information in the passage\" to \"help students more easily find the pertinent information in reading passages.\"\n\nIn December 2009, ETS announced plans to move forward with significant revisions to the GRE in 2011. Changes include a new 130–170 scoring scale, the elimination of certain question types such as antonyms and analogies, the addition of an online calculator, and the elimination of the CAT format of question-by-question adjustment, in favor of a section by section adjustment. The Revised GRE General test replaced General GRE test on August 1, 2011. The revised GRE is said to be better by design and gives better test taking experience. The new types of questions in the revised pattern are supposed to test the skills needed in graduate and business schools programs. From July 2012 onwards GRE announced an option for users to customize their scores called ScoreSelect.\n\nThe earliest versions of the GRE tested only for verbal and quantitative ability. For a number of years before October 2002, the GRE had a separate Analytical Ability section which tested candidates on logical and analytical reasoning abilities. This section was replaced by the Analytical Writing Assessment.\n\n\nGRE Subject Tests:\n\n\nOther tests:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35325039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35325039", "title": "ISpring Suite", "text": "ISpring Suite\n\niSpring Suite is a rapid learning authoring toolkit produced by iSpring for developing training courses in PowerPoint with embedded (or standalone) quizzes, surveys, and interactions. Its output is compatible with mainstream LMS standards (SCORM/AICC), and there is also an option to publish courses specially for BlackBoard LMS. The new xAPI (Tin Can) format for LRSes is supported as well. Output can be a solid SWF file(s), EXE file, HTML page or ZIP archive. Additionally, the cross-platform output format (Flash + HTML5) allows published content to be viewed on any type of modern device.\n\nIn 2005, Flashspring Pro, the prototype of all iSpring products, was released. It was a simple PowerPoint-to-Flash converter with free and commercial versions. Later, iSpring released Flashspring Ultra and SCORM compatibility became available. The companion products FlashSpring Lite and FlashSpring Server were released in 2006 and 2007, respectively. In 2008 the name was changed to iSpring. \n\nThe current version of iSpring Suite, iSpring Suite 9.0, came out in April 24th, 2018.\n\nOne enhancement made to iSpring Suite 7 was the support of combined, cross-platform Flash + HTML5 format. It allowed users to create mobile-ready projects that adapt to any screen size and orientation.\n\niSpring Suite 7 came with free mobile apps for iOS and Android, which allow offline content viewing. The apps collect statistics on learning activity even with no Internet connection and send them to an LMS once the connection is restored.\n\niSpring Suite 8 introduces several new features to the toolkit.\n\nIn version 8, a conversation simulator was added, allowing users to create simulated dialogues. Also, iSpring Suite 8 has a screen recording tool, allowing users to capture the screen and insert the recording on a PowerPoint slide, an audio/video editor both for screen recordings and audio/video narrations, and a video lecture player to show PowerPoint slides and lecture video side by side.\n\nReleased in April 2018, the 9th version introduced 14 new interactions, a new built-in video editor with extended capabilities for screen recording, and major improvements of the quiz editor: the new drag-and-drop question, the new built-in equation editor, extended feedback options, and 7 new survey question templates.\n\niSpring Suite includes 5 authoring components: the iSpring add-in, iSpring QuizMaker, conversation simulator, screen recording tool and iSpring Visuals — a set of standalone tools that can be used both separately and together. Additional components available in the publishing interface are PowerPoint-to-Video/YouTube (available separately as iSpring SlideAlloy), and iSpring Cloud hosting and sharing platform.\n\niSpring Converter Pro turns PowerPoint projects into mobile-ready online presentations. It supports the standard PowerPoint features such as animation, transition effects and narration facilities and contains additional features that aren't provided by PowerPoint, such as publishing to the Web or an LMS. \n\niSpring QuizMaker allows users to create quizzes and surveys.\n\niSpring Visuals adds rich media interactions to PowerPoint presentations.\n\niSpring TalkMaster is a conversation simulator that allows users to create simulated dialogues for customer support training and other purposes.\n\niSpring ScreenRecorder allows users to capture all or part of a screen and insert the recording on a PowerPoint slide, save it to MP4 video, or publish it to a YouTube account.\n\niSpring SlideAlloy converts PowerPoint presentations to videos in .mp4 format, or publishes them to YouTube.\n\niSpring Cloud is a hosting and delivery platform for PowerPoint presentations, Microsoft documents and spreadsheets, images, video, audio, and PDF files.\n\n"}
{"id": "8089686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8089686", "title": "Informal learning", "text": "Informal learning\n\nInformal learning is any learning that is not formal learning or non-formal learning, such as self-directed learning or learning from experience. Informal learning is organized differently than formal and non-formal learning because it has no set objective in terms of learning outcomes and is never intentional from the learner’s standpoint. For all learners this includes heuristic language building, socialization, enculturation, and play. Informal learning is a pervasive ongoing phenomenon of learning via participation or learning via knowledge creation, in contrast with the traditional view of teacher-centered learning via knowledge acquisition.\n\nThe term is often conflated, however, with non-formal learning, and self-directed learning. It is widely used in the context of corporate training and education in relation to return on investment (ROI), or return on learning (ROL). It is also widely used when referring to science education, in relation to citizen science, or informal science education. The conflated meaning of informal and non-formal learning explicates mechanisms of learning that organically occur outside the realm of traditional instructor-led programs, e.g., reading self-selected books, participating in self-study programs, navigating performance support materials and systems, incidental skills practice, receptivity of coaching or mentoring, seeking advice from peers, or participation in communities of practice, to name a few. Informal learning is common in communities where individuals have opportunities to observe and participate in social activities.\n\nInformal learning can be characterized as the following:\n\nIn international discussions, the concept of informal learning, already used by John Dewey at an early stage and later on by Malcolm Knowles, experienced a renaissance, especially in the context of development policy. At first, informal learning was only delimited from formal school learning and nonformal learning in courses (Coombs/Achmed 1974). Marsick and Watkins take up this approach and go one step further in their definition. They, too, begin with the organizational form of learning and call those learning processes informal which are non-formal or not formally organized and are not financed by institutions (Watkins/Marsick, p. 12 et sec.). An example for a wider approach is Livingstone's definition which is oriented towards autodidactic and self-directed learning and places special emphasis on the self-definition of the learning process by the learner (Livingstone 1999, p. 68 et seq.).\n\nAs noted above, informal learning is often confused with non-formal learning. Non-formal learning has been used to often describe organized learning outside of the formal education system, either being short-term, voluntary, and having, few if any, prerequisites. However they typically have a curriculum and often a facilitator. As stated on the non-formal learning page, non-formal learning can be seen in various structured learning situations, such as swimming lessons, community-based sports programs and conference style seminars.\n\nMerriam et al. (2007) state: \"Informal learning, Schugurensky (2000) suggests, has its own internal forms that are important to distinguish in studying the phenomenon. He proposes three forms: self-directed learning, incidental learning, and socialization, or tacit learning. These differ among themselves in terms of intentionality and awareness at the time of the learning experience. Self-directed learning, for example, is intentional and conscious; incidental learning, which Marsick and Watkins (1990) describe as an accidental by-product of doing something else, is unintentional but after the experience she or he becomes aware that some learning has taken place; and finally, socialization or tacit learning is neither intentional nor conscious (although we can become aware of this learning later through 'retrospective recognition') (Marsick & Watkins, 1990, p. 6)\" (p. 36). More recently, Bennett (2012) extended Schugurenksky's (2000) conceptualization of informal by recommending four modes of informal learning: a) self-directed, which is conscious and intentional, b) incidental, which is conscious and unintentional, c) tacit, which replaces socialization and is both nonconscious and unintentional, and d) integrative, which is nonconscious and intentional. Drawing upon implicit processing literature, she further defined integrative learning as \"a learning process that combines intentional nonconscious processing of tacit knowledge with conscious access to learning products and mental images\" (Bennett, 2012, p. 4) and she theorized two possible sub-processes: knowledge shifting and knowledge sublimation, which describe limited access learners have to tacit knowledge.\n\nPeople in many Indigenous communities of the Americas often learn through observation and participation in everyday life of their respective communities and families. Barbara Rogoff, a professor of psychology, and her colleagues describe the ways in which children in Indigenous communities can learn by observing and participating in community endeavors, having an eagerness to contribute, fulfilling valuable roles, and finding a sense of belonging in their community. These learning experiences rely on children’s incorporation in the community and the child’s attentiveness. This form of informal learning allows the children to collaborate in social endeavors, which grants the child the opportunity to learn by pitching in.\n\nLearning occurs through socialization processes in one's culture and community. Learning by observing and pitching in (LOPI) is an Informal learning model often seen in many Indigenous communities of the Americas. \n\nChild work, alongside and combined with play, occupies an important place in American Indigenous children’s time and development. The interaction of a Navajo girl assisting her mother weaving and who eventually becomes a master weaver herself illustrates how the child's presence and the availability of these activities allow the child to learn through observation. Children start at the periphery, observing and imitating those around them, before moving into the center of activities under supervision and guidance. An example of 2-year-old Indigenous Mexican girl participating in digging-the-holes project with her mother highlights children's own initiation to help, after watching, and enthusiasm to share the task with family and community. Work is part of a child’s development from an early age, starting with simple tasks that merge with play and develop to various kinds of useful work. The circumstances of everyday routine create opportunities for the culturally meaningful activities and sensitive interactions on which a child's development depends. Children of the Chillihuani observe their environment as a place of respect, and learn from observation. Many of them become herders by informal learning in observation. \n\nChildren in Nicaragua will often learn to work the land or learn to become street vendors by watching other individuals in their community perform it. These activities provide opportunities for children to learn and develop through forms of social learning which are made up of everyday experiences rather than a deliberate curriculum, and contain ordinary setting in which children’s social interaction and behavior occur. Informal learning for children in American Indigenous communities can take place at work where children are expected to contribute.\n\nIn terms of the cultural variation between traditional Indigenous American and European-American middle class, the prevalence of nonverbal communication can be viewed as being dependent on each culture’s definition of achievement. Often in mainstream middle-class culture, success in school and work settings is gained through practicing competitiveness and working for personal gain. The learning and teaching practices of traditional Indigenous Americans generally prioritize harmony and cooperation over personal gain.In order to achieve mutual respect in teachings, what is often relied on in Indigenous American culture is nonverbal communication.\n\nNonverbal communication in Indigenous communities creates pathways of knowledge by watching and then doing. An example where nonverbal behavior can be used as a learning tool can be seen in Chillihuani culture. Children in this community learn about growing crops by observing the actions and respect adults have for the land. They learn that caring for their crops is vital for them to grow and in turn for the community to thrive. Similarly, when children participate in rituals, they learn the importance of being part of the community by watching how everyone interacts. This again needs no explicit verbal communication, it relies solely on observing the world around. Chillihuani culture does not explicitly verbalize expectations. Their knowledge is experienced rather than explained through modeled behavior for community benefit.\n\nIn the indigenous culture of the Matsigenka, infants are kept in close proximity to their mother and members of the community. The infant does not go far from the mother at any time. In this way, the child is encouraged to explore away from the mother and other family members who will still keep watch. As the child wanders he may come to a place that is unknown and potentially dangerous but the mother will not stop him, she will just watch as he explores. The lack of verbal reprimand or warning from an adult or elder enable the child to assimilate his surroundings more carefully.\n\nTo fully understand informal learning it is useful to define the terms \"formal\" and \"informal\" education. Formal education can be defined as a setting that is highly institutionalized, can be possibly bureaucratic, while being curriculum driven, and formally recognized with grades, diplomas, or other forms of certifications. Informal education is closely tied in with informal learning, which occurs in a variety of places, such as at home, work, and through daily interactions and shared relationships among members of society. Informal learning often takes place outside educational establishments, and does not follow a specified curriculum and may originate accidentally, or sporadically, in association with certain occasions, although that is not always the case. Informal education can occur in the formal arena when concepts are adapted to the unique needs of individual students.\n\nMerriam and others (2007) state: \"studies of informal learning, especially those asking about adults' self-directed learning projects, reveal that upwards of 90 percent of adults are engaged in hundreds of hours of informal learning. It has also been estimated that the great majority (upwards of 70 percent) of learning in the workplace is informal (Kim, Collins, Hagedorn, Williamson, & Chapman, 2004), although billions of dollars each year are spent by business and industry on formal training programs\" (p. 35–36). Both formal and informal learning are considered integral processes for Virtual Human Resource Development (Bennett, 2009), with informal learning the stronger form.\n\nInformal knowledge is information that has not been externalized or captured and the primary locus of the knowledge may be inside someone's head. (Grebow, David, \"At the Water Cooler of Learning\" in Conner, M. L., & Clawson, J.G. (eds.) \"Transforming Culture: An Executive Briefing on the Power of Learning\", Charlottesville: University of Virginia, 2002). For example, in the cause of language acquisition, a mother may teach a child basic concepts of grammar and language at home, prior to the child entering a \nformal education system (Eaton, Sarah (2011). \"Family Literacy and the New Canadian: Formal, Non-Formal and .Informal Learning: The Case of Literacy, Essential Skills and Language Learning in Canada\"). In such a case, the mother has a tacit understanding of language structures, syntax and morphology, but she may not be explicitly aware of what these are. She understands the language and passes her knowledge on to her offspring.\n\nOther examples of informal knowledge transfer include instant messaging, a spontaneous meeting on the Internet, a phone call to someone who has information you need, a live one-time-only sales meeting introducing a new product, a chat-room in real time, a chance meeting by the water cooler, a scheduled Web-based meeting with a real-time agenda, a tech walking you through a repair process, or a meeting with your assigned mentor or manager.\n\nExperience indicates that much of the learning for performance is informal (The Institute for Research on Learning, 2000, Menlo Park). Those who transfer their knowledge to a learner are usually present in real time. Such learning can take place over the telephone or through the Internet, as well as in person.\n\nIn the UK, the government formally recognized the benefits of informal learning in \"The Learning Revolution\" White Paper published on March 23, 2009 (Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, 2009). The Learning Revolution Festival ran in October 2009 and funding has been used by libraries—which offer a host of informal learning opportunities such as book groups, \"meet the author\" events and family history sessions—to run activities such as The North East Festival of Learning.\n\n40% of adults have self-taught themselves at some point and respondents in a survey indicated that they were twice as likely to participate in independent learning as traditional learning.\nThe average adult spends 10 hours a week (500 hours a year) on informal learning practices.\nAs a whole, this type of knowledge is more learner-centered and situational in response to the interests or needed application of the skill to a particular workforce. Formal training programs have limited success in increasing basic skills for individuals older than age 25, therefore, these individuals rely mostly on on-the-job training.\n\nAlthough rates of formal education have increased, many adults entering the workforce are lacking the basic math, reading and interpersonal skills that the “unskilled” labor force requires. The lines between formal and informal learning have been blurred due to the higher rates of college attendance. The largest increase in population for manual or low-skilled labor is in individuals who attended college but did not receive a degree. A recent collection of cross-sectional surveys were conducted and polled employers across the United States to gauge which skills are required for jobs which do not require college degrees. These surveys concluded that 70% require some kind of customer service aspect, 61% require reading or writing paragraphs, 65% require math, 51% require the use of computers. In regards to training and academic credentials, 71% require a high school diploma, 61% require specific vocational experience. The rates of men entering the low-skilled labor force have remained static over the last fifty years, indicating a shift of less than 1%. Women’s participation in the unskilled labor force has steadily increased and projections indicate that this trend will continue.\n\nThe majority of companies that provide training are currently involved only with the formal side of the continuum. Most of today's investments are on the formal side. The net result is that companies spend the most money on the smallest part—25%—of the learning equation. The other 75% of learning happens as the learner creatively \"adopts and adapts to ever changing circumstances\". The informal piece of the equation is not only larger, it's crucial to learning how to do anything.\n\nLifelong learning, as defined by the OECD, includes a combination of formal, non-formal and informal learning. Of these three, informal learning may be the most difficult to quantify or prove, but it remains critical to an individual's overall cognitive and social development throughout the lifespan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44329703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44329703", "title": "Institución Libre de Enseñanza", "text": "Institución Libre de Enseñanza\n\nLa Institución Libre de Enseñanza (ILE) or \"The Free Educational Institution\" was an educational project that developed in Spain for the half a century of about 1876–1936. The institute was inspired by the philosophy of Krausism which was first introduced to the Complutense University of Madrid by Julián Sanz del Río, and which (despite being subsequently ejected from that university) had a significant impact on the renovation of the intellectual life within the Spanish culture of the time.\n\nThe institution was founded in 1876 by a group of disaffected university professors including Francisco Giner de los Ríos, Gumersindo Azcarate, Teodoro Sainz Rueda and Nicolás Salmerón among others who distanced themselves from the main university campus of Madrid to achieve academic freedom. They declined to adjust their teaching to any official religious dogma or the moral and political imposition of the time. Consequently, they had to continue their educational work outside the state sector by creating a secular private educational institution, starting with university level instruction and later extending their activities to primary and secondary education.\n\nThey supported and seconded the intellectual ideas of Joaquín Costa, Leopoldo Alas (Clarín), José Ortega y Gasset, Gregorio Marañón, Ramón Menéndez Pidal, Antonio Machado, Joaquín Sorolla, Augusto González Linares, Santiago Ramón y Cajal and Federico Rubio, among others who were involved in educational, cultural and social renewal.\n\nFollowing the implementation of the political model of Antonio Cánovas del Castillo whose idea was to secure a fundamentalist nation as ordained by the divine will, which project was to be implemented in 1875 by \"Royal Decree issued by education minister Manuel Orovio Echagüe. This regulation severely limited academic freedom in Spain \"if it went against the tenets of faith\" meaning the contemporary and deeply conservative (Roman Catholicism in Spain).\n\nFrom 1881, these professors migrated to the independent ILE and were to train Manuel Bartolomé Cossio, who was to succeed Giner in leading the institution, as well as Ricardo Rubio, Pedro Blanco Suárez, Angel do Rego, Joseph Ontañón Arias, Pedro Jiménez-Landi, among many others who nurtured the project.\n\nSuch alumni ensured a future in which the institution became the foremost Spanish cultural epicenter promoting the most advanced contemporary educational and scientific theories from around the world until finally it was stalled by the Spanish Civil War in 1936 following which all such progressive education was destroyed by the ultra-conservative Francoist regime.\n\nThe list of contributors published in \"The Bulletin of the Free Institution of Education \" included Bertrand Russell, Henri Bergson, Charles Darwin, John Dewey, Santiago Ramón y Cajal, Miguel de Unamuno, Montessori, Leo Tolstoy, H. G. Wells, Rabindranath Tagore, Juan Ramón Jiménez, Gabriela Mistral, Benito Perez Galdos, Emilia Pardo Bazán, Azorin Eugenio d'Ors or Ramón Pérez de Ayala, some of them closely linked to the institution, such as Julián Sanz del Río, Demófilo and children Antonio Machado and Manuel Machado, Julio Rey Pastor, Constancio Bernaldo de Quirós, Luis Simarro, Nicholas Achúcarro, Francisco Barnes Salinas or Portuguese Alice Pestana.\n\nThe ILE began to critically investigate the Spanish past, and from it emerged the Center for Historical Studies led by the founder of the Spanish philological school, Ramón Menéndez Pidal as well as contact centers for artistic and scientific elites with the European avant-garde movement, notably the Residencia de estudiantes led by Alberto Jiménez Fraud) and the \"Junta para la Ampliación de Estudios\" (Board for Advanced Studies and Scientific Research), organized by José Castillejo.\n\nThe poetical movement Generation of '27 was, in a way, an emanation of the ILE intended to attain Spanish cultural and scientific harmony with Europe shortly before modernization was halted by the Spanish Civil War, after which all progressive educational assets were confiscated and its proponents into exile by Francoist Spain. Those who remained faced censorship, persecution and ridicule, as it was considered unpatriotic and antihispánic by their detractors. Abroad, exiles were dispersed throughout Europe and Latin America, moving to different countries and thus cross-fertilizing the cultural and progressive ideas throughout the western world.\n\nFollowing the Spanish transition to democracy about 1978, when the legal process of recovering the legacy of the institution began, ILE funds have been managed by the \" Fundación Francisco Giner de los Ríos \" created for that purpose.\n\nThe influence of the ILE was instrumental in getting the transitional Spanish government to undertake a series of necessary reforms in the legal, educational and social fields. Agencies such as \"The National Pedagogical Museum\" and \"The Board for Advanced Scientific Studies and Research\" were created o send students to study on scholarship abroad.\n\nThe \"Center for Historical Studies\" mentioned above, together with \"The National Institute of Physics and Natural Science\" and the \" Residencia de Estudiantes\", established in Calle Pinar, Madrid, became hotbeds of writers and artists in which Albert Einstein gave lectures in Spain in 1923.\n\nAttempts at educational reform crystallized between 1907–1936 via pioneering initiatives such as the School Institute, school holiday camps, the \"International Summer School at the University of Santander\" as well as various educational missions which operated under the auspices of the Second Spanish Republic in order to disseminate education and culture in remote and rural settlements throughout Spain\n\nAbout a year after his death in 1915, followers of Francisco Giner de los Ríos established a foundation bearing his name to ensure the continuity of the ILE and pursue its educational objectives. The Foundation published the \" Complete Works \" of Francisco Giner, between 1916 and 1936.\n\nThere are still schools that are linked to the current Foundation Giner de los Ríos, and continue to provide, with certain variations, the educational model of the ILE like the Colegio Estudio, founded in 1940 by Jimena Menéndez Pidal, Angels Gasset and Carmen Garcia Right, which helped to educate known Spanish intellectuals and politicians; later also similar private institutions emerged, like Colegio Base and Colegio Estilo. Colegio Estilo was founded in 1959 by Spanish writer Josefina Aldecoa. \n\nOne of the more curious effects of the ILE is the College Fingoy in the city of Lugo, which was founded in the teeth of Filangist opposition in 1950 by Antonio Fernández López , a businessman and philanthropist of Galicia, with intention to develop the ideas of the Free Institution of Education in Franco's Spain.\n\nAntonio Fernández López had experienced the Residencia de estudantes sponsored by The Board of Advanced Studies in Madrid during the nineteen twenties and thirties. Returning to his native Galicia, he decided to promote a study center with the same principles in the city of Lugo for the education of his 12 children as well as his siblings Manuel and Conchita.\n\nCollege Fingoy was only the second mixed (boys + girls) school to be opened in Franco's Spain and the agriculture classes, theater, music and dance were held the Galician language. during the early years it was led by Ricardo Carvalho Calero, a university professor and Galician intellectual who was victimized by the Franco regime.\n\nCollege Fingoy also featured class intellectuals and Galician artists such as the poet Xosé Luís Méndez Ferrín, former President of the Royal Galician Academy, Bernardino Grana or painter Pacios. He also created the Center for Studies and experience Fingoy the Barreiros Farm, governed by the same ILE principles.\n\nThe initiation was mainly from men who, in one way or another, gathered around Giner after his return to the university in 1881 after his 1875 expulsion. They included Manuel Bartolomé Cossio, Joaquín Costa, Leopoldo Alas (Clarín), Alfredo Calderon, Eduardo Soler, Messia Jacinto Adolfo Posada, Pedro Dorado Montero, Aniceto Sela, Rafael Altamira, and others.\n\nGiner called the acolytes of the ILE his \"children\" who included Julian Besteiro, Pedro Corominas, José Manuel Pedregal, Martin Navarro Flores, Constancio Bernaldo Quiros, Manuel and Antonio Machado, Domingo Barnés, José Castillejo, Gonzalo Jimenez de la Espada, Luis de Zulueta Fernando de los Rios, and others.\n\nThose born between 1880 and 1890, are recognized as the \"grandchildren\" of Giner; usually mentioned among the star pupils are José Pijoán, Juan Ramón Jiménez, Francisco Ribera Pastor, José Ortega y Gasset, Américo Castro, Gregorio Marañón Manuel García Morente, Lorenzo Luzuriaga, Paul Azcarate, Alberto Jiménez Fraud, etc.\n\nThe founding 200 shareholders abandoned first proposed ILE headquarters in the Paseo de la Castellana since occupied by the Military School and rented instead an apartment in Calle Esparteros 9, (currently renumbered as Nº. 11), and subsequently relocated to Infantas Nº. 42 before moving again th Paseo del Oblisco Nº. 8 (since 1914 known as Paseo del General Martínez Campos Nº.14 & Nº16)\n\nThe building block included a garden, in what was then the outskirts of Madrid, and was much more suited to the educational concept of the institution. In 1908 the site was further developed with the construction of \"Pavilion Giner\" and \"Soler Hall.\"\n\nAt the time of the Spanish Civil War The building was heavily damaged and looted, and even underwent a symbolic destruction of trees by a group of Falangist extremist thugs (only a century old acacia and privet were saved). In 1940 the site was seized and attached to the Ministry of Education, refitted (1942) and reopened (1945) as \"School Group Joaquin Sorolla\" (close to the present Sorolla Museum). After 1955 its premises were used as headquarters of the School Food Service.\n\nAfter the Transition, the facility was briefly opened as the \"Eduardo Marquina National College\" (1980–1985); but was finally allocated to the Free Institution of Education in 1982. Recent rehabilitation reforms have meant that the ILE now has state-of-the-art buildings \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2128207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2128207", "title": "International education", "text": "International education\n\nInternational education refers to a dynamic concept that involves a journey or movement of people, minds, or ideas across political and cultural frontiers. It is facilitated by the globalization phenomenon, which increasingly erases the constraints of geography on economic, social and cultural arrangements. The concept involves a broad range of learning, covering, for instance, formal education and informal learning (e.g. training, exchange programs, cross-cultural communication). It could also involve a reorientation of academic outlook such as the pursuit of “worldmindedness” as a goal so that a school or its academic focus is considered international. For example, the National Association of State Universities prescribes the adoption of \"proper education\" that reflects the full range of international, social, political, cultural, and economic dialogue.\n\nThe emergence of international education as a discipline may be attributed to the international and intercontinental initiatives of the past, which aimed to achieve education, learning, and intellectual exchange. This is demonstrated in the formalized academic relations between countries in the form of bilateral and scientific agreements. Here, international education is considered a mechanism of international cooperation and, in some cases, it stems from the recognition that different cultures offer different outlooks and styles of learning and teaching in addition to the transfer of knowledge. \n\nThere are scholars who associate the development of international education with comparative education, which is concerned with the evaluation and scrutiny of different educational systems in various countries for the purpose of developing an education and educational structures that are global in scope and application. This concept is considered ancient, having been used in classical Greece, while the actual term was first used by William Russell in 1826. International education diverged from it as it assumed the form of more organized programs that bring together learners and teachers from different countries to learn from each other.\n\nInternational education can be seen as developing ‘international-mindedness,’ or enhancing international attitude and awareness . From an ideological perspective, international education has a focus on moral development, by influencing the creation of “positive attitudes towards peace, international understanding and responsible world citizenship”.\n\nFrom a pragmatic approach, international education can relate to economic and cultural globalization. For instance, there are increasing demands for education qualifications to be transferable between schools and education systems. Furthermore, there is a “spread of global quality standards through quality assurances procedures such as accreditation”.\n\nOverall, international education can be viewed as the following:  \n\n\n\n\n\nDirect examples of international education include facilitating students’ entry into universities outside of their home countries. Also, temporarily studying abroad is another illustration of international education.\n\nThe International Baccalaureate (IB) Program is seen as an influence in the development of international education. The IB Diploma Program encourages students to learn and understand different cultures, languages, and points of view. This idea is incorporated into elements of the program e.g. Creativity, Activity, Service (CAS) . CAS requires students to participate in activities promoting each of these three components. Through such activities, the intention is that global issues will affect students’ understanding of the world in a meaningful way. Specifically, these non-formal, non-academic experiences should enhance students’ comprehension of world issues in a manner that, for instance, reading books or participating in lessons may not .\n\nBased on student engagement and involvement, two general meanings emerge. The first refers to education that transcends national borders through the exchange of people. A good example would be students traveling to study at an international branch campus, as part of a study abroad program or as part of a student exchange program. The second is a comprehensive approach to education that intentionally prepares students to be active and engaged participants in an interconnected world.\n\nThe International Baccalaureate however, defines the term according to a certain criteria. This criteria include the development of citizens of the world in accordance with culture, language, and social cohesion, building a sense of identity and cultural awareness, encrypting recognition and development of universal human values, encouraging discovery and enjoyment of learning, equipping students with collectivist or individualistic skills and knowledge that can be applied broadly, fostering global thinking when responding to local situations, encourage diversity and flexibility in teaching pedagogic methodologies, and supply appropriate forms of assessment and international benchmarking.\n\nWhile definitions vary, international education is generally taken to include:\n\nOne of the eight millennium development goals ratified in the United Nations in the year 2000, focuses on achieving universal primary education. \n\nOther mentions of education in regard to international development:\nEducation For All (EFA):\nAn international strategy to operationalise the Dakar Framework for Action;\nThe World Education Forum (Dakar 2000) agreed to reach 6 goals by 2015:\n\nAt the end of 2015, the United Nations led another initiative to continue on the work of development goals. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) contains 17 global goals, which are more extensive than the Millenium Development Goals (MDGs). Compared to the 2015 MDGs, the SDGs tries to ensure that no one is left behind. In this regard, not only state actors, but also major private “non-state” actors and multinational companies are involved and active in global education.\n\nEducation is stated under Goal 4 of the SDGs: “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.” Furthermore, SDGs promote international education through some of the following targets:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAccording to a report from the U.N. Secretary-General on “Progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals” in 2018, official development assistance (ODA) for scholarships amounted to $1.2 billion in 2016. The largest contributors were Australia, France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain, Northern Ireland, and European Union. Education is a core aspect of the SDGs, and considered essential to their success. Hence, an international strategy has been established through the Incheon Declaration and Framework for Action. This strategy emphasizes  mobilizing national, regional, and global efforts and collaborations that aim at:\n\n\nThe UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005–2014)\nhighlighted the central role of education in the pursuit of sustainable development.\n\n\"See also\" Comparative education; and Liberalism, Realism, Power Transition Theory, International Development, as focus areas that provide insight into international phenomena relevant to \"International Education.\"\n\nThere are different lenses international education can be viewed as. For example, thinking of international education in terms of a study abroad program that can help prepare students when looking for international occupations. Another example can be that international development is a focal point that is taught in colleges and universities under the umbrella of international education.\n\nAlthough very successful programs such as Engineers Without Borders enable students in one country to obtain an international education while working on open source appropriate technology projects abroad, the cost of this approach can be prohibitive for large scale replication. Recent, work has shown that using a virtual educational exchange, can have many of the positive benefits associated with international education and cross cultural experiences, without the prohibitive costs of overseas programs.\n\nInternational Education Week is held in the United States by the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Department of Education. The choice of week for celebration is determined at each institution, but is generally the week before the week that includes U.S. Thanksgiving: –; –; –; –. The aims of this event are to provide an opportunity to celebrate the benefits of international education and global exchange.This joint initiative promotes programs that prepare Americans for a global milieu and attract future leaders from abroad to study, learn and exchange experiences in the U.S. This shows how International education is not just about physically crossing borders, but is also about thinking globally in local situations. Schools throughout the US celebrate this week through on-campus and off-campus events.\n\nInternational education has a somewhat unusual position in higher education. While recognized as an important sphere of activity, it tends to be handled by administrative offices at the top of departments of languages and literature and international affairs. The scholars involved in international education usually have their primary involvement in other teaching and research. This leads to four distinctive characteristics particular to the field of international education:\n\n\nAdditionally, one of the challenges of international students is that increasingly higher education institutions are treating them as cash cows for meeting their budget challenges. Institutions must do more to support international students in their academic and career success by providing advising, training and coaching that is culturally attuned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3417454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3417454", "title": "Internet tutorial", "text": "Internet tutorial\n\nThe term Internet tutorial can have two different meanings. It can mean a tutorial on the Internet which can have any kind of subject; it may also refer to a tutorial that teaches Internet beginners basic skills on how to use the Internet.\n\n"}
{"id": "420159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420159", "title": "Item response theory", "text": "Item response theory\n\nIn psychometrics, item response theory (IRT) (also known as latent trait theory, strong true score theory, or modern mental test theory) is a paradigm for the design, analysis, and scoring of tests, questionnaires, and similar instruments measuring abilities, attitudes, or other variables. It is a theory of testing based on the relationship between individuals' performances on a test item and the test takers' levels of performance on an overall measure of the ability that item was designed to measure. Several different statistical models are used to represent both item and test taker characteristics. Unlike simpler alternatives for creating scales and evaluating questionnaire responses, it does not assume that each item is equally difficult. This distinguishes IRT from, for instance, Likert scaling, in which \"\"\"All items are assumed to be replications of each other or in other words items are considered to be parallel instruments\" (p. 197). By contrast, item response theory treats the difficulty of each item (the item characteristic curves, or ICCs) as information to be incorporated in scaling items. \n\nIt is based on the application of related mathematical models to testing data. Because it is often regarded as superior to classical test theory, it is the preferred method for developing scales in the United States, especially when optimal decisions are demanded, as in so-called high-stakes tests, e.g., the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) and Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT).\n\nThe name \"item response theory\" is due to the focus of the theory on the item, as opposed to the test-level focus of classical test theory. Thus IRT models the response of each examinee of a given ability to each item in the test. The term \"item\" is generic, covering all kinds of informative items. They might be multiple choice questions that have incorrect and correct responses, but are also commonly statements on questionnaires that allow respondents to indicate level of agreement (a rating or Likert scale), or patient symptoms scored as present/absent, or diagnostic information in complex systems.\n\nIRT is based on the idea that the probability of a correct/keyed response to an item is a mathematical function of person and item parameters. The person parameter is construed as (usually) a single latent trait or dimension. Examples include general intelligence or the strength of an attitude. Parameters on which items are characterized include their difficulty (known as \"location\" for their location on the difficulty range); discrimination (slope or correlation), representing how steeply the rate of success of individuals varies with their ability; and a pseudoguessing parameter, characterising the (lower) asymptote at which even the least able persons will score due to guessing (for instance, 25% for pure chance on a multiple choice item with four possible responses).\n\nIn the same manner, IRT can be used to measure human behaviour in online social networks. The views expressed by different people can be aggregated to be studied using IRT. Its use in classifying information as misinformation or true information has also been evaluated.\n\nThe concept of the item response function was around before 1950. The pioneering work of IRT as a theory occurred during the 1950s and 1960s. Three of the pioneers were the Educational Testing Service psychometrician Frederic M. Lord, the Danish mathematician Georg Rasch, and Austrian sociologist Paul Lazarsfeld, who pursued parallel research independently. Key figures who furthered the progress of IRT include Benjamin Drake Wright and David Andrich. IRT did not become widely used until the late 1970s and 1980s, when practitioners were told the \"usefulness\" and \"advantages\" of IRT on the one hand, and personal computers gave many researchers access to the computing power necessary for IRT on the other.\n\nAmong other things, the purpose of IRT is to provide a framework for evaluating how well assessments work, and how well individual items on assessments work. The most common application of IRT is in education, where psychometricians use it for developing and designing exams, maintaining banks of items for exams, and equating the difficulties of items for successive versions of exams (for example, to allow comparisons between results over time).\n\nIRT models are often referred to as \"latent trait models\". The term \"latent\" is used to emphasize that discrete item responses are taken to be \"observable manifestations\" of hypothesized traits, constructs, or attributes, not directly observed, but which must be inferred from the manifest responses. Latent trait models were developed in the field of sociology, but are virtually identical to IRT models.\n\nIRT is generally claimed as an improvement over classical test theory (CTT). For tasks that can be accomplished using CTT, IRT generally brings greater flexibility and provides more sophisticated information. Some applications, such as computerized adaptive testing, are enabled by IRT and cannot reasonably be performed using only classical test theory. Another advantage of IRT over CTT is that the more sophisticated information IRT provides allows a researcher to improve the reliability of an assessment.\n\nIRT entails three assumptions:\n\n\nThe trait is further assumed to be measurable on a scale (the mere existence of a test assumes this), typically set to a standard scale with a mean of 0.0 and a standard deviation of 1.0. Unidimensionality should be interpreted as homogeneity, a quality that should be defined or empirically demonstrated in relation to a given purpose or use, but not a quantity that can be measured. 'Local independence' means (a) that the chance of one item being used is not related to any other item(s) being used and (b) that response to an item is each and every test-taker's independent decision, that is, there is no cheating or pair or group work. The topic of dimensionality is often investigated with factor analysis, while the IRF is the basic building block of IRT and is the center of much of the research and literature.\n\nThe IRF gives the probability that a person with a given ability level will answer correctly. Persons with lower ability have less of a chance, while persons with high ability are very likely to answer correctly; for example, students with higher math ability are more likely to get a math item correct. The exact value of the probability depends, in addition to ability, on a set of \"item parameters\" for the IRF.\n\nFor example, in the three parameter logistic model (3PL), the probability of a correct response to a dichotomous item \"i\", usually a multiple-choice question, is:\n\nwhere formula_1 indicates that the person abilities are modeled as a sample from a normal distribution for the purpose of estimating the item parameters. After the item parameters have been estimated, the abilities of individual person are estimated for reporting purposes. formula_4, formula_5, and formula_6 are the item parameters. The item parameters determine the shape of the IRF. Figure 1 depicts an ideal 3PL ICC.\n\nThe item parameters can be interpreted as changing the shape of the standard logistic function:\nIn brief, the parameters are interpreted as follows (dropping subscripts for legibility); \"b\" is most basic, hence listed first:\nIf formula_12 then these simplify to formula_13 and formula_14 meaning that \"b\" equals the 50% success level (difficulty), and \"a\" (divided by four) is the maximum slope (discrimination), which occurs at the 50% success level. Further, the logit (log odds) of a correct response is formula_15 (assuming formula_16): in particular if ability \"θ\" equals difficulty \"b,\" there are even odds (1:1, so logit 0) of a correct answer, the greater the ability is above (or below) the difficulty the more (or less) likely a correct response, with discrimination \"a\" determining how rapidly the odds increase or decrease with ability.\n\nIn other words, the standard logistic function has an asymptotic minimum of 0 (formula_16), is centered around 0 (formula_18, formula_19), and has maximum slope formula_20 The formula_21 parameter stretches the horizontal scale, the formula_22 parameter shifts the horizontal scale, and the formula_23 compresses the vertical scale from formula_24 to formula_25 This is elaborated below.\n\nThe parameter formula_5 represents the item location which, in the case of attainment testing, is referred to as the item difficulty. It is the point on formula_1 where the IRF has its maximum slope, and where the value is half-way between the minimum value of formula_6 and the maximum value of 1. The example item is of medium difficulty since formula_5=0.0, which is near the center of the distribution. Note that this model scales the item's difficulty and the person's trait onto the same continuum. Thus, it is valid to talk about an item being about as hard as Person A's trait level or of a person's trait level being about the same as Item Y's difficulty, in the sense that successful performance of the task involved with an item reflects a specific level of ability.\n\nThe item parameter formula_4 represents the discrimination of the item: that is, the degree to which the item discriminates between persons in different regions on the latent continuum. This parameter characterizes the slope of the IRF where the slope is at its maximum. The example item has formula_4=1.0, which discriminates fairly well; persons with low ability do indeed have a much smaller chance of correctly responding than persons of higher ability.\n\nFor items such as multiple choice items, the parameter formula_6 is used in attempt to account for the effects of guessing on the probability of a correct response. It indicates the probability that very low ability individuals will get this item correct by chance, mathematically represented as a lower asymptote. A four-option multiple choice item might have an IRF like the example item; there is a 1/4 chance of an extremely low ability candidate guessing the correct answer, so the formula_6 would be approximately 0.25. This approach assumes that all options are equally plausible, because if one option made no sense, even the lowest ability person would be able to discard it, so IRT parameter estimation methods take this into account and estimate a formula_6 based on the observed data.\n\nBroadly speaking, IRT models can be divided into two families: unidimensional and multidimensional. Unidimensional models require a single trait (ability) dimension formula_1. Multidimensional IRT models model response data hypothesized to arise from multiple traits. However, because of the greatly increased complexity, the majority of IRT research and applications utilize a unidimensional model.\n\nIRT models can also be categorized based on the number of scored responses. The typical multiple choice item is \"dichotomous\"; even though there may be four or five options, it is still scored only as correct/incorrect (right/wrong). Another class of models apply to \"polytomous\" outcomes, where each response has a different score value. A common example of this is Likert-type items, e.g., \"Rate on a scale of 1 to 5.\"\n\nDichotomous IRT models are described by the number of parameters they make use of. The 3PL is named so because it employs three item parameters. The two-parameter model (2PL) assumes that the data have no guessing, but that items can vary in terms of location (formula_5) and discrimination (formula_4). The one-parameter model (1PL) assumes that guessing is a part of the ability and that all items that fit the model have equivalent discriminations, so that items are only described by a single parameter (formula_5). This results in one-parameter models having the property of specific objectivity, meaning that the rank of the item difficulty is the same for all respondents independent of ability, and that the rank of the person ability is the same for items independently of difficulty. Thus, 1 parameter models are sample independent, a property that does not hold for two-parameter and three-parameter models. Additionally, there is theoretically a four-parameter model (4PL), with an upper asymptote, denoted by formula_39 where formula_40 in the 3PL is replaced by formula_41. However, this is rarely used. Note that the alphabetical order of the item parameters does not match their practical or psychometric importance; the location/difficulty (formula_5) parameter is clearly most important because it is included in all three models. The 1PL uses only formula_5, the 2PL uses formula_5 and formula_4, the 3PL adds formula_6, and the 4PL adds formula_47.\n\nThe 2PL is equivalent to the 3PL model with formula_48, and is appropriate for testing items where guessing the correct answer is highly unlikely, such as fill-in-the-blank items (\"What is the square root of 121?\"), or where the concept of guessing does not apply, such as personality, attitude, or interest items (e.g., \"I like Broadway musicals. Agree/Disagree\").\n\nThe 1PL assumes not only that guessing is not present (or irrelevant), but that all items are equivalent in terms of discrimination, analogous to a common factor analysis with identical loadings for all items. Individual items or individuals might have secondary factors but these are assumed to be mutually independent and collectively orthogonal.\n\nAn alternative formulation constructs IRFs based on the normal probability distribution; these are sometimes called \"normal ogive models\". For example, the formula for a two-parameter normal-ogive IRF is:\n\nwhere Φ is the cumulative distribution function (cdf) of the standard normal distribution.\n\nThe normal-ogive model derives from the assumption of normally distributed measurement error and is theoretically appealing on that basis. Here formula_5 is, again, the difficulty parameter. The discrimination parameter is formula_51, the standard deviation of the measurement error for item \"i\", and comparable to 1/\"formula_4.\n\nOne can estimate a normal-ogive latent trait model by factor-analyzing a matrix of tetrachoric correlations between items. This means it is technically possible to estimate a simple IRT model using general-purpose statistical software.\n\nWith rescaling of the ability parameter, it is possible to make the 2PL logistic model closely approximate the cumulative normal ogive. Typically, the 2PL logistic and normal-ogive IRFs differ in probability by no more than 0.01 across the range of the function. The difference is greatest in the distribution tails, however, which tend to have more influence on results.\n\nThe latent trait/IRT model was originally developed using normal ogives, but this was considered too computationally demanding for the computers at the time (1960s). The logistic model was proposed as a simpler alternative, and has enjoyed wide use since. More recently, however, it was demonstrated that, using standard polynomial approximations to the normal \"cdf,\" the normal-ogive model is no more computationally demanding than logistic models.\n\nThe Rasch model is often considered to be the 1PL IRT model. However, proponents of Rasch modeling prefer to view it as a completely different approach to conceptualizing the relationship between data and theory. Like other statistical modeling approaches, IRT emphasizes the primacy of the fit of a model to observed data, while the Rasch model emphasizes the primacy of the requirements for fundamental measurement, with adequate data-model fit being an important but secondary requirement to be met before a test or research instrument can be claimed to measure a trait. Operationally, this means that the IRT approaches include additional model parameters to reflect the patterns observed in the data (e.g., allowing items to vary in their correlation with the latent trait), whereas in the Rasch approach, claims regarding the presence of a latent trait can only be considered valid when both (a) the data fit the Rasch model, and (b) test items and examinees conform to the model. Therefore, under Rasch models, misfitting responses require diagnosis of the reason for the misfit, and may be excluded from the data set if one can explain substantively why they do not address the latent trait. Thus, the Rasch approach can be seen to be a confirmatory approach, as opposed to exploratory approaches that attempt to model the observed data. As in any confirmatory analysis, care must be taken to avoid confirmation bias.\n\nThe presence or absence of a guessing or pseudo-chance parameter is a major and sometimes controversial distinction. The IRT approach includes a left asymptote parameter to account for guessing in multiple choice examinations, while the Rasch model does not because it is assumed that guessing adds randomly distributed noise to the data. As the noise is randomly distributed, it is assumed that, provided sufficient items are tested, the rank-ordering of persons along the latent trait by raw score will not change, but will simply undergo a linear rescaling. By contrast, three-parameter IRT achieves data-model fit by selecting a model that fits the data, at the expense of sacrificing specific objectivity.\n\nIn practice, the Rasch model has at least two principal advantages in comparison to the IRT approach. The first advantage is the primacy of Rasch's specific requirements, which (when met) provides \"fundamental\" person-free measurement (where persons and items can be mapped onto the same invariant scale). Another advantage of the Rasch approach is that estimation of parameters is more straightforward in Rasch models due to the presence of sufficient statistics, which in this application means a one-to-one mapping of raw number-correct scores to Rasch formula_1 estimates.\n\nAs with any use of mathematical models, it is important to assess the fit of the data to the model. If item misfit with any model is diagnosed as due to poor item quality, for example confusing distractors in a multiple-choice test, then the items may be removed from that test form and rewritten or replaced in future test forms. If, however, a large number of misfitting items occur with no apparent reason for the misfit, the construct validity of the test will need to be reconsidered and the test specifications may need to be rewritten. Thus, misfit provides invaluable diagnostic tools for test developers, allowing the hypotheses upon which test specifications are based to be empirically tested against data.\n\nThere are several methods for assessing fit, such as a Chi-square statistic, or a standardized version of it. Two and three-parameter IRT models adjust item discrimination, ensuring improved data-model fit, so fit statistics lack the confirmatory diagnostic value found in one-parameter models, where the idealized model is specified in advance.\n\nData should not be removed on the basis of misfitting the model, but rather because a construct relevant reason for the misfit has been diagnosed, such as a non-native speaker of English taking a science test written in English. Such a candidate can be argued to not belong to the same population of persons depending on the dimensionality of the test, and, although one parameter IRT measures are argued to be sample-independent, they are not population independent, so misfit such as this is construct relevant and does not invalidate the test or the model. Such an approach is an essential tool in instrument validation. In two and three-parameter models, where the psychometric model is adjusted to fit the data, future administrations of the test must be checked for fit to the same model used in the initial validation in order to confirm the hypothesis that scores from each administration generalize to other administrations. If a different model is specified for each administration in order to achieve data-model fit, then a different latent trait is being measured and test scores cannot be argued to be comparable between administrations.\n\nOne of the major contributions of item response theory is the extension of the concept of reliability. Traditionally, reliability refers to the precision of measurement (i.e., the degree to which measurement is free of error). Traditionally, it is measured using a single index defined in various ways, such as the ratio of true and observed score variance. This index is helpful in characterizing a test's average reliability, for example in order to compare two tests. But IRT makes it clear that precision is not uniform across the entire range of test scores. Scores at the edges of the test's range, for example, generally have more error associated with them than scores closer to the middle of the range.\n\nItem response theory advances the concept of item and test information to replace reliability. Information is also a \"function\" of the model parameters. For example, according to Fisher information theory, the item information supplied in the case of the 1PL for dichotomous response data is simply the probability of a correct response multiplied by the probability of an incorrect response, or,\n\nThe standard error of estimation (SE) is the reciprocal of the test information of at a given trait level, is the\n\nThus more information implies less error of measurement.\n\nFor other models, such as the two and three parameters models, the discrimination parameter plays an important role in the function. The item information function for the two parameter model is\n\nThe item information function for the three parameter model is\n\nIn general, item information functions tend to look bell-shaped. Highly discriminating items have tall, narrow information functions; they contribute greatly but over a narrow range. Less discriminating items provide less information but over a wider range.\n\nPlots of item information can be used to see how much information an item contributes and to what portion of the scale score range. Because of local independence, item information functions are additive. Thus, the test information function is simply the sum of the information functions of the items on the exam. Using this property with a large item bank, test information functions can be shaped to control measurement error very precisely.\n\nCharacterizing the accuracy of test scores is perhaps the central issue in psychometric theory and is a chief difference between IRT and CTT. IRT findings reveal that the CTT concept of reliability is a simplification. In the place of reliability, IRT offers the test information function which shows the degree of precision at different values of theta, θ.\n\nThese results allow psychometricians to (potentially) carefully shape the level of reliability for different ranges of ability by including carefully chosen items. For example, in a certification situation in which a test can only be passed or failed, where there is only a single \"cutscore,\" and where the actually passing score is unimportant, a very efficient test can be developed by selecting only items that have high information near the cutscore. These items generally correspond to items whose difficulty is about the same as that of the cutscore.\n\nThe person parameter formula_1 represents the magnitude of \"latent trait\" of the individual, which is the human capacity or attribute measured by the test. It might be a cognitive ability, physical ability, skill, knowledge, attitude, personality characteristic, etc.\n\nThe estimate of the person parameter - the \"score\" on a test with IRT - is computed and interpreted in a very different manner as compared to traditional scores like number or percent correct. The individual's total number-correct score is not the actual score, but is rather based on the IRFs, leading to a weighted score when the model contains item discrimination parameters. It is actually obtained by multiplying the item response function for each item to obtain a \"likelihood function\", the highest point of which is the \"maximum likelihood estimate\" of formula_1. This highest point is typically estimated with IRT software using the Newton-Raphson method. While scoring is much more sophisticated with IRT, for most tests, the (linear) correlation between the theta estimate and a traditional score is very high; often it is .95 or more. A graph of IRT scores against traditional scores shows an ogive shape implying that the IRT estimates separate individuals at the borders of the range more than in the middle.\n\nAn important difference between CTT and IRT is the treatment of measurement error, indexed by the standard error of measurement. All tests, questionnaires, and inventories are imprecise tools; we can never know a person's \"true score\", but rather only have an estimate, the \"observed score.\" There is some amount of random error which may push the observed score higher or lower than the true score. CTT assumes that the amount of error is the same for each examinee, but IRT allows it to vary.\n\nAlso, nothing about IRT refutes human development or improvement or assumes that a trait level is fixed. A person may learn skills, knowledge or even so called \"test-taking skills\" which may translate to a higher true-score. In fact, a portion of IRT research focuses on the measurement of change in trait level.\n\nClassical test theory (CTT) and IRT are largely concerned with the same problems but are different bodies of theory and entail different methods. Although the two paradigms are generally consistent and complementary, there are a number of points of difference:\n\n\nIt is worth also mentioning some specific similarities between CTT and IRT which help to understand the correspondence between concepts. First, Lord showed that under the assumption that formula_60 is normally distributed, discrimination in the 2PL model is approximately a monotonic function of the point-biserial correlation. In particular:\n\nwhere formula_62 is the point biserial correlation of item \"i\". Thus, if the assumption holds, where there is a higher discrimination there will generally be a higher point-biserial correlation.\n\nAnother similarity is that while IRT provides for a standard error of each estimate and an information function, it is also possible to obtain an index for a test as a whole which is directly analogous to Cronbach's alpha, called the \"separation index\". To do so, it is necessary to begin with a decomposition of an IRT estimate into a true location and error, analogous to decomposition of an observed score into a true score and error in CTT. Let\n\nwhere formula_60 is the true location, and formula_65 is the error association with an estimate. Then formula_66 is an estimate of the standard deviation of formula_65 for person with a given weighted score and the separation index is obtained as follows\n\nwhere the mean squared standard error of person estimate gives an estimate of the variance of the errors, formula_69, across persons. The standard errors are normally produced as a by-product of the estimation process. The separation index is typically very close in value to Cronbach's alpha.\n\nIRT is sometimes called \"strong true score theory\" or \"modern mental test theory\" because it is a more recent body of theory and makes more explicit the hypotheses that are implicit within CTT.\n\nMany books have been written that address item response theory or contain IRT or IRT-like models. This is a partial list, focusing on texts that provide more depth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21561568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21561568", "title": "Learning effect (economics)", "text": "Learning effect (economics)\n\nIn economics, the learning effect is the process by which education increases productivity and results in higher wages.\n"}
{"id": "670497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=670497", "title": "Lecture", "text": "Lecture\n\nA lecture (from the French 'lecture', meaning 'reading' [process]) is an oral presentation intended to present information or teach people about a particular subject, for example by a university or college teacher. Lectures are used to convey critical information, history, background, theories, and equations. A politician's speech, a minister's sermon, or even a businessman's sales presentation may be similar in form to a lecture. Usually the lecturer will stand at the front of the room and recite information relevant to the lecture's content.\n\nThough lectures are much criticised as a teaching method, universities have not yet found practical alternative teaching methods for the large majority of their courses. Critics point out that lecturing is mainly a one-way method of communication that does not involve significant audience participation but relies upon passive learning. Therefore, lecturing is often contrasted to active learning. Lectures delivered by talented speakers can be highly stimulating; at the very least, lectures have survived in academia as a quick, cheap, and efficient way of introducing large numbers of students to a particular field of study.\n\nLectures have a significant role outside the classroom, as well. Academic and scientific awards routinely include a lecture as part of the honor, and academic conferences often center on \"keynote addresses\", i.e., lectures. The public lecture has a long history in the sciences and in social movements. Union halls, for instance, historically have hosted numerous free and public lectures on a wide variety of matters. Similarly, churches, community centers, libraries, museums, and other organizations have hosted lectures in furtherance of their missions or their constituents' interests. Lectures represent a continuation of oral tradition in contrast to textual communication in books and other media. Lectures may be considered a type of grey literature.\n\nThe noun \"lecture\" dates from 14th century, meaning \"action of reading, that which is read,\" from the Latin \"lectus\", pp. of \"legere\" \"to read.\" Its subsequent meaning as \"oral discourse on a given subject before an audience for purposes of instruction\" is from the 16th century. The verb \"to lecture\" is attested from 1590.\nThe noun \"lectern\" refers to the reading desk used by lecturers.\n\nThe practice in the medieval university was for the instructor to read from an original source to a class of students who took notes on the lecture. The reading from original sources evolved into the reading of glosses on an original and then more generally to lecture notes. Throughout much of history, the diffusion of knowledge via handwritten lecture notes was an essential element of academic life.\nEven in the twentieth century, the lecture notes taken by students, or prepared by a scholar for a lecture, have sometimes achieved wide circulation (see, for example, the genesis of Ferdinand de Saussure's \"Cours de linguistique générale\"). Many lecturers were, and still are, accustomed to simply reading their own notes from the lectern for exactly that purpose. Nevertheless, modern lectures generally incorporate additional activities, e.g. writing on a chalk-board, exercises, class questions and discussions, or student presentations.\n\nThe use of multimedia presentation software such as Microsoft PowerPoint has changed the form of lectures, e.g. video, graphics, websites, or prepared exercises may be included. Most commonly, however, only outlines composed of \"bullet points\" are presented. Critics such as Edward Tufte contend that this style of lecture bombards the audience with unnecessary and possibly distracting or confusing graphics.\n\nA modified lecture format, generally presented in 5 to 15 minute short segments, is now commonly presented as video, for example in massive open online courses (MOOCs) or in programs such as the Khan Academy.\n\nBligh, in \"What's the Use of Lectures?\", argues that lectures \"represent a conception of education in which teachers who know give knowledge to students who do not and are therefore supposed to have nothing worth contributing.\" Based on his review of numerous studies, he concludes that lecturing is as effective, but not more effective, as any other teaching method in transmitting information. Nevertheless, lecturing is not the most effective method for promoting student thought, changing attitudes, or teaching behavioral skills.\nBligh summarises research on memory to show the significance of the meaningfulness of material on retention (Marks and Miller 1964) and the importance of immediate rehearsal of information (Bassey 1968). He relates his own research on arousal during lectures to suggest a decrement in attention during the first 25 minutes. Lloyd (1968) and Scerbo et al. (1992) showed that students take less and less notes as lectures proceed. Bligh shows that after a short break filled by buzz group discussion, attention will recover somewhat. \nThe largest section of Bligh's book is devoted to lecturing technique, particularly the organisation of lectures, how to make a point, the effectiveness of taking notes, the use of handouts, and ways of obtaining feedback.\nEarly editions of the book contained a reply paid evaluation card. This research showed that the section on alternative teaching methods within lectures was the most highly praised.\n\nThe conception of the lecture as needing to be a didactic event has been challenged by Meltzer and Manivannan (2002) and Sandry (2005) who maintain that lectures can involve active learning. However, Elliot (2005) sees difficulties in the encouragement of active learning with phenomena such as social loafing and evaluation apprehension causing audience members to be reluctant to participate. A possible solution to the encouragement of audience involvement in lectures is the use of an audience response system which allows audience members to participate anonymously.\n\nThe effectiveness of traditional lecture is and has been debated. Some advantages of lecturing include: quick exposure to new material, greater teacher control in the classroom, an engaging format, which may complement and clarify course material, and facilitating large-class communication. Lecturing also permits the dissemination of unpublished or not readily available material.\n\nThere has been much debate as to whether or not lecturing actually improves student learning in the classroom. Commonly cited disadvantages of lecture include: placing students in a passive (rather than an active) role, encouraging one-way communication, requiring significant out-of-class time for students to engage with the material, and requiring the speaker to possess effective speaking skills.\n\nThe criticisms of lectures are often summarized by a quote generally misattributed to Mark Twain:\n\nWhile lecturing is generally accepted as an effective form of instruction, there have been some prominent educators who have succeeded without the help of lectures.\n\nMany university courses relying on lectures supplement them with smaller discussion sections, tutorials, or laboratory experiment sessions as a means of further actively involving students. Often these supplemental sections are led by graduate students, tutors, teaching assistants, or teaching fellows rather than senior faculty. Those other forms of academic teaching include discussion (recitation if conducted by a teaching assistant), seminars, workshops, observation, practical application, case examples/case study, experiential learning/active learning, computer-based instruction, and tutorials. \nIn schools, the prevalent mode of student-teacher interaction is lessons.\n\nThe term \"parlor lecture\" gained currency throughout the British Commonwealth of Nations and the United States of America during the mid-19th century. It referred to the custom of inviting noted speakers to deliver private lectures, which were typically hosted in the parlors of wealthy and socially influential families.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6674998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6674998", "title": "List of works on Waldorf education", "text": "List of works on Waldorf education\n\nThis is a list of works on Waldorf education by authors other than Rudolf Steiner. See also this List of Rudolf Steiner's works on education.\n\n\"Works on Waldorf education include:\"\n\nReviews at:\nhttps://www.amazon.com.au/Steiner-Education-Theory-Practice-Gilbert/dp/0863151310\n"}
{"id": "3401716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3401716", "title": "Narrative evaluation", "text": "Narrative evaluation\n\nIn education, narrative evaluation is a form of performance measurement and feedback which can be used as an alternative or supplement to grading. Narrative evaluations generally consist of several paragraphs of written text about a student's individual performance and course work. The style and form of narrative evaluations vary significantly among the educational institutions using them, and they are sometimes combined with other performance metrics, including letter and number grades and pass/fail designations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50375537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50375537", "title": "National Alliance of High-level Local Universities", "text": "National Alliance of High-level Local Universities\n\nNational Alliance of High-level Local Universities, abbreviated as NAHLU, was formed jointly by Beijing University of Technology, Soochow University, Shanghai University, Zhengzhou University and Nanchang University in 2012.\n\nDecember 2012, the first summit was held in Beijing University of Technology.\n\nDecember 2013, National Regional High-Level University Development Summit held in Suzhou, organized by the Union with assistance of Soochow University and Shanghai University.\n\nOctober, 2014, Union summit held in Zhengzhou University. Leaders and representatives from 49 local colleges and universities participated.\n"}
{"id": "36174691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36174691", "title": "National Center for Assessment in Higher Education", "text": "National Center for Assessment in Higher Education\n\nMeasurement is derived from the verb 'to measure' which means to assess something; in Arabic 'yaqees' 'measure' has the meaning of comparing something to something else. In this sense, measurement is a daily practice that manifests itself in all our assessment activities, whether we assess concrete things in terms of size and color, or abstract things such as human relations. The ultimate goal of 'measuring' something is to assess ourselves in comparison to everything else in the world.\n\nSome of measurement areas include measuring the level or standard of knowledge nationwide or measuring the standard of a particular sect of the whole population or measuring for licensing or admission purposes in university education, vocational or technical education, for example. Measurement can never be done without well-recognized and approved criteria. We use the 'meter', for example, as the measuring unit for distance and use 'gram' unit for weight and 'hour' unit for time and so on.\n\nScientifically speaking, there have been numerous definitions of 'measurement' that vary depending on the measured object and the set criteria, goals and controls of measurement.\nMeasurement varies based on:\n\nAssessment simply means to evaluate something, and in scientific terms it refers to the process of passing judgment to evaluate capacity, knowledge, actions, solutions, methods, materials, etc. This is often done by applying certain criteria and standards to check adequacy, accuracy and effectiveness. In other words, evaluation means to give something a value based on approved standards. In the educational field, assessment refers to testing students' achievement and how far is obtained relative to some known educational objectives or goals. Measurement and assessment are so related and integrated.\n\nOn 19/8/2000 AD, the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques ordered the establishment of “The National Center for Assessment in higher Education” to perform standardized tests to measure student achievements applying for undergraduate study.\n\nAfter the establishment, the center set the mission, vision and goals, to determine its plan and path, which based itself on preparing scientific and professional standards where equity and efficiency are present, and at the same time, to achieve global leadership in the formulation tests and standards in the educational and professional fields.\n\nThe center includes a number of functional, linguistic, and professional departments entrusted with the preparation of tests and assessments, as well as other supportive departments. The Centre has also developed an organizational structure that explains the process of decision making and how it moves from the top of the pyramid of management to the rest of the departments.\n\nSince its establishment, the center has made outstanding accomplishments in the preparation and formulation of standardized testing in various educational and professional fields that has been published in annual reports, which is part of the center’s strategy of clarity, transparency and communication with various segments of society.\n\nOn the 19th of Jumada al-awwal 1421 AH which corresponds to the 19th of August 2000, a royal decree numbered 471/8 affirming the Higher Education Council’s along with the Council of Ministers Decision, which includes:\n\nTo provide educational and professional assessments that contributes in achieving equity and to elevate the efficiency of the institutions of our society, and to provide specialized studies and consultations in the field of educational assessment.\n\nTo achieve global leadership in the formulation of tests and standards in the educational and professional fields.\n\n\nEducational tests presented by the center, are considered the most important test that are being developed, and it consists of two sections : The verbal and the quantitative. These test forces on student's analytical and deductive skills, in order to help them assess their learning capacity.\n\nLinguistic tests, are the second type of tests provided by the center, it includes: English language efficiency test, and the Arabic language test for non-native speakers. The center also presents an assessment test for talented and creative students, as well as vocational tests, the most important of which: Vocational Standards Test for Teachers.\n\nThe test developing process goes through a number of steps, which includes theoretical and practical aspect. After the tests are formulated, they are subjected to examinations and testing through a specialized arbitrary committee, and prior to the final approval, the test are revised by a specialized committee, that consists of four experts.\n\nTest construction is based upon practical and scientific rules that are applied before, during and after each item until it finally becomes a part of the test. The following are the stages of constructing a test as followed by the Center.\n\nEach year the Center attracts a number of competent specialists in testing and educationalists to receive training in workshops that deal with the theoretical and applied aspects of the test. The theoretical aspects include:\n\n\nApplied training includes:\n\n\nVarious items of the test are arbitrated by a 3-member committee:\n\nEach item is either:\n\nBased on a set questionnaire the committee judge each item from various dimensions including the nature of the item, item difficulty, item conformity to the content controls, item bias, and item quality. Justifications have to be provided if an item is deemed invalid. All data is entered into the Center's computer.\n\nAll items are entered into the computer marked with the relevant arbitration judgment except those deemed invalid or incorrigible.\n\nAll the computerized items are reviewed by four testing experts to verify:\n\n\nTrial items are included in the actual test and they go through the same stages of test preparation above, but they do not calculate towards the final score.\n\nItems are statistically analyzed so that the valid ones are selected for the test, while the invalid ones are rejected.\n\nTest is constructed in its final form. Items are randomly selected from those deposited in the question bank in a manner that adequately represents that various parts of test dimensions.\n\nThe test is finally produced. Trial questions are included and various versions of the test are prepared to avoid cheating. The test is printed in booklets that include test instructions and test items.\n\nThe Center produces multiple versions of the same test. However, the Center has been cautious about discrepancies between various versions of the test in terms of difficulty, discrimination or content. An equivalence check is run during test construction based on scientific criteria to ensure test discrimination and differential capacity. Although it is more accurate to run equivalence test during construction stage, equivalence criterion is applied during and after the test.\n\nObjectives:\n\nThe Objectives of this test is to detect the student’s potential abilities and academic skills in the fields of Language, Mathematics, Science, and some creativity aspects, given to it by a series of dimensions, sections, styles, and images.\n\nSections:\n\nEligible test takers:\nAll levels of public education starting from 3rd grade all the way to the senior year of high school, in all the schools in the kingdom, note that the detection tools will be applied on the following educational levels:\n\n\nObjectives \n\nThis test measures a student's analytical and deductive skills. It focuses on testing the student's capacity for learning in general regardless of any specific skill in a certain subject or topic. The test measures abilities relevant to:\n\nGAT Sections\n\nThe test is divided into two sections, the verbal and the quantitative.\nA. The verbal section. This section includes the following.\n\n\nB. The quantitative Section\n\nThis section includes suitable mathematical problems that match General Secondary Schools Science and humanities majors. It focuses on measurements, inference and problem solving skills and requires only basic knowledge. The questions are divided as follows:\n\nAs for the humanities-major students, GAT includes 30 questions on arithmetic ,geometry and mathematical analysis.\n\nTest duration\n\nThe test normally takes two and half hours, divided on 25-minute intervals for each of the six test parts.\n\nResults\n\nAnswer sheets are machine-graded and results are listed and printed and then announced. A student can receive GAT score via the Center's website or through an SMS for those registered for this service. Results are electronically sent to universities and colleges. For student who did the test more than once, only the highest score is sent. GAT is not a Pass-Fail test. The recorded score that the student receives represents the relevant position that the student occupies among the total number of students taking the test. Every higher education institution in Saudi Arabia has its own method of interpreting the relevant weight of GAT vs. General Secondary School final score. Competition in university admission is then based on the combined total scores of the GAT and General Secondary School in addition to the score obtained in any achievement test administered by the university (if required).\n\nIs GAT a Pass/Fail test?\n\nAs noted above, GAT is no Pass/Fail test. This 100-point test carries a certain relative weight interpreted by the institution the student applies for. GAT score should not be compared to that of General Secondary School score. What really matters is the relevant position of the student compared to those of other students, according to the following table:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nComponents and Duration\n\nSections of the test\n\nObjectives\n\nEligible test-takers\n\nTest Times\n\n \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5577821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5577821", "title": "Nordic Summer University", "text": "Nordic Summer University\n\nThe Nordic Summer University (NSU) is a Nordic research network funded through the Nordic Council of Ministers, organizing study circles in the social and human sciences, mainly for PhD students or post-doctoral scholars from the Nordic countries. The activity is organized in a maximum of ten study circles. Separate winter seminars are held for each study circle, and a more extensive summer conference is organised for all the study circles, in a different location within the Nordic countries each year. \n\nThe interdisciplinary groups in the circles meet twice a year in order to discuss a wide range of topics, primarily within the humanistic and the social sciences. During the main summer event, all circles join for a week of academic discussion. The activities are sponsored by the Nordic Council, with financial oversight performed by Foreningerne NORDENs Forbund (FNF). One of the NSU sponsorship items is funding to 140-150 scholars each year in order to offset the costs associated with their participation in the joint sessions. \n\nThe study circles have been conducted for more than 60 years and have in the past involved debates between several leading intellectuals, politicians, and scholars of the Nordic countries, including Niels Bohr, Johan Fjord Jensen, Mauno Koivisto, Johan Galtung, Jostein Gripsrud, and Horace Engdahl. The focus of the research network is interdisciplinary and multicultural. In its statutes, NSU states that it is committed to introducing foreign ideas and influences that not yet have a foothold in the region's universities. \n\nNSU has a publishing house, NSU Press, with distribution secured through Århus University Press. \n\n"}
{"id": "8900392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8900392", "title": "Oppositional culture", "text": "Oppositional culture\n\nOppositional culture, also known as the ‘’blocked opportunities framework’’ or the “caste theory of education”, is a term most commonly used in studying the sociology of education to explain racial disparities in educational achievement, particularly between white and black Americans. However, the term refers to any subculture's rejection of conformity to prevailing norms and values, not just nonconformity within the educational system. Thus many criminal gangs and religious cults could also be considered oppositional cultures.\n\nThis theory relates to a larger generalized topic of race and intelligence. According to this theory, minority students underachieve intentionally in school and in standardized testing due to a fear of being stereotyped as acting white. Acting white refers to activities and attitudes associated with white middle-class Americans. Adherence to white norms in African American communities represents a betrayal of black normative culture. Spurred by the pre-existing theories including the culture of poverty and the effects of urban decay, oppositional culture emerged in the late 1970s as a theory to explain the education gap. The principal researcher of this idea, anthropologist John Ogbu, details the principal mechanisms and causes for oppositional culture in his book, “Black Students in an Affluent Suburb, and Minority Status, Oppositional Culture, and Schooling”.\n\nRacial disparities in education stem from the historical foundations of America, from the époque of slavery into the 20th and 21st centuries. Slave owners in the American South by and large prevented their slaves from becoming literate, fearing that literacy and education would strengthen slave resistance and empower the slaves to revolt against their masters. While African-Americans in the North fared better, black schools struggled to keep their doors open.\n\nThe 1896 landmark court case, \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" also helped to define education policies in the United States for years to come. The court case ultimately decided that race was an acceptable categorization by which to divide individuals. Additionally the case determined that separation of these individuals was permissible provided that the condition of both facilities was equal. This case helped to promote segregationist practices that prevented African American children from attending white schools. African-American schools had fewer resources leading to greater racial gaps in educational achievement.\n\nIn 1954, the Supreme Court decided that the concept of separate but equal was unconstitutional in its landmark decision in \"Brown vs. Topeka Board of Education\" 347 U.S. 483. The court also ruled that segregation inherently caused harm to the cognitive development of black children, and officially recognized the importance of educational equality as a compelling interest in the United States. Following this ruling, Southern school districts began to publish findings of racial gaps in academics as a justification to oppose desegregation. As a result, the United States adopted compensatory education in order to equalize educational opportunities for all students. Despite these efforts, the education gap continues to persist in SAT scores and college acceptance rates. In the 1980s, a researcher named John Ogbu suggested that equal opportunity was not enough to diminish the racial disparities gap in education and that additional factors needed to be addressed in order to reduce the racial disparities gap.\n\nRacial disparities continue to persist in the realm of education even today. A study by George Farkas in 2002 identifies several areas where racial gaps and disparities continue to exist. His research findings show that even in early primary education in pre-school and kindergarten, African American children show lower oral language, pre-reading, and pre-mathematics skills in addition to behavior less suited to school environments. In high schools, measures of academic achievement such as grades and class rank also show an under-representation of African American and Hispanics. Additionally, African American and Latino students consistently perform lower on the SAT than their white counterparts thereby affecting their acceptance rates into universities. Even when accounting for differences in socioeconomic status and single parent households this racial disparity, although reduced, continues to exist. These trends have become the basis for sociological theories, including oppositional culture that explain these continuing racial gaps in education achievement.\n\nJohn Ogbu’s primary goal in his research was to explain “academic performance of racial and ethnic minorities with reference to broader societal structures and historical processes ” John Ogbu used case studies, the most famous of which examined the affluent neighborhood of Shaker Heights, Ohio, to research variables that represented oppositional culture. These variables included several explanations of academic disengagement based on African Americans’ self-perception of their work load, their own and white people’s academic efforts, and their own explanations for their disengagement. From this case study and other research, Ogbu formulated his theory of oppositional culture.\n\nAs part of Ogbu’s analysis, he defines the position of voluntary minorities versus the position of involuntary minorities. Voluntary minorities in the United States include immigrant minorities such as Chinese and Korean immigrants as well as autonomous minorities such as Mormons and Jews. Involuntary minorities comprise largely of African Americans, Native Americans, Mexicans, and Puerto Ricans who were incorporated into American society against their will through colonization, slavery, and conquest. While voluntary minorities view cultural differences as obstacles to be overcome, involuntary minorities view participation in dominant cultural practices as a betrayal of their group loyalty and a threat to their identity.\n\nOgbu argues that in African American cultures, a collective identity is created from a young age in which cultural frames of reference indicate behaviors that belong culturally and those that do not. According to self-reports of African American students, “talking proper”, playing sports dominated by white students, and having white friends all show that a person is acting white. Ogbu states that these cultural frames of reference create instances of peer pressure and discourage students from schoolwork. While black students did not necessarily see getting good grades as acting white, they did disengage from academic work because they perceived certain attitudes and behaviors that were conducive to making good grades as acting white. These behaviors include the use of Standard English, enrollment in honors and AP classes and acting “smart” in class. Additionally, students in the same sample felt that black individuals gave up some of their cultural background by succeeding in white institutions.\n\nBased on his findings, Obgu has proposed certain policy changes to help decrease the gap in racial educational achievement. Ogbu argues that encouraging members of the black community to take proactive roles in increasing academic orientation, effort and performance will greatly affect their children’s academic performance. Ogbu states that educational efforts are concurrent with cultural practices. Additionally, he suggests supplementary education programs and increased visibility of successful black role models as helpful solutions. Obgu also encouraged the development of effective parental educational strategies to combat his findings of little parental involvement in black communities, along with improvements in teacher’s expectations of Black students.\n\nMany sociologists and sources have praised his studies as a valuable addition to the theories explaining the gap in educational achievement among different races. Additionally, his research has spurred similar ethno-cultural case studies around the world that have linked gaps in achievement to communities. One example is a case study done in the UK in 2006 by two researchers, Tomlin and Olusola, that sought to discover factors and conditions that affect the achievement levels of high-achieving black students in two urban secondary schools. The study found that African-Caribbean students reported obstacles similar to those faced by African Americans in their attempts to achieve at the levels of their white peers., Studies that seek to explain overall achievement gaps between blacks and whites have also looked at Ogbu’s criteria from his case studies in education.\n\nHowever, other sociologists have argued against the validity of his claims. His findings are most often criticized for overgeneralizing the experience of the black community. A study by Ainsworth-Darnell and Downey found that black students are significantly more likely to believe that education increases the chances of finding a job, and that smart African American students are held in higher esteem by their peers for high academic achievement. These findings all contradict the oppositional culture model proposed by Ogbu. Another study by Cook and Ludwig found that after controlling for socioeconomic status, on average black students were no less alienated from school than white students and were no less popular for being good students. These studies show that inconsistencies regarding the existence of oppositional cultures in black communities persist.\n\nWhile oppositional culture offers one explanation for the gap in racial educational achievement, there are alternative explanations for this phenomenon.\n\nPrudence Carter, a sociologist at Stanford University, published findings that directly contradicted Ogbu’s research that African Americans viewed educational attainment as acting white. She showed in her research, published in her book “Keepin’ it Real: School Success Beyond Black and White”, that the majority of minority students shared 'white' normative values about the roles of work and success. Carter argues that the possession of capital and upper socioeconomic status did not guarantee more interactions with one race over another and that upwardly mobile minorities are more inclined to associate with individuals from their same class over their same racial identification. Carter states that a focus on racialized communities is not enough- a holistic acknowledgement of the relevance and depth of students’ general attitudes and beliefs and how these affect schooling will help improve education policies. Studies of these attitudes should rely less on racial lines and focus more on ethno-cultural identities of the individual.\n\nThis work is supported by a study by Charles \"et al.\" that surveyed the cultural backgrounds of black students in elite universities in the United States. The study found that even though immigrants of African heritage from Africa and the Caribbean represent less than ten percent of the total black population in the National Longitudinal Survey of Freshmen (NISF), half of them went to l0 of the most selective NISF schools. More than one third of multiracial black and other race individuals, who are only 11 percent of the population, also attend the top 10 NISF schools. Multiracial individuals and African immigrants typically are advantaged in socioeconomic status and pre-college preparation. This work shows that race may not be the primary determinant of racial educational achievement and that other factors including socioeconomic status play larger roles in determining educational outcome.\n\nStereotype Threat Assumption is another explanation for the racial gap in educational achievement. According to this theory, African Americans endure stereotypes of intellectual inferiority. Fearing that they would meet these expectations of underperformance, they make the decision to disengage from academics. Additionally, studies have shown that stereotypes themselves divert mental resources away from the area of concentration and can worsen classroom performance, comfort interacting with teachers, and other areas of scholastic life. These feelings of anxiety combined with the stigmatization acts as an inherent obstacle for African American educational achievement. Some African Americans choose to disengage from academics altogether to avoid meeting the expectations of failure and underachievement. This disengagement in academics demonstrates a perceived devaluation in African American culture.\n\nThe capital deficiency theory is heavily related to Racial inequality in the United States, specifically the racial wealth gap. Wealthier families with higher economic capital can afford to provide additional resources for their children to combat any learning difficulties they may face naturally. A related form of capital, human capital, or the skills, abilities, and knowledge possessed by an individual are passed down in families with higher accumulation of human capital. Parents with higher human capital are also better prepared to supervise their children's acquisition of it. Social capital and cultural capital also provide the means for increased support in educational outcomes. Social and cultural capital help to expose children into beneficial social institutions through bonds of kinship and friendship with the skills to navigate these social spheres fluidly.\n"}
{"id": "44349608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44349608", "title": "Outline of academia", "text": "Outline of academia\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to academia:\n\nAcademia – nationally and internationally recognized establishment of professional scholars and students, working for the most part in colleges and universities, who are engaged in higher education and research.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21172382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21172382", "title": "Paper Project", "text": "Paper Project\n\nThe Paper Project is a fusion project that blends art, science, and technology into engaging 2D and 3D experiences.\n\nThe Paper Project is a multidimensional art and science project exploring the microscopic structure of paper using a scanning-laser confocal microscope. Created by artist and scientist Charles Kazilek and printer and paper maker Gene Valentine in 1999 the project has been exhibiting works in various formats including 2D and virtual 3D images. The 3D anaglyphic images make use of inexpensive red-blue 3D glasses first introduced to movie goers in the 1950s. When wearing 3D glasses, it is as if the viewer has been reduced to the size of a period at the end of a sentence and is able to explore the invisible structure and beauty of paper.\n\nIn 2002, the project expanded to dance, collaborating with costume designers Jacqueline Benard and Galina Mihaleva and dance choreographer Jennifer Tsukayama. The result of the collaboration was \"Paper Interiors: a dance exploration of real and virtual dimensions\" that debuted at the American College Dance Festival. In 2004, Jennifer Tsukayama became a member of the Paper Project and the group created a traveling 3D immersive room based on the earlier dance performance. The first installation of the room was at the Arizona Museum for Youth.\n\nSince its creation, images from the Paper Project have been viewed around the world in museums, science centers, and on the Web. In addition to exhibits the Paper Project has developed educational content that can be used to engage students in art, history, biology, chemistry, and physics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n2008 Nikon International Small World Competition - Fifth Place.\n\n2006 Nikon International Small World Competition - Fourth Place.\n\n2005 Classics Award Winner for Teacher Education. Multimedia Educational Resources for Learning and Online Teaching (MERLOT).\n\n2004 Nikon International Small World Competition - Fourth Place.\n\n"}
{"id": "2405446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2405446", "title": "Parallel education", "text": "Parallel education\n\nParallel Education is a system in which boys and girls in Australia attend the same school, but are split into single sex classes for core subjects such as English, Maths, science, LOTE, and humanities. However, students will come together for drama, music and other social and cultural activities although a strict 30 cm personal space rule applies. Theoretically, this means that students will receive the best education while still being able to interact with the opposite sex. \n\nHaileybury College, Melbourne currently operates Parallel Education at their five campuses with many other leading schools set to follow.\n"}
{"id": "50026297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50026297", "title": "Passive learning", "text": "Passive learning\n\nPassive learning is a method of learning or instruction where students receive information from the instructor and internalize it, and \"where the learner receives no feedback from the instructor\". The term is often used together with \"direct instruction\" and \"lecturing\", with passive learning being the result or intended outcome of the instruction. This style of learning is teacher-centered and contrasts to active learning, which is student-centered, whereby students take an active or participatory role in the learning process, and to the Socratic method where students and instructors engage in cooperative argumentative dialogue. Passive learning is a traditional method utilized in factory model schools and modern schools, as well as historic and contemporary religious services in churches (sermons), mosques, and synagogues.\n\nPassive learning is not simply the outcome of an educational model. Passive learners may quietly absorb information and knowledge without typically engaging with the information received or the learning experience. They may not interact with others, share insights, or contribute to a dialogue. An estimated 60 percent of people are passive learners.\n\nThe effectiveness of traditional instruction and passive learning methods have been under debate for some time. The modern origins of progressive education, with active learning as a component, can be traced back to the 18th century works of John Locke and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, both of whom are known as forerunners of ideas that would be developed by 20th century theorists such as John Dewey. Locke wrote that \"truth and knowledge… arise out of observation and experience rather than manipulation of accepted or given ideas\".\n\nAdvantages of passive learning include: exposure to new material, greater control by the instructor over the classroom, audience, or students; opportunity for a structured and engaging format; ensuring a complement to the subject matter outside of the learning environment and learning space; the ability to clarify course material; presentation of a large amount of information in a short time; instructional materials (lecture notes, handouts, audiovisual media, etc.) can be prepared in advance; important concepts and content can be identified and presented in an organized, structured, and meaningful manner; the potential to facilitate large-class communication. This format can also permit dissemination of materials not yet published or readily available.\n\nA randomized, controlled trial comparing passive (60-minute lecture) and active (30-minute lecture along with interactions between student pairs) showed no differences between the two methods in students' knowledge or attitudes. However, the perception of engagement with the delivered content was lower for the passive learning group.\n\nDisadvantages of passive learning include the required assumption that for learning to be successful, the students will receive the subject matter with \"open minds, like empty vessels or sponges\"; the instructor will fill the minds of the students with knowledge in order to obtain better examination results. Passive learning allows limited opportunity to assess how well students are learning content and for questions, clarification, or discussion. Students may be reticent about letting instructors know they do not understand key information and they may be reluctant to ask questions in class. With no opportunity for application, it does not consistently engage students' use of higher-level cognitive skills. A standard model is lecture-format with one-way communication which does not engage the listener. It also requires the instructor to have effective speaking and presentation skills. Students are expected to wait for information to be provided and then to follow directions on what to do with that information. Emphasis is placed on repeating information without reflecting or demonstrating an understanding. This can result in \"surface processing\" instead of deeper learning, less ability to use what is learned, and the study being deemed irrelevant by the students. The disadvantages of passive learning can be compared to the advantages of active learning. It has been suggested that while active \"engagement\" with material, students, instructors, etc. might be critical to learning, active \"participation\" may not be.\n\n"}
{"id": "27411966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27411966", "title": "Period (school)", "text": "Period (school)\n\nA school period is a block of time allocated for lessons, classes in schools. They typically last between 40 and 60 minutes, with around 3-8 periods per school day. However, especially in higher education, there can be many more. Educators determine the number and length of these periods, and may even regulate how each period will be used. One common example of this practice is to designate at least one compulsory period a day for physical education.\n\nOne special example of a high school period is the free period. These typically involve having 15 minutes of mostly unsupervised activities. A free period (also called \"free\" \"spare\" or \"unstructured\") is generally found in most high schools and colleges. During a free period, a student can either:\n\nSome schools have an extended lunch period and that could be used as a free period as well. Lunch periods in high school could be up to 60 minutes long.\n\nA free period in a college is a time period that a student is not enrolled in a class. During the free period, students are completely free of adult supervision and could do whatever they want that complies to the campus rules and the law.\n\nAnother special example of a middle school and high school period is the study period. In school or college, a study period is a period in a student's timetable where a student may undertake self-directed learning activities, rather than having lessons being taught by a teacher.\n\nWhile study periods are normally intended for study activities, such as set exercises, problem solving, or homework, students often consider these periods of the school day as free periods and may use the time to socialize rather than study. For this reason, study periods may often be supervised by a teacher being present in the study room. In some instances, the teacher may even tutor the students, and the study period may become a tutorial, although this is not normally the case.\nStudy periods often occur because of scheduling conflicts in the school timetable, when there is a mismatch between available students, teachers, subjects and classrooms.\n\nStudy periods are generally monitored by teachers or teacher's aides, who often encourage students to use this time to complete homework, catch up on missing assignments, or study for tests or quizzes. Sometimes, students also use periods to converse, make phone calls, text message, play video games, or otherwise socialize or pursue non-academic topics, though this is sometimes discouraged or forbidden. Periods in which such things are allowed are occasionally differentiated from study periods by the name \"free period\". Some students even eat lunch during a study period due to long lines and short lunch periods at their schools.\n\nStudy periods are often used by students to visit with teachers, who have a \"prep period\", in order to discuss work or assignments. A study period can be a period to utilize school resources or otherwise request teacher assistance in any subject not understood by the student.\n\nMany academics feel that study period is an inefficient allocation of time which is often underutilized, but others say it is a positive addition to a regular schedule because it creates a good environment for completing homework or large projects.\n"}
{"id": "1757138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1757138", "title": "R score", "text": "R score\n\nThe R score (cote de rendement au collégial, CRC or cote R in French) is a statistical method which classifies college students' academic performances in Quebec. It is used by Quebec universities for selection purposes.\n\nThe R score is in fact a \"z\"-score (Zcol) multiplied by a group dispersion indicator (IDGZ) to which an indicator of group strength (ISGZ) has been added.\n\nThe Zcol is the number of standard deviations the student is above the class average and gives an indication of the grade of the student with respect to the grades of other students in the class. The ISGZ is the average high school z-score (Zsec) the group's students obtained on the MEES uniform examination subjects in Secondary 4 and 5. The IDGZ is the standard deviation of the students' Zsec scores. The inclusion of the ISGZ and IDGZ in the determination of the R score allows for a more equitable comparison between students, regardless of their CEGEP's academic rank, although the effectiveness remains in dispute.\n\nThe use of the constant C = 5 greatly reduces the possibility of a negative value in the score and the multiplying the sum of all the preceding values by the constant D = 5 ensures the largeness of the score. The R score is defined such that the average is 25. Most R scores fall between 15 and 35, although any real number is a possible R score since the z-scores tend to positive or negative infinity as the standard deviation decreases. To guarantee that a grade of 100 will produce an R score of at least 35, an adjusted Z score formula guaranteed to produce a result above 35 is used. Grades below 50 are not considered when calculating the average and standard deviation of a grade distribution.\n\nAn R score is calculated for every course except for Physical Education taken before Fall 2007 or for remedial courses. The final R score is the weighted average of the R score in all courses. In addition, failed courses are given a reduced weight in the overall R score; they are weighted at 25% of the credits in the first semester and subsequently at 50%. \n\nFailed courses have been given a reduced weight since October 2004. Before the Fall 2007 semester, Physical Education courses were not given an R score. Before July 2017, the R score did not include the IDGZ and used calculated the ISG as \n\nAlso until July 2017, an additional score of 0.5 was added to the overall R score to a student graduating with an International Baccalaureate degree or a \"DEC (Diplôme d'études collégiales) en Sciences, Lettres et Arts\". The adjustment of Z score using the IDGZ makes this unnecessary. \n\nFirsthand experience suggests that the R score is not as ideal a tool as it was meant to be. A recurring complaint from students is that the ISG does not seem to sufficiently offset the advantage enjoyed by students in weak groups. Such students have the opportunity to obtain grades much higher than the low average of their class, thus earning an elevated Z score, whereas students in strong groups cannot earn such high Z scores. One possible reason for this is that the ISG for a certain course is based on the average of the grades in all high school courses, which may not correlate to the group's strength in that course as much as the average of the grades of similar courses in high school. \n\nSuch perceived weaknesses of the R score are particularly worrying, because it is the main and sometimes only criterion considered by Quebec universities during the admissions process. Since the R score is perceived as an absolute measure of a student's academic performance regardless of their College academic rank, differences smaller than 0.5 are often used to discriminate between candidates applying to programs with fixed quotas, such as medicine, pharmacy, dentistry or law.\n\n"}
{"id": "14011647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14011647", "title": "Research-informed teaching", "text": "Research-informed teaching\n\nResearch-informed Teaching refers to the practice of linking research with teaching in Higher Education. Most universities in the world are organised into teaching and research divisions. Professors and lecturers will normally be contracted to do both and, in theory at least, course syllabi are structured around the teacher's research interests. Since the 1980s, there has been a growing movement to further integrate the two activities. This has led to a new interest in undergraduate research, where students enrolled on bachelor's degrees are given the opportunity to participate in research projects or undertake their own research.\n\nThis concept is also coined as Teaching-as-Research or Research-based Practices in Teaching in higher education. There are growing number of activities supported and sponsored by inter-university organizations such as the National Center for the Integration of Research, Teaching and Learning (CIRTL) Network. \n\nThis practice was pioneered in America, where there is now a nationwide Council for Undergraduate Research, and in Australia. Recently, the UK Government funded several 'centres of excellence' which focus in different ways on undergraduate research. One of the most important is the Reinvention Centre for Undergraduate Research, which was set up in the Sociology department at Warwick University in partnership with the School of the Built Environment at Oxford Brookes University under the directorship of Mike Neary. The Centre's journal, Reinvention, launched in September 2007. In 2006, the UK Government also invested c.£25m into universities across the country to strengthen research-informed teaching. Key publications by Alan Jenkins, Roger Zetter, Mick Healey and Angela Brew have further developed the research base for research-informed teaching. In April 2007 the University of Central Lancashire appointed the first ever Chair in Research-informed Teaching, Stuart Hampton-Reeves, and in September 2007 launched a Centre for Research-informed Teaching.\n\nWhile university instruction is optimal when grounded in empirical findings, some concerns have arisen regarding the efficacy of university instruction at research focused institutions. A growing number of these higher education research institutions focus on the researching prowess of the potential professor (and, in many cases, the grant-writing ability of prospective employee) while often paying substantially less attention to one's ability to disseminate the information. Of course, those talented instructors who are both strong in research and instruction have the potential to really impact their students.\n\n"}
{"id": "4107919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4107919", "title": "Scholarship of Teaching and Learning", "text": "Scholarship of Teaching and Learning\n\nThe Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SOTL or SoTL) is often defined as systematic inquiry into student learning which advances the practice of teaching by making inquiry findings public.\n\nSOTL necessarily builds on many past traditions in higher education, including classroom and program assessment, action research, the reflective practice movement, peer review of teaching, traditional educational research, and faculty development efforts to enhance teaching and learning. \n\nAs such, SOTL encompasses aspects of professional development or faculty development, such as how teachers can not only improve their expertise in their fields, but also develop their pedagogical expertise, i.e., how to better teach novice students in the field or enable their learning. It also encompasses the study and implementation of more modern teaching methods, such as active learning, cooperative learning, problem based learning, and others. SOTL scholars come from various backgrounds, such as those in educational psychology and other education related fields, as well as specialists in various disciplines who are interested in improving teaching and learning in their respective fields. Some scholars are educational researchers or consultants affiliated with teaching and learning centers at universities.\n\nInquiry methods in SOTL include reflection and analysis, interviews and focus groups, questionnaires and surveys, content analysis of text, secondary analysis of existing data, quasi-experiments (comparison of two sections of the same course), observational research, and case studies, among others. As with all scholarly study, evidence depends not only upon the methods chosen but the relevant disciplinary standards. Dissemination for impact among scholarly teachers may be local within the academic department, college or university, or may be in published, peer-reviewed form. A few journals exclusively publish SOTL outputs, and numerous disciplinary publications disseminate such inquiry outputs (e.g., \"J. Chem. Educ.\", \"J. Natural Resour. Life Sci. Educ.\", \"Research in the Teaching of English\", \"College English\", \"J. Economic Education\"), as well as a number of core SoTL journals and newsletters.\n\nSignature pedagogies are ways of learning in specific disciplines. Examples of signature pedagogies include medical residents making rounds in hospitals or pre-service teachers doing a classroom-based practicum as part of their teacher training. The notion of signature pedagogies has expanded in recent years, as scholars have examined their use in e-learning, for example. Some scholars contend that SoTL itself is a signature pedagogy of higher education.\n\nThe International Society for the Scholarship of Teaching & Learning (ISSOTL)] was founded in 2004 by a committee of 67 scholars from several countries and serves faculty members, staff, and students who care about teaching and learning as serious intellectual work. ISSOTL has held annual conferences since 2004, attended by scholars from about a dozen nations. The conferences sites include Bloomington, Indiana USA (2004); Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada (2005); Washington, DC, USA (2006); Sydney, Australia (2007); Edmonton, Alberta, Canada (2008); Bloomington, Indiana, USA (2009); Liverpool, UK (2010); Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA (2011); Hamilton, Ontario, Canada (2012); Raleigh, North Carolina, USA (2013); Quebec City, Quebec, Canada (2014).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56505154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56505154", "title": "School security", "text": "School security\n\nSchool security encompasses all measures taken to combat threats to people and property in education environments. One term connected to school security is school safety, which is defined as the sheltering of students from violence and bullying, as well as exposure to harmful elements such as drugs and gang activity. Along with other public places, schools are at risk for invasion from outside as well as attacks from students or faculty because of the high traffic of potential assailants and availability of victims.\n\nIn the US, as of January 2018, since 1990, at least 240 school shootings have occurred. It's over a 450% increase of the previous 30 years, in which there were only 53 shootings. School bombings are less frequent at 22 in 2016, but according to the US Bomb Data Center, education related buildings are over twice as threatened than any other target. Over 74% of education related threats were middle schools, junior high, and high schools. Due to safety threats, during the 2013-2014 school year, reports say 93% of public schools lock or monitor doors and gates as a means of controlling access to the school; this is an 18% increase since the turn of the century. Metal detectors are installed at many entrances of public schools to deter students from bringing weaponry into schools.\n\nVandalism is often a problem for schools as they are an easy target. What constitutes vandalism varies among reports, which makes it difficult to get an accurate view of the extent of vandalism. However, vandalism generally refers to damage to property (graffiti, etc.), and break-ins. The Center for Problem Oriented Policing categorizes break-ins as being of three types: nuisance break-ins, where a break-in is done just for the sake of it; professional break-ins, with an intent of theft; and malicious break-ins, where damage is caused out of spite. Solutions for preventing vandalism include providing after-school and evening programs to engage youth that are loitering, improving lighting, adding security patrols, and education for students on anti-vandalism.\n\n\"see Education in New Zealand\"\n\nThe New Zealand government provides funding to public schools to repair vandalism. This funding comes from different sources depending on the type of damage that occurs. Two important guidelines regarding vandalism repair are that it must \"be carried out immediately, and comply with Ministry standards.\"\n\nThe National Center for Education Statistics reports that in the U.S., 20.8% of students ages 12–18 experienced bullying at school in 2014-15. Prevention for bullying by parents, teachers, and other adults includes talking to students about bullying, modeling good examples of treating others with kindness, and helping students get involved in something they're passionate about. Helping students understand the importance of reporting bullying and teaching them ways to stop others from bullying can also be effective.\n\nBetween the ages of 11-15, in most countries around the world, boys are bullied more than girls. As reported by Young People's Health in Context, in Israel, almost twice as many boys ages 13–15 are bullied than girls; Belgium has a difference nearly as high. On average, bullying tends to peak at age 13. Lithuania experiences the highest level of bullying, with an average of 63.6% for girls between the ages of 11-15, and an average of 65% for boys between the ages of 11-15. Sweden experiences the lowest level of bullying, with an average of 14.7% for girls between 11-15, and an average of 15.3% for boys between 11-15.\n\nThe National School Boards Association states that ensuring safety and security in schools is the primary responsibility of every school district.\n\nAs we see a rise in gang and drug activity among other safety threats in our schools, there has been an increase in police presence on school campuses. In 2014 the National Center for Education Statistics reported that 43% of schools in the U.S. had School Resource Officers on their campuses anywhere from once a week to full-time hours of operation.\n\nSchool Resource Officers, also known as S.R.O.s, are often responsible for teaching a gang-resistance program to students. Commonly referred to as G.R.E.A.T., this program has been shown to be 39% effective at deterring at-risk youth from becoming involved in gangs or gang-related activity.\n\nSome of these S.R.O.s are accompanied by dogs that are fully trained in drug and bomb sniffing. Although this could be potentially helpful, especially in the drug culture among students, it is a highly controversial issue as some believe it may go against Fourth (and possibly Fifth) Amendment Rights.\n\nDigital surveillance technology monitoring students, staff and visitors is currently being employed in schools around the world. According to the National Center for Education Statistics, by 2014 an average of 80% of secondary schools in the United States had installed security cameras. This was over 300% increase compared to the 19% of public educational facilities using video surveillance in 2000. Closed-circuit television (CCTV), the most common type of video monitoring system, is also reported to be prevalent in the United Kingdom and Australia. A possible 85-90% of secondary schools used CCTV in Britain, according to statistics claimed by Big Brother Watch. Cameras are also installed on buses to prevent violence, theft, illegal activity by students or drivers and as evidence against motorists who violate traffic laws regarding school buses.\n\nIn the new wave of technology, cyber-security has also become a concern as schools try to balance advancement in students' technological skills with the possibilities for misuse of borrowed devices and breeches in school servers.\n\nStudent and faculty ID cards and/or badges are a possible way of improving school security. They allow school authorities to know immediately that the people carrying or wearing ID belong there. Student ID cards can also help keep track of where students are. Tracking students through tracking chips has been controversial, however, due to concerns for privacy.\n\nIdentification badges for visitors to schools can alleviate confusion about who someone unfamiliar is, and school authorities will easily be able to determine where the visitor is authorized to go. These visitor badges can also be a way to conduct background checks before the visitor enters a school campus.\n\nStudents in schools abroad (outside of Poland) who are learning Polish language or academic subjects taught in Polish are eligible for Polish student ID cards. These cards provide benefits including transportation, museum, and national park discounts while visiting Poland. Students under age 18 can get one of these IDs, as well as teachers of Polish. They are valid for one school year.\n\nWithin the United Kingdom and around the globe one of the first line of school security measures is the application of a fencing system to control ingress and egress from the school grounds. Recently guidance by NaCTSO is that 'Screen from View' fencing should be adopted on school perimeters to combat the terrorist threat to schools. Within the UK, one of the largest manufacturers and suppliers of School Security Fencing is CLD Fencing Systems. For over 20 years their range of school fencing has provided protection for hundreds of thousands of pupils across England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.\n\nOFSTED now includes the perimeter school fencing and physical access control as an area of review in the safeguarding of pupils on school grounds.\n"}
{"id": "31055387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31055387", "title": "Strength and conditioning coach", "text": "Strength and conditioning coach\n\nA strength and conditioning coach is a fitness and physical performance professional who uses exercise prescription specifically, but not limited, to improve the performance of competitive athletes. This is achieved through the combination of strength training and aerobic conditioning, alongside a variety of further methods. Strength and conditioning coaches also help athletes with injury prevention and proper mechanics within their sports performances.\n\nStrength and conditioning coaches may work with sports teams, as well as individuals. Strength and conditioning coaches are often employed by higher education institutions and professional athletic teams.\n\nStrength and conditioning coaches have the option to specialize in a particular sports team, type of performance, training type, training philosophy, or work in the collegiate level, where they are assigned a sport. The general description and duty of a strength and conditioning coach is to develop an exercise prescription plan that modulates aerobic, resistance, and/or flexibility training to suit the metabolic and physical demands of the sport in question. With aerobic exercise prescription, strength and conditioning coaches determine the type, duration, and frequency of each exercise. For resistance exercise prescription, the type of exercise, total session volume, rest period, frequency, and intensity are determined. They may also be involved in prescription of stretching routines or other approaches. Nutrition and medical consultation are not within their scope of practice and training qualifications.\n\nIn the US, The National Strength and Conditioning Association offers a Certified Strength and Conditioning Coach qualification that is required for positions in the field. In addition to the C.S.C.S. certification, it is encouraged to attain a bachelor's degree in majors that are related to exercise science due to the competitiveness of the field.\n\nThe Collegiate Strength & Conditioning Coaches association also offers certification exclusive to the collegiate and professional-level strength and conditioning coach. This certification is known as Strength & Conditioning Coach Certified (SCCC) and requires a bachelor's degree and a 640-hour internship in addition to passing the certification exam.\n\nStrength and conditioning in the UK is generally overseen by the UK Strength and Conditioning Association (UKSCA) and the Register of Exercise Professionals (REPS). Both organisations provide regulations and standards for employers and professionals. A UKSCA membership and Bachelor's degree in sport and exercise science are generally accepted by many professional sports clubs as prerequisites for strength and conditioning positions. As well as the UKSCA and REPS, 1st4sport Qualifications offer standardised training in accordance with other official National Governing Body qualifications.\n\nThe implementation of effective strength and conditioning programmes has led to an increase in speed and strength. Research has demonstrated that not only does training improve performance but incorrect training (distance running, a slow-twitch muscle fiber activity, in football athletes with fast-twitch characteristics) can cause decrements to performance. Using techniques such as plyometrics in some high-power athletes and sports-specific movements in others, strength coaches may improve physical function and athletic performance.\n\nCriticism has followed the increased use of strength and conditioning coaches in a variety of sports due to the shift in importance to the size and speed of the players. In rugby union, a game with heavy physical contact and minimal protection, players are being described as being \"too big\", creating collisions that are increasing the risk of short and long term injuries. Further, it has been proposed that the increased weight and speed of players and subsequent rise of collision force leads to more frequent and severe concussion injuries.\n\nHowever, there is as yet no research to suggest an increased use of strength and conditioning leading to an increased risk of injury.\n"}
{"id": "2988066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2988066", "title": "Student voice", "text": "Student voice\n\nStudent voice is \"any expression of any learner regarding anything related to education\" and describes \"the distinct perspectives and actions of young people throughout schools focused on education. Tech educator Dennis Harper writes, \"Student voice is giving students the ability to influence learning to include policies, programs, contexts and principles.\"\n\nStudent voice is the individual and collective perspective and actions of students within the context of learning and education. It is identified in schools as both a metaphorical practice and as a pragmatic concern.\n\nAccording to Fletcher (2017), student voice is a phenomenon that has always been present in schools; what makes it noticeable is the willingness of educators and others to listen to student voice.\n\nStudent voice work is premised on the following convictions:\n\nSeveral typologies differentiate the practices that identify as student voice. One identifies multiple roles for students throughout the education system, including education planning, research, teaching, evaluating, decision-making and advocacy.\n\nThe presence and engagement of student voice has been seen as essential to the educational process since at least the time of John Dewey, if not long before. In 1916 Dewey wrote extensively about the necessity of engaging student experience and perspectives in the curriculum of schools, summarizing his support by saying,:\nThe essence of the demand for freedom is the need of conditions which will enable an individual to make his own special contribution to a group interest, and to partake of its activities in such ways that social guidance shall be a matter of his own mental attitude, and not a mere authoritative dictation of his acts.\n\nToday student voice is seeing a resurgence of importance as a growing body of literature increasingly identifies student voice as necessary throughout the educational process. Areas where advocates encourage actively acknowledging student voice include curriculum design and instructional methods, Educational leadership and general school reform activities, including research and evaluation.\n\nSpecific types of activities that can specifically engage student voice include learning by teaching, education decision-making, school planning, participatory action research, learning and teaching evaluations, educational advocacy, and student advisories for principals and superintendents.\n\nEngaging student voice is a primary objective of service learning, which commonly seeks to entwine classroom learning objectives with community service opportunities. Student voice is also present in student government programs, experiential education activities, and other forms of student-centered learning.\nEngaging students as educational decision-makers is the practice of actively teaching young people responsibility for their education by systematically engaging them in making choices about learning, schooling, and the education system in areas ranging from what affects them personally to what affects an entire student body to what affects the entire school system.\n\nChoosing curricula, calendar year planning, school building design, teacher hiring, and many more issues are often seen as the duties of a school principal or teachers. Today those roles are increasingly seen as avenues for student voice. Students are joining boards of education at all levels, including local, district, and state boards. Some education agencies engage students as staff in programs where they make decisions about grant making, school assessment, and other areas. Students are also participating in decision-making by establishing and enforcing codes of conduct and in personal education decision-making, such as choosing classes and deciding whether to attend school.\n\nEducation reform has long been the domain of parents, teachers, school administrators and politicians. In some nations, however, there is a growing trend of greater student participation in scholastic affairs.\n\nThe \"Connect\" journal, published in Melbourne, features dozens of examples of student voice throughout education in its bi-monthly publication.\n\nThe Victorian Student Representative Council is the umbrella or peak body of Student Councils in Victoria, Australia. It is supported with funding from the Victorian Department of Education and Early Childhood Development (DEECD) and auspiced by the Youth Affairs Council of Victoria (YACVic). The VicSRC is an organisation run by secondary school students, elected by their peers.\n\nThe New South Wales Student Representative Council is the peak student leadership consultative and decision-making forum in New South Wales.\n\nIncluding student voice on district school boards was mandated by the Ontario Education Act in 1998. Students in each one of the 72 provincial school boards are represented by a 'pupil representative', commonly called \"Student Trustee\". They are meant to represent the needs and concerns of students in discussions with the school board administration and the province. The Ontario Student Trustees' Association, OSTA-AECO, has become Ontario's chief student stakeholder, providing professional development to its members and advocates for students' educational interests. The Society for Democratic Education is an organization in Toronto that includes many aspects of heightened student inclusion in education reform policy. The Society for Democratic Education was founded in early 2005 by Bianca Wylie. It has published several essays and position papers that discuss the importance of wide-scale education reform, especially in how it applies to secondary level education and civic education.\n\nAnother Canadian organization of note is Learning for a Cause founded in 2004 by educator and poet Michael Ernest Sweet Learning for a Cause which promotes student voices for social change through creative writing and publishing opportunities for Canadian students.\n\nProvincial governments and Ministries of Education across Canada are also getting on board with student engagement and student voice. Alberta Education launched Speak Out – the Alberta Student Engagement Initiative in November 2008 and thousands of students have been sharing their ideas on how to improve how education looks and feels for them.\n\nOntario's SpeakUp initiative seeks students ideas on what strengthens their engagement in their learning. Ontario's student voice program is centered on four main initiatives, the Minister's Student Advisory Council (MSAC), SpeakUp projects, SpeakUp in a Box and Student Regional Forums.\n\nThe Minister’s Student Advisory Council (MSAC) is composed of sixty students, from Grades 7 to 12, they are selected annually to share their ideas and submit recommendations directly to the Ontario Minister of Education. MSAC also determines the themes for Regional Student Forums taking place during the school year. The members of the Minister's Student Advisory Council have been selected in each year since the inaugural year including 2010, 2011, and 2012. SpeakUp projects are micro-grants for students. Student submit applications for projects they have designed that support the goals of the Student Voice initiative, over 1.2 million dollars in grant money is available yearly. Over 5000 SpeakUp projects have been led since 2008. Regional Student Forums are held across the province where students are invited to explore, discuss, and make recommendations about factors that facilitate/hinder their learning. Last, SpeakUp in a box allows students to hold their own forums for 30 people free of charge with the Ontario Ministry of Education providing the materials to do so. More information is available at SpeakUp.\n\nThe Calgary Board of Education, in 2010, launched the Chief Superintendent's Student Advisory Council – a group of high school students with student representation from each of the Calgary Board of Education's high school programs. They meet regularly with the Calgary Board of Education's Chief Superintendent, Naomi Johnson, to discuss issues in the system and propose solutions.\n\nStudent Voice Initiative is a national movement in Canada to give students a voice in their education. Student Voice Initiative operates on a foundation of support from policy-makers, school administrators, academics, and students from across North America and the world in support of giving students a greater voice in their own education. The core mandate of the organization arose from the success of the 'student trustee' position within the Ontario education community, which has fostered a student leadership framework ranging from student councils at every school, to student senates and student trustees at the regional or district school board level, to the formation of a provincial stakeholder in the Ontario Student Trustees' Association.\n\nA powerful example of student voice in school improvement comes from the 2006 student protests in Chile. Throughout the spring of that year, public high school students from across the country began a series of protests, school takeovers, and negotiations designed to bolster support for public education improvement. After seeing the massive effect of the students, government officials met their demands and are working to support ongoing reforms as necessitated by students.\n\nThe government's failure at meeting the core student proposals triggered the biggest social protests in Chile since the return of democracy, in 2011.\n\nEngland has had a long history of student voice, from Robert Owen's school in New Lanark (allowing the children to direct their learning through questioning, 1816) to Neillie Dick's anarchist school in Whitechapel (set-up by her in 1908 aged 13); A. S. Neill's Summerhill School and Alexander Bloom's St Georges-in-the-East (1945–55). Summerhill School children and staff have been fighting for greater children's rights in schools, running training sessions, presentations and workshops for teachers and children at the House of Commons, London's City Hall, Universities and Schools. They lobbied at the UN Special Session on the Child, spoke at UNESCO and have lobbied the Select Committee on Education. Summerhill School children facilitated the first secondary school children's conference in Dover, involving some 10 schools. Tower Hamlets primary school children have learnt about Summerhill and their legal fight for their children's rights; and regularly work with their local town hall to express their views with the support of HEC Global Learning Centre, including primary conferences.\n\nThe most extensive, sustained programme of student voice research in the UK was carried out by the late Professor Jean Rudduck (Faculty of Education, University of Cambridge) and Jean's pioneering work spanned 20 years, helping to establish the principles of student consultation and student participation in practice, policy and research. Jean co-ordinated the ESRC Teaching and Learning Research Programme's Network Project, 'Consulting Pupils about Teaching and Learning' and her work has had a profound influence on the student voice movement, both in the UK and beyond.\n\nStudentVoice is the representative body for secondary students in England. It aims to support students in expressing their views about education by providing workshops and a network of support with other secondary school students. The National College for School Leadership provides career-long learning and development opportunities, professional and practical support for England's existing and aspiring school leaders. Their goal is to ensure that school leaders have the skills, recognition, capacity and ambition to transform the school education system into the best in the world.\n\nThe Phoenix Education Trust supports democratic education and helped to found StudentVoice It aims to explore and support education in which children are trusted and respected and their participation in decision-making is encouraged. involver supports schools to develop sustainable structures for effective student voice, school councils and participation, and work with teachers and pupils in primary, secondary and special schools. involver provides training, resources, ongoing support and access to a large UK network of schools.\n\nSome state schools are also pushing student Voice internally and independently across the UK. Schools like Quintin Kynaston Community Academy are now recognised for having one of the largest and most active Student Voice 'faculties' in the country.\n\nIn Ireland, the Irish Second-Level Students' Union (ISSU) is the national umbrella body for second-level school Student Councils.\n\nMany national organizations and media outlets across the United States have addressed student voice recently, including KQED, Edutopia, the Washington Post, and others. They are finding organizations like Student Voice, What Kids Can Do and SoundOut, as well as local efforts happening across the country.\n\nSoundOut is an international organization that has promoted student voice since it was founded in 2002. In addition to projects across North America and numerous academic citations of their works, SoundOut has also been recognized by UNICEF as \"a helpful organization that focuses on promoting student voice in \nschools.\" SoundOut's founder, Adam Fletcher, is author of \"The Guide to Student Voice\" and the forthcoming \"Meaningful Student Involvement Handbook\". The organization has also published several works related to meaningful student involvement, students on school boards, and student voice.\n\nStudent Voice is a nationwide grassroots organization that works to unite and elevate the student voice. Through the use of their @Stu_Voice Twitter page, thousands have come together to speak out using the #StuVoice hashtag during weekly Student Voice chats. Student Voice allows any student to publish blog posts on their website, providing a platform for their voices to be heard. Student Voice hosted the first-ever student voice summit on April 13, 2013 in New York City.\n\nWhat Kids Can Do shares stories of student voice throughout the educational process, both within the school system and throughout the community. Their highlights emphasize exceptional learning, belonging, and engagement of students in a variety of capacities for a variety of purposes, the greatest of which is in order to promote student voice. WKCD has authored several books about student voice, primarily written by Kathleen Cushman working with high school students, including \"Fires in the Bathroom: Advice from high schools students for teachers\" and \"Sent to the Principal's Office\". The High School Survey of Student Engagement works with high schools across the country to capture students' beliefs and experiences, and strengthen student engagement in schools. Their work is used nationally to influence school policy making.\n\nAn organization in Minnesota called \"Education|Evolving\" integrates student voices with current major topics in education policy and maintains an online clearinghouse of student voices on education policy. Their website also has students describing the learning experiences on video. The Quaglia Institute for Student Aspirations promotes student voice as well, teaching schools in Maine how to engage learners in different ways., while UP For Learning in Vermont implements programs across the state to support deep student voice. The Prichard Committee for Academic Excellence in Kentucky also has a Student Voice Team promoting the concept statewide by working with policymakers and educators, as well as students and parents.\n\nThe Organising Bureau of European School Student Unions (OBESSU) is the body which connects school student unions in secondary education across Europe.\n\nStudent voice is increasingly identified as a pillar of successful school reform, as educational researchers, academic institutions, and educational support organizations around the world increasingly advocate for the inclusion of students in the reform process after identifying student voice as a vital element of student engagement.\n\nCritical educators including bell hooks, Paulo Freire, and Henry Giroux have voiced concern with the singular notion of a student voice. Adam Fletcher, an internationally recognized expert on student voice, has written about this over-simplification, saying that:\nIt is not enough to simply listen to student voice. Educators have an ethical imperative to do something with students, and that is why meaningful student involvement is vital to school improvement.\n\nThis is echoed by other advocates, including Sam Levin. Levin was an eleventh grade student in Massachusetts when he worked with adults at Monument Mountain Regional High School and his peers to establish an independent learning program for high school students. In a 2014 article in the \"Washington Post\", Levin wrote,\n\n\"Students don't need a voice... The change involves giving something to students, but it's not a voice. Students already have a voice. They have student senates, and student advisory committees. When people talk about student voice, they're talking about feedback sessions and letting students be part of hiring committees. When they say, 'Let's give students a voice,' they mean, 'let's give them a seat at school board meetings.' ...Don't give them a voice. Give them our schools.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9965726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9965726", "title": "Study software", "text": "Study software\n\nStudying in an educational context refers to the process of gaining mastery of a certain area of information.\nStudy software then is any program which allows students to improve the time they spend thinking about, learning and studying that information.\n\nMore specifically study software's objective is to increase the effective application of efficacious study skills to that information, such that thinking and learning about that information is more productive per unit time.\n\nDifferent subjects being studied may benefit from a different spread of study skills being applied. Mathematics requires a somewhat different set of study skills to the skill required to learn a language.\n\nSome types of study software are subject specific teachers of material and may or may not contain the information/content that requires mastery.\n\nStudy software therefore is a blanket for a variety of overlapping software types.\n\nEducation has of course been a road to a better life and so the drive for improvement has been universal from students.\nStudents in most United States\nand Nepal institutions are not taught how to study/learn specifically. Yet there is now hard evidence for some methods for study/learning being superior to others, and that there is benefit in teaching 'study skills' themselves.\n\nStudy software to a degree, seeks to circumvent this problem, by causing the student to follow good practices, through the use of the software, without necessarily having to know about the background science of memory and learning.\n\nHistorically the most successful types of study software include mindmapping and flashcard software programs. Both independently have been proven to improve learning. Mapping software's claimed strengths are more at the thinking end of the spectrum of study and are criticized for their lack of efficacy once the benefits of organizing information are finished. Flashcard software's strengths are more at the learning end of the spectrum of study and are criticized as being for rote learning only.\n\nA more recently arrived group is notetaking software.\n\nThere are also hybrids of the above broad types available, including ones that can actually test students on their notes.\n\nBenefits that the various types of study software might confer include various mixtures of:\n\n\nBarriers to the use of study software include:\n\n\nA number of converging trends make it extremely likely that study software will become ubiquitous within 10 years.\n\nSupply of the enabling technologies will improve.\n\nTrends include: Improvements in battery technology, head worn sound and visual displays, input devices, speech recognition, handwriting recognition will allow mobile computing to become the norm. There are no more 'basic breakthroughs' needed in any of these areas before wearable computers become a given in the near future.\nBroadband access, especially wireless will mean that the normal state of affairs for a student will be to be online at a moment's notice.\nUltimately the computer will be a constantly worn companion for a typical student.\n\nDemand for the service will increase.\n\nWith physical goods becoming cheaper, and less labour-intensive, increasing emphasis on 'services' as a valuable labor commodity throughout the world will mean that higher and higher levels of education, with increased competition for places, will require improvements in learning efficiency that can only be brought about through the application of specialized study software to the problem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48596898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48596898", "title": "Teacher retention", "text": "Teacher retention\n\nTeacher retention is a field of education research that focuses on how factors such as school characteristics and teacher demographics affect whether teachers stay in their schools, move to different schools, or leave the profession before retirement. The field developed in response to a perceived shortage in the education labor market in the 1990s. Teacher attrition is thought to be higher in low income schools and in high need subjects like math, science, and special education. More recent evidence suggests that school culture and leadership has the most significant effect on teacher decisions to stay or leave.\n\nResearchers and policy makers have identified some commonalities across schools and districts that affect teacher retention. Some school factors are \"push\" factors that push teachers to leave their current school or the profession. Other school factors are \"pull\" factors that encourage teachers to stay in their current school.\nCertain factors are linked to teachers leaving schools or leaving the profession before retirement. Researchers have used data from school districts and national surveys of teachers and schools to demonstrate that there are common factors that push teachers to either leave their schools or leave the profession. The most significant factors include low salary, student behavior issues, lack of support from school administration, and inability to participate in decision-making.</ref> Teachers may also be more likely to leave if they are resistant to using prescribed curriculums or are discouraged from modifying their instruction. Over time, individual school environments affect teacher attrition more than district measures like teacher salary, student demographics, or urban settings.\n\nOther factors encourage teachers to stay at their current school. Teachers are more likely to stay in elementary schools than middle or high schools. Teachers who earn at least $40,000 per year are most likely to stay through their fifth year at the same school. Teachers stay longer in schools that have missions in alignment with the teacher’s personal mission. One of the most successful strategies used to retain teachers includes mentoring and teacher teaming. Others point to the importance of teachers being treated as professionals who are trusted and collaborate with one another to meet student needs. These professional practices can include individuality, creativity, high expectations for students, and community building with mentors or peers. Teachers are also more likely to stay when they report being satisfied with their school. School location and student demographics are not major factors in either pushing teachers away or pulling them in.\n\nResearchers and policy makers have also collected information about teacher demographics to better understand teachers' choices to stay or leave their schools. Most studies include research on teacher age and gender as well as teacher qualifications.\n\nTeachers are most likely to stay in their schools if they are between the ages of 30-50. Teachers under 30 are more likely to move schools within districts, move districts, or move to other states to teach. Younger teachers often still have preliminary credentials which allows them more flexibility within states as states often have their own standardized licensure and testing requirements that discourage teachers from moving. Younger teachers are also less likely to be vested in their pension systems and more likely to move districts before choosing a district which may offer a higher salary or better benefits and retirement options. Salary increases can draw younger teachers to particular districts with the promise of higher payment for teaching in the long term. The relationship between life cycle events such as marriage or having children and teacher attrition can be difficult to measure, but teachers who leave the profession are more likely to have recently had children. Teachers with children under 5 are increasingly likely to leave the profession. Gender also plays a role in this trend: young female teachers are more likely than young male teachers to leave. Women who leave the profession are also more likely to return to teaching than men. Teachers over 50 are also more likely to leave the profession, but this is generally explained by teachers who are closer to retirement.\n\nResearchers are examining teacher preparation in relation to retention, including the quality of higher education curriculum and student teaching experiences. Mentorships and inductions have been shown to help early-career teachers and other educators adapt and stay in the job. Teachers with better academic qualifications including grades, test scores, graduate degrees, and undergraduate college selectivity are more likely to leave the profession. There is no major retention difference between teachers who completed traditional preparation programs and teachers who completed alternative certification programs, like Teach for America. Teachers are more likely to stay when students are high achieving.\n\nTeachers with certain teaching qualifications and teaching assignments are more likely to leave their schools or the profession. Special education teachers are not more likely to leave teaching, but they are more likely to transfer to positions as general educators. Elementary teachers are more likely to stay than middle and high school teachers. Teacher who feel effective in their jobs are also more likely to continue teaching.\n\nRetaining teachers of color is an important element of teacher retention. Students of color perform better with race congruent teachers of color and American students are increasingly non white. In 2014 50.3% of American public school students were Latino, Asian, and African-American with demographic data suggesting that the percentage of students of color will continue to grow. Some evidence suggests that teachers of color have higher attrition rates than white teachers and other evidence suggests the opposite.\n\nTeachers of color are more likely to stay in a school in which they are led and supervised by administrators of color. Overall, 84% of white teachers have a race matched principal while only 44% of Black teachers have a race matched principal and 8% of other races have a matched principal. Teachers with a race matched principal are more likely to report earning additional pay, feeling autonomy, and experiencing additional support, all of which are linked to overall teacher retention. Race matched teachers are also more likely to report being satisfied with their jobs. Race matching also affects exits from the profession more than transfers to another school. Also, white men are more likely to leave the profession when there are more students of color. In contrast, teachers of color have higher exit rates overall but are less likely to leave when they have more non white students.\n\nFederal policy initiatives during the Obama Administration have emphasized the importance of retaining effective teachers, rather than just working to retain all teachers. This is partly due to President Obama and the United States Department of Education’s Race to the Top initiative which granted money to states pledging to institute policies which retained and released teachers based in part on their evaluations. The measurement of teacher success is often based on “value added” determinations based on student standardized test scores. Value-added measurements assess the effect of a teacher on student test scores by quantifying teacher ability. These measurements are seen by some as “noisy” and only partly a measure of teacher performance, but still useful. The American Education Research Association cautions against using value added models in most situations due to scientific and technical limitations.\n\nThe Race to the Top incentives represented a major shift in how districts and administrators evaluated and retained teachers. Prior to Race to the Top, teacher effectiveness had been determined by years of experience and years of graduate study. Now, in many states, value added modeling is used alongside principal evaluations of teacher observations and teacher progress on student learning outcomes. One controversial use of value-added teacher evaluation was in Washington D.C. under the leadership of Michelle Rhee. The D.C. program was unique in rewarding high performing teachers with higher salaries and bonus pay while also threatening to dismiss low performing teachers. Teachers in D.C. under threat of dismissal made greater gains in their teaching practice than teachers who stood to gain financially. The dismissal threat also increased voluntary attrition of lower performing teachers by 50%. Statistics suggest that having a top performing teacher rather than a low performing teacher “four years in a row would be enough to close the black-white test score gap.”\n\nTeacher effectiveness has also been linked to how often teachers move schools. Overall, leavers are less effective than movers. More effective teachers are more likely to stay in the same schools, unless they being their careers in lower performing schools. Teachers with low performing students are more likely to leave their schools in the first 1–2 years. Low performing teachers are more likely to move to schools that are similar to the schools they currently teach in, while higher performing teachers will move from low performing schools to higher performing schools. This evidence indicates that some teacher attrition may be beneficial to students.\n"}
{"id": "48180751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48180751", "title": "The Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach", "text": "The Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach\n\nThe GRADE approach (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation) is a method of assessing the certainty in evidence (also known as quality of evidence or confidence in effect estimates) and the strength of recommendations in health care. It provides a structured and transparent evaluation of the importance of outcomes of alternative management strategies, acknowledgment of patients and the public values and preferences, and comprehensive criteria for downgrading and upgrading certainty in evidence. It has important implications for those summarizing evidence for systematic reviews, health technology assessments, and clinical practice guidelines as well as other decision makers.\n\nJudgments about evidence and recommendations in healthcare are complex. Healthcare evidence and subsequent recommendations leave decision makers with differing degrees of certainty in that evidence. Sources of evidence range from small laboratory studies or case reports to well-designed large randomized controlled trials that have minimized bias to a great extent. The GRADE began in the year 2000 as a collaboration of methodologists, guideline developers, biostatisticians, clinicians, public health scientists and other interested members. GRADE developed and implemented a common, transparent and sensible approach to grading the quality of evidence (also known as certainty in evidence or confidence in effect estimates) and strength of recommendations in healthcare \nThe GRADE approach separates recommendations following from an evaluation of the evidence as strong or weak. A recommendations to use, or not use an option (e.g. an intervention), should be based on the trade-offs between desirable consequences of following a recommendation on the one hand, and undesirable consequences on the other (Table 2). If desirable consequences outweigh undesirable consequences, decision makers will recommend an option and vice versa. The uncertainty associated with the trade-off between the desirable and undesirable consequences will determine the strength of recommendations. The criteria that determine this balance of consequences are listed in Table 2. Furthermore, it provides decision-makers (e.g. clinicians, other health care providers, patients and policy makers) with a guide to using those recommendations in clinical practice, public health and policy. To achieve simplicity, the GRADE approach classifies the quality of evidence in one of four levels—high, moderate, low, and very low (Table 1).\n\nTable 1. Quality of evidence and definitions \n\n\"(modified from Balshem et. al.)\"\n\nThe GRADE working group has developed a software application that facilitates the use of the approach, allows the development of summary tables and contains the GRADE handbook. The software is free for non-profit organizations and is available at http://www.gradepro.org\nThe GRADE approach to assess the certainty in evidence is widely applicable, including to questions about diagnosis, prognosis, network meta-analysis and public health.\n\nOver 100 organizations (including the World Health Organization, the UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), the Canadian Task Force for Preventive Health Care, the Colombian Ministry of Health, among others) have endorsed and/or are using GRADE to evaluate the quality of evidence and strength of health care recommendations. (See examples of clinical practice guidelines using GRADE at https://gradepro.org/resources/#guidelines; https://www.moh.gov.sa/endepts/Proofs/Pages/Guidelines.aspx)\n\nTable 2. Factors and criteria that determine the direction and strength of a recommendation\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11714966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11714966", "title": "Vice-principal", "text": "Vice-principal\n\nIn larger school systems, a head teacher principal is often assisted by someone known as a vice-principal, deputy principal, or assistant principal. Unlike the principal, the vice-principal does not have quite the decision-making authority that the principal carries. Although they still carry nearly the same authority among students, vice-principals do not have the same power on the board. Experience as an assistant principal is often a prerequisite for advancement to a principalship.\n\nAssistant principals aid the principal in the overall administration of the school. Some assistant principals hold this position for several years to prepare for advancement to principal jobs; others are career assistant principals. They are primarily responsible for scheduling student classes, ordering textbooks and supplies, and coordinating transportation, custodial, cafeteria, and other support services. They usually handle student discipline and attendance problems, social and recreational programs, and health and safety matters. They also may counsel students on personal, educational, or vocational matters. With the advent of site-based management, assistant principals are playing a greater role in ensuring the academic success of students by helping to develop new curricula, evaluating teachers, and dealing with school-community relations—responsibilities previously assumed solely by the principal. The number of assistant principals that a school employs may vary, depending on the number of students.\n\nMost schools require elementary, middle, and high school principals to have a master’s degree in education administration or leadership. Most principals also have experience as teachers. Master's degrees in educational administration are offered at a number of universities around the United States including the University of North Texas, Ball State University, Drexel University, Ashland University, Northeastern University, and the University of Scranton.\n\nIn American schools, it is often his or her duty to handle matters such as student discipline, parent conference meetings, asset inventory and ordering, school improvement planning, bus and lunch supervision, and teacher observations. Additionally, assistant principals frequently serve as testing coordinators, training staff on procedures related to standardized assessment, as well as accounting for testing materials. In addition to these duties, assistant principals are instructional leaders.\n\nMost importantly however, in the event that something happens to the principal, such as an extended leave of absence, the assistant principal would act as the interim principal. Because of this, many see this position as a stepping-stone to the larger role of principal and is often used as such. In most schools, the vice principal forgoes all teaching duties in order to address broader educational issues.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, most secondary schools have Assistant Principals (or traditionally known as Assistant Head Teachers), with the Vice-Principals (or traditionally known as Deputy Head Teachers) managing them. Their duties vary from school to school; however, usually Assistant Principals and Vice-Principals support school initiatives in maintaining standards, behavior, Key Stages 3–5, teaching and exam timetabling, inclusion, the curriculum and student learning, and overall accountability in the school. They can also carry out performance appraisals and teacher observations. Furthermore, principals/head teachers/headmasters/headmistresses are beginning to have more autonomy on how they will structure their school's senior leadership team and what each member's role will be. These additional roles that are found in English secondary schools can lead to senior leadership/administrative teams to be as large as 8–12 people, depending on the school's size and its demographics (e.g., Head Teacher, 2–4 Deputy Head Teachers, 3–8 Assistant Head Teachers). In contrast to the US, most Assistant Head Teachers and Deputy Head Teachers teach 1–2 courses on top of their administrative duties.\n\n\n"}
