{"id": "5106007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5106007", "title": "Agonism", "text": "Agonism\n\nAgonism (from Greek ἀγών \"agon\", \"struggle\") is a political theory that emphasizes the potentially positive aspects of certain (but not all) forms of political conflict. It accepts a permanent place for such conflict, but seeks to show how people might accept and channel this positively. For this reason, agonists are especially concerned with debates about democracy. The tradition is also referred to as agonistic pluralism.\n\nAgonism is opposed to a strand in the Marxist conception of politics known as \"materialism\". Marx would have agreed with the agonists that society had always been full of conflict, when he wrote: \"The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles\". He also thought that the causes of conflict were inescapable features of present—i.e., capitalist—society. But, in his view, history would develop in such a way as to eventually destroy capitalism, and replace it with a harmonious society—which was his conception of communism. Especially during the 1960s and 1970s, many people, academics included, subscribed to a roughly Marxist analysis. Since then, some of those people have come to the view that the \"materialist conception of history\" does not give sufficient reason for hope about a harmonious society to come. Chantal Mouffe and Ernesto Laclau are amongst those who have come to agonism from a background in Marxism and the social movements of the middle part of the last century.\n\nChantal Mouffe says, \"I use the concept of agonistic pluralism to present a new way to think about democracy that is different from the traditional liberal conception of democracy as a negotiation among interests and is also different from the model that is currently being developed by people like Jürgen Habermas and John Rawls. While they have many differences, Rawls and Habermas have in common the idea that the aim of the democratic society is the creation of a consensus, and that consensus is possible if people are only able to leave aside their particular interests and think as rational beings. However, while we desire an end to conflict, if we want people to be free we must always allow for the possibility that conflict may appear and to provide an arena where differences can be confronted. The democratic process should supply that arena.\"\n\nAgonism is not simply the undifferentiated celebration of antagonism:\nBonnie Honig, an advocate of agonism, writes: \"to affirm the perpetuity of the contest is not to celebrate a world without points of stabilisation; it is to affirm the reality of perpetual contest, even within an ordered setting, and to identify the affirmative dimension of contestation\".\n\nThe work of Theodor Adorno and Michel Foucault have also invoked conceptions of agonism and the agon in a more critical sense beyond that of political counter-hegemony. Although this usage of Agonism has been largely ignored it has been explored at some length by Claudio Colaguori in \"Agon Culture: Competition, Conflict and the Problem of Domination\". For Colaguori, \"the agon is literally the arena of competition, the scene of contest, and the locus of adversarial conflict. The philosophy of agonism affirms the idea that transcendence, truth, and growth are generated from the outcome of the contest...the concept of agonism is often understood in an affirmative sense as the generative principle of economy, society and even natural ecology and personal growth... The ambivalent character of agonism is that it is often seen as a mode of transcendence, while its instrumental relation to the mode of destruction is rarely acknowledged\". Agonism forms part of the instituted social order where society \"produces and reproduces itself precisely from the interconnection of the antagonistic interests of its members\" (Adorno, 1974).\n\nFor Adorno, agonism is also about the \"theodicy of conflict\" where opponents \"want to annihilate one another... to enter the agon, each the mortal enemy of each\" (Minima Moralia). Adorno also sees agonism as the underlying principle in Hegel's dialectic of history where \"dialectics (growth through conflict) is the ontology of the wrong state of things. The right state of things would be free of it: neither a system nor a contradiction\" (Negative Dialectics). Colaguori reconstructs the concept of the agon to invoke this critical, destructive aspect as a way of extending Adorno's critique of modern domination and identify how the normalization and naturalization of conflict is used as an ideology to justify various forms of domination and subjugation. The agonistic ideology that has been appropriated by popular culture for example makes use of agonistic themes to celebrate competition as the wellspring of life in such a way as to normalize \"a military definition of reality\" (C. W. Mills).\n\nThe critical conception of agonism developed by Adorno and Foucault emphasizes how aspects of competition can be utilized to reinforce the project of domination that is evident in the geopolitics of modernity. Colaguori suggests that a critical conception of agonism can be applied to the study of \"numerous forms of social conflict in gender, class and race relations where the competitive mode of interaction prevails in the formation of social hierarchies based on competition as a form of exclusion\". Colaguori further states that, \"after 100 years of technological progress, human societies are trapped in a perpetual dynamic of conflict and crisis, with modernization at a standstill. While this dialectic of development and destruction has been analysed from political and economic perspectives, Agon Culture offers an analysis of the human condition through an examination of the way in which the cultural ideology of competition operates as a mode of rationality that underpins the order of domination.\"\n\nThe science fiction novel \"Lady of Mazes\" by Karl Schroeder depicts a post-human future where \"agonistics\" is the ruling principle of the solar system. The story explains agonistics as \"You can compete, and you can win, but you can never win once-and-for-all\". A character gives two examples of agonism: a presidency with term limits, and laws aimed at preventing corporate monopolies.\n"}
{"id": "4371867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4371867", "title": "Anatomically correct doll", "text": "Anatomically correct doll\n\nAn anatomically correct doll or anatomically precise doll is a doll with some of the primary and secondary sex characteristics of a human. In colloquial vernacular it usually refers to the genitals being depicted. This can be for realism or educational purposes, as well as to satisfy inanimate fetishism. A very detailed type of anatomically correct doll may be used in questioning children who may have been sexually abused. The use of dolls as interview aids has been criticized, and the validity of information obtained this way has been contested.\n\nSome children's baby dolls and potty training dolls are anatomically correct for educational purposes. There are also dolls that are used as medical models, particularly in explaining medical procedures to child patients. These have a more detailed depiction of the human anatomy and may include features like removable internal organs.\n\nSome fashion dolls intended for adult collectors, for example the Sybarite, and Madame Alexander dolls, have a level of anatomical correctness beyond that of fashion dolls like Barbie which are intended as children's playthings. Other dolls which are customized and enjoyed by adults are sometimes anatomically correct, like reborn baby dolls and Asian ball-jointed dolls.\n\nThe dolls are also sometimes used by parents or teachers as sex education.\n\nSex dolls are sometimes also referred to as anatomically correct.\n\nA particular type of anatomically correct dolls are used in law enforcement and therapy. These dolls have detailed depictions of all the primary and secondary sexual characteristics of a human: \"oral and anal openings, ears, tongues, nipples, and hands with individual fingers\" for all and a \"vagina, clitoris and breasts\" for each of the women and a \"penis and testicles\" for each of the men.\n\nThese dolls are used during interviews with children who may have been sexually abused. The dolls wear removable clothing, and the anatomically correct and similarly scaled body parts ensure that sexual activity can be simulated realistically.\n\nWhile there are supporters of the use of anatomically correct dolls in questioning victims of sexual abuse, there are also critics of this practice. Critics argue that because of the novelty of the dolls, children will act out sexually explicit maneuvers with the dolls even if the child has not been sexually abused. Another criticism is that because the studies that compare the differences between how abused and non-abused children play with these dolls are conflicting (some studies suggest that sexually abused children play with anatomically correct dolls in a more sexually explicit manner than non-abused children, while other studies suggest that there is no correlation), it is impossible to interpret what is meant by how a child plays with these dolls.\n"}
{"id": "54561558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54561558", "title": "Barbara Montagu", "text": "Barbara Montagu\n\nLady Barbara Montague (ca. 1722 – August 1765) was a philanthropist and charity worker, who sponsored programs to assist primarily poor women. As an unmarried woman, and due to illness unable to live with family, she created an alternate family situation that allowed her independence. Joining a community of women in Bath, the group pooled their resources to provide support for each other and others in their community. Upon her death, she left bequests to continue providing for those who had been important in caring for her in her lifetime.\n\nLady Barbara Montague, known as \"Lady Bab\" was born around 1722 to the George Montagu, 1st Earl of Halifax and Lady Mary Lumley, the daughter of Richard Lumley, 1st Earl of Scarbrough. Her parents had six daughters, and one son, who would become George Montagu-Dunk, 2nd Earl of Halifax, after changing his surname when he married the heiress Anne Richards, a legatee of Sir Thomas Dunk. Upon their father's death, each of his daughters was apportioned £5,000. Lady Bab's income was placed in an annuity giving her an annual income of around £100.\n\nThough unacceptable for unmarried women to live alone in the period, Lady Bab, who suffered from a serious heart condition, was unsuited for marriage, or taking residence with any of her sisters, as she could not bear the hectic pace of court life.\nIn 1748 Montigue met Sarah Scott, an English novelist and translator, who was the daughter of Elizabeth (née Drake) and Matthew Robinson, both from distinguished Yorkshire families. One of twelve children, Sarah was close to her sister Elizabeth Montagu, a leader of the Blue Stockings Society, when they were growing up. But, after Sarah's severe bout with smallpox in 1741, she was deemed no longer a suitable catch for marriage and instead sought solace in writing. The two women, unable to find a place in the patriarchal society, forged a household together in Bath among a community of women who found themselves in similar circumstances. \n\nLady Bab was involved in charitable works, such as creating educational cards to sell with the proceeds dedicated to assist a poor neighbor. The cards contained geographical, historical, and mathematical facts and were used as flash cards. She was also involved in a scheme, which she encouraged Sarah to join, to have poor women knit mittens, that they then sold to their circle of friends. Montagu inspired her companion's dedication to charity and Sarah began holding Sunday school classes for children. When Scott married in 1751, it was understood that Lady Bab was to be part of the household. In less than a year, Sarah's father and brother removed her from her marital home and the two women rejoined the community in Bath. The separation agreement left Sarah with only a small allowance, as her husband returned only a portion of her dowry, making the pooling of the women's resources a necessity.\n\nAmong the women in their community, which included Elizabeth Cutts, Sarah Fielding and possibly Jane Collier, was an agreement that they would support each other psychologically and financially, so that they did not become dependent on others. They encouraged each other to publish, to raise funds to complete charitable works. For example, Lady Bab paid for the publishing of a book, \"The Histories of Some of the Penitents in the Magdalen House, as Supposed to Be Related by Themselves\" which was printed anonymously in 1759 so that its royalties might support the author. The book deals with penitent prostitutes and the preface, written by Lady Bab, defends the benefits of charity. They organized a small industrial school to teach basic skills to poor girls, as well as a few boys. In 1763, Lady Barbara gained a pension of £300, significantly improving their circumstances.\n\nMontagu died in August 1765 and was buried in the Church of St Mary, Charlcombe. Per instructions in her will, she returned the £100 annuity her brother had given her in her lifetime. She left over £1,000 to two of her sisters, various members of their community, servants, students she was assisting with education, with the bulk of her estate going to Scott, outright—stating that should Scott remarry, the monies could not come under the control of a spouse. Scott lived for thirty years after the death of Montagu, benefiting from her largess and adhering to the charitable principles they had established together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22554105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22554105", "title": "Bike rage", "text": "Bike rage\n\nBike rage refers to acts of verbal or gestural anger or physical aggression between cyclists and other users of bike paths or roadways, including pedestrians, other cyclists, motorcyclists, or drivers. Bike rage can consist of shouting at other road users, making obscene gestures or threats, hitting or punching, or in rare cases, even more violent acts. The term can refer either to acts committed by cyclists or by drivers. Bike rage is related to other explosive outbursts of anger such as road rage.\n\nA bike rage incident can start because a cyclist, driver, or pedestrian believes that another road user was being discourteous, breaking traffic rules, or in many cases because someone felt that their safety was being compromised by the actions of another road user. According to University of Hawaii professor of psychology Leon James, \"bike rage is a common occurrence, and quite predictable\", because urban commuting causes \"tension, anxiety, and anger – in drivers as well as cyclists\". Montogomery claims some cyclists hit cars using a \"classic U-lock bash-and-run\" tactic. He argues that \"some cyclists consider such attacks acts of driver education\". Montogomery claims the \"...problem is that city planners have mixed bikes and cars together in ways that offer little certainty about how each should operate, and lots of chances for conflict\". As such, \"cyclists feel threatened in traffic\" and \"...hard done by and under attack.\"\nAn article in \"Toronto Life\" magazine argues that the \"...source of the problem [bike and road rage] is neither the arrogance of drivers nor the militancy of cyclists, but the environment in which they interact.\" The article claims that the \"...urban grid, already congested with cars, is being flooded with cyclists...intensifying competition for road space.\" One issue is that \"[d]rivers are not sufficiently alert to the presence and the quickness of cyclists\". A possible explanation for all of the aggression that occurs between cyclists and drivers is the anonymity of the big city: \"...they know they will never run into that person again.\"\n\nA member of the S.F. Bicycle Coalition argues that \"Road rage is a symptom of a contradiction between the image and promise of cars and the reality,\" because \"You never see a car ad showing someone stuck in traffic.\" After an altercation between cyclists and police, an observer noted that \"The sheep -- like the man who was just riding to the gym and decided to join and have a little fun -- were bewildered, angry, defiant. Turned into wolves.\"\n\nA 2008 \"New York Times\" article stated that \"...overwhelmingly, on blogs and Web sites nationwide, drivers and cyclists routinely describe shouted epithets, flung water bottles, sprays of spit and harrowing near-misses of the intentional kind.\" The article noted that there is \"a whiff of class warfare in the simmering hostility, too. During morning rush, the teeth-gritting of drivers is almost audible, as superbly fit cyclists, wearing Sharpie-toned spandex and riding $3,000 bikes, cockily dart through the swampy, stolid traffic to offices with bike racks and showers.\"\n\nBike rage may also be caused by confusion about how the rules of the road apply to cyclists. In some jurisdictions, cyclists are allowed to ride on the sidewalk, whereas in other places, this is against the law. In all fifty U.S. states, bicycles are classified as vehicles and cyclists have many of the same rights and responsibilities as other drivers; however, other jurisdictions may place restrictions on where citizens may operate bicycles. These differences in rules may lead drivers to believe that a cyclist is violating the law by cycling on a roadway, even if local laws require cyclists to be on the road. Many citizens are also ignorant of their localities' laws concerning bicycles. \n\nIn Toronto in January 2006, a driver tossed his lunch out the window of his car in a traffic jam. A 26-year-old bike courier threw the food back into the car. The driver tossed two cups of hot coffee at the courier, and then, after they exchanged insults, the driver attacked the woman and her bike.\n\nIn 2009 in Los Angeles, a 59-year-old man was \"charged with two felony counts each of reckless driving causing injury, battery with serious bodily injury and the special allegation of causing great bodily injury\". After the man had an argument with two cyclists, he \"allegedly stopped short and caused one [bike] rider to go through the rear window of Dr. Thompson's Infiniti and other rider to crash onto the pavement. The driver, who admitted slamming on his brakes, was later sentenced to 10 years in prison.\"\n\nA \"New York Times\" story stated a 41-year-old cyclist, Dan Cooley was injured by a driver who became angry at him after an exchange of swear words. The incident began when the driver came out of a driveway in front of Mr. Cooley. Angered, Mr. Cooley cursed at the driver, who responded in kind. As Mr. Cooley moved off the road, the car drove into him, and knocked him to the ground with the vehicle, and then the driver got out of the car and attacked him, leaving him with a concussion and a torn ligament. Mr. Cooley thinks that the anger between cyclists and drivers might be due to the relatively new arrival of bikes on city streets: “We’ve had a car culture for so long and suddenly the roads become saturated with bicyclists trying to save gas\"; however, he added,“No one knows how to share the road.”\n\nAccording to the \"UK Guardian\", a cyclist named Jefferey Guffey from Indiana told a driver to slow down. The driver attacked Guffey and bit part of his ear off. After the incident, police charged the attacker with battery. In Oxford, \"police investigated a spate of attacks on cyclists motivated, apparently, by hatred of bicycles and their riders\".\n\nChristian Wolmar, an international expert on transportation, stated that Sydney \"drivers are more hostile towards cyclists than motorists of any other country\".\n\nIn Toronto in 2007, \"... after being cut off by a driver just after morning rush hour in Toronto, a cyclist caught up to the car, reached inside the window, and stabbed the driver in the face and neck with a screwdriver.\"\n\nA 2004 \"Chicago Sun-Times\" article states that a Pennsylvania bicyclist shot a truck driver in the arm after an altercation. The truck driver, William Nicoletti, 51, drove past the cyclist, who made an obscene gesture. Mr. Nicoletti stated that when he turned his truck around and drove toward the cyclist, man on the bike drew a pistol and shot Mr. Nicoletti. The man on the bicycle, Robert Urick, 41, was \"charged with attempted homicide, aggravated assault and weapons offenses\".\n\nA 2008 \"Newsweek\" article entitled \"Pedal vs. Metal: A surge in bike ridership spurs a new kind of road rage\" described an altercation which began after a driver named Patrick Schrepping told cyclist Adam Leckie to wear a helmet. Following this conversation, Leckie \"allegedly responded by keying Schrepping's car\", and then Schrepping struck Leckie with a metal object. Both men were arrested and charged with assault.\n\nMichael J. Bryant (born April 13, 1966) is a former public administrator and former politician in Ontario, Canada who was involved in an incident with a cyclist. After an altercation with a cyclist on August 31, 2009, in which Bryant's car struck a bike courier, Bryant was charged with criminal negligence causing death and dangerous driving causing death. On May 25, 2010, all charges against Bryant were withdrawn, with prosecutors describing the cyclist as the aggressor in the incident.\n\nBike rage does not only involve altercations between drivers and cyclists. In some cases, there have been fights between cyclists. In an incident in Madison, Wisconsin, a 51-year-old cyclist suggested to a 28-year-old cyclist that he should get a bike light so that others could see him. After hearing this comment, the younger cyclist felt \"extremely insulted\" and allegedly tried to force the older man off the road. The 51-year-old was followed to his home, at which point the 28-year-old \"clamped his hands around O'Brien's head\" and then \"... twisted O'Brien to the ground and kicked him in the ribs.\" Police indicated that they planned to charge the younger man.\n\n"}
{"id": "6689354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6689354", "title": "Community association", "text": "Community association\n\nA community association is a nongovernmental association of participating members of a community, such as a neighborhood, village, condominium, cooperative, or group of homeowners or property owners in a delineated geographic area. Participation may be voluntary, require a specific residency, or require participation in an intentional community. Community associations may serve as social clubs, community promotional groups, service organizations, youth sports group or quasi-governmental groups.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1767727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1767727", "title": "Conflict management", "text": "Conflict management\n\nConflict management is the process of limiting the negative aspects of conflict while increasing the positive aspects of conflict. The aim of conflict management is to enhance learning and group outcomes, including effectiveness or performance in an organizational setting. Properly managed conflict can improve group outcomes.\n\nConflict resolution involves the reduction, elimination, or termination of all forms and types of conflict. Five styles for conflict management, as identified by Thomas and Kilmann, are: competing, compromising, collaborating, avoiding, and accommodating.\n\nBusinesses can benefit from appropriate types and levels of conflict. That is the aim of conflict management, and not the aim of conflict resolution. Conflict management does not imply conflict resolution.\n\nConflict management minimizes the negative outcomes of conflict and promotes the positive outcomes of conflict with the goal of improving learning in an organization.\n\nProperly managed conflict increases organizational learning by increasing the number of questions asked and encourages people to challenge the status quo.\n\nOrganizational conflict at the interpersonal level includes disputes between peers as well as supervisor-subordinate conflict. Party-directed mediation (PDM) is a mediation approach particularly suited for disputes between co-workers, colleagues or peers, especially deep-seated interpersonal conflict, multicultural or multiethnic disputes. The mediator listens to each party separately in a pre-caucus or pre-mediation before ever bringing them into a joint session. Part of the pre-caucus also includes coaching and role plays. The idea is that the parties learn how to converse directly with their adversary in the joint session. Some unique challenges arise when organizational disputes involve supervisors and subordinates. The Negotiated Performance Appraisal (NPA) is a tool for improving communication between supervisors and subordinates and is particularly useful as an alternate mediation model because it preserves the hierarchical power of supervisors while encouraging dialogue and dealing with differences in opinion.\n\nThere are three orientations to conflict: lose-lose, win-lose, and win-win. The lose-lose orientation is a type of conflict that tends to end negatively for all parties involved. A win-lose orientation results in one victorious party, usually at the expense of the other. The win-win orientation is one of the most essential concepts to conflict resolution. A win-win solution arrived at by integrative bargaining may be close to optimal for both parties. This approach engages in a cooperative approach rather than a competitive one.\n\nAlthough the win-win concept is the ideal orientation, the notion that there can only be one winner is constantly being reinforced in American culture:\n\n\"The win-lose orientation is manufactured in our society in athletic competition, admission to academic programs, industrial promotion systems, and so on. Individuals tend to generalize from their objective win-lose situations and apply these experiences to situations that are not objectively fixed-pies\".\n\nThis kind of mentality can be destructive when communicating with different cultural groups by creating barriers in negotiation, resolution and compromise; it can also lead the \"loser\" to feel mediocre. When the win-win orientation is absent in negotiation, different responses to conflict may be observed.\n\nBlake and Mouton (1964) were among the first to present a conceptual scheme for classifying the modes (styles) for handling interpersonal conflicts in five types: forcing, withdrawing, smoothing, compromising, and problem solving.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, researchers began using the intentions of the parties involved to classify the styles of conflict management that they included in their models. Both Thomas (1976) and Pruitt (1983) put forth a model based on the concerns of the parties involved in the conflict. The combination of the parties' concern for their own interests (i.e. assertiveness) and their concern for the interests of those across the table (i.e. cooperativeness) yielded a particular conflict management style. Pruitt called these styles yielding (low assertiveness/high cooperativeness), problem solving (high assertiveness/high cooperativeness), inaction (low assertiveness/low cooperativeness), and contending (high assertiveness/low cooperativeness). Pruitt argues that problem-solving is the preferred method when seeking mutually beneficial options (win-win).\n\nKhun and Poole (2000) established a similar system of group conflict management. In their system, they split Kozan's confrontational model into two sub models: distributive and integrative.\n\nDeChurch and Marks (2001) examined the literature available on conflict management at the time and Ni established what they claimed was a \"meta-taxonomy\" that encompasses all other models.\n\nThey argued that all other styles have inherent in them into two dimensions:\n\nIn the study DeChurch and Marks conducted to validate this division, activeness did not have a significant effect on the effectiveness of conflict resolution, but the agreeableness of the conflict management style, whatever it was, did have a positive impact on how groups felt about the way the conflict was managed, regardless of the outcome.\n\nRahim (2002) noted that there is agreement among management scholars that there is no one best approach to how to make decisions, lead or manage conflict.\n\nIn a similar vein, rather than creating a very specific model of conflict management, Rahim created a meta-model (in much the same way that DeChurch and Marks, 2001, created a meta-taxonomy) for conflict styles based on two dimensions, concern for self and concern for others.\n\nWithin this framework are five management approaches: integrating, obliging, dominating, avoiding, and compromising.\n\nSpecial consideration should be paid to conflict management between two parties from distinct cultures. In addition to the everyday sources of conflict, \"misunderstandings, and from this counterproductive, pseudo conflicts, arise when members of one culture are unable to understand culturally determined differences in communication practices, traditions, and thought processing\". Indeed, this has already been observed in the business research literature.\n\nRenner (2007) recounted several episodes where managers from developed countries moved to less developed countries to resolve conflicts within the company and met with little success due to their failure to adapt to the conflict management styles of the local culture.\n\nAs an example, in Kozan's study noted above, he noted that Asian cultures are far more likely to use a harmony model of conflict management. If a party operating from a harmony model comes in conflict with a party using a more confrontational model, misunderstandings above and beyond those generated by the conflict itself will arise.\n\nInternational conflict management, and the cultural issues associated with it, is one of the primary areas of research in the field at the time, as existing research is insufficient to deal with the ever-increasing contact occurring between international entities.\n\nWith only 14% of researched universities reporting mandatory courses in this subject, and with up to 25% of the manager day being spent on dealing with conflict, education needs to reconsider the importance of this subject. The subject warrants emphasis on enabling students to deal with conflict management.\n\n\"Providing more conflict management training in undergraduate business programs could help raise the emotional intelligence of future managers.\" The improvement of emotional intelligence found that employees were more likely to use problem-solving skills, instead of trying to bargain.\n\nStudents need to have a good set of social skills. Good communication skills allow the manager to accomplish interpersonal situations and conflict. Instead of focusing on conflict as a behavior issue, focus on the communication of it.\n\nWith an understanding of the communications required, the student will gain the aptitude needed to differentiate between the nature and types of conflicts. These skills also teach that relational and procedural conflict needs a high degree of immediacy to resolution. If these two conflicts are not dealt with quickly, an employee will become dissatisfied or perform poorly.\n\nIt is also the responsibility of companies to react. One option is to identify the skills needed in-house, but if the skills for creating workplace fairness are already lacking, it may be best to seek assistance from an outside organization, such as a developmental assessment center.\n\nAccording to Rupp, Baldwin, and Bashur, these organizations \"have become a popular means for providing coaching, feedback, and experiential learning opportunities\". Their main focus is fairness and how it impacts employees' attitudes and performance.\n\nThese organizations teach competencies and what they mean. The students then participate in simulations. Multiple observers assess and record what skills are being used and then return this feedback to the participant. After this assessment, participants are then given another set of simulations to utilize the skills learned. Once again they receive additional feedback from observers, in hopes that the learning can be used in their workplace.\n\nThe feedback the participant receives is detailed, behaviorally specific, and high quality. This is needed for the participant to learn how to change their behavior. In this regard, it is also important that the participant take time to self-reflect so that learning may occur.\n\nOnce an assessment program is utilized, action plans may be developed based on quantitative and qualitative data.\n\nWhen personal conflict leads to frustration and loss of efficiency, counseling may prove to be a helpful antidote. Although few organizations can afford the luxury of having professional counselors on the staff, given some training, managers may be able to perform this function. Nondirective counseling, or \"listening with understanding\", is little more than being a good listener —\nsomething every manager should be.\n\nSometimes the simple process of being able to vent one's feelings—that is; to express them to a concerned and understanding listener–is enough to relieve frustration and make it possible for the frustrated individual to advance to a problem-solving frame of mind, better able to cope with a personal difficulty that is affecting his work adversely. The nondirective approach is one effective way for managers to deal with frustrated subordinates and co-workers.\n\nThere are other more direct and more diagnostic ways that might be used in appropriate circumstances. The great strength of the nondirective approach (nondirective counseling is based on the client-centered therapy of Carl Rogers), however, lies in its simplicity, its effectiveness, and the fact that it deliberately avoids the manager-counselor's diagnosing and interpreting emotional problems, which would call for special psychological training. No one has ever been harmed by being listened to sympathetically and understandingly. On the contrary, this approach has helped many people to cope with problems that were interfering with their effectiveness on the job.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54946266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54946266", "title": "Dadoba Pandurang", "text": "Dadoba Pandurang\n\nDadoba Pandurang (9 May 1814 – 17 October 1882) (Pune, Maharashtra,British India) was a social reformer and linguist from Bombay. He was born with the surname Tarkhadkar but he never used it in later life. He wrote extensively on religion and social reform as an opponent of rituals and caste, while supporting widow-remarriage and education for women. He was a brother of Atmaram Pandurang.\n\nPandurang studied at a local school for four years before going to private high school followed by studies at the Bombay Native School and Book Society. He was a recipient of a West Scholarship and studied at what became the Elphinstone and he learnt several languages including Portuguese, Persian and Sanskrit.\n\nIn 1830 he became a school teacher and in 1840 he moved to Surat. The headmaster at this school in Surat was Henry Green, a noted agnostic and free thinker who influenced Pandurang. From 1846 he served as acting superintendent of vernacular schools and in 1852 he was selected for the post of Deputy Collector and Magistrate at Ahmednagar. He moved to Thana in 1858 and retired in 1861 due to troubles with superiors. Pandurang's major contribution was a grammar of Marathi. \"Maharastra Bhasheche Vyakaran\" published in 1836 that went into seven editions during his lifetime. He also published a supplement in 1881. Other publications included \"Yashoda Pandurangi\" (1865), \"Dharam Vivechan\" (1868), \"Paramhamsik Bramhadharma\" (1880), \"\" (1878), \"The absurdity of the Holi Festival as it is now practised by the Hindus\" (1829), \"Shishubodh\" (posthumously published in 1884) and \"Vidhavasrumarjan\" (1857). He wrote \"Dharam Vivechan\" under the pen-name of \"Ek Jagadwasi Arya\".\n\nPandurang taught Sanskrit briefly at the Sir Jamshedjee Jeejeebhoy Zarthosti Madresa in 1871. In 1848, he founded and presided over the \"Upayukta Jnanprasarak Sabha\", a students' literary and scientific society which met to discuss various topics every alternate Thursday.\n"}
{"id": "10458499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10458499", "title": "Democratic rationalization", "text": "Democratic rationalization\n\nDemocratic rationalization is term used by Andrew Feenberg in his article \"Subversive Rationalization: Technology, Power and Democracy with technology.\" Feenberg argues against the idea of \"technological determinism\" citing flaws in its two fundamental theses.\n\nThe first is the \"thesis of unilinear progress\". This is the belief that technological progress follows a direct and predictable path from lower to higher levels of complexity and that each stage along this path is necessary for progress to occur (Feenberg 211).\n\nThe second is the \"thesis of determination by the base\". This is the concept that in a society where a technology had been introduced, that society must organize itself or adapt to the technology (Feenberg 211).\n\nIn his argument against the former thesis Feenberg says that constructivist studies of technology will lead us to realize that there is not a set path by which development of technologies occur but rather an emerging of similar technologies at the same time leading to a multiplicity of choices. These choices are made based upon certain social factors and upon examining them we will see that they are not deterministic in nature (Feenberg 212).\n\nArguing against the latter thesis, Feenberg calls to our attention social reforms that have been mandated by governments mainly in regards to the protection of its citizens and laborers. Most of the time these mandates are widely accepted after being passed through the governing body. At which point technology and industry will reform and re-evolve to meet the new standards in a way that has greater efficiency than it did so previously (Feenberg 214)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43348955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43348955", "title": "Digital detox", "text": "Digital detox\n\nDigital detox refers to a period of time during which a person refrains from using electronic connecting devices such as smartphones and computers. It is regarded as an opportunity to reduce stress, focus more on social interaction and connection with nature in the physical world. Claimed benefits include increased mindfulness, lowered anxiety, and an overall better appreciation of one's environment. There have been many stories where a digital detox has lead to a more refreshed feeling along the people involved. They described there digital detox as a \"getaway\" in some aspect. When people get caught up in how much they need to do, the overuse of technology becomes prevalent. This even becomes the case in a social context; people want to make sure they're up to date on the latest news stories, Instagram posts, political tweets etc. and to do this, they need to stay plugged in. \n\nSmartphones, laptops, and tablets, combined with the increasing wireless Internet accessibility, enable technology users to constantly be connected to the digital world.Constant online connectivity may have a negative impact on the users’ experience with electronic connecting devices and result in a wish to temporarily refrain from communication technology usage.\n\nIn one study in Mind, 95% of those interviewed said their mood improved after putting down their phones to spend time outside, changing from depressed, stressed, and anxious to more calm and balanced. \n\nThe motivations behind digital detoxing vary. In some cases, the motivation is negative emotional responses to the technology usage, such as dissatisfaction or disappointment of the technology device and its functions. In other cases, users see the technology as a distracting factor that consumes time and energy and wants to take back control over their everyday lives. Some people have moral, ethical or political reasons to refrain from technology usage. Furthermore, a concern of developing addictive behavior in terms of tech addiction or Internet addiction disorder is one of the motivations for disconnecting for a period of time.This excessive technology usage can be considered an addiction. It's said that around 50% of smartphone users check their account 5 minutes prior to going to bed and within 5 minutes post waking up. \n\nConstant engagement with digital connecting devices at the workplace is claimed to lead to increased stress levels and reduce productivity. Certain characteristics of the technology make it more difficult to distinguish work from leisure. Moreover, being continually connected increases the number of interruptions at work. Allowing employees to disconnect for a part of the day in order to truly focus on their work without disturbance from colleagues is claimed to be beneficial to the productivity and work environment. \"To combat the effects of constant digital exposure, there are digital detox retreats held for select numbers of people. It's an average of 12 people per week getting detoxed for a little less than $600 dollars including flights.\"\n\nIn certain cultures, constant work is encouraged and taking breaks are sometimes even discouraged. This is due to the idea that a break equals a lack of productivity. In the Indian culture, this is extremely prevalent; there have even been studies to back these ideas up. It's said that more than half of Indians check their work and social emails constantly. Even while vacationing, about 30% admitted that they had an irresistible urge to check and post on social media. There is also a significant estimated 30% difference between people being willing to leave their laptops at home compared to people being willing to leave their smartphones at home. It's admitted that if work wasn't a factor a lot of Indians wouldn't constantly be on their devices and stay unplugged. \n\nThe connecting devices’ multitasking character has a serious impact on the learning ability. Multitasking implies operating on a surface level, which only involves the short-time memory. Using multiple connecting devices as learning platforms is therefore not beneficial. A reduction of information choices enables the brain to focus more on the quality of the information rather than the hastiness of it.\n\n"}
{"id": "382766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=382766", "title": "Edwin Chadwick", "text": "Edwin Chadwick\n\nSir Edwin Chadwick KCB (24 January 1800 – 6 July 1890) was an English social reformer who is noted for his leadership in reforming the Poor Laws in England and instituting major reforms in urban sanitation and public health. A disciple of Utilitarian philosopher Jeremy Bentham, he was most active between 1832 and 1854; after that he held minor positions, and his views were largely ignored. Chadwick pioneered the use of scientific surveys to identify all phases of a complex social problem, and pioneered the use of systematic long-term inspection programmes to make sure the reforms operated as planned.\n\nEdwin Chadwick was born on 24 January 1800 at Longsight, Manchester, to James Chadwick. His mother died when he was still a young child, yet to be named. His father, James Chadwick, tutored the scientist John Dalton in music and botany and was considered an advanced liberal politician, thus exposing young Edwin to political and social ideas. His grandfather, Andrew Chadwick, had been a close friend of the Methodist theologian John Wesley.\n\nHe began his education at a small school in Lancashire and moved to a boarding school in Stockport, where he studied until he was 10. When his family moved to London in 1810, Chadwick continued his education with the help of private tutors, his father and a great deal of self-teaching.\n\nHis father remarried in the early 1820s and Edwin's younger half-brother was baseball icon Henry Chadwick, born in 1824.\n\nAt 18, he decided to pursue a career in law and undertook an apprenticeship at an attorney's office. In 1823, he enrolled in law school at The Temple in London. On 26 November 1830 he was called to the bar, becoming a barrister, also known as a court lawyer.\n\nCalled to the bar without independent means, he sought to support himself by literary work such as his work on \"Applied Science and its Place in Democracy\", and his essays in the \"Westminster Review\", mainly on different methods of applying scientific knowledge to the practice of government. He became friends with two of the leading philosophers of the day, John Stuart Mill and Jeremy Bentham. Bentham engaged him as a literary assistant and left him a large legacy. He also became acquaintances with Thomas Southwood Smith, Neil Arnott, and James Kay-Shuttleworth, all doctors.\n\nFrom his exposure to social reform and under the influence of his friends, he began to devote his efforts to sanitary reform. In 1832, Chadwick began on his path to make improvements with sanitary and health conditions.\n\nIn 1832, he was employed by the Royal Commission appointed to inquire into the operation of the Poor Law, and in 1833, he was made a full member of that commission. Chadwick and Nassau William Senior drafted the famous report of 1834, recommending the reform of the old law. Under the 1834 system, individual parishes were formed into Poor Law Unions, and each Poor Law Union was to have a union workhouse. Chadwick favoured a more centralised system of administration than the one adopted, and he felt the Poor Law reform of 1834 should have provided for the management of poor law relief by salaried officers controlled from a central board, with the boards of guardians acting merely as inspectors.\n\nIn 1834, he was appointed secretary to the Poor Law commissioners. Unwilling to administer an act of which he was largely the author in any way other than as he thought best, he found it hard to get along with his superiors. The disagreement, among others, contributed to the dissolution of the Poor Law Commission in 1847. His chief contribution to political controversy was his belief in entrusting certain departments of local affairs to trained and selected experts instead of to representatives, elected on the principle of local self-government.\n\nFollowing a serious outbreak of typhus in 1838, Chadwick convinced the Poor Law Board that an enquiry was required, and this was initially carried out by his doctor friends Arnot and Southwood Smith, assisted by another doctor from Manchester, James Kay Shuttleworth. This was the first time in British history that doctors were employed to look at the conditions which might contribute to ill health in the population. Chadwick sent questionaires to every Poor Law Union, and talked to surveyors, builders, prison governors, police officers and factory inspectors to obtain additional data about the lives of the poor. He edited the information himself, and prepared it for publication. His \"Report on The Sanitary Condition of the Labouring Population of Great Britain\", begun in 1839 and published in 1842, was researched and published at his own expense, and became the best-selling publication produced by the Stationery Office to date. A supplementary report was also published in 1843.\n\nHe employed John Roe, the surveyor for the district of Holborn and Finsbury who had invented the egg-shaped sewer, to conduct experiments on the most efficient ways to construct drains, the results of which were incorporated into the report, and the summary included eight points, including the absolute necessity of better water supplies and of a drainage system to remove waste, as ways to diminish premature mortality. Evidence given by Dr Dyce Guthrie convinced Chadwick that every house should have a permanent water supply, rather than the intermittent supplies from standpipes that were often provided. The report caught the public imagination, and the government had to set up a Health of Towns Commission to consider the issues and recommend legislation. Its chairman was the Duke of Baccleuch, and there were thirteen members, including then engineers Robert Stephenson and William Cubitt. Chadwick acted as secretary in an unofficial capacity, and seems to have dominated the proceedings.\n\nThe Commission took evidence from Robert Thom, who had designed a water supply system for Greenock, Thomas Wicksteed, who was the engineer for the East London Waterworks Company, and Thomas Hawksley from the Trent Waterworks, Nottingham. These confirmed his ideas about constant water supplies, and he developed a model which he called the \"venous and arterial system.\" Each house would have a constant water supply, and water-closets would ensure that soil was discharged into egg-shaped sewers, to be carried away and spread on the land as manure, preventing rivers from becoming polluted. Followed the publication of the Commission's report, the Health of Towns Association was formed and various city-based branches were created. Chadwick later helped to ensure that the Waterworks Clauses Act 1847 became law, to limit the profits that water supply companies could make to 10 percent, and requiring them to comply with reasonable demands for water. This included a constant supply of wholesome water for houses, and a supply for cleansing sewers and watering streets.\n\nChadwick wanted to see his ideas implemented over a wide area, and set about forming a company to supply water to towns, to ensure their drainage and cleansing, and to use the refuse for agricultural production. It was to have the grandiose title \"The British, Colonial and Foreign Drainage, Water Supply and Towns Improvement Company\", with an initial capital of £1 million, but it was the time of the Railway Mania, and he struggled to raise the finance against such competition. The company when it was eventually registered became the more modest Towns Improvement Company. Railways continued to dominate the money market, and the company was wound up after just three years. Chadwick understood that both water supply and drainage were important, since replacing earth-closets with water closets resulted in cesspools overflowing and making sanitary conditions worse, unless there were sewers to carry the waste away. This let to a rift forming between him and Hawksley, who had initially worked closely with him but who later took on water supply projects which did not include any requirement for drainage.\n\nChadwick's report led to the Public Health Act 1848, which was the first instance of the British government taking responsibility for the health of its citizens. It had been introduced by Lord Morpeth in 1847, with the aim or requiring every town to supply water to every house, which they could do by building their own waterworks or by liaising with water companies, and to undertake drainage, sewerage and street paving projects. Most of its grand aims were considerably watered down by the time it became law, but it established a Central Board of Health, whose members were Lord Morpeth, Lord Shaftesbury, and Chadwick. They were later joined by Southwood Smith, who acted as a medical advisor. Districts could pay for a survey from an inspector employed by the Board, and could then proceed without the need to obtain a costly local Act to authorise the work. Chadwick chose all of the inspectors himself, ensuring that they shared his views on glazed sewer pipes, constant water supply and arterial drainage. They worked enthusiastically, ensuring that districts considered comprehensive schemes for water supply, drainage and sewerage.\n\nRatepayers in a district could request an inspector to attend if ten percent of them signed a petition. The Board could also hold an enquiry if the death rate of a district exceeded 23 per 1000, but gauged the level of local support, and formed a local Board if there was support, and withdrew tactfully if there was opposition. By 1853, they had received requests for inspections from 284 towns, and 13 combined water supply, sewerage and drainage schemes had been completed under the legislation. Relationships with engineers were not always easy, with J M Rendel calling Chadwick's ideas \"sanitary humbug\" and Robert Stephenson stating that he hated the ideas of pipes, rather than brick-built sewers. Even Joseph Bazalgette, who went on to design London's trunk sewer network, spoke out against glazed sewer pipes. As time went by, there was growing opposition to what was seen as central control by the Board. The rift between Chadwick and Hawksley had become open hostility, and Hawksley made serious complaints against Chadwick and one of the Board's inspectors to a Select Committee of the House of Commons in 1853. Opposition from engineers increased, and a \"Private Enterprise Society\" was formed by Hawksley and James Simpson, with the intent of bringing down the Board. Shaftsbury, Chadwick and Southwood Smith all had to resign in 1854, and the Board did not last for long afterwards. Chadwick lived to see his position vindicated, when the Local Government Board was established in 1871, which led to the formation of the Ministry of Health. Since then, it has been widely acknowledged that public health is a matter of government responsibility, working through local authorities.\n\nIn 1851, Chadwick made a recommendation that a single authority should take over the nine separate water supply companies that operated in London. Although this idea was rejected by the Government, the Metropolitan Water Supply Act 1852 forced the companies to move the intakes for their water to locations above Teddington weir, to filter water before it was used for domestic supply, to cover filtered water reservoirs, and to ensure that there was a constant water supply to all users by 1857. This was not achieved until 1899, and Chadwick's recommendation for a single authority was eventually implemented in 1902, with the formation of the Metropolitan Water Board.\nIn 1852, Chadwick conversed with Lewis Llewelyn Dillwyn in relation to the construction of a sewerage system in Swansea.\n\nChadwick's efforts were acknowledged by at least one health reformer of the day: William James Erasmus Wilson dedicated his 1854 book \"Healthy Skin\" to Chadwick \"In admiration of his strenuous and indefatigable labors in the cause of Sanitary Reform\".\n\nHe corresponded with Florence Nightingale on methodology. He encouraged her to write up her research into the book \"Notes on Nursing.\" He promoted it among well placed intellectuals, making her more visible.\n\nChadwick was a commissioner of the Metropolitan Commission of Sewers in London from 1848 to 1849. He was also a commissioner of the General Board of Health from its establishment in 1848 to its abolition in 1854, when he retired on a pension. He occupied the remainder of his life in voluntary contributions to sanitary, health and economic questions.\n\nIn January 1884, he was appointed as the first president of the Association of Public Sanitary Inspectors, now the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health. Its head office, in Waterloo, London, is named Chadwick Court, in his honour.\n\nWhile he is well known for his work with the Poor Law and with sanitation, he also contributed to other areas of public policy. These included tropical hygiene, criminal justice institutions, policy regarding funerals and burials in urban areas, school architecture, utilisation of sewage, military sanitation and the education of paupers. He was involved in investigations into child labour in factories, the organisation of the police force, drunkenness, the treatment of labourers on the railways, the building and maintenance of roads, organisation of the civil service, and various aspects of education. Most of these benefitted from his use of statistical methods to collect and organise data, and of the use of anecdotal evidence to support his conclusions. He was involved in a number of organisations, including the British Association for the Advancement of Science, the Institute of Civil Engineers, the National Association for the Promotion of Social Science, the Royal Society of Arts, the Royal Statistical Society, the London Debating Society and the Political Economy Club.\n\nIn recognition of his public service, he was knighted in 1889. He served in his post until his death, at 90, in 1890, at East Sheen, Surrey.\n\nChadwick is remembered at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine where his name appears among the names of 23 pioneers of public health and tropical medicine chosen to be honoured when the School was built in 1929.\nHe is also commemorated at Heriot Watt University in Edinburgh, Scotland for the engineering building.\n\nAccording to Priti Joshi in 2004 the evaluation of his career has drastically changed since the 1950s:\n\nSuch views are not universally held. Thus Eckland and Price in their assessment of Chadwick's economic policies in 2012 can write:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50600870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50600870", "title": "Esperanto movement", "text": "Esperanto movement\n\nThe Esperanto movement, less commonly referred to as Esperantism (), is a movement to disseminate the use of the planned international language Esperanto. The movement does not aim to supplant national languages but merely to supplement them. The movement is sometimes used even for all people speaking Esperanto including their culture, which is not a correct use of the sociological term \"movement\".\n\nEsperanto has been placed in a few proposed political situations. The most popular of these is the former minor party \"Europe—Democracy—Esperanto\", which aims to establish Esperanto as the official language of the European Union. Grin's Report, published in 2005 by François Grin found that the use of English language as the lingua franca within the European Union costs billions annually and significantly benefits English-speaking countries financially. The report considered a scenario where Esperanto would be the lingua franca and found that it would have many advantages, particularly economically speaking, as well as ideologically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36204723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36204723", "title": "Frederick Nicholas Charrington", "text": "Frederick Nicholas Charrington\n\nFrederick Nicholas Charrington (4 February 1850 – 2 January 1936) was an English social reformer who renounced succession to a fortune of over £1 million in order to devote his life to temperance work.\n\nCharrington was born in the Bow Road, in the East End of London. His father was a partner in the Charrington Brewery, one of London’s biggest brewing companies. Charrington was heir to a fortune of a million and a quarter pounds. He was educated at Marlborough College, but left because of illness and finished his school career at Brighton College. He subsequently joined the family business.\n\nAt the age of 19, Charrington had a conversion experience and became an Evangelical Christian. About a year later, while walking through Whitechapel, he saw a poorly dressed woman with her children begging her husband to leave a public house and give her money for food. The furious husband came out and knocked her into the gutter. Charrington went to help and was also knocked to the ground. Looking up, he saw his name on the sign above the pub.\n\n“When I saw that sign,” he later wrote, “I was stricken just as surely as Paul on the Damascus Road. Here was the source of my family wealth, and it was producing untold human misery before my own eyes. Then and there I pledged to God that not another penny of that money should come to me.”\n\nCharrington abandoned the family business to devote his life to helping the poor in the East End. He opened a school, led a fight to clean up the music halls and became an ardent worker for the Temperance Movement. In 1870 he founded the Tower Hamlets Mission and made the Great Assembly Hall in the Mile End Road a centre of Christian work in the East End of London.\n\nIn 1903 Charrington purchased Osea Island off the coast of Maldon in Essex and established a treatment centre for people with alcohol and opiate addictions. In return for free treatment, clients would remain on the island and work the land.\n\nHe was one of the original members of the London County Council (1889–95).\n\nHe died in the London Hospital in January 1936.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59121532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59121532", "title": "Gardening Women", "text": "Gardening Women\n\nGardening Women: Their Stories From 1600 to the Present is a 2010 book on social history and horticulture and women's historical role in gardening and garden design by author and journalist Catherine Horwood. It was first published in hardback by the British publisher Little Brown under their imprint Virago.\n\n\"Gardening Women\" was published in hardback, paperback and Kindle editions.\n\nThe American edition was published under the title \"Women and Their Gardens: A History from the Elizabethan Era to Today\" by the Chicago Review Press in 2012.\nThe book received largely positive reviews. 'An authoritative writer, it is about time that women gardeners received the generous tribute awarded to them by Horwood's splendid book . . . lively, superbly researched and highly enjoyable' \"(Literary Review)\"; 'Women, like weeds, are everywhere in gardening history. In gathering their stories and describing their influences and achievements Horwood has done a terrific, pioneering job. Beautifully structured and cogently written.' \"(The Times))\"; 'For anyone interested in the long and fascinating history of women and their gardens, Horwood's book, with its vast scope and plethora of fascinating detail, is an admirable starting point' \"(Daily Mail)\"; 'An interesting, well-told story' \"(Financial Times)\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5272183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5272183", "title": "Green Map", "text": "Green Map\n\n]\n\nGreen Maps are locally created environmentally themed maps with a universal symbol set and map-making resources provided by the non-profit Green Map System. Based on the principles of cartography a Green Map plots the locations of a community's natural, cultural and sustainable resources such as recycling centers, heritage sites, community gardens, toxic waste sites and socially conscious businesses.\n\nGreen Maps are an educational and environmental communication tool for advocacy and public awareness first created for New York City by eco-designer Wendy Brawer of Modern World Design in 1992 as seen at the Green Apple Map website. The global Green Map System was formed as a result of the response to this first Green Map. Since 1995, Green Mapmaking has grown steadily around the world.\nGreen Map’s office in New York City is the resource development, outreach and support center. Due to the growth in the number of projects a decentralized or \"hub\" based management system has been adopted. Green Map System has encouraged various regions to form local support networks. Green Map System and its network of regional hubs and community-led Green Map projects share their outcomes.\n\nThe website GreenMap.org is the gathering point for both the makers and the users of Green Maps. GreenMap.org went online in 1995 and it was re-launched in May 2007, with a resource center for Mapmakers all over the world to communicate and exchange their Green Map making experience. This content management system is named as Greenhouse, symbolizing its ability to cultivate and present a “garden of Green Maps”.\n\nAlthough Green Map System authorizes local mapmakers to use its Green Mapmaking icons and tools, every project is independent and locally led. Grassroots and established non-profits, universities and schools, governmental and tourism agencies use the icons and adaptable methodologies to develop and publish their own community's Green Map in a way that meets the needs of residents and visitors.\n\nWhile Green Map System prefers and promotes the spelling \"Green Map\" to preserve trademark claims,\n\"green map\" and \"greenmap\" are often used by local Green Map projects. Green Map System is concerned with maintaining control of copyright and trademark in order to preserve the perceived integrity of the system; they wish to prevent the use of Green Maps in greenwashing and do not allow public use of their assets.\n\nThe Green Map tagline is “Think Global, Map Local!”. It’s a play on the familiar think global - act local, and implies the same depth of local involvement for positive change.\n\nAll Green Maps use a set of globally designed Green Icons, developed collaboratively by the network of local project leaders. Allegedly this is the world’s only universal symbol set for maps. The globally designed icons ensure that all Green Maps engage and guide a diversity of users. Because concepts of sustainability are continually evolving, Green Mapmakers have developed the third version of the symbols, released in March 2008. Provided as a font for ease of use or as stickers for youth/computer-less Green Mapmakers.\n\n"}
{"id": "54511470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54511470", "title": "Harriet Abbott Lincoln Coolidge", "text": "Harriet Abbott Lincoln Coolidge\n\nHarriet Abbott Lincoln Coolidge (1849 - 1902) was an American philanthropist, author and reformer. She did much in the way of instructing young mothers in the care and clothing of infants, and furthered the cause to improve the condition of infants in foundling hospitals. She contributed a variety of articles on kindergarten matters to the daily press, and while living in Washington D.C., she gave a series of \"nursery talks\" for mothers at her home, where she fitted up a model nursery. \n\nCoolidge was the editor of \"Trained Motherhood\"; and author of \"In the Story Land\", \"Kindergarten Stories\", \"Talks to Mothers\", \"The Model Nursery\", and \"What a Young Girl Ought to Know\". She was one of the original signers of the Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution, and was an active member of four of the leading charity organizations in Washington.\n\nHarriet Abbot Lincoln, born in Boston, Massachusetts, was the daughter of Frederic W. Lincoln and Emmeline Hall Lincoln. Her parents married in May 1848, and she was born before her mother died in July 1849. Frederic was called the War Mayor of Boston, as he held that office all through the American Civil War and was reelected and served seven years. \n\nHer great-grandfather, Amos Lincoln, was a captain of artillery and one of the intrepid band who, in 1773, consigned the tea to the water in Boston harbor. He was in the battle of Bunker Hill, attached to Stark's brigade, in action at Battle of Bennington, Battle of Brandywine, and Battle of Monmouth, and aided in the suppression of Shays's Rebellion, and was also one of Governor John Hancock's aids. On June 14, 1781, he was married to Deborah, a daughter of Paul Revere, which made Coolidge a great-great-granddaughter of his. Amos Lincoln's first ancestor in the US was Samuel Lincoln, of Hingham, Massachusetts, one of whose sons was Mordecai Lincoln, the ancestor of President Abraham Lincoln. \n\nCoolidge was delicate in childhood, and her philanthropic spirit was early shown in flower-mission and hospital work in Boston. Her childhood was passed as a neighbor of Louisa May Alcott, Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., Thomas Bailey Aldrich, Edwin Percy Whipple, and James Thomas Fields. For several years, she was instructed at home, and she was sent to Dr. Dio Lewis's School for Young Ladies, of Lexington, Massachusetts. \n\nIn November, 1872, she married George Austin Coolidge, a publishing agent of Boston. After having children, Coolidge devoted herself to motherhood, studying the best methods of infant hygiene. She soon began a series of illustrated articles for the instruction of mothers in a New York City magazine, and while residing in that city, studied for three years and visited the hospitals for children.\n\nIll health obliged her to return to Washington, D.C., where, before going to New York, she was interested in charities and hospitals for children. Meeting the mothers of both the rich and the poor, and seeing the great need of intelligent care in bringing up little children, she began a large correspondence with others. Her devotion to the children of the Foundling Hospital in Washington, and the great hygienic reformation she brought about, gave that institutional record of no deaths among its residents during the six months she acted as a member of its executive board of officers. Frequent inquiries from mothers desiring information on hygienic subjects relating to children suggested the idea of a series of nursery talks to mothers and the fitting up of a model nursery in tier residence, where every accessory of babyhood could be practically presented. \"Nursery Talks\" were inaugurated by a \"Nursery Tea,\" and 500 women from official and leading circles were present. Classes were formed, and a paid course and a free one made those lectures available for all desiring information. Even into midsummer, at the urgent request of mothers, Coolidge continued to give her mornings to answering questions. She remained in Washington during the summer, guiding those who did not know how to feed their infants proper food, and, as a consequence, her health was impaired, and she was obliged to give up her nursery lectures until her health was restored. She then commenced a scientific course of hygienic study, and was made president of the Woman's Clinic, where women and children were treated by women physicians. \n\nCoolidge was an active member of four of the leading charity organizations in Washington, a member of the Woman's National Press Association and devoted to every movement in which women's higher education was considered.\n\nCoolidge's book, \"In the story land\", contained stories for the kindergarten, the school, and the home. It was made up from three smaller volumes, which sold separately in boards at 25 cents each. Some of the stories included: \"Little Black Fairy\" (Coal), \"Mother Willow and Her Friends,\" \"The Discontented Raindrop,\" \"Little Bed Cap\" (Squirrel), \"The Violet and Nutshell,\" \"The Rose Club,\" \"How the Fairies Came\" (Rainbow colors), \"Dear Little Brownie\" (Chestnut), \"Little Yellow and His Brothers and Sisters\" (Maple leaf).\n\nShe married George Austin Coolidge in 1872. A daughter, Emelyn Lincoln Coolidge (b. Boston, August 9, 1873), was a pediatrician. Coolidge died on either 17 or 18 May, 1902 at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, Maryland, after having been rushed there from Washington, D. C. suffering from acute bronchitis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9594858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9594858", "title": "Heidelberg Institute for International Conflict Research", "text": "Heidelberg Institute for International Conflict Research\n\nThe Heidelberg Institute for International Conflict Research (HIIK) is an independent and interdisciplinary registered association located at the Department of Political Science at the University of Heidelberg. Since 1991, the HIIK has been committed to the distribution of knowledge about the emergence, course and settlement of interstate and intrastate political conflicts. The Conflict Barometer is published annually and contains the current research results.\n\nThe HIIK's annual publication Conflict Barometer describes the recent trends in global conflict developments, escalations, de-escalations, and settlements. Coup d'état, attempted coups d'états, as well as implemented measures of conflict resolution are also reported. It is subdivided into five world regions and presents all present conflicts in detailed charts and short descriptions. The methodological approach consists of the conflict definition and the measuring of the conflict intensity.\n\nFollowing a methodological revision in 2011, changes in the Heidelberg methodology included allocating intensities not only based on state units and calendar years, but also on the level of subnational units and calendar months. Furthermore, the establishment of intensities now follows an analysis of clearly conceived proxy indicators, used for the assessment of means and consequences of a conflict measure. This analysis continues to be based on the actions of conflict actors, as well as the communication between them. Through the conceptual refinement and standardization of data collection and documentation, the HIIK data achieves a higher degree of precision, reliability, and comprehensibility regarding information on political conflicts.\n\nA political conflict is a positional difference between at least two assertive and directly involved actors regarding values relevant to a society (the conflict items including (territory, secession, decolonization, autonomy, system/ideology, national power, regional predominance, international power, resources, other)) which is carried out using observable and interrelated conflict measures that lie outside established regulatory procedures and threaten core state functions, the international order, or hold the prospect of doing so.\n(1) There must be at least two entities possessing intellectual capacity and vision, and who are capable of communicating. Such an entity is called an actor.\n(2) In order for the actors to sense incompatibility between their ideas and beliefs, there must be reciprocal actions and acts of communication between said actors. These actions and acts of communication are called measures.\n(3) A communicating act always refers to a specific issue, an action always refers to a certain object. The subject behind a measure is called item.\nFor the purpose of defining the term political conflict more precisely, the three elements aforementioned shall be further defined. These elements are necessary requirements for the existence of a political conflict.\n\nThe table below presents data after the 2011 methodology revision. Violent conflicts include highly violent ones, the latter being classified into limited and full-scale wars.\n\n"}
{"id": "959954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=959954", "title": "Henrietta Barnett", "text": "Henrietta Barnett\n\nDame Henrietta Octavia Weston Barnett, DBE (\"née\" Rowland; 4 May 1851 – 10 June 1936) was a notable English social reformer, educationist, and author. She and her husband, Samuel Augustus Barnett, founded the first \"University Settlement\" at Toynbee Hall (in the East End of London) in 1884. They also worked to establish the model Hampstead Garden Suburb in the early 20th century.\n\nBorn in Clapham, London, Henrietta Octavia Weston Rowland lost her mother (Henrietta Monica Margaretta Ditges) at an early age. Her father, Alexander William Rowland, a wealthy businessman associated with the Macassar Oil Company, raised her and seven siblings at their London home and a country house in Kent, where she developed a lifelong appreciation of country pursuits. One of her sisters was the philanthropist Alice Hart.\n\nAt age 16, Henrietta was sent to a boarding school in Devon run by the Haddon sisters, who, influenced by James Hinton, were committed to social altruism. When her father died in 1869, Henrietta moved with two sisters to Bayswater, where she met and helped social activist and housing reformer Octavia Hill. Hill introduced Henrietta to the writings of John Ruskin, as well as many influential people similarly interested in improving the condition of London's poor.\n\nThrough Hill, Henrietta met Canon Samuel Barnett, then the curate of St Mary's, Bryanston Square. They married in 1873. The newlyweds soon moved to the impoverished Whitechapel parish of St Jude's, intent on improving social conditions. Henrietta continued her parish visiting activities, with a focus on women and children, including the more than 2,000 prostitutes then active in Whitechapel alone. In 1875, Henrietta became a woman guardian for the parish, and the following year was named a school manager for the Poor Law district schools in Forest Gate. Another social initiative which the Barnetts helped set up was the Metropolitan Association for Befriending Young Servants (1876), with Jane Senior; the organisation aimed to prevent girls from becoming prostitutes, criminals or alcoholics, and provided domestic servants. The Barnetts' experiment in sending slum children for country holidays grew into the Children's Fresh Air Mission (Off to the Country), established in 1877, becoming the Children's Country Holidays Fund in 1884. Henrietta Barnett promoted Homes for Workhouse Girls starting in 1880, and founded the London Pupil Teachers Association in 1891. She also served as vice-president of the National Association for the Welfare of the Feeble-Minded (1895) and National Union of Women Workers (1895–96).\n\nIn 1884, the Barnetts established (and began living at) Toynbee Hall, a pioneering university settlement named after the recently deceased distinguished historian Arnold Toynbee, who had advocated education of the working classes and reduction of the division between social classes. In 1897 annual loan exhibitions of fine art began at the nearby Whitechapel Gallery through the Barnetts' efforts. In 1903 Richard Tawney began working with them, the Children's Country Holiday Fund, and the Workers' Educational Association. William Beveridge and Clement Attlee also worked with the Barnetts as they started their own careers. A visit to Toynbee Hall inspired Jane Addams to found Hull House in Chicago.\nIn 1889 the activist couple acquired a weekend home at Spaniard's End in the Hampstead area of north-west London. The Barnetts became inspired by Ebenezer Howard and the model housing development movement (then exemplified by Letchworth garden city), as well as protecting part of nearby Hampstead Heath from development by Eton College. In 1904, they established trusts which bought 243 acres of land along the newly opened Northern line extension to Golders Green. This became the Hampstead Garden Suburb, a model garden city developed through their efforts and those of architects Raymond Unwin and Sir Edwin Lutyens and which ultimately grew to encompass over 800 acres. In 1909, an adult education institute opened in the middle of the new Hampstead Garden Suburb, with cultural programmes and discussion groups. Soon a school for girls was established and named the Henrietta Barnett School.\n\nAlthough the suburb was never completely developed according to Lutyens's plan (and soon became a middle class enclave rather than a mixture of classes), it did include Grade I listed St Jude's Church, as well as a clubhouse and a tea house (for non-alcoholic social focus), a Quaker meeting house, children's homes, a nursery school, and housing for old people. \n\nThe Barnetts never had children of their own. They adopted Dorothy Woods, and Henrietta also served as legal guardian for her brain-damaged elder sister, Fanny. After Samuel died in 1913, Henrietta founded Barnett House at Oxford (1914) in his memory. She helped it become the university's centre for social work and social policy education.\n\nBarnett wrote several books, alone and with her husband. Their Christian Socialist beliefs are set out in \"Practicable Socialism\" (1889) and \"Toward Social Reform\" (1909).\n\nHer early books concerned domestic issues: \"The Making of the Home\" (1885), \"How to Mind the Baby,\" (1887) and, written with her husband and Ernest Abraham Hart (her brother-in-law), \"The Making of the Body\" (1894). With Kathleen Mallam, Henrietta Barnett also edited a collection of essays entitled \"Destitute, Neglected, and Delinquent Children\" (Pan-Anglican papers, 1908). After her husband's death, Henrietta Barnett finished their \"Illustrated British Ballads Old and New\" (1915), wrote his multi-volume biography, \"Canon Barnett: his life, work and friends\" (1918) as well as published collections of essays, most notably \"Matters that Matter\" (1930). \n\nFor her work as a social reformer, Barnett was named a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1917, and elevated to Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE) in 1924. In 1920, she was named honorary president of the 480 member American Federation of Settlements.\nFor the final dozen years of her life, Henrietta Barnett took up painting and often lived at 45 Wish Road, Hove (today marked by a blue plaque).\n\nShe died at Hampstead in 1936 (aged 85) and is buried (with Samuel) in the churchyard of St Helen's Church, Hangleton, East Sussex.\n\nThe Barnetts are jointly remembered on 17 June on the liturgical calendar of the Church of England.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57379245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57379245", "title": "Incel", "text": "Incel\n\nIncels (a portmanteau of involuntary celibates) are members of an online subculture who define themselves as unable to find a romantic or sexual partner despite desiring one, a state they describe as \"inceldom\". Self-identified incels are mostly white, male, and heterosexual. Discussions in incel forums are often characterized by resentment, misanthropy, self-pity, self-loathing, misogyny, racism, a sense of entitlement to sex, and the endorsement of violence against sexually active people. The Southern Poverty Law Center described the subculture as \"part of the online male supremacist ecosystem\" that is included in their list of hate groups. At least four mass murders, resulting in 45 deaths, have been committed in North America by people who have either self-identified as incels or who had mentioned incel-related names and writings in their private writings or Internet postings. Incel communities have been criticized by the media and researchers for being misogynist, encouraging violence, as well as spreading extremist views and radicalizing their members.\n\nThe first online community to use the term \"incel\" was started in 1993 when a Canadian college student known only by her first name, Alana, created a website in order to discuss her sexual inactivity with others. The website, titled \"Alana's Involuntary Celibacy Project\", was used by people of all genders to share their thoughts and experiences. In 1997, she started a mailing list on the topic that used the abbreviation INVCEL, which was later shortened to \"incel\", where it was defined as \"anybody of any gender who was lonely, had never had sex or who hadn't had a relationship in a long time\". During her college career and after, she realized she was queer, and became more comfortable with her identity. She later gave the site to a stranger. When speaking about the website in 2018, Alana said, \"It definitely wasn't a bunch of guys blaming women for their problems. That's a pretty sad version of this phenomenon that's happening today. Things have changed in the last 20 years.\"\n\nThe message board love-shy.com was founded in 2003 as a place for people who were perpetually rejected or extremely shy of potential partners to discuss their situations.\n\nThe /r/incels subreddit, a forum on the website Reddit, became a particularly active incel community. The subreddit was known as a place where men blamed women for their involuntary celibacy, sometimes advocated for rape or other violence, and were misogynistic and often racist. One post titled \"general question about how rapists get caught\" was asked by a member pretending to be a woman, saying they wanted to know how a woman who was drugged and raped would begin finding her rapist.\n\nWhen Alana read about the 2014 Isla Vista killings, and the way parts of the incel subculture glorified the perpetrator, Elliot Rodger, she wrote, \"Like a scientist who invented something that ended up being a weapon of war, I can't uninvent this word, nor restrict it to the nicer people who need it.\" Alana expressed regret at the change in usage from her original intent of creating an \"inclusive community\" for men and women who were sexually deprived due to social awkwardness, marginalization, or mental illness. She has since started a new project, \"Love Not Anger\", which she describes as \"a project to research how lonely people might find respectful love, instead of being stuck in anger\".\n\nOn October 25, 2017, Reddit announced a new policy that would ban \"content that encourages, glorifies, incites, or calls for violence or physical harm against an individual or a group of people\". and banned the /r/incels subreddit on November 7, 2017, under its purview. At the time of the ban, the community had around 40,000 members. \n\nIncels came to wider public notice with the banning of the subreddit and when a series of mass murders were committed by men who either self-identified as involuntarily celibate or shared similar ideologies. However the incel community continued to inhabit Reddit. Increased interest in incel communities has been attributed to the feeling of \"aggrieved entitlement\" by some men, who feel they are being denied rights they deserve and blame women instead of society's expectation of masculinity.\n\nIncel communities have increasingly become more extremist and focused on violence, in recent years. This has been attributed to various factors, including influence from overlapping online hate groups and the rise of the alt-right and white supremacist groups. The misogynistic and sometimes violent rhetoric of some members of incel communities has led to numerous bans from websites and webhosts. Incel communities continue to exist on more lenient platforms, such as Voat, 4chan, and Reddit. There are also incel forums that disapprove of hatred, and a dating website that caters to incels.\n\nMany incel communities are characterized by resentment, self-pity, misogyny, misanthropy, narcissism, and racism. Discussions often revolve around the belief that men are owed sex; other common topics include idleness, loneliness, unhappiness, suicide, sexual surrogates, prostitutes and the acquirement of sex robots, as well as various attributes they believe increase one's desirability as a partner such as income or personality. Some endorse suicide among incels, violence against sexually active women and more sexually successful men, harassment of women, and catfishing women. In some communities, it is common for posts to glorify violence by self-identified incels such as Elliot Rodger (2014 Isla Vista killings) and Alek Minassian (2018 Toronto van attack, suspected), as well as by those they believe shared their ideology such as Marc Lépine (1989 École Polytechnique massacre), Seung-Hui Cho (2007 Virginia Tech shooting), and George Sodini (2009 Collier Township shooting).\n\nMany incels firmly defend concepts such as biological determinism and evolutionary psychology. Other concepts that incels may believe in include female hypergamy, the \"80/20 rule\" (an application of the Pareto principle) which suggests that 80% of women desire the top 20% of most attractive men; and among non-whites, the \"JBW\" theory, which stands for \"Just Be White\", suggesting that Caucasians face the fewest obstacles when dating. Incels also believe that single people seeking a partner participate in a cruel, mercenary, and Darwinian sexual selection wherein incels are genetically unfit and where women hold an advantage for reasons ranging from feminism to the use of cosmetics. Incels may attribute their lack of sexual success to factors such as shyness, sex-segregated work environments, negative body image, penis size, or their physical appearance, and commonly believe that the only thing more important than looks in improving a man's eligibility as a prospective partner is wealth. Some members of incel communities support the idea of \"forced 'sexual redistribution, where governments would require women to engage in certain sexual relationships, an idea which incels refer to as \"sexual Marxism\" and which others have described as \"state-sanctioned rape\". Some incels support the works of fringe social psychologist Brian Gilmartin, author of the book \"Shyness and Love\" which gained popularity among incel communities, and clinical psychologist Jordan Peterson.\n\nIncel communities are a part of the broader manosphere. According to \"The New York Times\", involuntary celibacy is an adaptation of the idea of \"male supremacy\". The Southern Poverty Law Center described the subculture as \"part of the online male supremacist ecosystem\", which they began including in their list of hate groups in 2018. \"The New York Times\" wrote that \"the group has evolved into a male supremacist movement made up of people—some celibate, some not—who believe that women should be treated as sexual objects with few rights\". Incel communities sometimes overlap with topics such as Men Going Their Own Way (MGTOW), men's rights activism, vlogs by people who believe they are experiencing \"true forced loneliness\" (TFL), and pickup artistry, although at least one male incel website has expressed hatred for pickup artistry and accuses pickup artists and dating coaches of financially exploiting incels.\n\nThe black pill is a set of beliefs that are commonly held amongst members of incel communities, such as biological determinism, fatalism and defeatism for unattractive people. Someone who believes in the black pill is \"blackpilled\".\n\nThe concept of the black pill distinguishes incels from the men's rights movement and their popular reference to the red pill, an allusion to the dilemma in the movie \"The Matrix\" where the protagonist must choose to remain in a world of illusion (taking the blue pill) or to see the world as it really is (taking the red pill). In the context of men's rights activism, \"taking the red pill\" means seeing a world where women hold power over men. The black pill, on the other hand, refers to hopelessness. It also holds that one's personality is not very important.\n\nThe term \"black pill\" was first popularized on the blog Omega Virgin Revolt, where the term commended despondency in order to distinguish incels from the pickup artist communities. On the incel subreddit /r/braincels, \"blackpills\" are memes (usually images) that users share to describe a user's thoughts, many of which criticize women as egocentric, cruel, and shallow. Although the tone of the subreddit is similar, moderators of the forum say that they do not endorse, support, or glorify violence or violent people, a distinction they make from the subject matter of its /r/incels predecessor that resulted in it being banned from Reddit.\n\nThe term \"involuntary celibate\" (shortened to \"incel\") refers to self-identifying members of an online subculture based around the inability to find a romantic or sexual partner despite desiring one, a state they describe as \"inceldom\" or \"incelibacy\". It is sometimes used interchangeably or alongside other terms, such as \"love-shy\" (describing those with social anxiety or excessive shyness preventing romantic success), \"FA\" (short for \"forever alone\"), \"unfuckability\", \"omegas\", \"zeta males\", \"betas\" \"the undersexed\", or \"the sexless\". Alana, the coiner of the term incel, initially considered using other terms such as \"perpetually single\" or \"dating shy\".\n\nMembers of incel communities regularly use jargon and a distinct dialect to refer to various concepts. For example, they may describe women as \"femoids\", \"stacys\" (attractive sexually active women), or \"beckys\" (less attractive sexually active women), and sexually active men as \"chads\". \"Mogging\" refers to the act of eclipsing another person in terms of physical appearance and thereby undermining them. \"Looksmaxing\" is an attempt at enhancing one's appearance by methods including dressing nicely, going to the gym, or undergoing plastic surgery. The abbreviation \"NEET\" refers to people who don't have jobs and aren't attending school: \"not in education, employment, or training\".\n\nMembers of incel communities use many variations of the term \"incel\" to refer to subgroups in the community, such as \"volcels\" (voluntary celibate; someone who chooses to forego sexual intercourse), \"marcels\" (married), \"nearcels\" (those who are considered nearly incel), \"hicels\" (those who have high standards; are very picky when dating), \"heightcels\" (short), and \"fakecels\" (those who claim to be incel, but in reality have recently had sex or been in a relationship). There are also a number of race-based variations of the term \"incel\" which refer to people who believe their race is the reason behind their inability to find a partner, including \"currycels\" (people of South Asian ancestry) and \"ricecels\" (those of Chinese or Southeast Asian backgrounds), or collectively, \"ethnicels\".\n\nSelf-identified incels are mostly white, male and heterosexual, and are often described as young and friendless introverts. Some media outlets depict them as unemployed and living with parents. However, due to their varied nature, there is no singular typical trait that defines all incels. Although members of incel communities mainly reside in the United States, there are also incel communities for people outside the Anglosphere, such as the Italian website Il Forum dei Brutti.\n\nThe first incel website, Alana's Involuntary Celibacy Project, was gender-inclusive. There are also women-specific forums, such as /r/Femcels and /r/ForeverAloneWomen. Nonetheless, there is disagreement in online incel communities on whether women can be incel, with some claiming that male incels outnumber female incels, others claiming that it is impossible for women to be incel, others claiming that only women with a physical deformity can be incel, while others argue that only highly unattractive women belonging to the \"bottom percentile in terms of appearance\" can be incel.\n\nEstimates on the size of incel communities vary, and range from the thousands, to tens of thousands, or hundreds of thousands.\n\nThe incel subculture includes people who are in sexless marriages (or other sexless relationships) but who wish to be sexually active. It is considered to be distinct from asexuality and from voluntary sexual abstinence.\n\n\"Involuntary celibacy\" is not a medical or psychological condition. Some people who identify as incel suffer from physical disabilities or psychological disorders such as depression, autism spectrum disorder, and body dysmorphic disorder. Some visitors of incel forums attribute their inability to find a partner to physical or mental ailments, some others attribute it to extreme introversion. Many incels engage in self-diagnosis of mental health issues, and members of incel communities often discourage posters who post about mental illness from seeing therapists or otherwise seeking treatment. Some incels with severe depression are also suicidal, and some members of incel communities encourage suicidal members to commit suicide, sometimes recommending they commit acts of mass violence before doing so.\n\nSome mass murders and other violent attacks in North America have been committed or are suspected to have been committed by men who have self-identified as involuntarily celibate, or whose statements align with incel ideologies.\n\nOn May 23, 2014, Elliot Rodger killed six people and injured fourteen others before killing himself in Isla Vista, California, near the campus of University of California, Santa Barbara. These killings drew media attention to the concept of involuntary celibacy, and particularly the misogyny and glorification of violence that are a mainstay of many incel communities. Rodger self-identified as an incel and left behind a 137-page manifesto and YouTube videos detailing his involuntary celibacy and discussing how he wanted revenge for being rejected by women. He had been an active member of an involuntary celibacy community called PUAHate (short for \"pickup artist hate\"), and referenced it several times in his manifesto. Although PUAHate shut down soon after the attack, Rodger became something of a martyr to some communities that remained, and to some of those that began later. He has been referenced by the perpetrators or suspected perpetrators of several other mass killings.\n\nRodger is among several attackers who are regularly praised by members of incel communities. The perpetrator of the 2009 Collier Township shooting, George Sodini, has been embraced by some of these communities. After the 2017 Las Vegas shooting by Stephen Paddock (a man with unclear motive), some of the involuntarily celibate community celebrated the shooter, who they felt was a hero who was targeting \"normies\". The trend has since continued—after the 2018 Toronto van attack, a poster on a website created to supersede /r/incels wrote about suspected perpetrator Alek Minassian, \"I hope this guy wrote a manifesto because he could be our next new saint.\" After the 2018 Danforth shooting, posters on an incel message board expressed excitement with the possibility that the perpetrator might be an incel, although no motive has been identified.\n\nOn October 1, 2015, Chris Harper-Mercer killed nine people and injured eight others before killing himself in a shooting at the Umpqua Community College campus in Roseburg, Oregon. He left a manifesto at the scene, outlining his interest in other mass murders including the Isla Vista killings, anger at not having a girlfriend, and animus towards the world. In his journal writings, he had related with Elliot Rodger and other mass shooters, describing them as \"people who stand with the gods\". Before the attack, when someone on an online message board had speculated he was \"saving himself for someone special\", Harper-Mercer had replied: \"Involuntarily so.\" Several hours before the shooting, someone suspected to be Harper-Mercer posted a threat to a Pacific Northwest college to /r9k/, a 4chan board with many involuntarily celibate posters.\n\nOn July 31, 2016, Sheldon Bentley robbed and killed an unconscious man in an alleyway in Edmonton, Alberta. During his trial, Bentley said he killed the man by stomping on his abdomen because he was frustrated with stress from his job as a security guard and with being involuntarily celibate for four years.\n\nOn December 7, 2017, William Atchison killed two people before killing himself in Aztec, New Mexico, in a shooting at Aztec High School, where he had previously been a student. He had used the pseudonym \"Elliot Rodger\" on several online forums, and praised \"the supreme gentleman\" (a term Rodger had used to describe himself, which has since been adopted as a moniker by incel communities).\n\nOn February 14, 2018, Nikolas Cruz killed seventeen people and injured seventeen others in a shooting at Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida before being arrested. Cruz had previously posted online that \"Elliot Rodger will not be forgotten\".\n\nOn April 23, 2018, a van driver (suspected to be Alek Minassian) killed ten people and injured fourteen others in a vehicle-ramming attack in Toronto, Ontario before being arrested. Shortly before the attack, Minassian had posted on Facebook that \"the Incel Rebellion has already begun\" and applauded Elliot Rodger. The term \"Incel Rebellion\" is sometimes used interchangeably with the term \"Beta Uprising\", which refers to a violent response to incels' perceived sexual deprivation.\n\nOn November 2, 2018, Scott Beierle killed two women and injured four women and a man before killing himself in a shooting at the Hot Yoga Tallahassee studio in Tallahassee, Florida. He had a history of arrests for grabbing women's buttocks, and in 2014 he posted several YouTube videos of himself espousing extreme hatred for women. He expressed anger over not having a girlfriend, mentioning Elliot Rodger in one video. In the months leading up to the shooting, he posted numerous misogynistic, racist, violent, and homophobic songs to SoundCloud.\n\nIncel communities have been widely criticized in the media and by researchers as violent, misogynist, and extremist. Keegan Hankes, a senior research analyst working for the Southern Poverty Law Center, has cautioned that exposure to violent content on incel forums \"play[s] a very large role\" in the radicalization of incels, and describes violent posts on the forums as \"more ... than I'm used to seeing on even white supremacist sites\". Journalist David Futrelle has described incel communities as \"violently misogynistic\", and is among critics who attribute worsening violent rhetoric on incel forums to the growth of the alt-right and white supremacy, and the overlap between incel communities and online hate groups. Senior research fellow at the Institute for Strategic Dialogue (ISD), Amarnath Amarasingam, has criticized some incel communities where calls for violence are commonplace, saying \"under the right set of psychological and personal circumstances, these kinds of forums can be dangerous and push people into violence\". Another researcher at the ISD, Jacob Davey, compared the radicalization of incels in incel forums to teenagers being urged to go to extreme measures on online forums that promote anorexia and other eating disorders and to online campaigns convincing people to join ISIL. Speaking about incels' feelings of entitlement to sex, Davey said the attitude \"can go as far as the justification of rape\". University of Portsmouth lecturer Lisa Sugiura has described incel forums as a \"networked misogyny\", and urged the posts in such forums be taken seriously not only in the context of hate speech but also as a form of grooming that could radicalize \"impressionable and vulnerable disillusioned young men\".\n\nCriticism has also been directed against platforms that host or have hosted incel content, including Reddit (who banned the /r/incels community in 2017 but has declined to ban another incel subreddit) and Twitter. Cloudflare, which provides services including DDoS protection and caching so that webpages are still accessible when a site is offline, has also been criticized for protecting incel websites against downtime even when webhosts have terminated service.\n\nReporting on incels by media outlets following the incel-related attacks during the 2010s has been criticized for its \"breathless\" coverage, normalizing incel communities by describing them as \"sexually frustrated\", and directing readers to incel communities. Some reporting has also been criticized for victim blaming by implying that women and peers who rejected the attackers held some responsibility for provoking the attacks, or for giving attackers notoriety by reporting on them at length.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1512628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1512628", "title": "Institutional repository", "text": "Institutional repository\n\nAn institutional repository is an archive for collecting, preserving, and disseminating digital copies of the intellectual output of an institution, particularly a research institution.\n\nAn institutional repository can be viewed as a \"...a set of services that a university offers to members of its community for the management and dissemination of digital materials created by the institution and its community members.\" For a university, this includes materials such as monographs, eprints of academic journal articles—both before (preprints) and after (postprints) undergoing peer review—as well as electronic theses and dissertations. An institutional repository might also include other digital assets generated by academics, such as datasets, administrative documents, course notes, learning objects, or conference proceedings. Deposit of material in an institutional repository is sometimes mandated by that institution.\n\nSome of the main objectives for having an institutional repository are to provide open access to institutional research output by self-archiving in an open access repository, to create global visibility for an institution's scholarly research, and to store and preserve other institutional digital assets, including unpublished or otherwise easily lost (\"grey\") literature such as theses, working papers or technical reports.\n\nDigital institutional repositories are document servers enabling researchers to archive their research output. Worldwide institutions are starting to implement digital institutional repositories for digital formats of research. Scholarly output can be born-digital, in which no digitalisation is necessary before the research is included in a digital repository. A digital institutional repository accessible through the Internet can improve the visibility, usage and impact of research conducted at an institution.\n\nThe origin of the notion of an institutional repository are twofold:\n\nIn 2003 the function of an institutional repository was coined by Clifford Lynch in relation to universities. He argued that:\n\n\"... a university-based institutional repository is a set of services that a university offers to the members of its community for the management and dissemination of digital materials created by the institution and its community members. It is most essentially an organizational commitment to the stewardship of these digital materials, including long-term preservation where appropriate, as well as organization and access or distribution.\"\n\nBesides archiving research output institutional repositories can perform the functions such as knowledge management, research assessment and showcasing an institution's research output.\n\nThe content of an institutional repository depends on the focus of the institution. Higher education institutions conduct research across multiple disciplines, thus research from a variety of academic subjects. Examples of such digital institutional repositories include the MIT Institutional Repository. A disciplinary repository is subject specific. It holds and provides access to scholarly research in a particular discipline. While there can be disciplinary repositories for one institution, disciplinary repositories are frequently not tied to a specific institution. The PsyDok digital repository for example holds German language research in psychology. SSOAR is an international social science full text-server.\n\nInstitutional repositories that provide access to research to users outside the institutional community are one of the recommended ways to achieve the open access vision described in the Budapest Open Access Initiative definition of open access. This is sometimes referred to as the self-archiving or \"green\" route to open access.\n\nRepository 66 is a mashup that indicates the worldwide locations of open access digital repositories. It is based on data provided by ROAR and the OpenDOAR service developed by SHERPA.\n\nAn institutional repository has been understood as a means to ensure that the published work of scholars is available to the academic community even after increases in subscription fees or budget cuts within libraries. The majority of research scholars do not provide free access to their research output to their colleagues in an organization. Institutional repositories provide scholars with a common platform so that everyone in the institution can contribute scholarly material to promote cross-campus interdisciplinary research. The development of an institutional repository redefines the production and dissemination of scholarly material within an academic community. The contents available on the institute’s website usually are removed after a few weeks. An institutional repository can provide a platform to manage institutional information, including web content. Institutional repositories have a number of benefits, including access to resources, visibility of research, and presentations of the contents.\n\nIf an institution has decided to invest in a repository numerous resources exist to help librarians and other repository managers frame and answer such questions, including \"A Librarian's Process for Building an Institutional Repository\",\n\nThe major institutional repository software platforms use a common open standard called OAI-PMH. This standard makes it not just possible to collect and move research output from one platform to another.\n\nWhile a majority of the institutions run institutional repository software on local servers, among new adopters, there is a strong preference towards cloud-based services. A survey commissioned by Duraspace found that 72% of respondents indicated that their institutional repository is a hosted service. Institutions are choosing cloud-based solutions because such providers \"enable institutions to easily get started with a hosted software service, with no need to provision local hardware, software, staff, or other infrastructure nor is there any specific technical skill or expertise required\". Also important to the decision to go hosted may be the understanding that a hosted institutional repository solution \"frees a library from both hardware and software support, allowing staff resources to be directed to other publishing service functions such as consulting and workflow design.\"\n\nThe Confederation of Open Access Repositories (COAR) states in its manifesto that \"Each individual repository is of limited value for research: the real power of Open Access lies in the possibility of connecting and tying together repositories, which is why we need interoperability. In order to create a seamless layer of content through connected repositories from around the world, open access relies on interoperability, the ability for systems to communicate with each other and pass information back and forth in a usable format. Interoperability allows us to exploit today's computational power so that we can aggregate, data mine, create new tools and services, and generate new knowledge from repository content.\"\n\nInteroperability is achieved in the world of institutional repositories using protocols to which repositories should conform, such as OAI-PMH. This allows search engines and open access aggregators, such as BASE and CORE, to index repository metadata and content and provide value-added services on top of this content.\n\nThe Digital Commons Network aggregates by discipline some 500 institutional repositories running on the Bepress Digital Commons platform. It includes more that two million full-text objects.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51240989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51240989", "title": "International Year of Volunteers", "text": "International Year of Volunteers\n\nInternational Year of Volunteers was designated for 2001 by the United Nations General Assembly. The initiative aimed at increased recognition, facilitation, networking and promotion of volunteering, to highlight the achievements of the millions of volunteers worldwide who devote their time to serving others, and to encourage more people globally to engage in volunteering.\n\nThe concept for a United Nations year to recognize volunteerism first emerged within the UN system at a 1996 policy forum in Japan by UNV and United Nations University (UNU). A February 1997 proposal of the Government of Japan was transmitted through the UN Secretary General be placed on the agenda of the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) in July 1997. ECOSOC, in its resolution 1977/44 of 22 July 1997, recommended to the UN General Assembly that it adopt the resolution proclaiming 2001 the International Year of Volunteers. The UN General Assembly, in its 52nd session on 20 November 1997 in Resolution 52/17, co-sponsored by 123 countries, passed the ECOSOC resolution, thereby proclaiming 2001 as the International Year of Volunteers. The United Nations Volunteers programme (UNV), part of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), was designated in the resolution as the international focal point.\n\nObjectives of IYV were:\n\nSharon Capeling-Alakija was the Executive Coordinator of United Nations Volunteers during IYV 2001. As the international focal point, UNV, based in Bonn, Germany, took the lead in all organizing and promotion regarding the year internationally.\n\nThe \"www.iyv2001.org\" website, launched in December 1998 by UNV, provided resources for United Nations organizations, non-governmental organizations and governments to recognize the year in some way. The resources provided by the site included:\n\nThe IYV logo was a creation and volunteer contribution from Argentine designer Sandra Rojas, and was provided in the six official UN languages as well as a composite logo that combines all six in one.\n\nUN Secretary-General Kofi Annan opened IYV in November 2000 in New York. Other speakers at the event included Capeling-Alakija; Felipe VI of Spain (then Prince of Asturias]]; Nadia Comaneci, Olympic Gold Medalist; representatives from the governments of Japan, Uganda and Brazil; Dr. Astrid Heiberg, then President of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC); Anita Roddick, then CEO of The Body Shop; Bernard Kouchner, then of UNMIK in Kosovo; Sergio Vieira de Mello, then of UNTAET in East Timor; UN Volunteers from the Philippines and Nigeria; and representatives from NetAid. Annan also appointed the former President of Ghana, Jerry Rawlings, as the first IYV Eminent Person, to help raise the profile of millions of volunteers working for peace and development around the world. Other IYV Eminent Persons named for the year included Crown Prince Felipe, Roddick, and the former Executive Director of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), Dr. Nafis Sadik.\n\nAt the Word Volunteer Conference in Amsterdam, in honor of IYV, the International Association for Volunteer Effort re-issued a revised Universal Declaration on Volunteering, first issued in 1990 during the World Volunteer Conference in Paris. \"This Declaration supports the right of every woman, man and child to associate freely and to volunteer regardless of their cultural and ethnic origin, religion, age, gender, and physical, social or economic condition.\"\n\nIndividual countries also created their own national IYV websites, and events were held around the world to promote the goals of IYV, such as the official launch event in New York City.\n\nIn the USA, the Points of Light Foundation and the Association of Junior Leagues International (AJLI) partnered to convene and lead the IYV USA Steering Committee. Members of the committee included the National Council of Volunteer Centers, National Council on Workplace Volunteering, Association for Volunteer Administration, National Parents and Teachers Association and Make A Difference Day. The USA's IYV web site, \"www.iyv2001us.org\", was launched in September 2000.\n\nOn 29 March 2001, the United Nations Postal Administration (UNPA) issued a set of six commemorative stamps and a souvenir card in honor of IYV.\n\nFour IYV 2001 Stamps were issued by the Bhutan Post on June 15.\n\nCharles, Prince of Wales unveiled the design of a 10-cent Canadian circulation coin commemorating IYV in April 2001. The coin went into circulation later that year. It was produced by Royal Canadian Mint and adapted from a photo provided by the March of Dimes.\n\nAccording to a press release by UNV in October 2001, lawmakers in France, Germany, Spain and the UK passed pro-volunteer legislation in 2001, and new laws were proposed in Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador, Madagascar, Mozambique, Nepal, Senegal and Tanzania. Also for the year, UNV and the Independent Sector released \"Measuring Volunteering: A Practical Toolkit,\" a survey guide to measure the economic contribution of volunteering. The press release says the toolkit was adapted for use in Botswana, China, Lao PDR, Kazakhstan and Mongolia, and that research on volunteering had begun in Cambodia, Madagascar, Namibia, Sri Lanka and Tanzania.\n\nSolicited by UNV, musicians from around the world donated and wrote songs about volunteerism, submitting them to UNV for possible inclusion on the IYV2001 website and in a CD. Chosen songs were offered via the website to download for free. UNV also offered a CD with 27 songs in nine languages, by musicians from 18 countries, in celebration of IYV. The CD featured Jamaican reggae star Tony Rebel, who donated the song, \"Not all about money\", and Portugal's Paulo de Carvalho, who donated the song \"Vai e faz\" (Go and Do). Most of the songs praised the virtues of volunteers, but the last song, by Dave Greenfield of Canada, was meant to provoke political debate and question social issues about volunteers.\n\nThe United Colors of Benetton's communication campaign for autumn 2001 was produced in collaboration with UNV and honored IYV. Instead of professional models, the campaign featured photos of volunteers, such as a tattooed former member of a street gang who volunteered in anti-violence activities, a young lawyer volunteering to promote and defend human rights, a trans-gendered person who volunteered to distribute condoms amongst prostitutes, and an elderly tap dancer who entertained residents in homes for the elderly. The campaign was promoted throughout Europe, the United States, South America and parts of Asia, in newspapers, magazines, and billboards. A special issue of Benetton's magazine \"Colors\" was published for the campaign in November 2001.\n\nThe final event for the year by UNV, the International Symposium on Volunteering, was 18–21 November 2001 in Geneva, Switzerland. The event was attended by representatives from most of the IYV national committees, and provided workshops to discuss the outcomes of IYV 2001.\n\nThen Pope John Paul II issued a statement on December 5, 2001, noting, \"At the end of the year, that the United Nations dedicated to Volunteer work, I wish to express my heartfelt appreciation for your constant dedication, in every part of the world, in going to meet those who live in poverty. Whether you work individually or gathered together in special associations, you represent for children, the elderly, the sick, people in difficulty, refugees and the persecuted a ray of hope that pierces the darkness of solitude and encourages them to overcome the temptations of violence and egotism.\"\n\nThe General Assembly marked the closing of IYV on December 5, 2001 by adopting a resolution on recommendations for volunteer action, commending the ongoing contributions of all volunteers to society, and encouraging all people to become more engaged in voluntary activities. The assembly also decided that two plenary meetings at its fifty-seventh session on 5 December 2002 should be devoted to the outcome of the IYV and its follow-up. Specific recommendations on ways governments and the UN system could support volunteering were contained in an annex to the resolution.\n\nWorldwide volunteer activities of the Vienna based NGO community were presented at the Vienna International Centre on 11 December 2001 to mark IYV 2001 and the International Day of Human Rights, jointly organized by the United Nations Information Service Vienna (UNIS) and CONGO (Conference of NGOs in consultative relationship with the UN).\n\nThe European Year of Volunteering (EYV) was in 2011, launched by the European Commission to celebrate the volunteerism efforts of Europeans and chosen to correspond with the 10th anniversary of IYV. It was originally an initiative of the EYV 2011 Alliance, an informal gathering of volunteer networks, such as Caritas, the International Committee of the Red Cross and European Youth Forum. The web site address was \"www.europa.eu/volunteering\", and the site is now archived on the European Commission website.\n\nIn 2011, ten years after IYV, under General Assembly Resolution 63/153 (2008) the United Nations IYV+10 was recognized and promoted by UNV to renew the goals of the original IYV and to encourage people’s contributions to peace and the Millennium Development Goals through volunteering. National and international UN Volunteers, as well as online volunteers, were recruited to support work on IYV+10, strengthen links with stakeholders and partners at the national level, and monitor initiatives developed during the Year. Activities were promoted via the UNV web site www.worldvolunteerweb.org. During the first half of 2011, a series of five regional consultation meetings were organized in Ecuador (28–20 March), Turkey (18–19 April), the Philippines (3–4 May), and Senegal (30–31 May for Francophone Africa and 6–7 June for Anglophone Africa). These events brought together hundreds of stakeholders from civil society, the private sector, national authorities and academia, UNV Field Units and other United Nations entities. A global conference on ‘Volunteering for a sustainable future’ was held 15–17 September in Budapest in partnership with the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) and the International Association for Volunteer Effort (IAVE). The conference brought together UN member states and volunteer-involving organizations, plus partners from academia and the private sector. The 64th Annual UN DPI/NGO Conference was held from 3–5 September hosted by the German government and the city of Bonn. The event theme was ‘Sustainable Societies, Responsive Citizens’.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45391434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45391434", "title": "John O'Grady (priest)", "text": "John O'Grady (priest)\n\nMonsignor John O'Grady, Ph.D. (March 31, 1886 – January 2, 1966) was a sociologist, economist, social reformer. O’Grady served as executive secretary of the National Conference of Catholic Charities (now Catholic Charities USA) from 1920 to 1961.\n\nJohn O'Grady, the son of Francis O'Grady and Margaret (Hayes) O'Grady, was born on March 31, 1886 in Annagh Feakle, County Clare, Ireland. He was educated in Ireland and attended seminary at the All Hallows College in Dublin, where he was ordained on June 24, 1909. After ordination, O'Grady was assigned to serve in the diocese of Omaha, Nebraska.\n\nIn 1912, O'Grady was sent to Catholic University of America to pursue a graduate degree. He completed a doctorate in sociology and economics in 1915, with a dissertation called \"The Legal Minimum Wage.\" During his study, O'Grady also took summer courses at Johns Hopkins University and Chicago University. In Chicago, O'Grady became fascinated by Jane Addams and the settlement movement. He later wrote that “I came to regard Jane Adams [sic] as one of the great leaders of American life.”\n\nO'Grady became a professor of economics at Catholic University of America in 1915 and taught at the school for several decades in the sociology and economics departments. He also taught sociology at Trinity College in Washington, D.C. (now called Trinity Washington University).\n\nIn 1934, O’Grady helped to found Catholic University’s School of Social Work and served as its dean from 1934 to 1938.\n\nWhile at Catholic University, O'Grady was mentored by Monsignor William J. Kerby, who was a professor and a founder of the recently formed National Conference of Catholic Charities (NCCC), later called Catholic Charities USA. Kerby encouraged O'Grady to become involved in the work of the NCCC. In 1920, O'Grady was elected to be Kerby's successor as executive secretary of the NCCC, a position he would hold until 1961.\n\nAs secretary of the NCCC, O’Grady worked to professionalize Catholic social services and staff by developing and training diocesan organizations, improving communication across agencies, and training workers.\n\nO’Grady also advocated for social justice measures and lobbied for “widespread social reform based on Catholic principles,” on a wide variety of issues, including: support of New Deal relief measures, the Social Security Act, housing legislation, measures for displaced persons following World War II, and immigration reform.\n\nIn addition, O’Grady served as managing-editor and eventually editor at \"The Catholic Charities Review\". At the \"Review\", O’Grady worked alongside John A. Ryan, who served as editor-in-chief and eventually contributing editor. The \"Review\", itself the successor to the \"St. Vincent’s Quarterly\", was the “clearinghouse of material and information related to the work of Catholic Charities.” The publication ceased production in 1975 and was succeeded by Catholic Charities USA’s publication \"Charities. \" As managing editor and editor, O’Grady authored editorials in the monthly publication that took positions on everything from unemployment relief efforts in the Great Depression to social work practices.\n\nO’Grady served as an advocate for many social reform measures, working behind the scenes with congressmen and testifying before Congress on issues such as: unemployment relief, immigration, migrant labor, and public housing measures. Over the years, O’Grady developed strong relationships behind the scenes, becoming a resource for legislators such as Senator Robert F. Wagner (D-NY) and administrators such as Harry Hopkins and Aubrey Willis Williams.\n\nIn 1919, O'Grady was appointed as secretary of the Committee of Reconstruction and After War Activities of the National Catholic War Council (later the National Catholic Welfare Council). It was in this position that O'Grady persuaded John A. Ryan to write the Bishop's Program on Social Reconstruction.\n\nIn 1931, O’Grady helped create the first National Public Housing Conference. He served as chairman of the Housing Legislative Information Service, “a group which brings together representatives of all organizations in the United States interested in housing,” from 1945 to 1961.\n\nO’Grady was vocally opposed to restrictive immigration reform laws that were proposed in the wake of World War II. In 1952, O’Grady was named as a member of the President’s Commission on Immigration and Naturalization by President Harry S. Truman. During that time, O’Grady was outspoken in his opposition to the McCaran-Walter Act. He was particularly critical of the bill’s inclusion of a literacy test and the continuation of the national quota system that favored immigrants from Western European nations, which O’Grady believed was prejudiced and would perpetuate “the doctrine of Nordic superiority.” O’Grady said that America “can't discriminate against two-thirds of the world and still presume to be the leader of the Western democracies.”\n\nO’Grady befriended Saul Alinsky, the pioneer of community organizing, in the 1940s. In 1952, Alinsky contracted with a publisher to write a biography of O’Grady’s life. Though the manuscript was drafted, it was never published.\n\nO’Grady helped to found Caritas Internationalis in 1951 and served as its first vice president from 1958 to 1961.\n\nIn 1959, O’Grady was cited in a letter by Pope John XXIII for his “wise and zealous” direction of Caritas in Ghana and for his work “to foster a spirit of neighborliness and to promote the real welfare of the people.”\n\n\"A Legal Minimum Wage\". Washington: National Capital Press, 1915.\n\n\"Directory of Catholic Charities in the United States\". (Editor). Washington: National Conference of Catholic Charities, Catholic University, 1922.\n\n\"An Introduction to Social Work\". The Century Co, 1928.\n\n\"The Catholic Church and the Destitute\". The Macmillan, 1929.\n\n\"Catholic Charities in the United States: History and Problems\". Literary Licensing LLC, 1931.\n\n\"Levi Silliman Ives: Pioneer Leader in Catholic Charities\". (1933)\n\nO’Grady died from a kidney ailment on January 2, 1966 at Carroll Manor, a retirement home for clergy in Hyattsville, Maryland. Archbishop Patrick O’Boyle celebrated a pontifical mass in O’Grady’s honor on January 5, 1966 at St. Mathew’s Cathedral in Washington, DC. Archbishop Boyle said in a tribute to O’Grady that “his influence on charitable work of the Church in this country and throughout the world for widespread social reform will long be remembered. He was truly a modern apostle of Christian charity.” O’Grady was buried at Mt. Olivet Cemetery.\n\nThere were several remembrances of O’Grady following his death, including a speech by then-Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, John William McCormack, who said: “We may well mourn that such a man has left us, but the occasion of his death is truly, in the long view, the occasion for rejoicing, both in the splendor of his Christian soul, and in the lasting benefits which his career has brought to our Nation [sic] and to the world. May his soul rest in peace and may his example inspire generations yet to come.”\n\n"}
{"id": "5823212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5823212", "title": "Late Bronze Age collapse", "text": "Late Bronze Age collapse\n\nThe Late Bronze Age collapse involved a dark-age transition period in the Near East, Asia Minor, Aegean region, North Africa, Caucasus, Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean from the Late Bronze Age to the Early Iron Age, a transition which historians believe was violent, sudden, and culturally disruptive. The palace economy of the Aegean region and Anatolia that characterised the Late Bronze Age disintegrated, transforming into the small isolated village cultures of the Greek Dark Ages. The half-century between and 1150 BC saw the cultural collapse of the Mycenaean kingdoms, of the Kassite dynasty of Babylonia, of the Hittite Empire in Anatolia and the Levant, and of the Egyptian Empire; the destruction of Ugarit and the Amorite states in the Levant, the fragmentation of the Luwian states of western Asia Minor, and a period of chaos in Canaan. The deterioration of these governments interrupted trade routes and severely reduced literacy in much of the known world. In the first phase of this period, almost every city between Pylos and Gaza was violently destroyed, and many abandoned, including Hattusa, Mycenae, and Ugarit. According to Robert Drews: \n\nWithin a period of forty to fifty years at the end of the thirteenth and the beginning of the twelfth century almost every significant city in the eastern Mediterranean world was destroyed, many of them never to be occupied again.\nA very few powerful states, particularly Assyria and Elam, survived the Bronze Age collapse – but by the end of the 12th century BC, Elam waned after its defeat by Nebuchadnezzar I, who briefly revived Babylonian fortunes before suffering a series of defeats by the Assyrians. Upon the death of Ashur-bel-kala in 1056 BC, Assyria went into a comparative decline for the next 100 or so years, its empire shrinking significantly. By 1020 BC Assyria appears to have controlled only the areas in its immediate vicinity; the well-defended Assyria itself was not threatened during the collapse. Gradually, by the end of the ensuing Dark Age, remnants of the Hittites coalesced into small Neo-Hittite and Syro-Hittite states in Cilicia and the Levant, the latter states being composed of mixed Hittite and Aramean polities. Beginning in the mid-10th century BC, a series of small Aramaean kingdoms formed in the Levant and the Philistines settled in southern Canaan where the Canaanite-speaking Semites had coalesced into a number of defined polities such as Israel, Moab, Edom and Ammon. From 935 BC Assyria began to reorganise and once more expand outwards, leading to the Neo-Assyrian Empire (911-605 BC), which came to control a vast area from the Caucasus to Egypt, and from Greek Cyprus to Persia. Phrygians, Cimmerians and Lydians arrived in Asia Minor, and a new Hurrian polity of Urartu formed in eastern Asia Minor and the southern Caucasus, where the Colchians (Georgians) also emerged. Iranian peoples such as the Persians, Medes, Parthians and Sargatians first appeared in Ancient Iran soon after 1000 BC, displacing earlier non-Indo-European Kassites, Hurrians and Gutians in the northwest of the region, although the indigenous language isolate-speaking Elamites and Manneans continued to dominate the southwest and Caspian Sea regions respectively. After the Orientalising period in the Aegean, Classical Greece emerged.\n\nBefore the Bronze Age collapse, Anatolia (Asia Minor) was dominated by a number of peoples of varying ethno-linguistic origins: including Semitic Assyrians and Amorites, language isolate-speaking Hurrians, Kaskians and Hattians, and later-arriving Indo-European peoples such as Luwians, Hittites, Mitanni, and Mycenaean Greeks. From the 16th century BC, the Mitanni (a migratory minority speaking an Indo-Aryan language) formed a ruling class over the Hurrians, an ancient indigenous Caucasian people who spoke a Hurro-Urartian language, a language isolate. Similarly, the Indo-Anatolian-speaking Hittites absorbed the Hattians, a people speaking a language that may have been of the non–Indo-European North Caucasian language group or a language isolate.\n\nEvery Anatolian site, apart from integral Assyrian regions in the south east, and regions in eastern, central and southern Anatolia under the control of the powerful Middle Assyrian Empire (1392–1050 BC) that was important during the preceding Late Bronze Age shows a destruction layer, and it appears that in these regions civilization did not recover to the level of the Assyrians and Hittites for another thousand years or so. The Hittites, already weakened by a series of military defeats and annexations of their territory by the Middle Assyrian Empire (which had already destroyed the Hurrian-Mitanni Empire) then suffered a coup de grâce when Hattusas, the Hittite capital, was burned, probably by the language isolate-speaking Kaskians, long indigenous to the southern shores of the Black Sea, and possibly aided by the incoming Indo-European–speaking Phrygians). The city was abandoned and never reoccupied.\n\nKaraoğlan (near present-day Ankara) was burned and the corpses left unburied. Many other sites that were not destroyed were abandoned. The Luwian city of Troy was destroyed at least twice, before being abandoned until Roman times. (Trojan War)\n\nThe Phrygians had arrived (probably over the Bosphorus or Caucasus) in the 13th century BC, before being first checked by the Assyrians and then conquered by them in the Early Iron Age of the 12th century BC. Other groups of Indo-European peoples followed the Phrygians into the region, most prominently the Doric Greeks and Lydians, and in the centuries \"after\" the period of Bronze Age Collapse, the Cimmerians, and Scythians also appeared. The Semitic Arameans, Kartvelian-speaking Colchians (Georgians), and revived Hurrian polities, particularly Urartu, Nairi and Shupria also emerged in parts of the region and southern Caucasus. The Assyrians simply continued their already extant policies, by conquering any of these new peoples and polities they came into contact with, as they had with the preceding polities of the region. However Assyria gradually withdrew from much of the region for a time in the second half of the 11th century BC, although they continued to campaign militarily at times, in order to protect their borders and keep trade routes open, until a renewed vigorous period of expansion in the late 10th century BC.\n\nThese sites in Anatolia show evidence of the collapse:\n\nThe catastrophe separates Late Cypriot II (LCII) from the LCIII period, with the sacking and burning of Enkomi, Kition, and Sinda, which may have occurred twice before those sites were abandoned. During the reign of the Hittite king Tudhaliya IV (reigned c. 1237–1209 BC), the island was briefly invaded by the Hittites, either to secure the copper resource or as a way of preventing piracy.\n\nShortly afterwards, the island was reconquered by his son around 1200 BC. Some towns (Enkomi, Kition, Palaeokastro and Sinda) show traces of destruction at the end of LCII. Whether or not this is really an indication of a Mycenean invasion is contested. Originally, two waves of destruction in c. 1230 BC by the Sea Peoples and c. 1190 BC by Aegean refugees have been proposed.\n\nAlashiya was plundered by the Sea Peoples and ceased to exist in 1085.\n\nThe smaller settlements of Ayios Dhimitrios and Kokkinokremnos, as well as a number of other sites, were abandoned but do not show traces of destruction. Kokkinokremos was a short-lived settlement, where various caches concealed by smiths have been found. That no one ever returned to reclaim the treasures suggests that they were killed or enslaved. Recovery occurred only in the Early Iron Age with Phoenician and Greek settlement. \n\nThese sites in Cyprus show evidence of the collapse:\n\nAncient Syria had been initially dominated by a number of indigenous Semitic-speaking peoples. The East Semitic-speaking Eblaites, Akkadians and Assyrians and the Northwest Semitic-speaking Ugarites and Amorites prominent among them. Syria during this time was known as \"The land of the Amurru\".\n\nBefore and during the Bronze Age Collapse, Syria became a battle ground between the empires of the Hittites, Assyrians, Mitanni and Egyptians between the 15th and late 13th centuries BC, with the Assyrians destroying the Hurri-Mitanni empire and annexing much of the Hittite empire. The Egyptian empire had withdrawn from the region after failing to overcome the Hittites and being fearful of the ever growing Assyrian might, leaving much of the region under Assyrian control until the late 11th century BC. Later the coastal regions came under attack from the Sea Peoples. During this period, from the 12th century BC, the incoming Northwest Semitic-speaking Arameans came to demographic prominence in Syria, the region outside of the Canaanite-speaking Phoenician coastal areas eventually came to speak Aramaic and the region came to be known as Aramea and Eber Nari. The Babylonians belatedly attempted to gain a foothold in the region during their brief revival under Nebuchadnezzar I in the 12th century BC, however they too were overcome by their Assyrian neighbours. The modern term 'Syria' is a later Indo-European corruption of 'Assyria' which only became formally applied to the Levant during the Seleucid Empire (323–150 BC) (see Etymology of Syria).\n\nLevantine sites previously showed evidence of trade links with Mesopotamia (Sumer, Akkad, Assyria and Babylonia), Anatolia (Hattia, Hurria, Luwia and later the Hittites), Egypt and the Aegean in the Late Bronze Age. Evidence at Ugarit shows that the destruction there occurred after the reign of Merneptah (ruled 1213–1203 BC) and even the fall of Chancellor Bay (died 1192 BC). The last Bronze Age king of the Semitic state of Ugarit, Ammurapi, was a contemporary of the Hittite king Suppiluliuma II. The exact dates of his reign are unknown.\n\nA letter by the king is preserved on one of the clay tablets found baked in the conflagration of the destruction of the city. Ammurapi stresses the seriousness of the crisis faced by many Levantine states from invasion by the advancing Sea Peoples in a dramatic response to a plea for assistance from the king of Alasiya. Ammurapi highlights the desperate situation Ugarit faced in letter RS 18.147:\n\nMy father, behold, the enemy's ships came (here); my cities(?) were burned, and they did evil things in my country. Does not my father know that all my troops and chariots(?) are in the Land of Hatti, and all my ships are in the Land of Lukka?... Thus, the country is abandoned to itself. May my father know it: the seven ships of the enemy that came here inflicted much damage upon us.\n\nNo help arrived and Ugarit was burned to the ground at the end of the Bronze Age. Its destruction levels contained Late Helladic IIIB ware, but no LH IIIC (see Mycenaean period). Therefore, the date of the destruction is important for the dating of the LH IIIC phase. Since an Egyptian sword bearing the name of Pharaoh Merneptah was found in the destruction levels, 1190 BC was taken as the date for the beginning of the LH IIIC.\n\nA cuneiform tablet found in 1986 shows that Ugarit was destroyed after the death of Merneptah. It is generally agreed that Ugarit had already been destroyed by the 8th year of Ramesses III, 1178 BC. These letters on clay tablets found baked in the conflagration of the destruction of the city speak of attack from the sea, and a letter from Alashiya (Cyprus) speaks of cities already being destroyed by attackers who came by sea. It also speaks of the Ugarit fleet being absent, patrolling the Lycian coast.\n\nThe West Semitic Arameans eventually superseded the earlier Semitic Amorites, Canaanites and people of Ugarit. The Arameans, together with the Phoenician Canaanites and Neo-Hittites came to dominate most of the region demographically, however these people, and the Levant in general, were also conquered and dominated politically and militarily by the Middle Assyrian Empire until Assyria's withdrawal in the late 11th century BC, although the Assyrians continued to conduct military campaigns in the region. However with the rise of Neo Assyrian Empire in the late 10th century BC, the entire region once again fell to Assyria. \n\nThese sites in Syria show evidence of the collapse:\n\nEgyptian evidence shows that from the reign of Horemheb (ruled either 1319 or 1306 to 1292 BC), wandering Shasu were more problematic than the earlier Apiru. Ramesses II (ruled 1279–1213 BC) campaigned against them, pursuing them as far as Moab, where he established a fortress, after a near defeat at the Battle of Kadesh. During the reign of Merneptah, the Shasu threatened the \"Way of Horus\" north from Gaza. Evidence shows that Deir Alla (Succoth) was destroyed after the reign of Queen Twosret (ruled 1191–1189 BC).\n\nThe destroyed site of Lachish was briefly reoccupied by squatters and an Egyptian garrison, during the reign of Ramesses III (ruled 1186–1155 BC). All centres along a coastal route from Gaza northward were destroyed, and evidence shows Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Akko, and Jaffa were burned and not reoccupied for up to thirty years. Inland Hazor, Bethel, Beit Shemesh, Eglon, Debir, and other sites were destroyed. Refugees escaping the collapse of coastal centres may have fused with incoming nomadic and Anatolian elements to begin the growth of terraced hillside hamlets in the highlands region that was associated with the later development of the Hebrews.\n\nDuring the reign of Rameses III, Philistines were allowed to resettle the coastal strip from Gaza to Joppa, Denyen (possibly the tribe of Dan in the Bible, or more likely the people of Adana, also known as Danuna, part of the Hittite Empire) settled from Joppa to Acre, and Tjekker in Acre. The sites quickly achieved independence, as the \"Tale of Wenamun\" shows. \n\nThese sites in Southern Levant show evidence of the collapse:\n\nNone of the Mycenaean palaces of the Late Bronze Age survived (with the possible exception of the Cyclopean fortifications on the Acropolis of Athens), with destruction being heaviest at palaces and fortified sites. Up to 90% of small sites in the Peloponnese were abandoned, suggesting a major depopulation.\n\nThe Bronze Age collapse marked the start of what has been called the Greek Dark Ages, which lasted roughly 400 years and ended with the establishment of Archaic Greece. Other cities like Athens continued to be occupied, but with a more local sphere of influence, limited evidence of trade and an impoverished culture, from which it took centuries to recover. \n\nThese sites in Greece show evidence of the collapse:\n\nThe Middle Assyrian Empire (1392–1056 BC) had destroyed the Hurrian-Mitanni Empire, annexed much of the Hittite Empire and eclipsed the Egyptian Empire, and at the beginning of the Late Bronze Age collapse controlled an empire stretching from the Caucasus mountains in the north to the Arabian peninsula in the south, and from Ancient Iran in the east to Cyprus in the west. However, in the 12th century BC, Assyrian satrapies in Anatolia came under attack from the Mushki (Phrygians), and those in the Levant from Arameans, but Tiglath-Pileser I (reigned 1114–1076 BC) was able to defeat and repel these attacks, conquering the incomers. The Middle Assyrian Empire survived intact throughout much of this period, with Assyria dominating and often ruling Babylonia directly, controlling south east and south western Anatolia, north western Iran and much of northern and central Syria and Canaan, as far as the Mediterranean and Cyprus.\n\nThe Arameans and Phrygians were subjected, and Assyria and its colonies were not threatened by the Sea Peoples who had ravaged Egypt and much of the East Mediterranean, and the Assyrians often conquered as far as Phoenicia and the East Mediterranean. However, after the death of Ashur-bel-kala in 1056 BC, Assyria withdrew to areas close to its natural borders, encompassing what is today northern Iraq, north east Syria, the fringes of north west Iran, and south eastern Turkey. Assyria still retained a stable monarchy, the best army in the world, and an efficient civil administration, enabling it to survive the Bronze Age Collapse intact. Assyrian written records remained numerous and the most consistent in the world during the period, and the Assyrians were still able to mount long range military campaigns in all directions when necessary. From the late 10th century BC, it once more began to assert itself internationally, with the Neo-Assyrian Empire growing to be the largest the world had yet seen.\n\nThe situation in Babylonia was very different. After the Assyrian withdrawal, it was still subject to periodic Assyrian (and Elamite) subjugation, and new groups of Semites, such as the Aramaeans, Suteans (and in the period after the Bronze Age Collapse, Chaldeans also), spread unchecked into Babylonia from the Levant, and the power of its weak kings barely extended beyond the city limits of Babylon. Babylon was sacked by the Elamites under Shutruk-Nahhunte (c. 1185–1155 BC), and lost control of the Diyala River valley to Assyria.\n\nAfter apparently surviving for a while, the Egyptian Empire collapsed in the mid-twelfth century BC (during the reign of Ramesses VI, 1145 to 1137 BC). Previously, the Merneptah Stele (c. 1200 BC) spoke of attacks () from Putrians (from modern Libya), with associated people of Ekwesh, Shekelesh, Lukka, Shardana and Tursha or Teresh (possibly Troas), and a Canaanite revolt, in the cities of Ashkelon, Yenoam and among the people of Israel. A second attack (Battle of the Delta and Battle of Djahy) during the reign of Ramesses III (1186–1155 BC) involved Peleset, Tjeker, Shardana and Denyen.\n\nRobert Drews describes the collapse as \"the worst disaster in ancient history, even more calamitous than the collapse of the Western Roman Empire.\" Cultural memories of the disaster told of a \"lost golden age\": for example, Hesiod spoke of Ages of Gold, Silver, and Bronze, separated from the cruel modern Age of Iron by the Age of Heroes. Rodney Castledon suggests that memories of the Bronze Age collapse influenced Plato's story of Atlantis in Timaeus and the Critias.\n\nVarious theories have been put forward as possible contributors to the collapse, many of them mutually compatible.\n\nChanges in climate similar to the Younger Dryas period or the Little Ice Age punctuate human history. The local effects of these changes may cause crop failures in multiple consecutive years, leading to warfare as a last-ditch effort at survival. The triggers for climate change are still debated, but ancient peoples could not have predicted substantial climate changes.\n\nThe Hekla 3 eruption approximately coincides with this period; and, while the exact date is under considerable dispute, one group calculated the date to be specifically 1159 BC, implicating the eruption in the collapse in Egypt.\n\nUsing the Palmer Drought Index for 35 Greek, Turkish and Middle Eastern weather stations, it was shown that a drought of the kind that persisted from January AD 1972 would have affected all of the sites associated with the Late Bronze Age collapse. Drought could have easily precipitated or hastened socioeconomic problems and led to wars.\n\nMore recently, it has been shown how the diversion of midwinter storms from the Atlantic to north of the Pyrenees and the Alps, bringing wetter conditions to Central Europe but drought to the Eastern Mediterranean, was associated with the Late Bronze Age collapse.\n\nPollen in sediment cores from the Dead Sea and the Sea of Galilee show that there was a period of severe drought at the start of the collapse.\n\nThe Bronze Age collapse may be seen in the context of a technological history that saw the slow, comparatively continuous spread of ironworking technology in the region, beginning with precocious iron-working in the present Bulgaria and Romania in the 13th and 12th centuries BC.\n\nLeonard R. Palmer suggested that iron, superior to bronze for weapons manufacture, was in more plentiful supply and so allowed larger armies of iron users to overwhelm the smaller bronze-equipped armies of maryannu chariotry.\n\nRobert Drews argues for the appearance of massed infantry, using newly developed weapons and armor, such as cast rather than forged spearheads and long swords, a revolutionising cut-and-thrust weapon, and javelins. The appearance of bronze foundries suggests \"that mass production of bronze artifacts was suddenly important in the Aegean\". For example, Homer uses \"spears\" as a virtual synonym for \"warriors\".\n\nSuch new weaponry, in the hands of large numbers of \"running skirmishers\", who could swarm and cut down a chariot army, would destabilize states that were based upon the use of chariots by the ruling class. That would precipitate an abrupt social collapse as raiders began to conquer, loot and burn cities.\n\nA general systems collapse has been put forward as an explanation for the reversals in culture that occurred between the Urnfield culture of the 12th and 13th centuries BC and the rise of the Celtic Hallstatt culture in the 9th and 10th centuries BC. General systems collapse theory, pioneered by Joseph Tainter, hypothesises how social declines in response to complexity may lead to a collapse resulting in simpler forms of society.\n\nIn the specific context of the Middle East, a variety of factors – including population growth, soil degradation, drought, cast bronze weapon and iron production technologies – could have combined to push the relative price of weaponry (compared to arable land) to a level unsustainable for traditional warrior aristocracies. In complex societies that were increasingly fragile and less resilient, the combination of factors may have contributed to the collapse.\n\nThe growing complexity and specialization of the Late Bronze Age political, economic, and social organization in Carol Thomas and Craig Conant's phrase together made the organization of civilization too intricate to reestablish piecewise when disrupted. That could explain why the collapse was so widespread and able to render the Bronze Age civilizations incapable of recovery. The critical flaws of the Late Bronze Age are its centralisation, specialisation, complexity, and top-heavy political structure. These flaws then were exposed by sociopolitical events (revolt of peasantry and defection of mercenaries), fragility of all kingdoms (Mycenaean, Hittite, Ugaritic, and Egyptian), demographic crises (overpopulation), and wars between states. Other factors that could have placed increasing pressure on the fragile kingdoms include piracy by the Sea Peoples interrupting maritime trade, as well as drought, crop failure, famine, or the Dorian migration or invasion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23887762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23887762", "title": "List of Arab entrepreneurship initiatives", "text": "List of Arab entrepreneurship initiatives\n\nArab entrepreneurship initiatives: this is an alphabetical list of major, active, multi-year initiatives taken to promote entrepreneurship in Arab-majority countries. It includes private-sector, government, NGO and INGO initiatives.\n\n\n\nGlobal Innovation through Science and Technology (GIST) initiative\n\nGlobal Innovation through Science and Technology (GIST) initiative\n\n\n\n\nGlobal Innovation through Science and Technology (GIST) initiative\n\n\n\n\nStars of Science\n\n(KAUST runs startup accelerators including the Hikma IP-based Startup Accelerator and New Ventures Accelerator) \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6704830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6704830", "title": "List of constituent assemblies", "text": "List of constituent assemblies\n\nThis is a(n incomplete) list of constituent assemblies:\n"}
{"id": "21938890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21938890", "title": "List of interstellar radio messages", "text": "List of interstellar radio messages\n\nThis is a list of interstellar radio messages.\n\nThere are eleven realized IRM projects:\n\n\nThe Across the Universe message, A Simple Response to an Elemental Message and Hello From Earth are not always considered serious. The first two of them were sent to Polaris, which is 431 light years distant from us and whose planetary system, even if it exists, may not be suited for life, because it is a supergiant star, spectral type F7Ib which is only 70 million years old. In addition, both transmission rates were very high, about 128 kbit/s, for such moderate transmitter power (about 18 kW). The main defect of the \"Hello From Earth\" is an insufficient scientific and technical justification, since no famous SETI scientist made statements with validation of HFE's design. As it follows from : \"After the final message was collected on Monday 24 August 2009, messages were exported as a text file and sent to NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California, where they were encoded into binary, packaged and tested before transmission\", but nobody explained why he hopes that such encoded and packaged text will be understood and conceived by possible extraterrestrials.\n\nSome use the term \"Active SETI Project\", but Alexander Zaitsev, who was a scientific head of composing and transmissions of Cosmic Call 1999 & 2003, and Teen Age Message 2001, and a scientific consultant of A Message From Earth, emphasized that he considers above IRMs as the METI (\"Messaging to Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence Projects\").\n\nThese seven messages have targeted stars between 20 and 69 light-years from the Earth. The exception is the Arecibo message, which targeted globular cluster M13, approximately 24,000 light-years away. The first message to reach its destination will be A Message From Earth, which should reach the Gliese 581 planetary system in Libra in 2029.\n\nOn 13 February 2015, scientists (including Geoffrey Marcy, Seth Shostak, Frank Drake, Elon Musk and David Brin) at a convention of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, discussed Active SETI and whether transmitting a message to possible intelligent extraterrestrials in the Cosmos was a good idea; one result was a statement, (which was not signed by Seth Shostak or Frank Drake), that a \"worldwide scientific, political and humanitarian discussion must occur before any message is sent\".\n\nStars to which messages were sent include:\n\nAlong with serious IRM projects, a bulk of pseudo-METI projects also exist:\n\n"}
{"id": "4519333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4519333", "title": "List of people with the longest marriages", "text": "List of people with the longest marriages\n\nThis list contains marriages which have been reported as setting records for length, both extant and historical (by order of length). The length of marriage is based on the reported death of either member, or reported divorce, or the most recent report that both members of the couple were still living.\n"}
{"id": "2886768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2886768", "title": "Local eGovernment", "text": "Local eGovernment\n\nLocal eGovernment is eGovernment as it relates to local government, police, fire, national park and transport authorities.\n\nThe UK government’s objective was that all of public services in England should be capable of being delivered electronically by 31 December 2005. The \"Modernising Government\" White Paper of March 1999 proposed \"all dealings with government being deliverable electronically by 2008.\" Prime Minister Tony Blair then announced on 30 March 2000 that the target date had been brought forward from 2008 to 2005.\n\nElectronic delivery is defined as delivery through internet protocols and other ICT methods and includes delivery by telephone if the officer receiving the call can access electronic information and/or update records online there and then.\n\nThe average local authority achieved a reported 97% e-enablement by 31 December 2005, though it is suspected the actual figure is much lower. The target also applied to the Civil Service, which achieved a reported 96%.\n\nFrom December 2001 to April 2006 local authorities were required to publish an \"IEG Statement\" on their degree of e-enablement (electronic enablement). The measures include BVPI 157 and the Priority Outcomes.\n\nBVPI 157 measures the percentage of 'interactions' provided by a local authority that are e-enabled. The figure must be published annually as part of the Best Value performance management framework. The figure is calculated by considering the following ten types of interaction as they apply to the services provided by the local authority:\nLocal authorities may use a proprietary list of services, but are required to validate their list against the \"Local Government Services List\" (LGSL).\nBVPI 157 forms part of the annual IEG statement.\n\nTo guide local authorities in implementing eGovernment, the Department for Transport, Local Government and the Regions (and its successor the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (ODPM)) issued a list of key targets, most commonly referred to as the Priority Outcomes or PSOs (Priority Service Outcomes). The list was issued in the snappily entitled document \"Defining E-government Outcomes for 2005 to Support the Delivery of Priority Services & National Strategy Transformation Agenda for Local Authorities in England – Version 1.0\".\nIn September 2004, detailed guidance on the Priority Outcomes was issued in the document \"Priority Outcomes - Explanatory Notes for Practitioners\", published by the IDeA (Improvement and Development Agency) and endorsed by the ODPM.\n\nPriority Outcomes are rated with three levels of obligation:\n\nThe following technologies are recommended in Priority Outcomes: Explanatory Notes for Practitioners as those likely to be essential in the achievement of the Priority Outcomes:\n\nLocal authority websites are also subject to assessments by Socitm (Society of Information Technology Management) Insight in their annual \"Better Connected\" reports.\n\nModernising Government White Paper, March 1999 on the Official-Documents.gov.uk website\n\nPriority Outcomes - Explanatory Notes for Practitioners on the IDeA website\n\nDefining E-government Outcomes for 2005 to Support the Delivery of Priority Services & National Strategy Transformation Agenda for Local Authorities in England – Version 1.0 (Microsoft Word document) on the ODPM website\n\nLocal Government Services List and related information on the Electronic Service Delivery website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51391097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51391097", "title": "Miss Heritage Zimbabwe", "text": "Miss Heritage Zimbabwe\n\nMiss Heritage Zimbabwe is a national beauty pageant celebrating the culture and heritage of Zimbabwe. The pageant is organized by Kenakor Media. The 2015 Miss Heritage Zimbabwe was Francina Katuruza.\n\nThe winner of the competition can represent Zimbabwe in the Miss Heritage Global Pageant. The pageant's mission is to promote and enhance Zimbabwe's local culture, heritage and traditions.\n\nThe pageant was first held in 2012, when Melissa Chaka was crowned as the winner. She represented Zimbabwe in the Miss Heritage Global Pageant, held in Sandton, South Africa.\n"}
{"id": "23386716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23386716", "title": "Nathan S. Joseph", "text": "Nathan S. Joseph\n\nNathan Solomon Joseph (1834–1909) was a British philanthropist, social reformer, architect, and Jewish communal leader.\n\nJoseph collaborated on the design of a number of important synagogues, including the Garnethill Synagogue, New West End Synagogue, and Hampstead Synagogue. He was also noted for his work in designing improved housing for the poor.\n\nJoseph published widely on Jewish and social reform issues. Among his books are \"Religion Natural and Revealed: A Series of Progressive Lessons for Jewish Youth,\" (1879) and \"The Persecution of the Jews in Russia,\" (1890.) He signed his published work N.S. Joseph.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "407860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407860", "title": "Notation", "text": "Notation\n\nIn linguistics and semiotics, a notation is a system of graphics or symbols, characters and abbreviated expressions, used (for example) in artistic and scientific disciplines to represent technical facts and quantities by convention. Therefore, a notation is a collection of related symbols that are each given an arbitrary meaning, created to facilitate structured communication within a domain knowledge or field of study.\n\nStandard notations refer to general agreements in the way things are written or denoted. The term is generally used in technical and scientific areas of study like mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology, but can also be seen in areas like business, economics and music.\n\n\n\n\n\nA variety of symbols are used to express logical ideas; see the List of logic symbols\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41058575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41058575", "title": "Orientation camps in Hong Kong", "text": "Orientation camps in Hong Kong\n\nIn Hong Kong's universities and higher education institutions, orientation camps (), also known as “Ocamp”, are held by different student organizations in order to welcome new students before their first academic year. There are different types of orientation camps. “Big ocamps” (大O) are organized by the students' union or constituent colleges, while “small ocamp” (細O) are usually organized by faculty or departmental societies with a view to welcome students who study in the same faculty. The duration of ocamps is usually two to seven days.\n\nThe aim of organizing Ocamps is to enable freshmen in meeting new friends through getting along with a group of freshmen in the camp. Also, it aims to let freshmen understand and then adapt to the lifestyle and culture in university. It also boosts the sense of belongings of students to the university. Furthermore, some Ocamps like to spread messages to students, for example, standing up against injustice etc.\n\nThere is no accurate information about the first orientation camp in Hong Kong but the earliest ocamp recorded was in the 1970s, held by University of Hong Kong. Then other universities started organizing it following Hong Kong University.\n\nIn each group, there will be two to four group leaders, mostly voluntary senior students (Year 2 or above) and also some alumni. They are known as “Group Mother” (組媽) and “Group Father” (組爸) as their role in the groups is to take care of the freshmen, i.e. the “group sons” (組仔) and “group daughters” (組女). They also have to design and create some handy gifts to the freshmen such as bags, hand fans and bracelets, which represent their groups.\n\n\"Dem beat\" (demonstration of beat), also known as \"dem cheers\" in some universities, means shouting slogans with a certain beat or rhythm created by claps and steps. All groups (either as university houses or colleges) have their own beat. The aim of this activity is to promote team spirit and togetherness.\n\n“Campfire” is held at night in which house captains start a fire together with torches and then all participants form a circle surrounding the fire and dance with music. Some common songs are \"My Bonnie Lies over the Ocean\", \"Dschinghis Khan\" (Cantonese version) and \"Pieces of Sea Wave and Spray\". Before the activity ends, captains will share their feelings towards the camp.\n\nSituation Game, known as “Sit. Game”, in which committees of the camp first gather all participants in a venue, usually a sports centre. The committees deceive the participants by creating a situation that all group leaders have to leave the camp immediately. Group leaders sometimes cry in front of the participants to make the situation more convincing. They then ask freshmen to speak out if there is any solution towards the situation. Before the committees announce the truth, they let participant enjoy their “last moment” with their leaders. Situation Game aims to teach and encourage participants to stand out and give voice to unfairness. Besides, it consolidates the relationship in groups including participants and group leaders.\n\nStudents are required to complete different tasks set by the committee as they run around in the city in limited time. By completing each task, students can get a certain score. At the end of the day, the team getting the highest score will be crowned the champion.\n\nWater game (水戰) is a common game in orientation camp. It is the game playing with water such as playing in the beach or playing with water guns. Participants will absolutely get wet.\n\nAs a pastime after the conclusion of all planned activities in a day, “room games\" (房 Game) are often played. Room games often last overnight. Participants will follow committees' instructions and play. Usually the games involve some penalties for the losers.\n\nPopular room activities include \"First Impression\".\n\nIn recent years, orientation camp has sparked controversy owing to the games played there as criticized for ethical problems.\n\nFor example, in 2004 Hong Kong Polytechnic University's Health and Social Sciences Faculty freshmen were asked to kiss strangers on the lips, some of whom might develop a bad feeling during such an activity.\n\nBesides, games requiring close contact between the participants have been long described as being obscene and having too much intimacy. These include the “caterpillar game” as both the girls and boys in participation are required to wrap their legs around one another's waist. Another example is the ‘jumbo’ held by students at Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST) in 2013, where the females were asked to lay down above the male's body.\n\nActivities of cheers have also been condemned by some mass media for the inappropriate slogans used by students, which simply aim to verbally abuse the others. For example, in 2002, in the ocamp held by the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK), students from Shaw College slandered girls from New Asia College with the use of chants. Some wordings were said to be even discriminating the disabled. According to a daily news article, the Chairperson of Joint Committee on New Student Orientation of CUHK, Kenneth W.Y. Leung, responded that the committee will explain the problems instead of launching a censorship as they believe the self-discipline of students.\n"}
{"id": "15912688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15912688", "title": "P. Jeevanandham", "text": "P. Jeevanandham\n\nP. Jeevanandham (21 August 1907 – 18 January 1963) also called \"Jeeva\", was a social reformer, political leader, litterateur and one of the pioneers of the Communist and socialist movements in the state of Tamil Nadu, India. \n\nHe was not only a socio-political leader, but was also a cultural theoretician, an excellent orator, journalist and critic; and above all, a relentless fighter for the deprived. A down-to-earth person with a clean record in public life, Jeevanandham was held in high esteem by ordinary people.\n\nP. Jeevanandham was born in the town of Boothapandi, in the then princely state of Travancore (which is now in Kanyakumari District of Tamil Nadu) into an orthodox middle-class family on 21 August 1907. His original name was Sorimuthu. He was named this name after his clan god Sorimuthu.\n\nThe orthodox and religious background of his family exposed Jeevanandham to literature, devotional songs and the arts, early on in his life. He grew up in an era when caste-based rigidity was widely prevalent, and from early on in his life he resented the very idea of untouchability and could not tolerate his Dalit friends being denied entry into temples and public places and being humiliated. Even as a schoolboy he became averse to \"Varnasrama Dharma\", a Hindu religious code that stratifies society on caste lines and facilitates the practice of untouchability. The national movement and Gandhi’s call to wear khadi and his stand against untouchability influenced Jeevanandham to join the movement. He began wearing only khadi from then on.\n\nJeevanandham took his Dalit friends into the streets and public places where, usually, entry was denied to them, which earned him the displeasure of his family and orthodox caste members in his village. His father disapproved his behaviour and asked him to stop all things which were against their caste traditions. Jeevanandham said he would rather leave his home rather than follow discriminatory practices and eventually did so.\n\nJeevanandham started his political life basing himself on Gandhian ideas. In 1924, he participated in the Vaikom Satyagraha against upper-caste Hindus, where Dalits were barred from walking on the road leading to the temple at Vaikom. He participated in a similar protest, demanding entry for Dalits into the Suchindram temple. When he joined an ashram run by V. V. S. Aiyar at Cheranmadevi, he found that Dalits and ‘upper-caste’ students were fed in separate halls. He supported Periyar’s protest against this practice and quit the ashram. Later, he took charge of an ashram funded by a philanthropist in \"Siruvayal\" near Karaikkudi. The ashram life gave him an opportunity to read a lot of books. In this ashram, he got opportunity to meet Gandhi. Jeeva had written a letter to Gandhi disagreeing with his methods. When Gandhi came to Madras, he had this letter in his pocket and wanted to meet Jeeva. Rajagopalachari asked Gandhi to name the person he wanted to meet so that particular person can be called. Gandhi mentioned that he did not want the person to be called and would like to go to the ashram where Jeeva resided and meet him. When Gandhi went to the Siruvayal ashram and asked for Jeeva a young man of around 25 years appeared before him. Gandhi asked him if he was the same person who wrote the 'letter' and Jeeva replied in the affirmative. \n\nWhen Periyar (Periyar E. V. Ramasamy), on returning from a visit to the Soviet Union, spoke highly of its achievements and expressed his desire to propagate socialism, Jeevanandham, who was by then familiar with the egalitarian principle, felt elated. His hopes of getting the national movement merged with the Congress Socialist Party were dashed when Periyar began dragging his feet. He, however, remained in the Congress. He was elected as a member of the All India Congress Committee, a prestigious post in those days, and was also a member of the working committee of the State Congress unit. Later, when the Madras Provincial Congress Socialist Party was formed in 1937, Jeevanandham became its first secretary. He joined the Communist Party of India (CPI) two years later along with P. Ramamurthi, another veteran of the movement.\n\nThe last 25 years of colonial rule saw the emergence of two movements in Tamil Nadu – the Self-Respect Movement (which was a precursor to the Dravidian movement led by Periyar) and the Communist movement. Before enrolling himself as the first member of the united CPI in Tamil Nadu, Jeevanandham was an active participant in these two earlier movements. His patriotism took him to the national movement; his revulsion toward untouchability and caste-based discrimination led him to support the Self-Respect Movement.\n\nAfter joining the CPI, Jeevanandham and Ramamurthi organized rickshaw-pullers and factory workers on Marxist lines. In this they were assisted by leaders such as M. R. Venkatraman and B. Srinivasa Rao. They had already organized workers and formed unions in industrial towns such as Madurai and Coimbatore when they were functioning as socialists. Jeevanandham was in the forefront of efforts to build a strong labor movement based on Marxism. His oratory and writings helped him fulfill the task. But these leaders suffered police repression and were imprisoned several times. Jeevanandham visited sensitive areas and kept the workers’ fighting spirit alive. Alongside industrial workers, agricultural laborers and small farmers were also organized in Thanjavur and other districts. Jeevanandham and Ramamurthi inspired thousands of people through powerful speeches.\n\nUnder the colonial rule, Marxist literature and propaganda were banned, and Marxist workers were frequently arrested on one pretext or the other. Jeevanandham was no exception. He even had an externment order against him and had to stay away from the then Madras province for a brief period.\n\nAfter Indian Independence, the ban on the CPI was lifted, and all its leaders were released.\n\nIn the first general elections in post independent India, Jeevanandham won a seat for the Legislative Assembly from the Wasermanpet constituency in Madras. P. Ramamurthi, his close associate, who was in jail then, was also elected from the Madurai constituency. After being elected to the Legislative Assembly, he put pressure on the government to initiate action on issues relating to development schemes and reform measures. He also led many struggles, one of which was against the proposal to form \"Dakshina Pradesh\" comprising the four southern states. Despite his loss in the subsequent elections, he continued his party work.\n\nHe played a key role in making his native Tamil language an official language in the state and the judiciary, and a medium of instruction in educational institutions.\n\nHe was a supporter of pure usage of Tamil, which had, to an extent, become corrupted by the influence of Sanskrit and other languages. He declared his name to be \"Uyirinban\", a literal translation of the Sanskrit word \"Jeevanandham\". One of his major influences was the works of the Tamil poet Subramania Bharati, and also Bharati's persona and simple lifestyle. Jeevanandham was the first to take to cultural politics and cited his long struggle for nationalising Subramania Bharati’s songs.\nHe was well-versed in Tamil literature and was a good orator.\n\nJeevanandham was the founder of \"Thamara\", a Tamil literary magazine. The Communist Tamil newspaper \"JanaSakthi\" was also begun with his commitment.\n\nPeriyar encouraged Jeeva to translate Bhagat Singh’s classic essay \"Why I am an Atheist\" in 1933. He translated it into Tamil, which was probably its first-ever translation. It was published by Periyar's publication.\n\nJeeva led a busy and hectic life: teaching classes on Marxism for party workers, advising students to equip themselves to meet the nascent republic’s development needs, addressing literary fora on topics such as the greatness of the poet Bharati, explaining the flaws in the government’s language policy at meetings of intellectuals, and addressing factory gate meetings in support of workers on strike. In between, he wrote editorials for the party daily or discussed strategies for resolving industrial disputes.\n\nIn 1962, his health suffered a setback. Later in the year he visited the Soviet Union. He took treatment there and returned by the end of the year. However, his health worsened weeks later. On 18 January 1963, he died at his modest home at Tambaram, near Chennai. About two lakh (200,000) people attended his funeral and paid their last respects to one who had toiled all his life for the common man, who symbolised the simplicity of Gandhism and who had a Periyar-like zest for social equality and the Marxist spirit to fight exploitation.\n\n\nEven his political adversaries respected him. He led a justified and honest life. No one could criticize his personal life.\n\nDMK leader C. N. Annadurai saw Jeeva walking down a road, and offered him a ride in his car. Jeeva thanked Annadurai but humbly refused his help.\n\nWhen Communists were proscribed and subject to arrest, Jeeva took refuge in the home of M. R. Radha, a notable stage and cinema actor. Kalaignar Karunanidhi came to the house, and saw a \"sannyasi\" (Hindu renunciate) with a shaved head. He was suspicious of the \"sannyasi\", trying to remember the well known face. Radha entered the room and asked Karunanidhi whether he could recognize the \"sannyasi\". Later Karunanidhi recognized the \"sannyasi\" as Jeeva.\n\nHe and Rajaji were always political rivals but still respected each other.\n\nHe and K. Kamaraj were good allies. On his deathbed, Jeeva told his attendants \"Telegram Padma Vathi [his wife]. Call Kamaraj.\" This shows how close these two leaders were.\n"}
{"id": "2243703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2243703", "title": "Public folklore", "text": "Public folklore\n\nPublic folklore is the term for the work done by folklorists in public settings in the United States and Canada outside of universities and colleges, such as arts councils, museums, folklife festivals, radio stations, etc. The term is actually short for \"public sector folklore\" and was first used by members of the American Folklore Society in the early 1970s. Archie Green is generally credited as the founder of the public folklore movement, although his work builds on that of Ben Botkin and Alan Lomax, going back as far as the 1930s. (They called their work \"applied folklore,\" a related but distinct paradigm.)\n\nThe birth of public folklore can be traced back to the creation of the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress in 1970, by an act of Congress, sponsored by Sen. Ralph Yarborough (D-TX) and written by Green and then-Senate aide Jim Hightower. Other national programs were later established at the Smithsonian Institution and the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), where prominent folklorists such as Ralph Rinzler, Alan Jabbour, and Bess Lomax Hawes worked. Funding programs were also established in the 1970s and 1980s in over 40 state arts councils, and these facilitated the eventual creation or funding of major non-profit centers for folklife documentation and presentation, such as City Lore and the Center for Traditional Music and Dance in New York, Texas Folklife Resources, Northwest Folklife, the Western Folklife Center, and the Philadelphia Folklore Project.\n\nPublic folklorists are engaged with the documentation, preservation, and presentation of traditional forms of folk arts, craft, folk music, and other genres of traditional folklife. In later years, public folklorists have also become involved in economic and community development projects.\n\nEach year, some 15 outstanding American folk artists and performers are awarded National Heritage Fellowships from the NEA for their lifetime achievement. Some more widely known awardees over the years have included John Lee Hooker, B.B. King, Clifton Chenier, Earl Scruggs, Michael Flatley, Shirley Caesar, Albertina Walker, Janette Carter, Koko Taylor, Brownie McGhee, Sonny Terry, Jean Ritchie, Sunnyland Slim, Lydia Mendoza, Boozoo Chavis, Zakir Hussain, Helen Cordero, Margaret Tafoya, Santiago Jiménez, Jr., John Cephas, Bois Sec Ardoin, Mick Moloney, Clarence Fountain & the Blind Boys, Esther Martinez, and the Dixie Hummingbirds.\n\nThe Smithsonian Institution features the Smithsonian Folklife Festival every June and July which attracts upwards of two million people to hear live performances and view demonstrations of traditional crafts.\n\nPublic folklorists also work in \"folk arts in the schools\" programs, presenting master traditional artists to primary and secondary schools in demonstrations and residencies. They develop apprenticeship programs to foster the teaching of traditional arts by recognized masters. They also present traditional music on radio programs such as \"American Routes\" on Public Radio International. Occasionally they produce documentary films on aspects of traditional arts; Smithsonian folklorist Marjorie Hunt won an Academy Award for her 1984 short documentary film \"The Stone Carvers\" about the carvers at the National Cathedral in Washington, D.C.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11023939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11023939", "title": "Public humanities", "text": "Public humanities\n\nPublic humanities is the work of engaging diverse publics in reflecting on heritage, traditions, and history, and the relevance of the humanities to the current conditions of civic and cultural life. Public humanities is often practiced within federal, state, nonprofit and community-based cultural organizations that engage people in conversations, facilitate and present lectures, exhibitions, performances and other programs for the general public on topics such as history, philosophy, popular culture and the arts. \n\nWorkers within the public humanities endeavor to create physical and virtual spaces where the public can engage in conversation, learning and reflection about issues and ideas. Public humanities projects include exhibitions and programming related to historic preservation, oral history, archives, material culture, public art, cultural heritage, and cultural policy. The National Endowment for the Humanities notes that public humanities projects it has supported in the past include \"interpretation at historic sites, television and radio productions, museum exhibitions, podcasts, short videos, digital games, websites, mobile apps, and other digital media.\" Many practitioners of public humanities are invested in ensuring the accessibility and relevance of the humanities to the general public or community groups.\n\nThe American Council of Learned Societies' National Task Force on Scholarship and the Public Humanities suggests that the nature of public humanities work is to teach the public the findings of academic scholarship: it sees \"scholarship and the public humanities not as two distinct spheres but as parts of a single process, the process of taking private insight, testing it, and turning it into public knowledge.\" Others suggest a more balanced understanding of the ways in which history, heritage and culture are shared between the academy and the public, drawing on the notion of shared historical authority.\n\nSubfields of the public humanities include public history, public sociology, public folklore, public anthropology, public philosophy, historic preservation, museum studies, museum education, cultural heritage management, community archaeology, public art, and public science.\n\nSeveral universities have established programs in the public humanities (or have otherwise expressed commitments to public humanities via the creation of centers, degrees, or certificate programs with investments in various forms of \"public\" work), including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "296083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=296083", "title": "Public reason", "text": "Public reason\n\nPublic reason refers to a common mode of deliberation that individuals may use for issues of public concern. The concept implicitly excludes certain assumptions or motivations that are considered improper as a basis for public decision making, even as a person may apply them in personal decisions that do not have a significant impact on the public. \n\nThe phrase \"public use of one's reason\" (\"Vernunft in allen Stükken öffentlichen Gebrauch\") was used by Immanuel Kant in his 1784 editorial piece responding to the question \"What is Enlightenment?,\" where he distinguished it from private usage of reason, by which he meant reasoning offered from a specific civic office or post. It was developed by American philosopher John Rawls to refer to the common reason of all citizens in a pluralist society. Public reason giving, in the Rawlsian sense, involves justifying a particular position by way of reasons that people of different moral or political backgrounds could accept. Although in his later writings he added what is known as the proviso, meaning that non-public reasons could be given assuming that public reasons would be provided in due course. In order to accomplish this, however, one must overcome what he refers to as the burdens of judgment, which can produce disagreement among reasonable citizens. These burdens include conflicting evidence, giving differing weights to considerations, conceptual indeterminacy, differing experiences and value conflicts. Private reason, by contrast, is the exercise of an individual's reason to the constrained norms and interests of some sub-set of the public as a whole (such as a business, a political party, the military or the family).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20021314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20021314", "title": "Public viewing area", "text": "Public viewing area\n\nA public viewing area is a space set aside for members of the public to safely view sites of interest, such as airports, railroads, construction sites or other facilities. Sometimes they are known as visitor centers or interpretive sites.\n\nIn locations that have inherent dangers and would not normally be accessible to the public, viewing areas provide a way to satiate the public curiosity without exposing inordinate risk. Many sites contain descriptive signs, viewing pavilions, picnic facilities, toilets, radio receivers and brochures.\n\n\n\nMany lock and dam facilities along the various rivers in the US have public viewing areas, including:\n\n\nThese are, by necessity, often temporary in nature. Harkening back to the \"knotholes\" in fences used by passersby to view the progress of a site, some large projects provide a glimpse into the construction by intentionally placing viewing ports in fences, often geared toward selling space in the final project.\n\nSome stadiums provide locations where the public can view games in progress without entering the stadium or paying for an admission. AT&T Park in San Francisco, California, home of the San Francisco Giants has such an area.\n\n"}
{"id": "3862966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3862966", "title": "Religion and agriculture", "text": "Religion and agriculture\n\nReligion and agriculture have been closely associated since neolithic times and the development of early Orphic religions based upon fertility and the seasons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "411590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=411590", "title": "Science and technology studies", "text": "Science and technology studies\n\nScience and technology studies, or science, technology and society studies (both abbreviated STS) is the study of how society, politics, and culture affect scientific research and technological innovation, and how these, in turn, affect society, politics and culture.\n\nLike most interdisciplinary programs, STS emerged from the confluence of a variety of disciplines and disciplinary subfields, all of which had developed an interest—typically, during the 1960s or 1970s—in viewing science and technology as socially embedded enterprises. The key disciplinary components of STS took shape independently, beginning in the 1960s, and developed in isolation from each other well into the 1980s, although Ludwik Fleck's (1935) monograph \"Genesis and Development of a Scientific Fact\" anticipated many of STS's key themes. In the 1970s Elting E. Morison founded the STS program at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), which served as a model. By 2011, 111 STS research centres and academic programs were counted worldwide.\n\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, leading universities in the US, UK, and Europe began drawing these various components together in new, interdisciplinary programs. For example, in the 1970s, Cornell University developed a new program that united science studies and policy-oriented scholars with historians and philosophers of science and technology. Each of these programs developed unique identities due to variation in the components that were drawn together, as well as their location within the various universities. For example, the University of Virginia's STS program united scholars drawn from a variety of fields (with particular strength in the history of technology); however, the program's teaching responsibilities—it is located within an engineering school and teaches ethics to undergraduate engineering students—means that all of its faculty share a strong interest in engineering ethics.\n\nA decisive moment in the development of STS was the mid-1980s addition of technology studies to the range of interests reflected in science. During that decade, two works appeared \"en seriatim\" that signaled what Steve Woolgar was to call the \"turn to technology\": \"Social Shaping of Technology\" (MacKenzie and Wajcman, 1985) and \"The Social Construction of Technological Systems\" (Bijker, Hughes and Pinch, 1987). MacKenzie and Wajcman primed the pump by publishing a collection of articles attesting to the influence of society on technological design. In a seminal article, Trevor Pinch and Wiebe Bijker attached all the legitimacy of the Sociology of Scientific Knowledge to this development by showing how the sociology of technology could proceed along precisely the theoretical and methodological lines established by the sociology of scientific knowledge. This was the intellectual foundation of the field they called the social construction of technology.\n\nThe \"turn to technology\" helped to cement an already growing awareness of underlying unity among the various emerging STS programs. More recently, there has been an associated turn to ecology, nature, and materiality in general, whereby the socio-technical and natural/material co-produce each other. This is especially evident in work in STS analyses of biomedicine (such as Carl May, Annemarie Mol, Nelly Oudshoorn, and Andrew Webster) and ecological interventions (such as Bruno Latour, Sheila Jasanoff, Matthias Gross, S. Lochlann Jain, and Jens Lachmund).\n\nThe subject has several professional associations.\n\nFounded in 1975, the Society for Social Studies of Science, initially provided scholarly communication facilities, including a journal (\"Science, Technology, and Human Values\") and annual meetings that were mainly attended by science studies scholars. The society has since grown into the most important professional association of science and technology studies scholars worldwide. The Society for Social Studies of Science members also include government and industry officials concerned with research and development as well as science and technology policy; scientists and engineers who wish to better understand the social embeddedness of their professional practice; and citizens concerned about the impact of science and technology in their lives. Proposals have been made to add the word \"technology\" to the association's name, thereby reflecting its stature as the leading STS professional society, that the name is long enough as it is.\n\nIn Europe, the European Association for the Study of Science and Technology (EASST) was founded in 1981 to \"stimulate communication, exchange and collaboration in the field of studies of science and technology\". Similarly, the European Inter-University Association on Society, Science and Technology (ESST) researches and studies science and technology in society, in both historical and contemporary perspectives.\n\nIn Asia several STS associations exist.\nIn Japan, the Japanese Society for Science and Technology Studies (JSSTS) was founded in 2001. The Asia Pacific Science Technology & Society Network (APSTSN) primarily has members from Australasia, Southeast and East Asia and Oceania.\n\nIn Latin America ESOCITE (Estudios Sociales de la Ciencia y la Tecnología) is the biggest association of Science and Technology studies. The study of STS (CyT in Spanish, CTS in Portuguese) here was shaped by authors like Amílcar Herrera and Jorge Sabato y Oscar Varsavsky in Argentina, José Leite Lopes in Brazil, Miguel Wionczek in Mexico, Francisco Sagasti in Peru, Máximo Halty Carrere in Uruguay and Marcel Roche in Venezuela.\n\nFounded in 1958, the Society for the History of Technology initially attracted members from the history profession who had interests in the contextual history of technology. After the \"turn to technology\" in the mid-1980s, the society's well-regarded journal (\"Technology and Culture\") and its annual meetings began to attract considerable interest from non-historians with technology studies interests.\n\nLess identified with STS, but also of importance to many STS scholars, are the History of Science Society, the Philosophy of Science Association, and the American Association for the History of Medicine.\n\nAdditionally, within the US there are significant STS-oriented special interest groups within major disciplinary associations, including the American Anthropological Association, the American Political Science Association, the National Women's Studies Association, and the American Sociological Association.\n\nNotable peer-reviewed journals in STS include: \nStudent journals in STS include: \nSocial constructions are human created ideas, objects, or events created by a series of choices and interactions. These interactions have consequences that change the perception that different groups of people have on these constructs. Some examples of social construction include class, race, money, and citizenship.\n\nThe following also alludes to the notion that not everything is set, a circumstance or result could potentially be one way or the other. According to the article \"What is Social Construction?\" by Laura Flores, \"Social construction work is critical of the status quo. Social constructionists about X tend to hold that:\nVery often they go further, and urge that:\nIn the past, there have been viewpoints that were widely regarded as fact until being called to question due to the introduction of new knowledge. Such viewpoints include the past concept of a correlation between intelligence and the nature of a human's ethnicity or race (X may not be at all as it is).\n\nAn example of the evolution and interaction of various social constructions within science and technology can be found in the development of both the high-wheel bicycle, or velocipede, and then of the bicycle. The velocipede was widely used in the latter half of the 19th century. In the latter half of the 19th century, a social need was first recognized for a more efficient and rapid means of transportation. Consequently, the velocipede was first developed, which was able to reach higher translational velocities than the smaller non-geared bicycles of the day, by replacing the front wheel with a larger radius wheel. One notable trade-off was a certain decreased stability leading to a greater risk of falling. This trade-off resulted in many riders getting into accidents by losing balance while riding the bicycle or being thrown over the handle bars.\n\nThe first \"social construction\" or progress of the velocipede caused the need for a newer \"social construction\" to be recognized and developed into a safer bicycle design. Consequently, the velocipede was then developed into what is now commonly known as the \"bicycle\" to fit within society's newer \"social construction,\" the newer standards of higher vehicle safety. Thus the popularity of the modern geared bicycle design came as a response to the first social construction, the original need for greater speed, which had caused the high-wheel bicycle to be designed in the first place. The popularity of the modern geared bicycle design ultimately ended the widespread use of the velocipede itself, as eventually it was found to best accomplish the social-needs/ social-constructions of both greater speed and of greater safety.\n\nTechnoscience is a subset of Science, Technology, and Society studies that focuses on the inseparable connection between science and technology. It states that fields are linked and grow together, and scientific knowledge requires an infrastructure of technology in order to remain stationary or move forward. Both technological development and scientific discovery drive one another towards more advancement. Technoscience excels at shaping human thought and behavior by opening up new possibilities that gradually or quickly come to be perceived as necessities.\n\n\"Technological action is a social process.\" Social factors and technology are intertwined so that they are dependent upon each other. This includes the aspect that social, political, and economic factors are inherent in technology and that social structure influences what technologies are pursued. In other words, \"technoscientific phenomena combined inextricably with social/political/ economic/psychological phenomena, so 'technology' includes a spectrum of artifacts, techniques, organizations, and systems.\" Winner expands on this idea by saying \"in the late twentieth century technology and society, technology and culture, technology and politics are by no means separate.\"\n\n\nDeliberative democracy is a reform of representative or direct democracies which mandates discussion and debate of popular topics which affect society. Deliberative Democracy is a tool for making decisions. Deliberative democracy can be traced back all the way to Aristotle’s writings. More recently, the term was coined by Joseph Bessette in his 1980 work \"Deliberative Democracy: The Majority Principle in Republican Government\", where he uses the idea in opposition to the elitist interpretations of the United States Constitution with emphasis on public discussion.\n\nDeliberative Democracy can lead to more legitimate, credible, and trustworthy outcomes. Deliberative Democracy allows for \"a wider range of public knowledge,\" and it has been argued that this can lead to \"more socially intelligent and robust\" science. One major shortcoming of deliberative democracy is that many models insufficiently ensure critical interaction.\n\nAccording to Ryfe, there are five mechanisms that stand out as critical to the successful design of deliberative democracy:\n\nRecently, there has been a movement towards greater transparency in the fields of policy and technology. Jasanoff comes to the conclusion that there is no longer a question of if there needs to be increased public participation in making decisions about science and technology, but now there needs to be ways to make a more meaningful conversation between the public and those developing the technology.\n\nAckerman and Fishkin offer an example of a reform in their paper \"Deliberation Day.\" The deliberation is to enhance public understanding of popular, complex, and controversial issues, through devices such as Fishkin’s Deliberative Polling. Although implementation of these reforms is unlikely in a large government situation such as the United States Federal Government. However, things similar to this have been implemented in small, local, governments like New England towns and villages. New England town hall meetings are a good example of deliberative democracy in a realistic setting.\n\nAn ideal Deliberative Democracy balances the voice and influence of all participants. While the main aim is to reach consensus, a deliberative democracy should encourage the voices of those with opposing viewpoints, concerns due to uncertainties, and questions about assumptions made by other participants. It should take its time and ensure that those participating understand the topics on which they debate. Independent managers of debates should also have substantial grasp of the concepts discussed, but must \"[remain] independent and impartial as to the outcomes of the process.\"\n\nIn 1968, Garrett Hardin popularised the phrase \"tragedy of the commons.\" It is an economic theory where rational people act against the best interest of the group by consuming a common resource. Since then, the tragedy of the commons has been used to symbolize the degradation of the environment whenever many individuals use a common resource. Although Garrett Hardin was not an STS scholar, the concept of tragedy of the commons still applies to science, technology and society.\n\nIn a contemporary setting, the Internet acts as an example of the tragedy of the commons through the exploitation of digital resources and private information. Data and internet passwords can be stolen much more easily than physical documents. Virtual spying is almost free compared to the costs of physical spying. Additionally, net neutrality can be seen as an example of tragedy of the commons in an STS context. The movement for net neutrality argues that the Internet should not be a resource that is dominated by one particular group, specifically those with more money to spend on Internet access.\n\nA counterexample to the tragedy of the commons is offered by Andrew Kahrl. Privatization can be a way to deal with the tragedy of the commons. However, Kahrl suggests that the privatization of beaches on Long Island, in an attempt to combat overuse of Long Island beaches, made the residents of Long Island more susceptible to flood damage from Hurricane Sandy. The privatization of these beaches took away from the protection offered by the natural landscape. Tidal lands that offer natural protection were drained and developed. This attempt to combat the tragedy of the commons by privatization was counter-productive. Privatization actually destroyed the public good of natural protection from the landscape.\n\nAlternative modernity is a conceptual tool conventionally used to represent the state of present western society. Modernity represents the political and social structures of the society, the sum of interpersonal discourse, and ultimately a snapshot of society's direction at a point in time. Unfortunately conventional modernity is incapable of modeling alternative directions for further growth within our society. Also, this concept is ineffective at analyzing similar but unique modern societies such as those found in the diverse cultures of the developing world. Problems can be summarized into two elements: inward failure to analyze growth potentials of a given society, and outward failure to model different cultures and social structures and predict their growth potentials.\n\nPreviously, modernity carried a connotation of the current state of being modern, and its evolution through European colonialism. The process of becoming \"modern\" is believed to occur in a linear, pre-determined way, and is seen by Philip Brey as a way of to interpret and evaluate social and cultural formations. This thought ties in with modernization theory, the thought that societies progress from \"pre-modern\" to \"modern\" societies.\n\nWithin the field of science and technology, there are two main lenses with which to view modernity. The first is as a way for society to quantify what it wants to move towards. In effect, we can discuss the notion of \"alternative modernity\" (as described by Andrew Feenberg) and which of these we would like to move towards. Alternatively, modernity can be used to analyze the differences in interactions between cultures and individuals. From this perspective, alternative modernities exist simultaneously, based on differing cultural and societal expectations of how a society (or an individual within society) should function. Because of different types of interactions across different cultures, each culture will have a different modernity.\n\nPace of Innovation is the speed at which technological innovation or advancement is occurring, with the most apparent instances being too slow or too rapid. Both these rates of innovation are extreme and therefore have effects on the people that get to use this technology.\n\n\"No innovation without representation\" is a democratic ideal of ensuring that everyone involved gets a chance to be represented fairly in technological developments.\n\n\nThe privileged positions of business and science refer to the unique authority that persons in these areas hold in economic, political, and technosocial affairs. Businesses have strong decision-making abilities in the function of society, essentially choosing what technological innovations to develop. Scientists and technologists have valuable knowledge, ability to pursue the technological innovations they want. They proceed largely without public scrutiny and as if they had the consent of those potentially affected by their discoveries and creations.\n\nLegacy thinking is defined as an inherited method of thinking imposed from an external source without objection by the individual, because it is already widely accepted by society.\n\nLegacy thinking can impair the ability to drive technology for the betterment of society by blinding people to innovations that do not fit into their accepted model of how society works. By accepting ideas without questioning them, people often see all solutions that contradict these accepted ideas as impossible or impractical. Legacy thinking tends to advantage the wealthy, who have the means to project their ideas on the public. It may be used by the wealthy as a vehicle to drive technology in their favor rather than for the greater good.\nExamining the role of citizen participation and representation in politics provides an excellent example of legacy thinking in society. The belief that one can spend money freely to gain influence has been popularized, leading to public acceptance of corporate lobbying. As a result, a self-established role in politics has been cemented where the public does not exercise the power ensured to them by the Constitution to the fullest extent. This can become a barrier to political progress as corporations who have the capital to spend have the potential to wield great influence over policy. Legacy thinking however keeps the population from acting to change this, despite polls from Harris Interactive that report over 80% of Americans feel that big business holds too much power in government. Therefore, Americans are beginning to try to steer away this line of thought, rejecting legacy thinking, and demanding less corporate, and more public, participation in political decision making.\n\nAdditionally, an examination of net neutrality functions as a separate example of legacy thinking. Starting with dial-up, the internet has always been viewed as a private luxury good. Internet today is a vital part of modern-day society members. They use it in and out of life every day. Corporations are able to mislabel and greatly overcharge for their internet resources. Since the American public is so dependent upon internet there is little for them to do. Legacy thinking has kept this pattern on track despite growing movements arguing that the internet should be considered a utility. Legacy thinking prevents progress because it was widely accepted by others before us through advertising that the internet is a luxury and not a utility. Due to pressure from grassroots movements the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has redefined the requirements for broadband and internet in general as a utility. Now AT&T and other major internet providers are lobbying against this action and are in-large able to delay the onset of this movement due to legacy thinking’s grip on American culture and politics.\n\nFor example, those who cannot overcome the barrier of legacy thinking may not consider the privatization of clean drinking water as an issue. This is partially because access to water has become such a given fact of the matter to them. For a person living in such circumstances, it may be widely accepted to not concern themselves with drinking water because they have not needed to be concerned with it in the past. Additionally, a person living within an area that does not need to worry about their water supply or the sanitation of their water supply is less likely to be concerned with the privatization of water.\n\nThis notion can be examined through the thought experiment of \"veil of ignorance\". Legacy thinking causes people to be particularly ignorant about the implications behind the \"you get what you pay for\" mentality applied to a life necessity. By utilizing the \"veil of ignorance\", one can overcome the barrier of legacy thinking as it requires a person to imagine that they are unaware of their own circumstances, allowing them to free themselves from externally imposed thoughts or widely accepted ideas.\n\n\n\nSTS is taught in several countries. According to the STS wiki, STS programs can be found in twenty countries, including 45 programs in the United States, three programs in India, and eleven programs in the UK. STS programs can be found in Israel, Malaysia, and Taiwan. Some examples of institutions offering STS programs are Stanford University, Harvard University, the University of Oxford, Mines ParisTech, and Bar-Ilan University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4185087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4185087", "title": "Sickness Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1927", "text": "Sickness Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1927\n\nSickness Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1927 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1927:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to sickness insurance for agricultural workers...\n\nThe principles contained in this convention were subsequently revised and included in ILO Convention C130.\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 21 states. One state that has ratified, Uruguay, has subsequently denounced the treaty.\n\n"}
{"id": "1613097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1613097", "title": "Smirting", "text": "Smirting\n\nSmirting is the practice of smoking and flirting outside public places such as pubs, bars, cafés, restaurants, and office buildings where smoking is prohibited.\n\nSmirting was first identified in New York in 2003,\nand spread to the Republic of Ireland in 2004 when an aggressive smoking ban in public places was enacted.\n\nSmirting has been so successful that non-smokers try to mingle with the smirters. The non-smokers may then start to smoke too and so this is a health risk. \n\nSociologist and sexologist Pepper Schwartz states that the smirters are \"defiant and angry, they don't buy the second-hand smoke argument, and want to share this grudge with someone else.\" When they are forced outside, smirters form strong bonds in what is essentially an exile community. But this exile community has its rewards. One study found that 25% of Irish couples who had started a relationship during 2007 or 2008 had met while smoking outside.\n"}
{"id": "33784314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33784314", "title": "Social stress", "text": "Social stress\n\nSocial stress is stress that stems from one's relationships with others and from the social environment in general. Based on the appraisal theory of emotion, stress arises when a person evaluates a situation as personally relevant and perceives that s/he does not have the resources to cope or handle the specific situation. An event which exceeds the ability to cope does not necessarily have to occur in order for one to experience stress, as the threat of such an event occurring can be sufficient.\n\nThere are three main categories of social stressors. Life events are defined as abrupt, severe life changes that require an individual to adapt quickly (ex. sexual assault, sudden injury). Chronic strains are defined as persistent events which require an individual to make adaptations over an extended period of time (ex. divorce, unemployment). Daily hassles are defined as minor events that occur, which require adaptation throughout the day (ex. bad traffic, disagreements). When stress becomes chronic, one experiences emotional, behavioral, and physiological changes that can put one under greater risk for developing a mental disorder and physical illness.\n\nHumans are social beings by nature, as they typically have a fundamental need and desire to maintain positive social relationships. Thus, they usually find maintaining positive social ties to be beneficial. Social relationships can offer nurturance, foster feelings of social inclusion, and lead to reproductive success. Anything that disrupts or threatens to disrupt their relationships with others can result in social stress. This can include low social status in society or in particular groups, giving a speech, interviewing with potential employers, caring for a child or spouse with a chronic illness, meeting new people at a party, the threat of or actual death of a loved one, divorce, and discrimination. Social stress can arise from one's micro-environment (e.g., family ties) and macro-environment (e.g., hierarchical societal structure). Social stress is typically the most frequent type of stressor that people experience in their daily lives and affects people more intensely than other types of stressors.\n\nResearchers define social stress and social stressors in various ways. Wadman, Durkin, and Conti-Ramsden (2011) defined social stress as \"the feelings of discomfort or anxiety that individuals may experience in social situations, and the associated tendency to avoid potentially stressful social situations\". Ilfield (1977) defined social stressors as \"circumstances of daily social roles that are generally considered problematic or undesirable\". Dormann and Zapf (2004) defined social stressors as \"a class of characteristics, situations, episodes, or behaviors that are related to psychological or physical strain and that are somehow social in nature\".\n\nSocial stress is typically measured through self-report questionnaires. In the laboratory, researchers can induce social stress through various methods and protocols.\n\nThere are several questionnaires used to assess environmental and psychosocial stress. Such self-report measures include the Test of Negative Social Exchange, the Marital Adjustment Test, the Risky Families Questionnaire, the Holmes–Rahe Stress Inventory, the Trier Inventory for the Assessment of Chronic Stress, the Daily Stress Inventory, the Job Content Questionnaire, the Perceived Stress Scale, and the Stress and Adversity Inventory.\n\nIn addition to self-report questionnaires, researchers can employ structured interview assessments. The Life Events and Difficulties Schedule (LEDS) is one of the most popular instruments used in research. The purpose of this type of measure is to probe the participant to elaborate on his/her stressful life events, rather than answering singular questions. The UCLA Life Stress Interview (LSI), which is similar to the LEDS, includes questions about romantic partners, closest friendships, other friendships, and family relationships.\n\nIn rodent models, social disruption and social defeat are two common social stress paradigms. In the social disruption paradigm, an aggressive rodent is introduced into a cage housing male rodents that have already naturally established a social hierarchy. The aggressive \"intruder\" disrupts the social hierarchy, causing the residents social stress. In the social defeat paradigm, an aggressive \"intruder\" and another non-aggressive male rodent fight.\n\nIn human research, the Trier Social Stress Task (TSST) is widely used to induce social stress in the laboratory. In the TSST, participants are told that they have to prepare and give a speech about why they would be a great candidate for their ideal job. The experimenter films the participant while s/he gives the speech and informs the participant that a panel of judges will evaluate that speech. After the public speaking component, the experimenter administers a mathematics task that involves counting backwards by certain increments. If the participant makes a mistake, the experimenter prompts him/her to start again. The threat of negative evaluation is the social stressor. Researchers can measure the stress response by comparing pre-stress salivary cortisol levels and post-stress salivary cortisol levels. Other common stress measures used in the TSST are self-report measures like the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and physiological measures like heart rate.\n\nIn a laboratory conflict discussion, couples identify several specific areas of conflict in their relationship. The couples then pinpoint a couple topics to discuss later on in the experiment (ex. finances, child-rearing). Couples are told to discuss the conflict(s) for 10 minutes while being videotaped.\n\nBrouwer and Hogervorst (2014) designed the Sing-a-Song Stress Test (SSST) to induce stress in the laboratory setting. After viewing neutral images with subsequent 1-minute rest periods, the participant is instructed to sing a song after the next 1-minute rest period is complete. Researchers found that skin conductance and heart rate are significantly higher during the post-song message interval than the previous 1-minute intervals. The stress levels are comparable to that induced in the Trier Social Stress Task.\n\nA statistical indicator of stress, simultaneous increase of variance and correlations, was proposed for diagnosis of stress and successfully used in physiology and finance. Its applicability for early diagnosis of social stress in large groups was demonstrated by the analysis of crises. It was examined in the prolonged stress period preceding the 2014 Ukrainian economic and political crisis. There was a simultaneous increase in the total correlation between the 19 major public fears in the Ukrainian society (by about 64%) and also in their statistical dispersion (by 29%) during the pre-crisis years.\n\nResearch has consistently demonstrated that social stress increases risk for developing negative mental health outcomes. One prospective study asked over fifteen hundred Finnish employees whether they had \"considerable difficulties with [their] coworkers/superiors/inferiors during the last 6 months, 5 years, earlier, or never\". Information on suicides, hospitalizations due to psychosis, suicidal behavior, alcohol intoxication, depressive symptoms, and medication for chronic psychiatric disorders was then gathered from the national registries of mortality and morbidity. Those who had experienced conflict in the workplace with coworkers or supervisors in the last five years were more likely to be diagnosed with a psychiatric condition.\n\nResearch on the LGB population has suggested that people who identify as LGB suffer more from mental health disorders, such as substance abuse and mood disorders, compared to those who identify as heterosexual. Researchers deduce that the LGB people's higher risk of mental health issues derives from their stressful social environments. Minority groups can face high levels of stigma, prejudice, and discrimination on a regular basis, therefore leading to the development of various mental health disorders.\n\nRisk for developing clinical depression significantly increases after experiencing social stress; depressed individuals often experience interpersonal loss before becoming depressed. One study found that depressed individuals who had been rejected by others had developed depression about three times more quickly than those who had experienced stress not involving social rejection. In non-clinically depressed populations, people with friends and family who make too many demands, criticize, and create tension and conflict tend to have more depressive symptoms.\n\nConflict between spouses also leads to more psychological distress and depressive symptoms, especially for wives. In particular, unhappy married couples are 10–25 times more at risk for developing clinical depression. Similarly, social stress arising from discrimination is related to greater depressive symptoms. In one study, African-Americans and non-Hispanic whites reported on their daily experiences of discrimination and depressive symptoms. Regardless of race, those who perceived more discrimination had higher depressive symptoms.\n\nThe biological basis for anxiety disorders is rooted in the consistent activation of the stress response. Fear, which is the defining emotion of an anxiety disorder, occurs when someone perceives a situation (a stressor) as threatening. This activates the stress response. If a person has difficulty regulating this stress response, it may activate inappropriately. Stress can therefore arise when a real stressor is not present or when something isn't actually threatening. This can lead to the development of an anxiety disorder (panic attacks, social anxiety, OCD, etc.). Social anxiety disorder is defined as the fear of being judged or evaluated by others, even if no such threat is actually present.\n\nResearch shows a connection between social stress, such as traumatic life events and chronic strains, and the development of anxiety disorders. A study that examined a subpopulation of adults, both young and middle-age, found that those who had diagnosed panic disorder in adulthood also experienced sexual abuse during childhood. Children who experience social stressors, such as physical and psychological abuse, as well as parental loss, are also more at risk for developing anxiety disorders during adulthood than children who did not experience such stressors.\n\nSocial stress occurring early in life can have psychopathological effects that develop or persist in adulthood. One longitudinal study found that children were more likely to have a psychiatric disorder (e.g. anxiety, depressive, disruptive, personality, and substance use disorders) in late adolescence and early adulthood when their parents showed more maladaptive child-rearing behaviors (e.g., loud arguments between parents, verbal abuse, difficulty controlling anger toward the child, lack of parental support or availability, and harsh punishment). Child temperament and parental psychiatric disorders did not explain this association. Other studies have documented the robust relationships between children’s social stress within the family environment and depression, aggression, antisocial behavior, anxiety, suicide, and hostile, oppositional, and delinquent behavior.\n\nSocial stress can also exacerbate current psychopathological conditions and compromise recovery. For instance, patients recovering from depression or bipolar disorder are two times more likely to relapse if there is familial tension. People with eating disorders are also more likely to relapse if their family members make more critical comments, are more hostile, or are over-involved. Similarly, outpatients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder show greater psychotic symptoms if the most influential person in their life is critical and are more likely to relapse if their familial relationships are marked by tension.\n\nIn regard to substance abuse, cocaine-dependent individuals report greater cravings for cocaine following exposure to a social stressor. Traumatic life events and social stressors can also trigger the exacerbation of the symptoms of mental health disorders. Socially phobic children who experience a stressful event can become even more avoidant and socially inactive.\n\nResearch has also found a robust relationship between various social stressors and aspects of physical health.\n\nSocial status, a macro-social stressor, is a robust predictor of death. In a study of over 1700 British civil servants, socioeconomic status (SES) was inversely related to mortality. Those with the lowest SES have worse health outcomes and greater mortality rates than those with the greatest SES. Other studies have replicated this relationship between SES and mortality in a range of diseases, including infectious, digestive, and respiratory diseases. A study examining the link between SES and mortality in the elderly found that education level, household income, and occupational prestige were all related to lower mortality in men. In women, however, only household income was related to lower mortality.\n\nSimilarly, social stressors in the micro-environment are also linked to increased mortality. A seminal longitudinal study of nearly 7,000 people found that socially isolated people had greater risk of dying from any cause.\n\nSocial support, which is defined as \"the comfort, assistance, and/or information one receives through formal or informal contacts with individuals or groups\", has been linked to physical health outcomes. Research shows the three aspects of social support, available attachments, perceived social support, and frequency of social interactions, can predict mortality thirty months after assessment.\n\nSocial stress also makes people more sick. People who have fewer social contacts are at greater risk for developing illness, including cardiovascular disease. The lower one’s social status, the more likely he or she is to have a cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, musculoskeletal, neoplastic, pulmonary, renal, or other chronic diseases. These links are not explained by other, more traditional risk factors such as race, health behaviors, age, sex, or access to health care.\n\nIn one laboratory study, researchers interviewed participants to determine whether they had been experiencing social conflicts with spouses, close family members and friends. They then exposed the participants to the common cold virus and found that participants with conflict-ridden relationships were two times more likely to develop a cold than those without such social stress. Social support, especially in terms of support for socioeconomic stressors, is inversely related to physical morbidity. A study that investigated social determinants of health in an urban slum in India found that social exclusion, stress, and lack of social support are significantly related to illnesses, such as hypertension, coronary heart disease, and diabetes.\n\nExposure to social stress in childhood can also have long-term effects, increasing risk for developing diseases later in life. In particular, adults who were maltreated (emotionally, physically, sexually abused or neglected) as children report more disease outcomes, such as stroke, heart attack, diabetes, and hypertension or greater severity of those outcomes. The Adverse Childhood Experiences study (ACE), which includes over seventeen thousand adults, also found that there was a 20% increase in likelihood for experiencing heart disease for each kind of chronic familial social stressor experienced in childhood, and this was not due to typical risk factors for heart disease such as demographics, smoking, exercise, adiposity, diabetes, or hypertension.\n\nSocial stress has also been tied to worse health outcomes among patients who already have a disease. Patients with end-stage renal disease faced a 46% increased risk for mortality when there was more relationship negativity with their spouse even when controlling for severity of disease and treatment. Similarly, women who had experienced an acute coronary event were three times more likely to experience another coronary event if they experienced moderate to severe marital strain. This finding remained even after controlling for demographics, health behaviors, and disease status.\n\nWith regard to HIV/AIDS, stress may affect the progression from the virus to the disease. Research shows the HIV-positive males who have more negative life events, social stress, and lack of social support progress to a clinical AIDS diagnosis more quickly than HIV-positive males who do not have as high levels of social stress. For HIV-positive females, who have also contracted the HSV virus, stress is a risk factor for genital herpes breakouts.\n\nSocial stress leads to a number of physiological changes that mediate its relationship to physical health. In the short term, the physiological changes outlined below are adaptive, as they enable the stressed organism to cope better. Dysregulation of these systems or repeated activation of them over the long-term can be detrimental to health.\n\nThe sympathetic nervous system (SNS) becomes activated in response to stress. Sympathetic arousal stimulates the medulla of the medulla to secrete epinephrine and norepinephrine into the blood stream, which facilitates the fight-or-flight response. Blood pressure, heart rate, and sweating increase, veins constrict to allow the heart to beat with more force, arteries leading to muscles dilate, and blood flow to parts of the body not essential for the fight or flight response decreases. If stress persists in the long run, then blood pressure remains elevated, leading to hypertension and atherosclerosis, both precursors to cardiovascular disease.\n\nA number of animal and human studies have confirmed that social stress increases risk for negative health outcomes by increasing SNS activity. Studies of rodents show that social stress causes hypertension and atherosclerosis. Studies of non-human primates also show that social stress clogs arteries. Although humans cannot be randomized to receive social stress due to ethical concerns, studies have nevertheless shown that negative social interactions characterized by conflict lead to increases in blood pressure and heart rate. Social stress stemming from perceived daily discrimination is also associated with elevated levels of blood pressure during the day and a lack of blood pressure dipping at night.\n\nIn response to stress, the hypothalamus releases corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), stimulating the anterior pituitary to release adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). ACTH then stimulates the adrenal cortex to secrete glucocorticoids, including cortisol. Social stress can lead to adverse health outcomes by chronically activating the HPA axis or disrupting the HPA system. There are a number of studies that link social stress and indications of a disrupted HPA axis; for instance, monkey infants neglected by their mothers show prolonged cortisol responses following a challenging event.\n\nIn humans, abused women exhibit a prolonged elevation in cortisol following a standardized psychosocial laboratory stressor compared to those without an abuse history. Maltreated children show higher morning cortisol values than non-maltreated children. Their HPA systems also fail to recover after a stressful social interaction with their caregiver. Over time, low-SES children show progressively greater output of cortisol. Although these studies point to a disrupted HPA system accounting for the link between social stress and physical health, they did not include disease outcomes. Nevertheless, a dysfunctional HPA response to stress is thought to increase risk for developing or exacerbating diseases such as diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease, and hypertension.\n\nInflammation is an immune response that is critical to fighting infections and repairing injured tissue. Although acute inflammation is adaptive, chronic inflammatory activity can contribute to adverse health outcomes, such as hypertension, atherosclerosis, coronary heart disease, depression, diabetes, and some cancers.\n\nResearch has elucidated a relationship between different social stressors and cytokines (the markers of inflammation). Chronic social stressors, such as caring for a spouse with dementia, lead to greater circulating levels of cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6), whereas acute social stress tasks in the laboratory have been shown to elicit increases in proinflammatory cytokines. Similarly, when faced with another type of social stress, namely social evaluative threat, participants showed increases in IL-6 and a soluble receptor for tumor necrosis factor-α. Increases in inflammation may persist over time, as studies have shown that chronic relationship stress has been tied to greater IL-6 production 6 months later and children reared in a stressful family environment marked by neglect and conflict tend to show elevated levels of C-reactive protein, a marker of IL-6, in adulthood.\n\nThere is extensive evidence that the above physiological systems affect one another's functioning. For instance, cortisol tends to have a suppressive effect on inflammatory processes, and proinflammatory cytokines can also activate the HPA system. Sympathetic activity can also upregulate inflammatory activity. Given the relationships among these physiological systems, social stress may also influence health indirectly via affecting a particular physiological system that in turn affects a different physiological system.\n\n"}
{"id": "380183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380183", "title": "Student Pugwash USA", "text": "Student Pugwash USA\n\nStudent Pugwash USA engages students to promote the socially responsible use of science and technology in the 21st century. The organization uses a chapter-based model on U.S. college campuses, in addition to other student-focused events run by the national Board of Directors. The student members discuss the ethical, social and global implications of advances in these fields and explore the pursuit of socially responsible careers involving science and technology. SPUSA is the U.S. affiliate of International Student/Young Pugwash and the US student affiliate of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs, recipients of the 1995 Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nAs an educational nonprofit organization, SPUSA does not adopt advocacy positions on policy or political issues or candidates. The organization posits that, in order to create effective social change, students must first understand the issues at stake, then contemplate their ethical and moral responsibility to themselves and to society as a whole. Its stated purpose is not to advance a particular ethical viewpoint regarding scientific and technological issues, but rather to encourage students to consider ethics when thinking about the role of science and technology in society.\n\nSPUSA was founded in 1979 by UC San Diego student Jeffrey Leifer, with the fundamental belief that young people play a vital role in determining the socially responsible application of science and technology. In 1955 Albert Einstein, Bertrand Russell, and other eminent scientists issued a manifesto urging scientists to \"think in a new way\" about their moral responsibilities in the nuclear age. In 1957, the first Pugwash Conference was held in Pugwash, Nova Scotia, bringing together some of the greatest scientific minds to address nuclear weapons issues and the social responsibility of scientists. SPUSA strives to convene the next generation of scientists around today's parallel issues.\n\nSPUSA is the US student affiliate of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs, recipients of the 1995 Nobel Peace Prize, and the U.S.A. affiliate of the International Student/Young Pugwash.\n\nA long-standing icon of the organization has been Albert Einstein, for his commitment to advancing both science and its peaceful use. Another icon is Professor Joseph Rotblat, who was the co-founder of Pugwash and the only scientist to leave the Manhattan Project, refusing to work further on the atomic bomb after the Nazis were defeated. In response to Rotblat's call for an ethical Hippocratic Oath for scientists, Student Pugwash created a student pledge, calling young scientists to make a personal commitment to use science and technology in a socially responsible way. In 1999, Student Pugwash initiated the Joseph Rotblat Lecture on Science and Social Responsibility in honor of Rotblat's pioneering life dedicated to the responsible use of science.\n\nFollowing a decrease in revenue related to the late 2000s recession, the organization returned to its student-run founding with former student board members Sharlissa Moore and Kyle Gracey leading the rebuilding.\n\nThe mission of Student Pugwash USA is \"to promote social responsibility in science and technology.\" It seeks to achieve this by:\n\nActivities have included regional, national and international conferences, speaker events at campuses through a national chapter network, and compilation of issue briefs on scientific and technical issues of social importance. Student Pugwash also maintains a student email list, a web log covering the ethical intersection of science and technology policy, and a database of socially responsible employers.\n\nA science and technology election guide for the 2004 U.S. presidential election was profiled in the journal \"Science\". This project was continued with the launch of \"From Electrons to Elections\", a science and technology policy guide to the 2008 and 2012 elections. From Electrons to Elections is a non-partisan resource designed to educate young voters on science, technology, and health issues and provide them with the platforms of the leading political candidates on these subjects.\n\nTo encourage commitment to socially responsible applications of science and technology, Student Pugwash USA offers the following pledge for individuals to sign:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2190063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190063", "title": "The ABC of Sex Education for Trainables", "text": "The ABC of Sex Education for Trainables\n\nThe ABC of Sex Education for Trainables is a 1975 short educational film hosted by Richard Dix. It was intended to inform people about the need to educate the mentally disabled (\"trainables\" as they are referred to in the film) about sex and sexuality. Reflecting the views held at the time, the film explains that \"trainables\" cannot learn in the same manner as those of normal intelligence, but must instead be trained through repetition.\n\nThe 20 minute video places a high priority on teaching the intellectually disabled about sex so that they will not make inappropriate sexual comments, expose parts of their bodies, masturbate in public, be involved in unplanned pregnancies, or become victims of rape or molestation. It also notes that the goal of teachers should be to explain sexuality in a factual manner, and that views of sexual morality vary between families and should therefore be left for parents to teach.\n\nThe movie is used in \"Timmy and the Sex Lesson\", an episode of The Residents' video series \"Timmy\".\n\nThe onscreen credits acknowledge that narration was provided by Richard Dix and that dramatic sequences were provided by William Block, M.D., Beverly Camp, Rick Fullerton, Peter Green, Michael Kowalski, Ellen Moats, George Murray, Aaron Orenstein, Christopher Reidy, Murray Zeligman, and members and staff of the Ronald Bruce Nippon Assoc., and Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania.\n\n\nIn 2001, \"DVD Talk\" reviewed the Fantoma Films \"Educational Archives\" series, \"Sex & Drugs\", and noted \"The ABCs of Sex Education for Trainables\" as among those included, writing the film had the \"impact of \"Freaks\"\" and that it was intended to \"guide teachers in mental institutions, who must try to train (not teach) those patients considered 'trainable', to know enough about their bodies and sex to neither be anti-social nor victimized in public.\" They commented upon the film addressing the issues directly by its showing \"some very dedicated teachers taking on a really tough job.\" When they reviewed the DVD compilation \"Educational Archives\" \"School Locker\" in 2006, they made note that collections of educational films from Fantoma \"included the best of the best in educational films\", and that it was \"hard to top marvels like \"The ABCs of Sex Education for Trainables\",\" and that while this later compilation was not without merit, \"it pales in comparison with the earlier releases.\"\n\n\"DVD Verdict\" wrote that the film was \"the flip side of all those sex education films directed at children\", in how the \"well-meaning short teaches teachers how to handle sex education for \"retardates,\" or the developmentally disabled.\" They noted that the film tended to be more graphic when compared to the other films included on the \"Educational Archives\" series, \"Sex & Drugs\", and though it tried \"very hard to take its subject seriously. Nevertheless, it comes across as very surreal.\"\n\n\"Digitally Obsessed\" wrote that the \"ABC of Sex Education for Trainables\" was \"produced by Planned Parenthood to train teachers of developmentally-challenged young adults (called \"trainables\" here) about their bodies, reproduction, and the place of sexual relations in society.\" They noted that the film had a few scenes considered (in 2001) as humorous, but that the film \"actually does the best job of dealing with the issues of sex in context with society,\" in how it dealt with such issues as anatomy, aspects of normal development and sexual maturity, the appropriateness of public masturbation, and being aware of exploitation, with the subjects \"handled with tact and matter of factness.\" They concluded that stylistic problems aside, the film was \"quite an interesting piece on what would present a real challenge to those caring for developmentally-challenged individuals, and their responsibilities as sexual beings.\" and that of the films making up the compilation, it was \"the most educational, and least condescending sex education film of the lot.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51332042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51332042", "title": "Thomas Hancock Nunn", "text": "Thomas Hancock Nunn\n\nThomas Hancock Nunn (1859-1937)<ref name=\"lma/lcss\"></ref> was an English social reformer.\n\nHe was born on 14 March 1859 in London and admitted to Christ's College, Cambridge in 1880 with no scholarship. He received his B.A. in 1884 and his M.A. in 1904.\nHe was also known as Tom Nunn and was married to Kate Hannah Nunn. His brother John Hancock Nunn was in the India rubber business founded by Thomas Hancock.\n\nNunn was vice-chair of the Hampstead Charity Organization Society (COS). Soon after the founding of the first university-affiliated institution of the world-wide Settlement movement in 1884 at Toynbee Hall in Whitechapel he made a base for himself there. He resided there from 1884-1891, and in 1892 published an article, \"The Universities' Settlement in Whitechapel\" in \"The Economic Review\" which describes why it was established and how well it had meant those aims.\n\nAt Hampstead in 1902 he founded the first Council of Social Welfare which brought all welfare agencies together under one administraive umbrella. This was to lay the foundations for the London Council of Social Service. He was a commissioner of the Royal Commission on the Poor Laws and Relief of Distress 1905–09, and in 1909 published a pamphlet \"A council of social welfare : a note and memorandum in the report of the Royal Commission on the Poor Laws and Relief of Distress\".\n\nHe died 22 June 1937 at Shoreham-by-Sea. His biography was published in 1942 by H.J.Marshall. A charity bearing his name, the Thomas Hancock Nunn Memorial fund, operated from 1962 to 1991.\n"}
{"id": "3005810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3005810", "title": "Transderivational search", "text": "Transderivational search\n\nTransderivational search (often abbreviated to TDS) is a psychological and cybernetics term, meaning when a search is being conducted for a fuzzy match across a broad field. In computing the equivalent function can be performed using content-addressable memory.\n\nUnlike usual searches, which look for literal (i.e. exact, logical, or regular expression) matches, a transderivational search is a search for a possible meaning or possible match as part of communication, and without which an incoming communication cannot be made any sense of whatsoever. It is thus an integral part of processing language, and of attaching meaning to communication.\n\nA psychological example of TDS is in Ericksonian hypnotherapy, where vague suggestions are used that the patient must process intensely in order to find their own meanings, thus ensuring that the practitioner does not intrude his own beliefs into the subject's inner world.\n\nBecause TDS is a compelling, automatic and unconscious state of internal focus and processing (i.e. a type of everyday trance state), and often a state of internal lack of certainty, or openness to finding an answer (since something is being checked out at that moment), it can be utilized or interrupted, in order to create, or deepen, trance.\n\nTDS is a fundamental part of human language and cognitive processing. Arguably, every word or utterance a person hears, for example, and everything they see or feel and take note of, results in a very brief trance while TDS is carried out to establish a contextual meaning for it.\n\nLeading statements:\n\n\nTextual ambiguity:\n\nAlthough TDS is often associated with spoken language, it can be induced in any perceptual system. Thus Milton Erickson's \"hypnotic handshake\" is a technique that leaves the other person performing TDS in search of meaning to a deliberately ambiguous use of touch.\n\n"}
{"id": "18630637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18630637", "title": "Translation", "text": "Translation\n\nTranslation is the communication of the meaning of a source-language text by means of an equivalent target-language text. The English language draws a terminological distinction (not all languages do) between \"translating\" (a written text) and \"interpreting\" (oral or sign-language communication between users of different languages); under this distinction, translation can begin only after the appearance of writing within a language community.\n\nA translator always risks inadvertently introducing source-language words, grammar, or syntax into the target-language rendering. On the other hand, such \"spill-overs\" have sometimes imported useful source-language calques and loanwords that have enriched target languages. Translators, including early translators of sacred texts, have helped shape the very languages into which they have translated.\n\nBecause of the laboriousness of the translation process, since the 1940s efforts have been made, with varying degrees of success, to automate translation or to mechanically aid the human translator. More recently, the rise of the Internet has fostered a world-wide market for translation services and has facilitated \"language localization\".\n\nThe English word \"translation\" derives from the Latin word \"translatio\", which comes from \"\", \"across\" + \"\", \"to carry\" or \"to bring\" (\"-latio\" in turn coming from \"latus\", the past participle of \"ferre\"). Thus \"translatio\" is \"a carrying across\" or \"a bringing across\": in this case, of a text from one language to another.\n\nThe Germanic languages (except for modern Dutch) and some Slavic languages have d their words for the concept of \"translation\" on \"translatio\".\n\nThe Romance languages and the remaining \"Slavic\" languages have derived their words for the concept of \"translation\" from an alternative Latin word, \"traductio\", itself derived from \"traducere\" (\"to lead across\" or \"to bring across\", from \"trans\", \"across\" + \"\", \"to lead\" or \"to bring\").\n\nThe Ancient Greek term for \"translation\", (\"metaphrasis\", \"a speaking across\"), has supplied English with \"metaphrase\" (a \"literal\", or \"word-for-word\", translation)—as contrasted with \"paraphrase\" (\"a saying in other words\", from , \"paraphrasis\"). \"Metaphrase\" corresponds, in one of the more recent terminologies, to \"formal equivalence\"; and \"paraphrase\", to \"dynamic equivalence\".\n\nStrictly speaking, the concept of metaphrase—of \"word-for-word translation\"—is an imperfect concept, because a given word in a given language often carries more than one meaning; and because a similar given meaning may often be represented in a given language by more than one word. Nevertheless, \"metaphrase\" and \"paraphrase\" may be useful as \"ideal\" concepts that mark the extremes in the spectrum of possible approaches to translation.\n\nDiscussions of the theory and practice of translation reach back into antiquity and show remarkable continuities. The ancient Greeks distinguished between \"metaphrase\" (literal translation) and \"paraphrase\". This distinction was adopted by English poet and translator John Dryden (1631–1700), who described translation as the judicious blending of these two modes of phrasing when selecting, in the target language, \"counterparts,\" or equivalents, for the expressions used in the source language:\n\nDryden cautioned, however, against the license of \"imitation\", i.e., of adapted translation: \"When a painter copies from the life... he has no privilege to alter features and lineaments...\"\n\nThis general formulation of the central concept of translation—equivalence—is as adequate as any that has been proposed since Cicero and Horace, who, in 1st-century-BCE Rome, famously and literally cautioned against translating \"word for word\" ().\n\nDespite occasional theoretical diversity, the actual \"practice\" of translation has hardly changed since antiquity. Except for some extreme metaphrasers in the early Christian period and the Middle Ages, and adapters in various periods (especially pre-Classical Rome, and the 18th century), translators have generally shown prudent flexibility in seeking equivalents—\"literal\" where possible, paraphrastic where necessary—for the original meaning and other crucial \"values\" (e.g., style, verse form, concordance with musical accompaniment or, in films, with speech articulatory movements) as determined from context.\nIn general, translators have sought to preserve the context itself by reproducing the original order of sememes, and hence word order—when necessary, reinterpreting the actual grammatical structure, for example, by shifting from active to passive voice, or \"vice versa\". The grammatical differences between \"fixed-word-order\" languages (e.g. English, French, German) and \"free-word-order\" languages (e.g., Greek, Latin, Polish, Russian) have been no impediment in this regard. The particular syntax (sentence-structure) characteristics of a text's source language are adjusted to the syntactic requirements of the target language. \n\nWhen a target language has lacked terms that are found in a source language, translators have borrowed those terms, thereby enriching the target language. Thanks in great measure to the exchange of calques and loanwords between languages, and to their importation from other languages, there are few concepts that are \"untranslatable\" among the modern European languages. A greater problem, however, is translating terms relating to cultural concepts that have no equivalent in the target language. For full comprehension, such situations require the provision of a gloss.\n\nGenerally, the greater the contact and exchange that have existed between two languages, or between those languages and a third one, the greater is the ratio of metaphrase to paraphrase that may be used in translating among them. However, due to shifts in ecological niches of words, a common etymology is sometimes misleading as a guide to current meaning in one or the other language. For example, the English \"actual\" should not be confused with the cognate French (\"present\", \"current\"), the Polish (\"present\", \"current,\" \"topical\", \"timely\", \"feasible\"), the Swedish \"aktuell\" (\"topical\", \"presently of importance\"), the Russian (\"urgent\", \"topical\") or the Dutch \"actueel\" (\"current\").\n\nThe translator's role as a bridge for \"carrying across\" values between cultures has been discussed at least since Terence, the 2nd-century-BCE Roman adapter of Greek comedies. The translator's role is, however, by no means a passive, mechanical one, and so has also been compared to that of an artist. The main ground seems to be the concept of parallel creation found in critics such as Cicero. Dryden observed that \"Translation is a type of drawing after life...\" Comparison of the translator with a musician or actor goes back at least to Samuel Johnson's remark about Alexander Pope playing Homer on a flageolet, while Homer himself used a bassoon.\n\nIf translation be an art, it is no easy one. In the 13th century, Roger Bacon wrote that if a translation is to be true, the translator must know both languages, as well as the science that he is to translate; and finding that few translators did, he wanted to do away with translation and translators altogether.\nThe translator of the Bible into German, Martin Luther (1483–1546), is credited with being the first European to posit that one translates satisfactorily only toward his own language. L.G. Kelly states that since Johann Gottfried Herder in the 18th century, \"it has been axiomatic\" that one translates only toward his own language.\n\nCompounding the demands on the translator is the fact that no dictionary or thesaurus can ever be a fully adequate guide in translating. The Scottish historian Alexander Tytler, in his \"Essay on the Principles of Translation\" (1790), emphasized that assiduous reading is a more comprehensive guide to a language than are dictionaries. The same point, but also including listening to the \"spoken\" language, had earlier, in 1783, been made by the Polish poet and grammarian Onufry Kopczyński.\n\nThe translator's special role in society is described in a posthumous 1803 essay by \"Poland's La Fontaine\", the Roman Catholic Primate of Poland, poet, encyclopedist, author of the first Polish novel, and translator from French and Greek, Ignacy Krasicki:\n\nDue to Western colonialism and cultural dominance in recent centuries, Western translation traditions have largely replaced other traditions. The Western traditions draw on both ancient and medieval traditions, and on more recent European innovations.\n\nThough earlier approaches to translation are less commonly used today, they retain importance when dealing with their products, as when historians view ancient or medieval records to piece together events which took place in non-Western or pre-Western environments. Also, though heavily influenced by Western traditions and practiced by translators taught in Western-style educational systems, Chinese and related translation traditions retain some theories and philosophies unique to the Chinese tradition.\n\nTraditions of translating material among the languages of ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia, Assyria (Syriac language), Anatolia, and Israel (Hebrew language) go back several millennia. There exist partial translations of the Sumerian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" (c. 2000 BCE) into Southwest Asian languages of the second millennium BCE.\n\nAn early example of a bilingual document is the 1274 BCE Treaty of Kadesh between the ancient Egyptian and Hittie empires.\n\nThere is a separate tradition of translation in South, Southeast and East Asia (primarily of texts from the Indian and Chinese civilizations), connected especially with the rendering of religious, particularly Buddhist, texts and with the governance of the Chinese empire. Classical Indian translation is characterized by loose adaptation, rather than the closer translation more commonly found in Europe; and Chinese translation theory identifies various criteria and limitations in translation.\n\nIn the East Asian sphere of Chinese cultural influence, more important than translation \"per se\" has been the use and reading of Chinese texts, which also had substantial influence on the Japanese, Korean and Vietnamese languages, with substantial borrowings of Chinese vocabulary and writing system. Notable is the Japanese kanbun, a system for glossing Chinese texts for Japanese speakers.\n\nThough Indianized states in Southeast Asia often translated Sanskrit material into the local languages, the literate elites and scribes more commonly used Sanskrit as their primary language of culture and government.\n\nSome special aspects of translating from Chinese are illustrated in Perry Link's discussion of translating the work of the Tang Dynasty poet Wang Wei (699–759 CE).\n\nOnce the untranslatables have been set aside, the problems for a translator, especially of Chinese poetry, are two: What does the translator think the poetic line says? And once he thinks he understands it, how can he render it into the target language? Most of the difficulties, according to Link, arise in addressing the second problem, \"where the impossibility of perfect answers spawns endless debate.\" Almost always at the center is the letter-versus-spirit dilemma. At the literalist extreme, efforts are made to dissect every conceivable detail about the language of the original Chinese poem. \"The dissection, though,\" writes Link, \"normally does to the art of a poem approximately what the scalpel of an anatomy instructor does to the life of a frog.\"\n\nChinese characters, in avoiding grammatical specificity, offer advantages to poets (and, simultaneously, challenges to poetry translators) that are associated primarily with absences of subject, number, and tense.\n\nIt is the norm in classical Chinese poetry, and common even in modern Chinese prose, to omit subjects; the reader or listener infers a subject. Some Western languages, however, ask by grammatical rule that subjects always be stated. Most of the translators cited in Eliot Weinberger's \"19 Ways of Looking at Wang Wei\" supply a subject. Weinberger points out, however, that when an \"I\" as a subject is inserted, a \"controlling individual mind of the poet\" enters and destroys the effect of the Chinese line. Without a subject, he writes, \"the experience becomes both universal and immediate to the reader.\" Another approach to the subjectlessness is to use the target language's passive voice; but this again particularizes the experience too much.\n\nNouns have no number in Chinese. \"If,\" writes Link, \"you want to talk in Chinese about one rose, you may, but then you use a \"measure word\" to say \"one blossom-of roseness.\"\n\nChinese verbs are tense-less: there are several ways to specify when something happened or will happen, but verb tense is not one of them. For poets, this creates the great advantage of ambiguity. According to Link, Weinberger's insight about subjectlessness—that it produces an effect \"both universal and immediate\"—applies to timelessness as well.\n\nLink proposes a kind of uncertainty principle that may be applicable not only to translation from the Chinese language, but to all translation:\n\nTranslation of material into Arabic expanded after the creation of Arabic script in the 5th century, and gained great importance with the rise of Islam and Islamic empires. Arab translation initially focused primarily on politics, rendering Persian, Greek, even Chinese and Indic diplomatic materials into Arabic. It later focused on translating classical Greek and Persian works, as well as some Chinese and Indian texts, into Arabic for scholarly study at major Islamic learning centers, such as the Al-Karaouine (Fes, Morocco), Al-Azhar (Cairo, Egypt), and the Al-Nizamiyya of Baghdad. In terms of theory, Arabic translation drew heavily on earlier Near Eastern traditions as well as more contemporary Greek and Persian traditions.\n\nArabic translation efforts and techniques are important to Western translation traditions due to centuries of close contacts and exchanges. Especially after the Renaissance, Europeans began more intensive study of Arabic and Persian translations of classical works as well as scientific and philosophical works of Arab and oriental origins. Arabic and, to a lesser degree, Persian became important sources of material and perhaps of techniques for revitalized Western traditions, which in time would overtake the Islamic and oriental traditions.\n\nIn the 19th century, after the Middle East's Islamic clerics and copyists\nA translator who contributed mightily to the advance of the Islamic Enlightenment was the Egyptian cleric Rifaa al-Tahtawi (1801–73), who had spent five years in Paris in the late 1820s, teaching religion to Muslim students. After returning to Cairo with the encouragement of Muhammad Ali (1769–1849), the Ottoman viceroy of Egypt, al–Tahtawi became head of the new school of languages and embarked on an intellectual revolution by initiating a program to translate some two thousand European and Turkish volumes, ranging from ancient texts on geography and geometry to Voltaire's biography of Peter the Great, along with the \"Marseillaise\" and the entire \"Code Napoléon\". This was the biggest, most meaningful importation of foreign thought into Arabic since Abbasid times (750–1258).\n\nThe movement to translate English and European texts transformed the Arabic and Ottoman Turkish languages, and new words, simplified syntax, and directness came to be valued over the previous convolutions. Educated Arabs and Turks in the new professions and the modernized civil service expressed skepticism, writes Christopher de Bellaigue, \"with a freedom that is rarely witnessed today... No longer was legitimate knowledge defined by texts in the religious schools, interpreted for the most part with stultifying literalness. It had come to include virtually any intellectual production anywhere in the world.\" One of the neologisms that, in a way, came to characterize the infusion of new ideas via translation was \"darwiniya\", or \"Darwinism\".\n\nOne of the most influential liberal Islamic thinkers of the time was Muhammad Abduh (1849–1905), Egypt's senior judicial authority—its chief mufti—at the turn of the 20th century and an admirer of Darwin who in 1903 visited Darwin's exponent Herbert Spencer at his home in Brighton. Spencer's view of society as an organism with its own laws of evolution paralleled Abduh's ideas.\n\nAfter World War I, when Britain and France divided up the Middle East's countries, apart from Turkey, between them, pursuant to the Sykes-Picot agreement—in violation of solemn wartime promises of postwar Arab autonomy—there came an immediate reaction: the Muslim Brotherhood emerged in Egypt, the House of Saud took over the Hijaz, and regimes led by army officers came to power in Iran and Turkey. \"[B]oth illiberal currents of the modern Middle East,\" writes de Bellaigue, \"Islamism and militarism, received a major impetus from Western empire-builders.\" As often happens in countries undergoing social crisis, the aspirations of the Muslim world's translators and modernizers, such as Muhammad Abduh, largely had to yield to retrograde currents.\n\nFidelity (or \"faithfulness\") and felicity (or transparency), dual ideals in translation, are often (though not always) at odds. A 17th-century French critic coined the phrase \"\" to suggest that translations, like women, can be either faithful or beautiful, but not both. Fidelity is the extent to which a translation accurately renders the meaning of the source text, without distortion.Transparency is the extent to which a translation appears to a native speaker of the target language to have originally been written in that language, and conforms to its grammar, syntax and idiom. John Dryden (1631–1700) wrote in his preface to the translation anthology \"Sylvae\":\nA translation that meets the criterion of fidelity (faithfulness) is said to be \"faithful\"; a translation that meets the criterion of transparency, \"idiomatic\". Depending on the given translation, the two qualities may not be mutually exclusive. The criteria for judging the fidelity of a translation vary according to the subject, type and use of the text, its literary qualities, its social or historical context, etc. The criteria for judging the transparency of a translation appear more straightforward: an unidiomatic translation \"sounds wrong\"; and, in the extreme case of word-for-word translations generated by many machine-translation systems, often results in patent nonsense.\nNevertheless, in certain contexts a translator may consciously seek to produce a literal translation. Translators of literary, religious, or historic texts often adhere as closely as possible to the source text, stretching the limits of the target language to produce an unidiomatic text. Also, a translator may adopt expressions from the source language in order to provide \"local color\".\n\nWhile current Western translation practice is dominated by the dual concepts of \"fidelity\" and \"transparency\", this has not always been the case. There have been periods, especially in pre-Classical Rome and in the 18th century, when many translators stepped beyond the bounds of translation proper into the realm of \"adaptation\". Adapted translation retains currency in some non-Western traditions. The Indian epic, the \"Ramayana\", appears in many versions in the various Indian languages, and the stories are different in each. Similar examples are to be found in medieval Christian literature, which adjusted the text to local customs and mores.\n\nMany non-transparent-translation theories draw on concepts from German Romanticism, the most obvious influence being the German theologian and philosopher Friedrich Schleiermacher. In his seminal lecture \"On the Different Methods of Translation\" (1813) he distinguished between translation methods that move \"the writer toward [the reader]\", i.e., transparency, and those that move the \"reader toward [the author]\", i.e., an extreme fidelity to the foreignness of the source text. Schleiermacher favored the latter approach; he was motivated, however, not so much by a desire to embrace the foreign, as by a nationalist desire to oppose France's cultural domination and to promote German literature.\n\nIn recent decades, prominent advocates of such \"non-transparent\" translation have included the French scholar Antoine Berman, who identified twelve deforming tendencies inherent in most prose translations, and the American theorist Lawrence Venuti, who has called on translators to apply \"foreignizing\" rather than domesticating translation strategies.\n\nThe question of fidelity vs. transparency has also been formulated in terms of, respectively, \"\"formal\" equivalence\" and \"\"dynamic\" [or \"functional\"] equivalence\" – expressions associated with the translator Eugene Nida and originally coined to describe ways of translating the \"Bible\"; but the two approaches are applicable to any translation. \"Formal equivalence\" corresponds to \"metaphrase\", and \"dynamic equivalence\" to \"paraphrase\". \"Formal equivalence\" (sought via \"literal\" translation) attempts to render the text literally, or \"word for word\" (the latter expression being itself a word-for-word rendering of the classical Latin ) – if necessary, at the expense of features natural to the target language. By contrast, \"dynamic equivalence\" (or \"\"functional\" equivalence\") conveys the essential thoughts expressed in a source text—if necessary, at the expense of literality, original sememe and word order, the source text's active vs. passive voice, etc. \nThere is, however, no sharp boundary between formal and functional equivalence. On the contrary, they represent a spectrum of translation approaches. Each is used at various times and in various contexts by the same translator, and at various points within the same text – sometimes simultaneously. Competent translation entails the judicious blending of formal and functional equivalents.\n\nCommon pitfalls in translation, especially when practiced by inexperienced translators, involve false equivalents such as \"false friends\" and false cognates.\n\nA \"back-translation\" is a translation of a translated text back into the language of the original text, made without reference to the original text. \nComparison of a back-translation with the original text is sometimes used as a check on the accuracy of the original translation, much as the accuracy of a mathematical operation is sometimes checked by reversing the operation. But the results of such reverse-translation operations, while useful as approximate checks, are not always precisely reliable. Back-translation must in general be less accurate than back-calculation because linguistic symbols (words) are often ambiguous, whereas mathematical symbols are intentionally unequivocal. In the context of machine translation, a back-translation is also called a \"round-trip translation.\" When translations are produced of material used in medical clinical trials, such as informed-consent forms, a back-translation is often required by the ethics committee or institutional review board.\n\nMark Twain provided humorously telling evidence for the frequent unreliability of back-translation when he issued his own back-translation of a French translation of his short story, \"The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County\". He published his back-translation in a 1903 volume together with his English-language original, the French translation, and a \"Private History of the 'Jumping Frog' Story\". The latter included a synopsized adaptation of his story that Twain stated had appeared, unattributed to Twain, in a Professor Sidgwick's \"Greek Prose Composition\" (p. 116) under the title, \"The Athenian and the Frog\"; the adaptation had for a time been taken for an independent ancient Greek precursor to Twain's \"Jumping Frog\" story.\n\nWhen a document survives only in translation, the original having been lost, researchers sometimes undertake back-translation in an effort to reconstruct the original text. An example involves the novel \"The Saragossa Manuscript\" by the Polish aristocrat Jan Potocki (1761–1815), who wrote the novel in French and anonymously published fragments in 1804 and 1813–14. Portions of the original French-language manuscript were subsequently lost; however, the missing fragments survived in a Polish translation that was made by Edmund Chojecki in 1847 from a complete French copy, now lost. French-language versions of the complete \"Saragossa Manuscript\" have since been produced, based on extant French-language fragments and on French-language versions that have been back-translated from Chojecki's Polish version.\n\nMany works by the influential Classical physician Galen survive only in medieval Arabic translation. Some survive only in Renaissance Latin translations from the Arabic, thus at a second remove from the original. To better understand Galen, scholars have attempted back-translation of such works in order to reconstruct the original Greek.\n\nWhen historians suspect that a document is actually a translation from another language, back-translation into that hypothetical original language can provide supporting evidence by showing that such characteristics as idioms, puns, peculiar grammatical structures, etc., are in fact derived from the original language. For example, the known text of the \"Till Eulenspiegel\" folk tales is in High German but contains puns that work only when back-translated to Low German. This seems clear evidence that these tales (or at least large portions of them) were originally written in Low German and translated into High German by an over-metaphrastic translator.\n\nSupporters of Aramaic primacy—of the view that the Christian New Testament or its sources were originally written in the Aramaic language—seek to prove their case by showing that difficult passages in the existing Greek text of the New Testament make much better sense when back-translated to Aramaic: that, for example, some incomprehensible references are in fact Aramaic puns that do not work in Greek. Due to similar indications, it is believed that the 2nd century Gnostic Gospel of Judas, which survives only in Coptic, was originally written in Greek.\n\nJohn Dryden (1631–1700), the dominant English-language literary figure of his age, illustrates, in his use of back-translation, translators' influence on the evolution of languages and literary styles. Dryden is believed to be the first person to posit that English sentences should not end in prepositions because Latin sentences cannot end in prepositions. Dryden created the proscription against \"preposition stranding\" in 1672 when he objected to Ben Jonson's 1611 phrase, \"the bodies that those souls were frighted from\", though he did not provide the rationale for his preference. Dryden often translated his writing into Latin, to check whether his writing was concise and elegant, Latin being considered an elegant and long-lived language with which to compare; then he back-translated his writing back to English according to Latin-grammar usage. As Latin does not have sentences ending in prepositions, Dryden may have applied Latin grammar to English, thus forming the controversial rule of no sentence-ending prepositions, subsequently adopted by other writers.\n\nCompetent translators show the following attributes:\n\nA competent translator is not only bilingual but bicultural. A language is not merely a collection of words and of rules of grammar and syntax for generating sentences, but also a vast interconnecting system of connotations and cultural references whose mastery, writes linguist Mario Pei, \"comes close to being a lifetime job.\" The complexity of the translator's task cannot be overstated; one author suggests that becoming an accomplished translator—after having already acquired a good basic knowledge of both languages and cultures—may require a minimum of ten years' experience. Viewed in this light, it is a serious misconception to assume that a person who has fair fluency in two languages will, by virtue of that fact alone, be consistently competent to translate between them.\n\nThe translator's role in relation to a text has been compared to that of an artist, e.g., a musician or actor, who interprets a work of art. Translation, like other human activities, entails making choices, and choice implies interpretation. Mark Polizzotti writes: \"A good translation offers not a reproduction of the work but an interpretation, a re-representation, just as the performance of a play or a sonata is a representation of the script or the score, one among many possible representations.\" \n\nThe English-language novelist Joseph Conrad, whose writings Zdzisław Najder has described as verging on \"auto-translation\" from Conrad's Polish and French linguistic personae, advised his niece and Polish translator Aniela Zagórska: \"[D]on't trouble to be too scrupulous... I may tell you (in French) that in my opinion \"il vaut mieux interpréter que traduire\" [it is better to interpret than to translate]... \"Il s'agit donc de trouver les équivalents. Et là, ma chère, je vous prie laissez vous guider plutôt par votre tempérament que par une conscience sévère...\" [It is, then, a question of finding the equivalent expressions. And there, my dear, I beg you to let yourself be guided more by your temperament than by a strict conscience...]\" Conrad advised another translator that the prime requisite for a good translation is that it be \"idiomatic\". \"For in the idiom is the \"clearness\" of a language and the language's force and its picturesqueness—by which last I mean the picture-producing power of arranged words.\" Conrad thought C.K. Scott Moncrieff's English translation of Marcel Proust's \"À la recherche du temps perdu\" (\"In Search of Lost Time\"—or, in Scott Moncrieff's rendering, \"Remembrance of Things Past\") to be preferable to the French original.\n\nThe necessity of making choices, and therefore of interpretation, in translating (and in other fields of human endeavor) stems from the ambiguity that subjectively pervades the universe. Part of the ambiguity, for a translator, involves the structure of human language. Psychologist and neural scientist Gary Marcus notes that \"virtually every sentence [that people generate] is ambiguous, often in multiple ways. Our brain is so good at comprehending language that we do not usually notice.\" An example of linguistic ambiguity is the \"pronoun disambiguation problem\" (\"PDP\"): a machine has no way of determining to whom or what a pronoun in a sentence—such as \"he\", \"she\" or \"it\"—refers. Such disambiguation is not infallible by a human, either.\n\nAmbiguity is a concern to both translators and, as the writings of poet and literary critic William Empson have demonstrated, to literary critics. Ambiguity may be desirable, indeed essential, in poetry and diplomacy; it can be more problematic in ordinary prose.\n\nA translator is faced with two contradictory tasks: when translating, he must strive for omniscience; when reviewing his translation, he must assume (the naive reader's) ignorance. \n\nA translator may render only parts of the original text, provided he indicates that this is what he is doing. But a translator should not assume the role of censor and surreptitiously delete or bowdlerize passages merely to please a political or moral interest.\n\nTranslating has served as a school of writing for many an author, much as the copying of masterworks of painting has schooled many a novice painter. A translator who can competently render an author's thoughts into the translator's own language, should certainly be able to adequately render, in his own language, any thoughts of his own. Translating (like analytic philosophy) compels precise analysis of language elements and of their usage. In 1946 the poet Ezra Pound, then at St. Elizabeth's Hospital, in Washington, D.C., advised a visitor, the 18-year-old beginning poet W.S. Merwin: \"The work of translation is the best teacher you'll ever have.\" Merwin, translator-poet who took Pound's advice to heart, writes of translation as an \"impossible, unfinishable\" art.\n\nTranslators, including monks who spread Buddhist texts in East Asia, and the early modern European translators of the Bible, in the course of their work have shaped the very languages into which they have translated. They have acted as bridges for conveying knowledge between cultures; and along with ideas, they have imported from the source languages, into their own languages, loanwords and calques of grammatical structures, idioms, and vocabulary.\n\nInterpreting, or \"interpretation,\" is the facilitation of oral or sign-language communication, either simultaneously or consecutively, between two, or among three or more, speakers who are not speaking, or signing, the same language. The term \"interpreting,\" rather than \"interpretation,\" is preferentially used for this activity by Anglophone translators, to avoid confusion with other meanings of the word \"interpretation.\" Unlike English, many languages do not employ two separate words to denote the activities of written and live-communication (oral or sign-language) translators. Even English does not always make the distinction, frequently using \"translating\" as a synonym for \"interpreting.\"\n\nInterpreters have sometimes played crucial roles in history. A prime example is La Malinche, also known as \"Malintzin\", \"Malinalli\" and \"Doña Marina\", an early-16th-century Nahua woman from the Mexican Gulf Coast. As a child she had been sold or given to Maya slave-traders from Xicalango, and thus had become bilingual. Subsequently, given along with other women to the invading Spaniards, she became instrumental in the Spanish conquest of Mexico, acting as interpreter, adviser, intermediary and lover to Hernán Cortés.\n\nNearly three centuries later, in the United States, a comparable role as interpreter was played for the Lewis and Clark Expedition of 1804–6 by Sacagawea. As a child, the Lemhi Shoshone woman had been kidnapped by Hidatsa Indians and thus had become bilingual. Sacagawea facilitated the expedition's traverse of the North American continent to the Pacific Ocean.\n\nSworn translation, also called \"certified translation,\" aims at legal equivalence between two documents written in different languages. It is performed by someone authorized to do so by local regulations. Some countries recognize declared competence. Others require the translator to be an official state appointee. In some countries, such as the United Kingdom, translators must be accredited by certain translation institutes or associations in order to be able to carry out certified translations.\n\nMany commercial services exist that will interpret spoken language via telephone. There is also at least one custom-built mobile device that does the same thing. The device connects users to human interpreters who can translate between English and 180 other languages.\n\nWeb-based human translation is generally favored by companies and individuals that wish to secure more accurate translations. In view of the frequent inaccuracy of machine translations, human translation remains the most reliable, most accurate form of translation available. With the recent emergence of translation crowdsourcing, translation-memory techniques, and internet applications, translation agencies have been able to provide on-demand human-translation services to businesses, individuals, and enterprises.\n\nWhile not instantaneous like its machine counterparts such as Google Translate and Yahoo! Babel Fish, web-based human translation has been gaining popularity by providing relatively fast, accurate translation of business communications, legal documents, medical records, and software localization. Web-based human translation also appeals to private website users and bloggers. Contents of websites are translatable but urls of websites are not translatable into other languages. Language tools on the internet provide help in understanding text. (see reference link).\n\nComputer-assisted translation (CAT), also called \"computer-aided translation,\" \"machine-aided human translation\" (MAHT) and \"interactive translation,\" is a form of translation wherein a human translator creates a target text with the assistance of a computer program. The machine supports a human translator.\n\nComputer-assisted translation can include standard dictionary and grammar software. The term, however, normally refers to a range of specialized programs available to the translator, including translation-memory, terminology-management, concordance, and alignment programs.\n\nThese tools speed up and facilitate human translation, but they do not provide translation. The latter is a function of tools known broadly as machine translation.\n\nMachine translation (MT) is a process whereby a computer program analyzes a source text and, in principle, produces a target text without human intervention. In reality, however, machine translation typically does involve human intervention, in the form of pre-editing and post-editing. With proper terminology work, with preparation of the source text for machine translation (pre-editing), and with reworking of the machine translation by a human translator (post-editing), commercial machine-translation tools can produce useful results, especially if the machine-translation system is integrated with a translation-memory or globalization-management system.\n\nUnedited machine translation is publicly available through tools on the Internet such as Google Translate, Babel Fish, Babylon, and StarDict. These produce rough translations that, under favorable circumstances, \"give the gist\" of the source text. With the Internet, translation software can help non-native-speaking individuals understand web pages published in other languages. Whole-page-translation tools are of limited utility, however, since they offer only a limited potential understanding of the original author's intent and context; translated pages tend to be more erroneously humorous and confusing than enlightening.\n\nInteractive translations with pop-up windows are becoming more popular. These tools show one or more possible equivalents for each word or phrase. Human operators merely need to select the likeliest equivalent as the mouse glides over the foreign-language text. Possible equivalents can be grouped by pronunciation. Also, companies such as Ectaco produce pocket devices that provide machine translations.\n\nRelying exclusively on unedited machine translation, however, ignores the fact that communication in human language is context-embedded and that it takes a person to comprehend the context of the original text with a reasonable degree of probability. It is certainly true that even purely human-generated translations are prone to error; therefore, to ensure that a machine-generated translation will be useful to a human being and that publishable-quality translation is achieved, such translations must be reviewed and edited by a human. Claude Piron writes that machine translation, at its best, automates the easier part of a translator's job; the harder and more time-consuming part usually involves doing extensive research to resolve ambiguities in the source text, which the grammatical and lexical exigencies of the target language require to be resolved. Such research is a necessary prelude to the pre-editing necessary in order to provide input for machine-translation software, such that the output will not be meaningless.\n\nThe weaknesses of pure machine translation, unaided by human expertise, are those of artificial intelligence itself. Translator Mark Polizzotti holds that machine translation, by Google Translate and the like, is unlikely to threaten human translators anytime soon, because machines will never grasp nuance and connotation.\n\nTranslation of literary works (novels, short stories, plays, poems, etc.) is considered a literary pursuit in its own right. Notable in Canadian literature \"specifically\" as translators are figures such as Sheila Fischman, Robert Dickson, and Linda Gaboriau; and the Canadian Governor General's Awards annually present prizes for the best English-to-French and French-to-English literary translations.\n\nOther writers, among many who have made a name for themselves as literary translators, include Vasily Zhukovsky, Tadeusz Boy-Żeleński, Vladimir Nabokov, Jorge Luis Borges, Robert Stiller, Lydia Davis, Haruki Murakami, Achy Obejas, and Jhumpa Lahiri.\n\nIn the 2010s a substantial gender imbalance was noted in literary translation into English, with far more male writers being translated than women writers. In 2014 Meytal Radzinski launched the \"Women in Translation\" campaign to address this.\n\nThe first important translation in the West was that of the Septuagint, a collection of Jewish Scriptures translated into early Koine Greek in Alexandria between the 3rd and 1st centuries BCE. The dispersed Jews had forgotten their ancestral language and needed Greek versions (translations) of their Scriptures.\n\nThroughout the Middle Ages, Latin was the \"lingua franca\" of the western learned world. The 9th-century Alfred the Great, king of Wessex in England, was far ahead of his time in commissioning vernacular Anglo-Saxon translations of Bede's \"Ecclesiastical History\" and Boethius' \"Consolation of Philosophy\". Meanwhile, the Christian Church frowned on even partial adaptations of St. Jerome's \"Vulgate\" of c. 384 CE, the standard Latin \"Bible\".\n\nIn Asia, the spread of Buddhism led to large-scale ongoing translation efforts spanning well over a thousand years. The Tangut Empire was especially efficient in such efforts; exploiting the then newly invented block printing, and with the full support of the government (contemporary sources describe the Emperor and his mother personally contributing to the translation effort, alongside sages of various nationalities), the Tanguts took mere decades to translate volumes that had taken the Chinese centuries to render.\n\nThe Arabs undertook large-scale efforts at translation. Having conquered the Greek world, they made Arabic versions of its philosophical and scientific works. During the Middle Ages, translations of some of these Arabic versions were made into Latin, chiefly at Córdoba in Spain. King Alfonso X el Sabio (Alphonse the Wise) of Castille in the 13th century promoted this effort by founding a \"Schola Traductorum\" (School of Translation) in Toledo. There Arabic texts, Hebrew texts, and Latin texts were translated into the other tongues by Muslim, Jewish and Christian scholars, who also argued the merits of their respective religions. Latin translations of Greek and original Arab works of scholarship and science helped advance European Scholasticism, and thus European science and culture.\n\nThe broad historic trends in Western translation practice may be illustrated on the example of translation into the English language.\n\nThe first fine translations into English were made in the 14th century by Geoffrey Chaucer, who adapted from the Italian of Giovanni Boccaccio in his own \"Knight's Tale\" and \"Troilus and Criseyde\"; began a translation of the French-language \"Roman de la Rose\"; and completed a translation of Boethius from the Latin. Chaucer founded an English poetic tradition on \"adaptations\" and translations from those earlier-established literary languages.\n\nThe first great English translation was the \"Wycliffe Bible\" (c. 1382), which showed the weaknesses of an underdeveloped English prose. Only at the end of the 15th century did the great age of English prose translation begin with Thomas Malory's \"Le Morte Darthur\"—an adaptation of Arthurian romances so free that it can, in fact, hardly be called a true translation. The first great Tudor translations are, accordingly, the \"Tyndale New Testament\" (1525), which influenced the \"Authorized Version\" (1611), and Lord Berners' version of Jean Froissart's \"Chronicles\" (1523–25).\n\nMeanwhile, in Renaissance Italy, a new period in the history of translation had opened in Florence with the arrival, at the court of Cosimo de' Medici, of the Byzantine scholar Georgius Gemistus Pletho shortly before the fall of Constantinople to the Turks (1453). A Latin translation of Plato's works was undertaken by Marsilio Ficino. This and Erasmus' Latin edition of the \"New Testament\" led to a new attitude to translation. For the first time, readers demanded rigor of rendering, as philosophical and religious beliefs depended on the exact words of Plato, Aristotle and Jesus.\n\nNon-scholarly literature, however, continued to rely on \"adaptation\". France's \"Pléiade\", England's Tudor poets, and the Elizabethan translators adapted themes by Horace, Ovid, Petrarch and modern Latin writers, forming a new poetic style on those models. The English poets and translators sought to supply a new public, created by the rise of a middle class and the development of printing, with works such as the original authors \"would have written\", had they been writing in England in that day.\n\nThe Elizabethan period of translation saw considerable progress beyond mere paraphrase toward an ideal of stylistic equivalence, but even to the end of this period, which actually reached to the middle of the 17th century, there was no concern for verbal accuracy.\n\nIn the second half of the 17th century, the poet John Dryden sought to make Virgil speak \"in words such as he would probably have written if he were living and an Englishman\". As great as Dryden's poem is, however, one is reading Dryden, and not experiencing the Roman poet's concision. Similarly, Homer arguably suffers from Alexander Pope's endeavor to reduce the Greek poet's \"wild paradise\" to order. Both works live on as worthy \"English\" epics, more than as a point of access to the Latin or Greek.\n\nThroughout the 18th century, the watchword of translators was ease of reading. Whatever they did not understand in a text, or thought might bore readers, they omitted. They cheerfully assumed that their own style of expression was the best, and that texts should be made to conform to it in translation. For scholarship they cared no more than had their predecessors, and they did not shrink from making translations from translations in third languages, or from languages that they hardly knew, or—as in the case of James Macpherson's \"translations\" of Ossian—from texts that were actually of the \"translator's\" own composition.\n\nThe 19th century brought new standards of accuracy and style. In regard to accuracy, observes J.M. Cohen, the policy became \"the text, the whole text, and nothing but the text\", except for any bawdy passages and the addition of copious explanatory footnotes. In regard to style, the Victorians' aim, achieved through far-reaching metaphrase (literality) or \"pseudo\"-metaphrase, was to constantly remind readers that they were reading a \"foreign\" classic. An exception was the outstanding translation in this period, Edward FitzGerald's \"Rubaiyat\" of Omar Khayyam (1859), which achieved its Oriental flavor largely by using Persian names and discreet Biblical echoes and actually drew little of its material from the Persian original.\n\nIn advance of the 20th century, a new pattern was set in 1871 by Benjamin Jowett, who translated Plato into simple, straightforward language. Jowett's example was not followed, however, until well into the new century, when accuracy rather than style became the principal criterion.\n\nAs a language evolves, texts in an earlier version of the language—original texts, or old translations—may become difficult for modern readers to understand. Such a text may therefore be translated into more modern language, producing a \"modern translation\" (e.g., a \"modern English translation\" or \"modernized translation\").\n\nSuch modern rendering is applied either to literature from classical languages such as Latin or Greek, notably to the Bible (see \"Modern English Bible translations\"), or to literature from an earlier stage of the same language, as with the works of William Shakespeare (which are largely understandable by a modern audience, though with some difficulty) or with Geoffrey Chaucer's Middle English \"Canterbury Tales\" (which is understandable to most modern readers only through heavy dependence on footnotes).\n\nModern translation is applicable to any language with a long literary history. For example, in Japanese the 11th-century \"Tale of Genji\" is generally read in modern translation (see \"\"Genji:\" modern readership\").\n\nModern translation often involves literary scholarship and textual revision, as there is frequently not one single canonical text. This is particularly noteworthy in the case of the Bible and Shakespeare, where modern scholarship can result in substantive textual changes.\n\nModern translation meets with opposition from some traditionalists. In English, some readers prefer the Authorized King James Version of the Bible to modern translations, and Shakespeare in the original of c. 1600 to modern translations.\n\nAn opposite process involves translating modern literature into classical languages, for the purpose of extensive reading (for examples, see \"List of Latin translations of modern literature\").\n\nViews on the possibility of satisfactorily translating poetry show a broad spectrum, depending largely on the degree of latitude to be granted the translator in regard to a poem's formal features (rhythm, rhyme, verse form, etc.). Douglas Hofstadter, in his 1997 book, \"Le Ton beau de Marot\", argued that a good translation of a poem must convey as much as possible not only of its literal meaning but also of its form and structure (meter, rhyme or alliteration scheme, etc.).\n\nThe Russian-born linguist and semiotician Roman Jakobson, however, had in his 1959 paper \"On Linguistic Aspects of Translation\", declared that \"poetry by definition [is] untranslatable\". Vladimir Nabokov, another Russian-born author, took a view similar to Jakobson's. He considered rhymed, metrical, versed poetry to be in principle untranslatable and therefore rendered his 1964 English translation of Alexander Pushkin's \"Eugene Onegin\" in prose.\n\nHofstadter, in \"Le Ton beau de Marot\", criticized Nabokov's attitude toward verse translation. In 1999 Hofstadter published his own translation of \"Eugene Onegin\", in verse form.\n\nGregory Hays, in the course of discussing Roman adapted translations of ancient Greek literature, makes approving reference to some views on the translating of poetry expressed by David Bellos, an accomplished French-to-English translator. Hays writes:\n\nBook-title translations can be either descriptive or symbolic. Descriptive book titles, for example Antoine de Saint-Exupéry's \"Le Petit Prince\" (The Little Prince), are meant to be informative, and can name the protagonist, and indicate the theme of the book. An example of a symbolic book title is Stieg Larsson's \"The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo\", whose original Swedish title is \"Män som hatar kvinnor\" (Men Who Hate Women). Such symbolic book titles usually indicate the theme, issues, or atmosphere of the work.\n\nWhen translators are working with long book titles, the translated titles are often shorter and indicate the theme of the book.\n\nThe translation of plays poses many problems such as the added element of actors, speech duration, translation literalness, and the relationship between the arts of drama and acting. Successful play translators are able to create language that allows the actor and the playwright to work together effectively. Play translators must also take into account several other aspects: the final performance, varying theatrical and acting traditions, characters' speaking styles, modern theatrical discourse, and even the acoustics of the auditorium, i.e., whether certain words will have the same effect on the new audience as they had on the original audience.\n\nAudiences in Shakespeare's time were more accustomed than modern playgoers to actors having longer stage time. Modern translators tend to simplify the sentence structures of earlier dramas, which included compound sentences with intricate hierarchies of subordinate clauses.\n\nIn translating Chinese literature, translators struggle to find true fidelity in translating into the target language. In \"The Poem Behind the Poem\", Barnstone argues that poetry \"can't be made to sing through a mathematics that doesn't factor in the creativity of the translator\".\n\nA notable piece of work translated into English is the \"Wen Xuan\", an anthology representative of major works of Chinese literature. Translating this work requires a high knowledge of the genres presented in the book, such as poetic forms, various prose types including memorials, letters, proclamations, praise poems, edicts, and historical, philosophical and political disquisitions, threnodies and laments for the dead, and examination essays. Thus the literary translator must be familiar with the writings, lives, and thought of a large number of its 130 authors, making the \"Wen Xuan\" one of the most difficult literary works to translate.\n\nTranslation generally, much as with Kurt Gödel's conception of mathematics, requires, to varying extents, more information than appears in the page of text being translated.\n\nTranslation of a text that is sung in vocal music for the purpose of singing in another language—sometimes called \"singing translation\"—is closely linked to translation of poetry because most vocal music, at least in the Western tradition, is set to verse, especially verse in regular patterns with rhyme. (Since the late 19th century, musical setting of prose and free verse has also been practiced in some art music, though popular music tends to remain conservative in its retention of stanzaic forms with or without refrains.) A rudimentary example of translating poetry for singing is church hymns, such as the German chorales translated into English by Catherine Winkworth.\n\nTranslation of sung texts is generally much more restrictive than translation of poetry, because in the former there is little or no freedom to choose between a versified translation and a translation that dispenses with verse structure. One might modify or omit rhyme in a singing translation, but the assignment of syllables to specific notes in the original musical setting places great challenges on the translator. There is the option in prose sung texts, less so in verse, of adding or deleting a syllable here and there by subdividing or combining notes, respectively, but even with prose the process is almost like strict verse translation because of the need to stick as closely as possible to the original prosody of the sung melodic line.\n\nOther considerations in writing a singing translation include repetition of words and phrases, the placement of rests and/or punctuation, the quality of vowels sung on high notes, and rhythmic features of the vocal line that may be more natural to the original language than to the target language. A sung translation may be considerably or completely different from the original, thus resulting in a contrafactum.\n\nTranslations of sung texts—whether of the above type meant to be sung or of a more or less literal type meant to be read—are also used as aids to audiences, singers and conductors, when a work is being sung in a language not known to them. The most familiar types are translations presented as subtitles or surtitles projected during opera performances, those inserted into concert programs, and those that accompany commercial audio CDs of vocal music. In addition, professional and amateur singers often sing works in languages they do not know (or do not know well), and translations are then used to enable them to understand the meaning of the words they are singing.\n\nAn important role in history has been played by translation of religious texts. Such translations may be influenced by tension between the text and the religious values the translators wish to convey. For example, Buddhist monks who translated the Indian sutras into Chinese occasionally adjusted their translations to better reflect China's distinct culture, emphasizing notions such as filial piety.\n\nOne of the first recorded instances of translation in the West was the rendering of the Old Testament into Greek in the 3rd century BCE. The translation is known as the \"Septuagint\", a name that refers to the supposedly seventy translators (seventy-two, in some versions) who were commissioned to translate the Bible at Alexandria, Egypt. According to legend, each translator worked in solitary confinement in his own cell, and, according to legend, all seventy versions proved identical. The \"Septuagint\" became the source text for later translations into many languages, including Latin, Coptic, Armenian and Georgian.\n\nStill considered one of the greatest translators in history, for having rendered the \"Bible\" into Latin, is Jerome (347–420 C.E.), the patron saint of translators. For centuries the Roman Catholic Church used his translation (known as the Vulgate), though even this translation stirred controversy. By contrast with Jerome's contemporary, Augustine of Hippo (354–430 C.E.), who endorsed precise translation, Jerome believed in adaptation, and sometimes invention, in order to more effectively bring across the meaning. Jerome's colorful Vulgate translation of the Bible includes some crucial instances of \"overdetermination\". For example, Isaiah's prophecy announcing that the Savior will be born of a virgin, uses the word \"'almah\", which is also used to describe the dancing girls at Solomon's court, and simply means young and nubile. Jerome, writes Marina Warner, translates it as \"virgo\", \"adding divine authority to the virulent cult of sexual disgust that shaped Christian moral theology (the [Moslem] \"Quran\", free from this linguistic trap, does not connect Mariam/Mary's miraculous nature with moral horror of sex).\" The apple that Eve offered to Adam, according to Mark Polizzotti, could equally well have been an apricot, orange, or banana; but Jerome liked the pun \"malus/malum\" (apple/evil}. \n\nPope Francis has suggested that the phrase \"lead us not into temptation\", in the Lord's Prayer found in the Gospels of Matthew (the first Gospel, written c. 80–90 C.E.) and Luke (the third Gospel, written c. 80–110 C.E.), should more properly be translated, \"do not let us fall into temptation\", commenting that God does not lead people into temptation—Satan does. Some important early Christian authors interpreted the Bible's Greek text and Jerome's Latin Vulgate similarly to Pope Francis. A.J.B. Higgins in 1943 showed that among the earliest Christian authors, the understanding and even the text of this devotional verse underwent considerable changes. These ancient writers suggest that, even if the Greek and Latin texts are left unmodified, something like \"do not let us fall\" could be an acceptable English rendering. Higgins cited Tertullian, the earliest of the Latin Church Fathers (c. 155–c. 240 C.E., \"do not allow us to be led\") and Cyprian (c. 200–258 C.E., \"do not allow us to be led into temptation\"). A later author, Ambrose (C. 340–397 C.E.), followed Cyprian's interpretation. Augustine of Hippo (354–430), familiar with Jerome's Latin Vulgate rendering, observed that \"many people... say it this way: 'and do not allow us to be led into temptation.'\" \n\nIn 863 C.E. the brothers Saints Cyril and Methodius, the Byzantine Empire's \"Apostles to the Slavs\", began translating parts of the Bible into the Old Church Slavonic language, using the Glagolitic script that they had devised, based on the Greek alphabet.\n\nThe periods preceding and contemporary with the Protestant Reformation saw translations of the Bible into vernacular (local) European languages—a development that contributed to Western Christianity's split into Roman Catholicism and Protestantism over disparities between Catholic and Protestant renderings of crucial words and passages (and due to a Protestant-perceived need to reform the Roman Catholic Church). Lasting effects on the religions, cultures, and languages of their respective countries were exerted by such Bible translations as Martin Luther's into German (the New Testament, 1522), Jakub Wujek's into Polish (1599, as revised by the Jesuits), and William Tyndale's (New Testament, 1526 and revisions) and the \"King James Version\" into English (1611). \n\nEfforts to translate the Bible into English had their martyrs. William Tyndale (c. 1494–1536) was convicted of heresy at Antwerp, was strangled to death while tied at the stake, and then his dead body was burned. Earlier, John Wycliffe (c. mid-1320s – 1384) had managed to die a natural death, but 30 years later the Council of Constance in 1415 declared him a heretic and decreed that his works and earthly remains should be burned; the order, confirmed by Pope Martin V, was carried out in 1428, and Wycliffe's corpse was exhumed and burned and the ashes cast into the River Swift. Debate and religious schism over different translations of religious texts continue, as demonstrated by, for example, the King James Only movement.\n\nA famous \"mistranslation\" of a Biblical text is the rendering of the Hebrew word (\"keren\"), which has several meanings, as \"horn\" in a context where it more plausibly means \"beam of light\": as a result, for centuries artists, including sculptor Michelangelo, have rendered Moses the Lawgiver with horns growing from his forehead.\n\nSuch fallibility of the translation process has contributed to the Islamic world's ambivalence about translating the \"Quran\" (also spelled \"Koran\") from the original Arabic, as received by the prophet Muhammad from Allah (God) through the angel Gabriel incrementally between 609 and 632 C.E., the year of Muhammad's death. During prayers, the \"Quran\", as the miraculous and inimitable word of Allah, is recited only in Arabic. However, as of 1936, it had been translated into at least 102 languages.\n\nA fundamental difficulty in translating the \"Quran\" accurately stems from the fact that an Arabic word, like a Hebrew or Aramaic word, may have a range of meanings, depending on context. This is said to be a linguistic feature, particularly of all Semitic languages, that adds to the usual similar difficulties encountered in translating between any two languages. There is always an element of human judgment—of interpretation—involved in understanding and translating a text. Muslims regard any translation of the \"Quran\" as but one possible interpretation of the Quranic (Classical) Arabic text, and not as a full equivalent of that divinely communicated original. Hence such a translation is often called an \"interpretation\" rather than a translation.\n\nTo complicate matters further, as with other languages, the meanings and usages of some expressions have changed \"over time\", between the Classical Arabic of the \"Quran\", and modern Arabic. Thus a modern Arabic speaker may misinterpret the meaning of a word or passage in the \"Quran\". Moreover, the interpretation of a Quranic passage will also depend on the historic context of Muhammad's life and of his early community. Properly researching that context requires a detailed knowledge of \"hadith\" and \"sirah\", which are themselves vast and complex texts. Hence, analogously to the translating of Chinese literature, an attempt at an accurate translation of the \"Quran\" requires a knowledge not only of the Arabic language and of the target language, including their respective evolutions, but also a deep understanding of the two cultures involved.\n\nTechnical translation renders documents such as manuals, instruction sheets, internal memos, minutes, financial reports, and other documents for a limited audience (who are directly affected by the document) and whose useful life is often limited. Thus, a user guide for a particular model of refrigerator is useful only for the owner of the refrigerator, and will remain useful only as long as that refrigerator model is in use. Similarly, software documentation generally pertains to a particular software, whose applications are used only by a certain class of users.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34296866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34296866", "title": "Uprisings led by women", "text": "Uprisings led by women\n\nWomen-led uprisings are mass protests that are initiated by women as an act of resistance or rebellion in defiance of an established government. A protest is a statement or action taken part to express disapproval of or object an authority; most commonly led in order to influence public opinion or government policy. They range from village food riots against imposed taxes to protests that initiated the Russian revolution.\nE.P. Thompson's classic article \"The Moral Economy of the English Crowd in the 18th Century\" emphasised women's role in many food riots. He argued that the rioters insisted on the idea of a moral community that was obliged to feed them and their families. As one contemporary commentator wrote: 'Women are more disposed to be mutinous ... [and] in all public tumults they are foremost in violence and ferocity.' \n\nJohn Bohstedt later argued that Thompson had exaggerated women's role in food riots. Thompson responded by forcefully rejecting Bohstedt's criticism. We will never know the exact proportion of women's involvement in 18th Century food riots, but it appears that, at the very least, women led or initiated a significant minority of such riots and they participated in many more. Women had participated more fully in food riots than they had in earlier anti-impressment riots of 1747, in which they defended community interest and enforced community morality. These riots of revolution and resistance opened up opportunities for women to take political action as social and economic influencers, and not just as a republican's wife or a mother. He indicates that women's new assertiveness had something to do with the weakening of the patriarchal control of women as feudalism declined and market relations expanded.\n\nMen and women participated in food riots in Ireland, Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany (where contemporary reports claimed that women initiated many riots). Dutch tax riots in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries were more numerous often more violent with participants of both lower and lower-middle classes, whereas food riots drew only lower class participants. In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, at last 26 riots and 50 demonstrations involved women with 10 being chiefly under their control. Women did the cooking and purchased foodstuffs for their families; therefore, they were the first parties to be confronted with scarcities of food and high prices. In doing so women generally controlled much of the household finances. Another reason for their participation is due to the fact that food riots typically started in market places near shops and mills, which is where women gathered the most. One of the most prominent tax riots in 1616 has even gone on record as \"the Women's Revolt of Delft\". Women also conducted nearly a third of food riots during the American Revolution despite the fact that women were excluded from the vote, unqualified to serve as jurors at courts and law, and were essentially politically disabled by their dependent status. It made a difference that Americans knew that women figured prominently in food riots in England and Europe, and it made a difference that ideas of equity, neighborly dealing, and charity informed American women's daily lives in the colonial period. Roughly 100 women marched a \"Female Riot\" and took to the streets in July 1777 insisting on their right to enforce equitable exchange.\n\nWomen were especially prominent in food riots in French marketplaces (although men dominated those in the countryside). The most momentous French food riot was The Women's March on Versailles. This occurred in October 1789, when the market women of Paris began calling the men 'cowards' and declaring: 'We will take over!' These women proceeded to march to Versailles with soldiers following them. This crowd then forced the King to return to Paris where, three years later, women were again major participants in the demonstrations that led to the abolition of the monarchy. As a police inspector said in 1793: 'It is mainly the women who are stirred up, women who in turn communicate all their frenzy to the men, heating them up with their seditious propositions and stimulating the most violent effervescence.'\n\nMeanwhile, women in the countryside initiated 'counter-revolutionary' protests against the new government's policies of the repression of the Church and the conscription of male peasants into the army.\n\nDuring the French Revolution, women lead the fight for religion. Their fight would lead the way for the feminization of religions. Women felt that they were one responsible for maintaining a spiritual balance within their family. They fought harder than their male counterparts, invoking violent and illegal actions sometimes to get their voices heard. If women were ever arrested, the males in their lives would downplay the damage they could do and were also seen as more hysterical and vulnerable as a whole, so society never thought much of their violent and illegal actions. But if a woman refused or avoided taking part in petitions or marches, she would be shamed until guilted into taking part.\n\nThe women during the French Revolution also fought for their own rights. Aristocratic women were not as likely to partake in the activities that could ruin their family and/or their chance of inheriting the family fortune (or what she would receive), so they were reluctant to participate. Working class women also faced this dilemma, but because they were already the suppressed class, the good of what they could achieve outweighed the loss of family pride and/or fortune. Louis XVI had allowed all people who paid taxes to vote, but since women could not pay taxes, they could not vote. While the Third Estate made rules, women would present their opinions through pamphlets and petitions to let the Third Estate know what they wanted. \"Pétition des femmes du Tiers-Etat au Roi\" stated that women wanted education to go beyond French and Latin for Church, more jobs to be available to women, and to raise the max pay of 5-6 sous. \"Motion en Faveur du Sexe\" and \"Discours préliminaire de la pauvre Javotte\" focused on dowries and marriage. In the working class, finding a job was hard enough for men, harder for women, and saving enough money to get married was almost impossible. Women didn't want to have to pay a dowry to get married, this applied only in the Third Estate. \"The Rights of Woman\" by Olympe de Gou was a complete pamphlet that stated all the rights that women should have. It was copied almost word for word from the \"Declaration of the Rights of Man\", but applied to women. A booklet \"Griefs et plaintes des femmes mal mariées\" placed criticism on marriage laws oppressing women into submission to their male counterpart and demanded the legalization of divorce. In the sector of Bourgeoises, Madame Etta Palm van Aelder was a leading figure in fighting to women's rights. She demanded for the equal right to an education, political freedom, divorce and legality of women of age 21 and over. While political freedom would not be gained until after the Revolution, all other demands would be meet in some way. In August 1792, women of the age of 21 and above were given legal freedom from their parents. In September 1792, women were granted the right to divorce and the Law of 1794 eased the divorce process. Educational programs were advanced and allowed women to be trained for careers in the work field, but they still did not obtain equality. Female teachers were paid less than males and primary school classes were divided by gender. By the end of the advancements and improvements in the educational system, the women weren't much better off than before.\n\nR. B. Rose argues that despite the efforts of women during the Revolution, little changed. The Revolution was a revolution for the men, and a place of chaos for the women.The French Revolutionary Constitution of 1791 allowed women to be labeled as citizens, but nothing else than that. They still didn't have voting rights or the ability to run for office. The Napoleonic Law of 1804 suppressed wives into submission to their husbands, reversing all equality demands made during the Revolution. Women still couldn't own land because they couldn't legally sign any contract, putting the land into the hands of her closest masculine relative figure.\n\nLater, during the Franco-Prussian War of 1871, women were prominent in preventing the army from moving their cannons from Paris, an event which helped spark the Paris Commune.\n\nWomen's protests for the right to vote became particularly militant in Britain. They included arson, widespread window breaking and attempts to storm both Parliament and Buckingham Palace. The shift to wartime patriotism in 1914, however, derailed the suffragette movement. \n\nDuring World War I, women led large numbers of food riots in Germany, Russia, Italy and elsewhere. Women workers also led the way in strike-waves in Berlin and Paris. The German authorities reported that union leaders were doing 'everything possible to prevent such disturbances and strikes over food provisions, but ... it is the countless female workers who constantly agitate and stir things up.' Women's prominence in these struggles helped delegitimize the war, and the regimes that were fighting it, paving the way for the huge strike-waves and revolutions at the end of the war. \n\nWomen also led food riots in Japan and non-belligerent Spain. Women's protests against high food prices spread across Spain in both 1913 and 1918. In Barcelona, in 1918, women used the slogan: 'In the name of humanity, all women take to the streets!'. They organised repeated demonstrations and attacked shops, warehouses, government offices and music halls. Women also staged food riots during the Spanish Civil War. Temma Kaplan has theorised such uprisings as examples of 'female consciousness'.\n\nKarl Marx had recognized that \"great social revolutions are impossible without the feminine ferment\" and, in 1917, it was Petrograd's (Saint Petersburg) female workers who spread the idea of a general strike on 8 March, International Women's Day. On that day, hundreds of women threw stones and snowballs at factory windows demanding for bread. Economic depression in 1917, particularly devastated the working class women because price of daily necessities increases tremendously, but their low paid wages does not compensate for the increased in price of goods. After a long and tiring hours of labor, women had to line up for hours just to get a loaf of bread. Sometimes after wasting hours lining up, the breads would ran out and it resulted in starvation for a lot of families. The protest led by thousand of female workers inspired fellow male factory workers to joined them and demand changes. Women participated in the riots by attacking police stations and bakeries. However, many troops refused to shoot protesting women, who were often walking with their children. As Leon Trotsky later wrote, the women took hold of the soldiers' rifles and 'beseeched almost commanded: \"put down your bayonets and join us\"', and, within five days, the centuries-old Tsarist regime had collapsed.\n\nAs Bolshevik took over Petrograd and Moscow in October 1917, tense relationship were discern between rulers and working-class women. Scarcity and hunger made it very difficult for Russian workers to transform society themselves and women's participation did not continue at the same level as in February/March 1917. However, it was women's food protests, in May 1918, that sparked the first major wave of workers' unrest against the new Bolshevik authorities. Then, later, during Joseph Stalin's program of breakneck industrialization and forced collectivization, women were again at the forefront of the workers' strikes and peasant protests that resisted this brutal policy. Stalin's regime was, however, able to contain all resistance through starvation and repression.\n\nWomen were prominent in various revolts in the colonial and ex-colonial world. One of the most notable in Africa was the Igbo Women's War against British tax collection in Nigeria in 1929. Women in southern Igboland believed that they were being wrongfully taxed for palm products by the British. This led to what the British called the Aba Riots, and the Igbo, the Women's War. This rebellion tested the political institutions of the Igbo women which have been established prior to colonization. Women took initiative by sending messages through the market and kinship networks connecting to other villages calling for a mikiri meeting. They also took advantage of strikes, boycotts, and force to project their opinions and retaliate against authority. Women of wealth and generosity who could speak well typically took leading roles in village wide mikiri gatherings, which had the largest influence on the rise of the Women's War. During mikiri, decisions were made on how to respond against being wronged by the Warrant Chief's corruption and by the taxes that they anticipated to be enforced upon them.\n\nIt was a boycott of segregated buses by African-American women that sparked the civil rights movement in 1955. This case inspired activists across the world to make a change and fight oppressions.\n\nYoung women's rejection of the patriarchal family and sexual repression was also a major factor in the rebellions of the 1960s. Women started to defy the typical housewife characteristics and they also demanded equal pay for man and women who worked the same job. Sexual revolution was also transcending in the 1960s as women embraced their sexuality and nature more openly. The revived feminist movement then helped transform gender roles in the following decades. Marsha P. Johnson, a black trans woman, and Stormé DeLarverie, a black lesbian, are credited with inciting the Stonewall Riots in New York City in 1969. Stonewall was a turning point in the gay liberation and LGBTQ rights movements.\n\nWomen were also at the forefront of many working class struggles in the 1970s and 1980s. (For example, in the British Isles, women's protests and leadership were significant during the 'troubles' in Northern Ireland, during the Grunwick strike and during the miners' strike.) For a long time, Iranian women struggled with basic human rights and oppression due to traditional religious affiliations and political attributes. Their Islamic beliefs conceal the issues of gender inequalities and the domination of man towards Iranian women. On 1979, in the course of Islamic Revolution, women gathered and protested on the streets but the changes were nonexistent. It wasn't until 1990s where the impact of Islamic Revolution was seen as intolerant to women. This is when young women and activist started going against the Islamic ideologies, for instance, getting a divorce or wearing clothes that were revealing. Significant changes of basic human rights and the oppression of Iranian women has been perceived since 1990s and it has been progressing notably until today.\n\nRecently on January 20, 2017, the day after Donald Trump was inaugurated as the 45th US president, women, men, and children all over the United States gathered to march in protest of Trump and promote solidarity with other women to resist women's oppression and mistreatment. Over 680 marches throughout the country and in more than 68 countries around the world were held as part of the Women's March. More than 1,000,000 people participated in the \"flagship march\" in Washington D.C.\n\nNorthern Syria is what is referred to as the Rojava. The Rojava revolution, or Rojava conflict, is the political disaster, social revolution, and military battle that has taken place in recent years. The Rojava Revolution has been characterized by the prominent role women have had during these times of strife.\nThe novel \"Revolution in Rojava: Democratic Autonomy and Women's Liberation in Syrian Kurdistan\" documents the Kurdish women and how they were and still are oppressed. As Kurds, they were denied basic rights, in many cases even citizenship; and as women they were trapped in patriarchal domination. The Kurdish women's movement seeks to overcome the alienation of Kurdish women. The fight for women's rights has always been a part of Kurdish history. One of the first signs of revolution in Rojava was the election of Hêvî Îbrahîm to the post of the prime minister in February 2014.\n\nIndeed, many women were assuming leadership positions. Asya Abdullah is regarded to be one of the most radical and effective revolutionaries in the world today. She has been the driving force in the battle for Kurdish freedom. She wants women around the world to become more aware of their own fight.\n\nWith this transformation, women also began getting involved with security and military roles. In 2012, women from the PYD, the People's Protection Units, created a unit dedicated to the fight for women. The Women's fighting units, also known as YPJ, have played a role in the liberations of towns like Kobani and Manbij. Since September 2014, Kurdish women have been playing a leading role in the fight against ISIS. The creation of the YPJ is a fascinating development in a region where women's rights are often repressed. But with the formation of these groups, has come with sexist media coverage. The media is more concerned with the fighters looks rather than what they are fighting for.\n\nWomen in the PKK guerrilla army have developed Jineoloji (also known as Jineology) which simply put, means women's science. The goal of jineology is to given women and society access to science and knowledge and to strengthen the connections of science and knowledge to society. The Rojava Revolution has been characterized by a high level of women participation politics, safe houses for women dealing with sexual assault or violence, and women-run academies dedicated to the study of Jineology.\n\nOut of the conflict of the popular uprising in Syria, Kurdish women took up arms alongside men and took control of Northern Syria, also known as Rojava. The women fight alongside men both in mixed units of the People's Protection Units (YPG) as well as in their own Women's Protection Units (YPJ). Women constitute an estimated 35 percent of the entire Kurdish forces.\n\nStudies of contemporary hunter-gatherers show that their strong sense of moral community is maintained by autonomous individuals who constantly resist any form of personal domination. In fact, many hunter-gatherers are so egalitarian and communistic that even a non-Marxist anthropologist like Christopher Boehm argues that hunter-gatherer societies - the first human societies - must have originated in uprisings against dominant males.\n\nChris Knight, and other anthropologists influenced by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, have theorised that these uprisings were led by women looking for collective support to ease their childcare burdens. They have used a wide range of evidence from anthropology, primatology, mythic narratives, evolutionary biology and archaeology. Some Marxists have dismissed these ideas. However, although the idea of women-led uprisings creating the first societies is controversial, a number of highly respected anthropologists have taken the thesis seriously. (Mary Douglas, Robin Dunbar, David Lewis-Williams, Caroline Humphrey, Marilyn Strathern, Clive Gamble, Keith Hart and Chris Stringer have all made favourable comments about Knight's work.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23725157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23725157", "title": "Upward communication", "text": "Upward communication\n\nUpward Communication is the process of information flowing from the lower levels of a hierarchy to the upper levels. This type of communication is becoming more popular in organizations as traditional forms of communication are becoming less popular. The more traditional organization types such as a hierarchy, places people into separate ranks.\n\nUpward communication helps employees to express their requirements, ideas, and feelings. For the top management, upward communication is an important source of information for business decisions. It helps in alerting top management about the requirement of changes in an organisations. Upward contribution is the core contributor of business process re-engineering in many organisations.\n\nUpward communication is widely used as part of whistleblowing policy in many large organisations. Under whistle blowing policy, each employee is permitted to directly communicate with top management about matters requiring examination on vigilance angle. Hence it is used as a fraud prevention tool as well.\n\nUpward communication keeps managers aware of how employees feel about their jobs, policies and procedures, and the business in general. It consists of methods like Feedback from employees, helps in bringing Mutual Trust and helps the organization to determine, implement or decide upon new policies. It keeps the organization updated or prone to upcoming challenges.\n\nUpward communication is not free from disadvantages too. It suffers from problems like information can be changed during transmission, unwillingness to participate, fear of inefficiency, bypassing and flattery too. Sometimes top level executives discourage the upward flow of information and neglect the constructive suggestions and opinions about the work related issues of the organization. It is a time taking process and is comparatively slow too.\n"}
