{"id": "3603659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3603659", "title": "Aesthetic relativism", "text": "Aesthetic relativism\n\nAesthetic relativism is the idea that views of beauty are relative to differences in perception and consideration, and intrinsically, have no absolute truth or validity \n\nAesthetic relativism might be regarded as a sub-set of an overall philosophical relativism, which denies any absolute standards of truth or morality as well as of aesthetic judgement. (A frequently-cited source for philosophical relativism in postmodern theory is a fragment by Nietzsche, entitled \"On Truth and Lie in an Extra-Moral Sense.\")\n\nFor example, in historical terms, the female form as depicted in the Venus of Willendorf and the women in the paintings of Rubens would today be regarded as over-weight, while the slim models on the covers of contemporary fashion magazines would no doubt be regarded in a negative light by our predecessors. In contemporary (cross-cultural) terms, body modification among \"primitive\" peoples is sometimes regarded as grotesque by Western society. \n\nAesthetic relativism is a variety of the philosophy known generally as relativism, which casts doubt on the possibility of direct epistemic access to the \"external world\", and which therefore rejects the positive claim that statements made about the external world can be known to be objectively true. Other varieties of relativism include cognitive relativism (the general claim that all truth and knowledge is relative) and Ethical Relativism (the claim that moral judgments are relative). Aesthetic and ethical relativism are sub-categories of Cognitive Relativism. Philosophers who have been influential in relativist thinking include David Hume, particularly his \"radical scepticism\" as set out in A Treatise of Human Nature; Thomas Kuhn, with regard to the history and philosophy of science, and particularly his work The Structure of Scientific Revolutions; Friedrich Nietzsche, in moral philosophy and epistemology; and Richard Rorty, on the contingency of language.\n\nPhilosophers who have given influential objectivist accounts include Plato, and in particular his Theory of the Forms; Immanuel Kant, who argued that the judgment of beauty, despite being subjective, is a universally practiced function of the mind; Noam Chomsky, whose \"nativist\" theory of linguistics argues for a universal grammar (i.e., that language is not as contingent as relativists have argued that it is).\n\nThe most prominent philosophical opponent of aesthetic relativism was Immanuel Kant, who argued that the judgment of beauty, while subjective, is universal. \n"}
{"id": "1194689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1194689", "title": "American Academy of Religion", "text": "American Academy of Religion\n\nThe American Academy of Religion (AAR) is the world's largest association of scholars in the field of religious studies and related topics. It is a nonprofit member association, \nserving as a professional and learned society for scholars involved in the academic study of religion. It has some 10,000 members worldwide, with the largest concentration being in the United States and Canada. AAR members are university and college professors, independent scholars, secondary teachers, clergy, seminarians, students, and interested lay-people.\n\nAAR was founded in 1909 as the Association of Biblical Instructors in American Colleges and Secondary Schools. The name was changed to National Association of Biblical Instructors (NABI) in 1933. The American Academy of Religion was adopted as the organization name in 1963 to reflect its broader, inclusive mission to foster the academic study of all religions. Over its long history, AAR has broadened its scope to reflect contemporary values of its membership, such as responding to feminist scholarship and women in religion, increased attention to religions beyond Christianity, differentiation between theology and/or religious reflection within the academic study of religion as a cultural/historical/political phenomenon, and engagement with the public understanding of religion. Presidents of the AAR have included well-known scholars such as Judith Plaskow, Mark Juergensmeyer, Wendy Doniger, Emilie Townes, Peter J. Paris, Rebecca Chopp, and Elizabeth A. Clark.\n\nOxford University Press publishes \"Journal of the American Academy of Religion\" on behalf of the AAR. \"Religious Studies News\" is the quarterly newspaper of record for the organization; it transitioned from a print to online-only publication in 2010. AAR published the online book review Reading Religion. AAR publishes five book series through Oxford University Press: Academy; Reflection and Theory in the Study of Religion; Religion, Culture, and Theory; Religion in Translation; and Teaching Religious Studies. AAR presents awards each year to notable books in the study of religion. It offers three categories of Awards for Excellence: Analytical-Descriptive Studies, Historical Studies, and Constructive-Reflective Studies.\n\nAAR hosts an Annual Meeting each year in November. The AAR Annual Meeting is the world's largest meeting for religious studies scholars. Over 400 events, including meetings, receptions, and academic sessions, occur on the AAR program alone; hundreds more, hosted by affiliated societies and institutions, occur over the course of the meeting. Some 10,000 people attend the AAR Annual Meeting; the location of the meeting changes each year. The AAR Annual Meeting program is developed entirely by volunteers involved in program units representing disciplines and sub-disciplines within the field.\n\nAAR offers activities on a regional level for its members. Professional development resources such as research grants, career services, and scholarships are some of the member benefits. AAR also advocates the importance of the critical study of religion on institutional and national levels.\n\n"}
{"id": "17970498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17970498", "title": "Biofact (archaeology)", "text": "Biofact (archaeology)\n\nIn archaeology, a biofact (or ecofact) is organic material found at an archaeological site that carries archaeological significance. Biofacts are natural objects found alongside artifacts or features, such as animal bones, charcoal, plants, and pollen. Biofacts are passively consumed or handled by humans; as opposed to artefacts, which are purposefully manipulated. Biofacts reveal how people respond to their surroundings.\n\nA common type of biofact is a [plant] [seed]. Plant remains, often referred to as macrobotanicals, provide a variety of information ranging from diet to medicine to textile production. Pollen preserved on archaeological sites informs researchers about the ancient environment, and the foods processed and/or grown by prehistoric people. Pollen, when examined over time, also informs on environmental and dietary changes. A seed can be linked to the species of plant that produced it; if massive numbers of seeds of a cultivated species are found at a site, it may be inferred that the species may have been grown for food or other products that are useful to humans, such as clothing, bedding or building materials.\n\nAnother type of biofact is wood. Wood is made up cellulose, carbohydrates, and lignin. Every year that passes, a new ring is added to the trunk of tree, allowing for dendrochronological dating. Charcoal is burned wood that archaeologist are able to extract. It can be dated using carbon-14, and through other methods, information such as local environment and human adaptation can be revealed from the charcoal. To help determine the date during which a site was occupied, dendrochronological analysis can be used on wood samples. Wood that has been altered by humans is properly an artifact, not a biofact.\n\n"}
{"id": "5688684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5688684", "title": "Bride service", "text": "Bride service\n\nBride service has traditionally been portrayed in the anthropological literature as the service rendered by the bridegroom to a bride's family as a bride price or part of one (see dowry). Bride service and bride wealth models frame anthropological discussions of kinship in many regions of the world.\nPatterns of matrilocal post-marital residence, as well as the practice of temporary or prolonged bride service, have been widely reported for indigenous peoples of the Amazon basin. Among these people, bride service is frequently performed in conjunction with an interval of uxorilocal residence. The length of uxorilocal residence and the duration of bride service are contingent upon negotiations between the concerned parties, the outcome of which has been characterized as an enduring commitment or permanent debt. The power wielded by those who “give” wives over those who “take” them is also said to be a significant part of the political relationships in societies where bride service obligations are prevalent.\n\nRather than seeing affinity in terms of a \"compensation\" model whereby individuals are exchanged as objects, Dean’s (1995) research on Amazon bride service among the Urarina demonstrates how differentially situated subjects negotiate the politics of marriage.\nAn example of bride service occurs in the Hebrew Bible, , when Jacob labored for Laban for fourteen years to marry Rachel. Originally the deal was seven years, but Laban tricked Jacob by giving him Leah on their wedding day, so Jacob had to work another seven years to obtain the girl he had originally fallen in love with, Rachel.\n\n"}
{"id": "251944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251944", "title": "Catchphrase", "text": "Catchphrase\n\nA catchphrase (alternatively spelled catch phrase) is a phrase or expression recognized by its repeated utterance. Such phrases often originate in popular culture and in the arts, and typically spread through word of mouth and a variety of mass media (such as films, internet, literature and publishing, television and radio). Some become the de facto or literal \"trademark\" or \"signature\" of the person or character with whom they originated, and can be instrumental in the typecasting of a particular actor.\n\nAccording to Richard Harris, a psychology professor at Kansas State University who studied why people like to cite films in social situations, using film quotes in everyday conversation is similar to telling a joke and a way to form solidarity with others. \"People are doing it to feel good about themselves, to make others laugh, to make themselves laugh\", he said. He found that all of the participants in his study had used film quotes in conversation at one point or another. \"They overwhelmingly cited comedies, followed distantly by dramas and action adventure flicks.\" Horror films, musicals and children's films were hardly ever cited.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "353663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353663", "title": "Climax (narrative)", "text": "Climax (narrative)\n\nThe climax (from the Greek word \"κλῖμαξ\", meaning \"staircase\" and \"ladder\") or turning point of a narrative work is its point of highest tension and drama, or it is the time when the action starts during which the solution is given. The climax of a story is a literary element.\n\nThe punch line of a joke is an analogy for the climax of a fictional narrative, though the absence of any falling action is an essential difference, which may reflect the nature of humor as opposed to the nature of drama.\n\nIn non-fictional narrative genres, even though the author does not have the same freedom to control the action and \"plot\" as in works of fiction, the selection of subject matter, degree of detail, and emphasis permit an author to create similar structures, i.e., to construct a dramatization.\n\nIn the play \"Hippolytus\", by the famous Greek playwright, Euripides, the climax arrives when Phaedra hears Hippolytus react badly because of her love for him. That is the moment that Aphrodite's curse is finally fulfilled, and it is the turning point of the play.\n\nAn anticlimax is a situation in a plot in which something which would appear to be difficult to solve is solved through something trivial. For example, destroying a heavily guarded facility would require advanced technology, teamwork, and weaponry for a climax, but for an anticlimax, it may just require pushing a red button which reads, \"Emergency Self-Destruct\", or simply filling out an eviction notice and destroying the building. A famous example is the ending of \"The War of the Worlds\", where amidst the chaos of the extraterrestrial takeover of planet Earth, the aliens are defeated by the most unexpected organism: the common cold virus. Another example could involve the protagonist faced with insurmountable odds and ultimately being killed without accomplishing his goal, despite what appears to be a turning point for the character.\n\n"}
{"id": "3418642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3418642", "title": "Comedy of humours", "text": "Comedy of humours\n\nThe comedy of humours is a genre of dramatic comedy that focuses on a character or range of characters, each of whom exhibits two or more overriding traits or 'humours' that dominates their personality, desires and conduct. This comic technique may be found in Aristophanes, but the English playwrights Ben Jonson and George Chapman popularized the genre in the closing years of the sixteenth century. In the later half of the seventeenth century, it was combined with the comedy of manners in Restoration comedy. \nIn Jonson’s \"Every Man in His Humour\" (acted 1598), which made this type of play popular, all the words and acts of Kitely are controlled by an overpowering suspicion that his wife is unfaithful; George Downright, a country squire, must be \"frank\" above all things; the country gull in town determines his every decision by his desire to \"catch on\" to the manners of the city gallant. \n\nIn his Induction to \"Every Man out of His Humour\" (1599) Jonson explains his character-formula thus:\nSome one peculiar qualityDoth so possess a man, that it doth drawAll his affects, his spirits, and his powers,In their confluctions, all to run one way.\n\nThe comedy of humours owes something to earlier vernacular comedy but more to a desire to imitate the classical comedy of Plautus and Terence and to combat the vogue of romantic comedy, as developed by William Shakespeare. The satiric purpose of the comedy of humours and its realistic method lead to more serious character studies with Jonson’s \"The Alchemist\". The humours each had been associated with physical and mental characteristics; the result was a system that was quite subtle in its capacity for describing types of personality.\n"}
{"id": "2018802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2018802", "title": "Commonwealth of World Citizens", "text": "Commonwealth of World Citizens\n\nThe Commonwealth of World Citizens (later named 'Mondcivitan Republic' after the Esperanto) was founded by Hugh J. Schonfield, an associate of H.G. Wells, in 1956. The organisation describes itself as a servant-Nation.\n\nHugh Schonfield was a biblical scholar, who was later best known for his book \"The Passover Plot.\" Schonfield first felt the need for an organisation for the service of all nations as far back as 1938.\n\nFrom 1938 to 1950 Schonfield examined various aspects of the project, including questions of international law. Schonfield came up with the idea of a body of persons from different countries which would have relations with the governments of other countries, without that organisation holding any territory itself. When the United Nations was formed, Schonfield wrote to the Secretary-General and to all the states party to the charter of his desire to form his Mondcivitan Republic. \n\nIn the summer of 1951, a General Assembly of the organisation's members was held in Paris, which appointed a Secretariat as the acting administration with offices in London. By 1952 the organisation had members in 14 countries, by 1954 in 25 countries and by 1955 in 30 countries. The second General Assembly in 1953 set up a commission to draft the text of the constitution of the organisation. Following amendments at the third General Assembly in 1955, the organisation's provisional Constitution was approved for adoption. In the same year humanitarian activities were initiated by the creation of the World Service Trust as a specialised agency of the organisation.\n\nCaresse Crosby merged her group with the Commonwealth of World Citizens.\n\nThe organisation arose from the need felt by members throughout the world to give organic expression to the idea of the fundamental unity of the human race by developing a common way of life and government, which experimentally would be a preparation by example for a co-operative World community embracing all peoples.\n\nThe organisation was to consist of all its members at any given time, without regard for colour or ethnic origin. In its political expression it was a free and self-governing organisation and \"world community\".\n\nThe new organisation expressed the goal of world unity and human fraternity. The idea was that the organisation should advocate for international reconciliation and the resolution of international problems and conflicts. The loyalty it demanded was higher than that given to any state, requiring in the individual full dedication to the principles and purposes of the new nation, yet at the initial stage without forfeiting state citizenship.\n\nFor the members, state citizenship was to be always secondary to membership within the organisation. Any member was expected to be primarily concerned with the affairs and policies of the organisation. Taking part in war, aggression of oppression was strictly prohibited and the member was supposed to be prepared to suffer the penalties. All members were expected to live and abide by a set of seven principles:\n\nWith members in 33 countries it was decided in 1956 that the \"Mondcivitan Republic\" should be proclaimed in being \"de facto\" and that all governments should be advised accordingly and furnished with a copy of the constitution. A Constituent Assembly of the organisation's members was convened at the Temple of Peace, Cardiff, headquarters of the United Nations Association in Wales. The organisation's constitution was adopted on August 29 and the flag of the organisation hoisted over the building. A council was elected to prepare the way for parliamentary government.\n\nIn 1958 a democratic election was held giving opportunity to all members in the countries where they resided to elect deputies to the first parliament which met in Vienna in May 1959. Up to this time the organisation had used the title, \"Commonwealth of World Citizens\" which was abandoned in favour of \"The Mondcivitan Republic\". Hugh Schonfield, the pioneer of the enterprise, was elected acting president and the organisation chose an executive committee headed by a young member, Donald Hanby who was referred to as the \"prime minister\".\n\nIn 1963, the organisation held its second \"parliament\". The term of this body was to be for five years. In accordance with the constitution, a presidium of five was elected under the name of the Supreme Council, each member of which would hold the office of president for one year in turn. Those elected, in the order of their presidency, were Frieda Bacon, Justo Priesto, Nguyen-Huu, Anthony Brooke and Hugh J. Schonfield, the last named to take office at the end of August 1967. The post of \"prime minister\" was relinquished and replaced under the constitution with that of \"commissioner-general\" and Donald Hanby was elected to that office.\n\nAt this time, the International Arbitration League, founded at the beginning of the 20th century by the Nobel Peace Prize winner, Sir William Randal Cremer, decided that its work could best be continued by the \"Mondcivitan Republic\" and the two organisations fused. The work of the World Service Trust continued and a housing agency, the Cremer Housing Association, was formed, which later provided new premises for use by the organisation.\n\nIn 1971, the provisional constitution was suspended to make way for formulating a full constitution. To enable the organisation to ensure the best means of governance, an executive council was appointed to take full responsibility for the organisation's affairs in the interim period. It was hoped that a full constitution and self-government could be achieved by 1975, but this did not happen.\n\nIn 1972 Hugh Schonfield's book about the fundamental ideas behind the organisation, The \"Politics of God,\" was published and received much interest, particularly because it had been preceded by the best-selling The Passover Plot, which had created much discussion and aroused interest in the concept of Messianism.\n\nThe Community school project was started as an experiment by the organisation's membership. It was intended to provide a viable alternative to the prevalent educational concepts, with primary aim to give each child freedom, experience, resources and love. It was believed that this should take place in, and be directly concerned with, the community as a whole, encouraging children to take an active interest in serving and changing the community for the betterment of the whole of mankind. Various methods of achieving these aims were implemented. The school was supported by donations from members and charged no fees. Many of the children were \"problem\" children from the neighbourhood of the school who went on to lead productive lives.\n\nThe World Service Trust was founded in 1955 as a special agency of the organisation for the purpose of giving impartial aid to people and countries in circumstances of poverty, famine, disease and epidemics, as well as natural disasters. The secondary organisation was also designed to assist education and improve standards of living.\n\nIn 1990 the secondary organisation became a foundation and was renamed \"The Hugh and Helene Schonfield World Service Trust\". The Schonfields contributed to it financially. \n\nThe organisation fell into decline following the 1980s. Its archives are now deposited with the Bishopsgate Institute in London.\nIts activities became more centred in Germany as the community initiated by Wilhelm Haller felt a more decentralised and less bureaucratic approach was necessary. A new initiative was started in 2004 with the founding of the 'International Leadership and Business Society', intended to encourage the application of the original Mondcivitan principles in business and everyday life. The Hugh & Helene Schonfield World Service Trust continued to work particularly with its responsibility for the archiving and publicising of the work of the late Hugh J. Schonfield and research into the concepts of Messianism, Humanitism and \"Servant-Nationhood\" and methods to find their practical realisation.\n\nIn 2014 a revival of the movement was started in an attempt to find a current interpretation. This has led to the establishment of a Facebook page. \n\n\nMore information is available at:\n"}
{"id": "58447333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58447333", "title": "Conjunct consonant", "text": "Conjunct consonant\n\nConjunct consonants are a type of letters, used for example in Brahmi or modern Devanagari, to write consonant clusters such as or . Although most of the time, letters are formed by using a simple consonant with the inherent value vowel \"a\" (as with \"k\" , pronounced \"ka\" in Brahmi), or by combining a consonant with an vowel in the form of an diacritic (as with \"ki\" in Brahmi), the usage of conjunct consonant permits the creation of more sophisticated sounds (as with \"kya\" , formed with the consonants k and y assembled verticaly). Conjuncts are often used with loan words. Native words typically use the basic consonant and native speakers know to suppress the vowel.\n\nIn modern Devanagari the components of a conjunct are written left to right when possible (when the first consonant has a vertical stem that can be removed at the right), whereas in Brahmi characters are joined vertically downwards. \n\nSome simple examples of conjunct consonants in Devanagari are: त + व = त्व tva, ण + ढ = ण्ढ ṇḍha, स + थ = स्थ stha, where the vertical stroke of the first letter is simply lost in the combination. Sometimes, conjunct consonants are not clearly derived from the letters making up their components: the conjunct for kṣ is क्ष (क् + ष) and for jñ it is ज्ञ (ज् + ञ). \n\nConjunct consonants are used in many other scripts as well, usually derived from the Brahmi script. In Balinese, conjunct consonants are called \"Haksara Wrehastra\".\n\nConjunct consonant are not limited to Brahmic languages, and can be seen in Navajo for example.\n"}
{"id": "54270126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54270126", "title": "Corpus language", "text": "Corpus language\n\nA corpus language is a language without living speakers, while a number of the actual productions of the native speakers have been preserved in some way (usually in written records). Examples of corpus languages are Ancient Greek, Latin, the Egyptian Language, Old English and Elamite. \n\nSome corpus language left a very large corpus, like Ancient Greek and Latin, and therefore can be totally reconstucted, even though some details of the pronunciation may be unclear. Such languages can be used even today, as is the case with Sanskrit and Latin. Others have such a limited corpus that some important words, e.g. some pronouns, are not found in the corpus. Examples for this are Ugaritic and Gothic. Languages that are only attested by a few words, often names, and a few phrases (called \"Trümmersprachen\" in German linguistics, literally \"rubble languages\") can only be reconstructed in a very limited way and often their genetic relationship to other languages remains unclear. Examples are the Lombardic language and Dadanitic, a Semitic language that is may be close to classical Arabic.\n\nCorpus languages are studied using the methods of corpus linguistics, but corpus linguistics can be used (and is commonly used) for the study of the recorded productions of living languages.\n\nNot all extinct languages are \"corpus languages,\" since many languages have disappeared leaving no, or very inadequate, recorded production of their speakers.\n\n"}
{"id": "8628014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8628014", "title": "Derbfine", "text": "Derbfine\n\nThe derbfine (, , from \"derb\" 'real' + \"fine\" 'group of persons of the same family or kindred,' thus literally 'true kin') was a term for patrilineal groups and power structures defined in the first written tracts in Early Irish law. Its principal purpose was as an institution of property inheritance, with property redistributed on the death of a member to those remaining members of the derbfine. Comprising all the patrilineal descendants over a four-generation group with a common great-grandfather, it gradually gave way to a smaller three-generation kinship group, called the \"gelfine\".\n\nWithin a clan, on the death of its chief or king, the surviving members of its derbfine would elect from their number a new chief and/or elect his successor, or \"Tánaiste\" (in English, his Tanist). A larger number of clan members, either allies or cousins who were too distantly related to be members of the derbfine, would not have a direct say in such an election. The frequent recitations of a clan's genealogy by its bards was therefore a reminder of who was currently in or out of the clan's derbfine as much as it was a claim to ancient lineages.\n\nProfessor Francis John Byrne of University College Dublin also identified an \"indfine\" system used in some clans before the year 1000, with membership going back to a common great-great-great-grandfather, perhaps necessary at a time of frequent warfare.\n\nIn later Anglo-Saxon England, princes of the royal dynasty who were eligible for the kingship were known as æthelings. In Wales, an edling was the term for an accepted heir apparent of a reigning Welsh monarch.\n\nThe inheritance of the Norman royal line on the death of Stephen, King of England and his succession by his cousin, Henry II, is similar. Stephen's son was disinherited by consent and Henry was chosen as the equivalent of tánaiste or next chieftain and succeeded to the English throne in 1154. The system was again attempted during the incapacity of Henry VI of England, when the House of York obtained the support of some royal cousins to take the throne in 1461. By then the norm in Europe was the system of primogeniture, which led on to the turbulent succession crises and policies of Henry VIII of England in 1527–36.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35879953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35879953", "title": "Doenjang Girl", "text": "Doenjang Girl\n\nDoenjang girl or Doenjang woman (hangul:된장녀) is a satirical expression used in South Korea \"for their propensity to scrimp on essentials so they can over-spend on conspicuous luxuries\". These girls and young women are addicted to luxury and vanity. The Hangul spelling is Doenjang Nyeo (된장녀).\n\nDoenjang (hangul:된장; hanja:된醬) is Korean fermented soybean paste. The idea behind the phrase is that such a girl will eat a cheap meal (doenjang jjigae is one of the cheapest meals in Korea) in order to buy an expensive latte at Starbucks. The expression became popular on the Internet in South Korea in the early 2000s. Cartoons satirising Doenjang Girls became famous on the internet from 2005.\n\nA large part of the song \"Gangnam Style\" is a parody of this stereotype.\n"}
{"id": "18454599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18454599", "title": "Ecumenical Institute for Study and Dialogue", "text": "Ecumenical Institute for Study and Dialogue\n\nThe Study Center was established in 1951, due to the resurgence of Buddhism after independence, which brought with it an increased need for dialogue between Buddhism and Christianity. The goal of the center is to consider Christianity in the light of the Sri Lankan culture and heritage, which is predominantly Buddhist. The Study Center was renamed in 1977 to \"Ecumenical Institute for Study and Dialogue\" (EISD).\n\nIn addition to publishing books and papers on dialogue between Christianity and other religions, the EISD publishes the \"Dialogue\" journal on a quarterly basis, which is one of the first theological journals on Buddhist-Christian encounter. The journal was founded by Lynn de Silva in order to move the prevailing atmosphere between Buddhists and Christians in Sri Lanka away from diatribe and towards dialogue. This journal has published articles on a wide range of topics including \"the existence of God, the idea of the soul, working towards shared ethical practice, monastic life, globalisation and women in religion.\"\n\nAfter Lynn de Silva's death in 1982, the EISD was directed by Rev. Kenneth Fernando, and it is currently directed by Marshal Fernando. Rev. Fr. Aloysius Pieris, S. J., who had been collaborating with de Silva since 1968, and who in partnership with de Silva had officially been responsible for editing the \"New Series\" of \"Dialogue\", continued to work as editor of the journal after de Silva's death. Mrs. Langanee Mendis, the Administrative Secretary at the institute, is credited as being the main person responsible for the uninterrupted functioning of the institute after Lynn de Silva's death; she was also considered by Pieris in 2003 to be \"a tower of strength [for the Ecumenical Institute] for well over 20 years.\"\n"}
{"id": "70432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70432", "title": "Emic and etic", "text": "Emic and etic\n\nIn anthropology, folkloristics, and the social and behavioral sciences, emic and etic refer to two kinds of field research done and viewpoints obtained: \"emic,\" from within the social group (from the perspective of the subject) and \"etic,\" from outside (from the perspective of the observer).\n\n\"The emic approach investigates how local people think\" (Kottak, 2006): How they perceive and categorize the world, their rules for behavior, what has meaning for them, and how they imagine and explain things. \"The etic (scientist-oriented) approach shifts the focus from local observations, categories, explanations, and interpretations to those of the anthropologist. The etic approach realizes that members of a culture often are too involved in what they are doing... to interpret their cultures impartially. When using the etic approach, the ethnographer emphasizes what he or she considers important.\"\n\nAlthough emics and etics are sometimes regarded as inherently in conflict and one can be preferred to the exclusion of the other, the complementarity of emic and etic approaches to anthropological research has been widely recognized, especially in the areas of interest concerning the characteristics of human nature as well as the form and function of human social systems.\nEmic and etic approaches of understanding behavior and personality fall under the study of cultural anthropology. Cultural anthropology states that people are shaped by their cultures and their subcultures, and we must account for this in the study of personality. One way is looking at things through an emic approach. This approach \"is culture specific because it focuses on a single culture and it is understood on its own terms.\" As explained below, the term \"emic\" originated from the specific linguistic term \"phonemic\", from \"phoneme\", which is a language-specific way of abstracting speech sounds.\nWhen these two approaches are combined, the “richest” view of a culture or society can be understood. On its own, an emic approach would struggle with applying overarching values to a single culture. The etic approach is helpful in enabling researchers to see more than one aspect of one culture, and in applying observations to cultures around the world.\n\nThe terms were coined in 1954 by linguist Kenneth Pike, who argued that the tools developed for describing linguistic behaviors could be adapted to the description of any human social behavior. As Pike noted, social scientists have long debated whether their knowledge is objective or subjective. Pike's innovation was to turn away from an epistemological debate, and turn instead to a methodological solution. \"Emic\" and \"etic\" are derived from the linguistic terms phonemic and phonetic respectively, which are in turn derived from Greek roots. The possibility of a truly objective description was discounted by Pike himself in his original work; he proposed the emic/etic dichotomy in anthropology as a way around philosophic issues about the very nature of objectivity.\n\nThe terms were also championed by anthropologists Ward Goodenough and Marvin Harris with slightly different connotations from those used by Pike. Goodenough was primarily interested in understanding the culturally specific meaning of specific beliefs and practices; Harris was primarily interested in explaining human behavior.\n\nPike, Harris, and others have argued that cultural \"insiders\" and \"outsiders\" are equally capable of producing emic \"and\" etic accounts of their culture. Some researchers use \"etic\" to refer to objective or outsider accounts, and \"emic\" to refer to subjective or insider accounts.\n\nMargaret Mead was an anthropologist who studied the patterns of adolescence in Samoa. She discovered that the difficulties and the transitions that adolescents faced are culturally influenced. The hormones that are released during puberty can be defined using an etic framework, because adolescents globally have the same hormones being secreted. However, Mead concluded that how adolescents respond to these hormones is greatly influenced by their cultural norms. Through her studies, Mead found that simple classifications about behaviors and personality could not be used because peoples’ cultures influenced their behaviors in such a radical way. Her studies helped create an emic approach of understanding behaviors and personality. Her research deduced that culture has a significant impact in shaping an individual’s personality.\nCarl Jung, a Swiss psychoanalyst, is a researcher who took an etic approach in his studies. Jung studied mythology, religion, ancient rituals, and dreams leading him to believe that there are archetypes that can be identified and used to categorize people’s behaviors. Archetypes are universal structures of the collective unconscious that refer to the inherent way people are predisposed to perceive and process information. The main archetypes that Jung studied were the persona (how people choose to present themselves to the world), the animus/ anima (part of people experiencing the world in viewing the opposite sex, that guides how they select their romantic partner), and the shadow (dark side of personalities because people have a concept of evil. Well-adjusted people must integrate both good and bad parts of themselves). Jung looked at the role of the mother and deduced that all people have mothers and see their mothers in a similar way; they offer nurture and comfort. His studies also suggest that “infants have evolved to suck milk from the breast, it is also the case that all children have inborn tendencies to react in certain ways.” This way of looking at the mother is an etic way of applying a concept cross-culturally and universally.\n\nEmic and etic approaches are important to understanding personality because problems can arise “when concepts, measures, and methods are carelessly transferred to other cultures in attempts to make cross- cultural generalizations about personality.” It is hard to apply certain generalizations of behavior to people who are so diverse and culturally different. One example of this is the F-scale (Macleod). The F-scale, which was created by Theodor Adorno, is used to measure Authoritarian Personality, which can, in turn, be used to predict prejudiced behaviors. This test, when applied to Americans accurately depicts prejudices towards black individuals. However, when a study was conducted in South Africa using the F-Scale, (Pettigrew and Friedman) results did not predict any anti-Black prejudices. This study used emic approaches of study by conducting interviews with the locals and etic approaches by giving participants generalized personality tests.\n\nOther explorations of the differences between reality and humans' models of it:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27419471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27419471", "title": "European Culture and Economy", "text": "European Culture and Economy\n\nEuropean Culture and Economy, shortened as ECUE, is an interdisciplinary postgraduate program that is distinct from European Studies. Both focus on European politics and developments. After receiving the academic degree Master of Arts, graduates of ECUE may engage in various business fields, however, especially EU-related professions are targeted.\n\nThe Ruhr University Bochum in Germany is currently the only university to offer European Culture and Economy as a path of study. It is a small branch, approximately 30 students are accepted each year. It was first introduced in the winter term of 1999/2000 and has since become an established Mastersprogramme. Initially, ECUE was a way of giving arts scholars a fundamental understanding of economics, politics and intercultural competences. In its early stages, the program was supported financially by the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) as well as German Rectors' Conference (HRK). In 2007, its level of quality was confirmed by ACQUIN, a German Quality Assurance Institute. Students of ECUE are intended to qualify as \"specialized generalist\" and be prepared for careers in international companies and institutions. The expected duration of study is four terms.\n\nThe curriculum puts an emphasis on examining the European area from an economic, cultural, political and sociological perspective. During Colloquia and an obligatory excursion (to Brussels), the interrelations of the disciplines are linked and investigated. Additionally, the students' intercultural competences and research methods are trained.\n\nSeminars of the following disciplines are included in the program:\n\nThe interdisciplinary and intercultural approach teaches students to analyze European topics from a cultural, economical and political angle. Next to interdisciplinary, ECUE stresses international relations. Many of the available places are assigned to foreign students. So far, students of 30 different nations (Africa, U.S.A., Asia, many European countries) were able to successfully complete the program.\n\nTo be granted admission to the program, a very good to excellent Bachelor's degree is required. Furthermore, students must possess a good proficiency in the teaching languages, English and German.\nFurther, a term abroad or an internship are possible ways to organize the program.\n\nAdditional sources (in German)\n\nTranslated versions:\n"}
{"id": "15039439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15039439", "title": "Extrajudicial killing", "text": "Extrajudicial killing\n\nAn extrajudicial killing (also known as extrajudicial execution) is the killing of a person by governmental authorities without the sanction of any judicial proceeding or legal process. Extrajudicial punishments are mostly seen by humanity to be unethical, since they bypass the due process of the legal jurisdiction in which they occur. Extrajudicial killings often target leading political, trade union, dissident, religious, and social figures and are only those carried out by the state government or other state authorities like the armed forces or police, as extra-legal fulfillment of their prescribed role.\n\nSection 3(a) of the United States Torture Victim Protection Act contains a definition of extrajudicial killing:\n\nExtrajudicial killings and death squads are common in Syria, Iraq, Egypt, Libya, Central America, India, Mexico, Colombia, Brazil, Venezuela, Indonesia, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bangladesh, several nations or regions in Africa, including the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Burundi, Jamaica, Kosovo, Russia, Uzbekistan, parts of Thailand, Turkey, in the Philippines, Tajikistan,El Salvador, Papua New Guinea, and by Israeli forces. One of the most recent issues regarding extrajudicial killing has been the debate about the legal and moral status of targeted killing by unmanned aerial vehicles by the United States.\n\nArgentina's dictatorial government during the 1976–1983 period used extrajudicial killings systematically as way of crushing the opposition in the so-called \"Dirty War\" or what is known in Spanish as \"La Guerra Sucia\". During this violent period, it is estimated that the military regime killed between eleven thousand and fifteen thousand people and most of the victims were known or suspected to be opponents of the regime. These included intellectuals, labor leaders, human rights workers, priests, nuns, reporters, politicians, and artists as well as their relatives. Authorities Half of the number of extra-judicial killings were reportedly carried out by the murder squad that operated from a detention center in Buenos Aires called \"Escuela Mecanica de la Armada\". The dirty wars in Argentina sometimes triggered even more violent conflicts since the killings and crackdowns precipitated responses from insurgents.\n\nBangladeshi special security force Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) has long been known for extrajudicial killing. In a leaked WikiLeaks cable it was found that RAB was trained by the UK government. 16 RAB officials (sacked afterwards) including Lt Col (sacked) Tareque Sayeed, Major (sacked) Arif Hossain, and Lt Commander (sacked) Masud Rana were given death penalty for abduction, murder, concealing the bodies, conspiracy and destroying evidences in the Narayanganj Seven Murder case.\n\nBeside this lots of alleged criminals were killed by Bangladesh police by the name of Crossfire. In 2018, many alleged drug dealers were killed in the name of \"War on Drugs\" in Bangladesh.\n\nIn 1999 Belarusian opposition leaders Yury Zacharanka and Viktar Hanchar together with his business associate Anatol Krasouski disappeared. Hanchar and Krasouski disappeared the same day of a broadcast on state television in which President Alexander Lukashenko ordered the chiefs of his security services to crack down on “opposition scum”. Although the State Security Committee of the Republic of Belarus (KGB) had them under constant surveillance, the official investigation announced that the case could not be solved. The disappearance of journalist Dzmitry Zavadski in 2000 has also yielded no results. Copies of a report by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which linked senior Belarusian officials to the cases of disappearances, were confiscated. Human Rights Watch claims that Zacharanka, Hanchar, Krasouski and Zavadski likely became victims of extrajudicial executions.\n\nWhen General Augusto Pinochet assumed power in 1973, he immediately ordered the purges, torture, and deaths of more than 3,000 supporters of the previous government without trial. During his regime, which lasted from 1973 to 1989, elements of the military and police continued committing extrajudicial killings. These included Manuel Contreras, the former head of Chile's National Intelligence Directorate (DINA), which served as Pinochet's secret police. He was behind numerous assassinations and human rights abuses such as the 1974 abduction and forced disappearance of Socialist Party leader Victor Olea Alegria. Some of the killings were also coordinated with other right-wing dictatorships in the Southern Cone in the so-called Operation Condor. There were reports of United States' Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) involvement, particularly within its activities in Central and South America that promoted anti-Communist coups. While CIA's complicity was not proven, American dollars supported the regimes that carried out extrajudicial killings such as the Pinochet administration. CIA, for instance, helped create DINA and the agency admitted that Contreras was one of its assets. \n\nDuring the Salvadoran civil war, death squads achieved notoriety when far-right vigilantes assassinated Archbishop Óscar Romero for his social activism in March 1980. In December 1980, four Americans—three nuns and a lay worker—were raped and murdered by a military unit later found to have been acting on specific orders. Death squads were instrumental in killing hundreds of peasants and activists, including such notable priests as Rutilio Grande. Because the death squads involved were found to have been soldiers of the Salvadoran military, which was receiving U.S. funding and training from American advisors during the Carter administration, these events prompted outrage in the U.S. and led to a temporary cutoff in military aid from the Reagan administration, although death squad activity stretched well into the Reagan years (1981–1989) as well.\n\nHonduras also had death squads active through the 1980s, the most notorious of which was Battalion 316. Hundreds of people, including teachers, politicians and union bosses, were assassinated by government-backed forces. Battalion 316 received substantial support and training from the United States Central Intelligence Agency.\n\nIn 1953 a regime was installed through the efforts of the American CIA and the British MI6 in which the Shah (hereditary monarch) Mohammad Reza Pahlavi used SAVAK death squads (also trained by the CIA) to imprison, torture and/or kill hundreds of dissidents. After the 1979 revolution death squads were used to an even greater extent by the new Islamic government. In 1983, the CIA gave the Supreme Leader of Iran—Ayatollah Khomeini—information on KGB agents in Iran. This information was probably used. The Iranian government later used death squads occasionally throughout the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s; however by the 2000s it seems to have almost entirely, if not completely, ceased using them.\n\nIraq was formed by the partition and domination of various tribal lands by the British in the early 20th century. Britain granted independence to Iraq in 1932, on the urging of King Faisal, though the British retained military bases and transit rights for their forces. King Ghazi of Iraq ruled as a figurehead after King Faisal's death in 1933, while undermined by attempted military coups, until his death in 1939. The United Kingdom invaded Iraq in 1941 (see Anglo-Iraqi War), for fear that the government of Rashid Ali al-Gaylani might cut oil supplies to Western nations, and because of his links to the Axis powers. A military occupation followed the restoration of the Hashemite monarchy, and the occupation ended on October 26, 1947. Iraq was left with a national government led from Baghdad made up of Sunni ethnicity in key positions of power, ruling over an ad-hoc nation splintered by tribal affiliations. This leadership used death squads and committed massacres in Iraq throughout the 20th century, culminating in the dictatorship of Saddam Hussein.\n\nThe country has since become increasingly partitioned following the Iraq War into three zones: a Kurdish ethnic zone to the north, a Sunni center and the Shia ethnic zone to the south. The secular Arab socialist Baathist leadership were replaced with a provisional and later constitutional government that included leadership roles for the Shia (Prime Minister) and Kurdish (President of the Republic) peoples of the nation. This paralleled the development of ethnic militias by the Shia, Sunni, and the Kurdish (Peshmerga).\n\nThere were death squads formed by members of every ethnicity. In the national capital of Baghdad some members of the now-Shia police department and army (and militia members posing as members of police or armed forces) formed unofficial, unsanctioned, but long-tolerated death squads. They possibly had links to the Interior Ministry and were popularly known as the 'black crows'. These groups operated night or day. They usually arrested people, then either tortured or killed them.\n\nThe victims of these attacks were predominantly young males who had probably been suspected of being members of the Sunni insurgency. Agitators such as Abdul Razaq al-Na'as, Dr. Abdullateef al-Mayah, and Dr. Wissam Al-Hashimi have also been killed. These killings are not limited to men; women and children have also been arrested and/or killed. Some of these killings have also been part of simple robberies or other criminal activities.\n\nA feature in a May 2005 issue of the magazine of the \"New York Times\" claimed that the U.S. military had modelled the \"Wolf Brigade\", the Iraqi interior ministry police commandos, on the death squads used in the 1980s to crush the left-wing insurgency in El Salvador.\n\nWestern news organizations such as \"Time\" and \"People\" disassembled this by focusing on aspects such as probable militia membership, religious ethnicity, as well as uniforms worn by these squads rather than stating the United States-backed Iraqi government had death squads active in the Iraqi capital of Baghdad.\n\nA form of extrajudicial killing called police encounters is common in India. Such encounters are being staged also by military and security forces.\n\nThe Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) has called the massacre the single deadliest event for journalists in history. Even prior to this, the CPJ had labeled the Philippines the second most dangerous country for journalists, second only to Iraq.\n\nFollowing the election of President Rodrigo Duterte in 2016, a campaign against illegal drugs has led to widespread extrajudicial killings. This follows the actions by then-Mayor Duterte to roam Davao in order to \"encounter to kill\".\n\nThe Philippine president has urged its citizens to kill suspected criminals and drug addicts, ordered the police to adopt a shoot-to-kill policy has offered bounties for dead suspects, and has even admitted to personally killing suspected criminals.\n\nThe move has sparked widespread condemnation from international publications and magazines, prompting the Philippine government to issue statements denying the existence of state-sanctioned killings.\n\nThough Duterte’s controversial war on drugs was opposed by the United States under President Barack Obama, the European Union, and the United Nations, Duterte claims that he has received approving remarks from US President Donald Trump.\n\nOn a news report of ABS-CBN dated September 26, 4:17 PM, Duterte issued guidelines that would enable the United Nations Rapporteur on Extrajudicial Killings to probe the rising death toll. On a news report of GMA News dated December 14, 10:24 PM, Duterte cancelled the planned visit of the Rapporteur for failure of the latter to accept the conditions for the probe.\n\nIn Soviet Russia since 1918 Cheka was authorized to execute \"counterevolutionaries\" without trial. Hostages were also executed by Cheka during the Red Terror in 1918–1920.\n\nThe successors of Cheka also had the authority for extrajudicial executions. In 1937–38 hundreds of thousands where executed extrajudicially during the Great Purge under the lists approved by NKVD troikas. In some cases the Soviet special services did not arrest and then execute their victims but just secretly killed them without any arrest. For example, Solomon Mikhoels was murdered in 1948 and his body was run over to create the impression of a traffic accident. The Soviet special services also conducted extrajudicial killings abroad, most notably of Leon Trotskiy in 1940 in Mexico, Stepan Bandera in 1959 in Germany, Georgi Markov in 1978 in London.\n\nIn the Russian Federation, a number of journalist murders were attributed to public administration figures, usually where the publications would reveal their involvement in large corruption scandals.\n\nIt has been regarded that the Alexander Litvinenko murder was linked to Russian special forces.\n\nUSA and UK intelligence agents reportedly claim that Russian assassins, some possibly at orders of the government, are behind at least fourteen targeted killings on British soil that police called non-suspicious.\n\nIn a report, Amnesty International documented incidents that \"appear to have been extrajudicial executions\" against Palestinian civilians. Those incidents occurred after Palestinians attempted to attack, and murder, Israelis, but even though the attackers did not pose a serious threat due to soldiers' armor, they were shot without ensuring that the threat was real and without attempt to arrest suspects before resorting to the use of lethal force.\n\nReportedly thousands of extrajudicial killings occurred during the 2003 anti-drug effort of Thailand's prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra.\n\nRumors still persist that there is collusion between the government, rogue military officers, the radical right wing, and anti-drug death squads.\n\nBoth Muslim and Buddhist sectarian death squads still operate in the south of the country.\n\nIn 1990 Amnesty International published its first report on extrajudicial executions in Turkey. In the following years the problem became more serious. The Human Rights Foundation of Turkey determined the following figures on extrajudicial executions in Turkey for the years 1991 to 2001:\nIn 2001 the UN Special Rapporteur on Extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions, Ms. Asma Jahangir,\npresented a report on a visit to Turkey. The report presented details of killings of prisoners (26 September 1999, 10 prisoners killed in a prison in Ankara; 19 December 2000, an operation in 20 prisons launched throughout Turkey resulted in the death of 30 inmates and two gendarmes).\n\nFor the years 2000–2008 the Human Rights Association (HRA) gives the following figures on doubtful deaths/deaths in\ncustody/extra judicial execution/torture by paid village guards\nIn 2008 the human rights organization Mazlum Der counted 25 extrajudicial killings in Turkey.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, members of the British armed forces, the Royal Ulster Constabulary, and British agents, on occasion killed without lawful excuse during The Troubles. Brian Nelson, an Ulster Defence Association member and British Army agent was convicted of sectarian murders.\n\nThe legality of killings such as in the death of Osama bin Laden in 2011 have been brought into question. In that case, the US defended itself claiming the killing was not an assassination but an act of \"National Self Defense\".\nThere had been just under 2,500 assassinations by targeted drone strike by 2015, and these too have questioned as being extrajudicial killings.\nConcerns about targeted and sanctioned killings of non-Americans and American citizens in overseas counter-terrorism activities have been raised by lawyers, news firms and private citizens. On September 30, 2011 a drone strike in Yemen killed American citizens Anwar al-Awlaki and Samir Khan. Both individuals resided in Yemen at the time of their deaths. The executive order approving Al-Awlaki's death was issued by Barack Obama in 2010, was and challenged by the American Civil Liberties Union and the Center for Constitutional Rights in that year. The U.S. president issued an order, approved by the National Security Council, that Al-Awlaki's normal legal rights as a civilian should be suspended and his death should be imposed, as he was a threat to the United States. The reasons provided to the public for approval of the order were Al-Awlaki's links to the 2009 Fort Hood Massacre and the 2009 Christmas Day bomb plot, the attempted destruction of a Detroit-bound passenger-plane. The following month, al-Awlaki's son was killed by mistake by another US drone strike.\n\nNguyễn Văn Lém (referred to as Captain Bay Lop) (died 1 February 1968 in Saigon) was a member of the Viet Cong who was summarily shot in Saigon during the Tet Offensive. The photograph of his death would become one of many anti-Vietnam War icons in the Western World.\n\nMany human rights organizations including Amnesty International along with the United Nations are campaigning against extrajudicial punishment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18949461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18949461", "title": "Fiction", "text": "Fiction\n\nFiction broadly refers to any narrative that is derived from the imagination—in other words, not based strictly on history or fact. It can also refer, more narrowly, to narratives written only in prose (the novel and short story), and is often used as a synonym for the novel.\n\nIn its most narrow usage fiction refers to novels, but it may also denote any \"literary narrative\" (see literary fiction), including novels, novellas, and short stories. More broadly, fiction has come to encompass imaginative storytelling in any format, including writings, theatrical performances, comics, films, television programs, animations, games (most notably, video games and role-playing games), and so on.\n\nA work of fiction implies the inventive act of constructing an imaginary world, so its audience does not typically expect it to be totally faithful to the real world in presenting only characters who are actual people or descriptions that are factually true. Instead, the context of fiction, generally understood as not adhering precisely to the real world, is more open to interpretation. Characters and events within a fictional work may even be set in their own context entirely separate from the known universe: an independent fictional universe.\n\nFiction's traditional opposite is non-fiction, a narrative work whose creator assumes responsibility for presenting only the historical and factual truth. The distinction between fiction and non-fiction however can be unclear in some recent artistic and literary movements, such as postmodern literature.\n\nTraditionally, fiction includes novels, short stories, fables, legends, myths, fairy tales, epic and narrative poetry, plays (including operas, musicals, dramas, puppet plays, and various kinds of theatrical dances). However, fiction may also encompass comic books, and many animated cartoons, stop motions, anime, manga, films, video games, radio programs, television programs (comedies and dramas), etc.\n\nThe Internet has had a major impact on the creation and distribution of fiction, calling into question the feasibility of copyright as a means to ensure royalties are paid to copyright holders. Also, digital libraries such as Project Gutenberg make public domain texts more readily available. The combination of inexpensive home computers, the Internet and the creativity of its users has also led to new forms of fiction, such as interactive computer games or computer-generated comics. Countless forums for fan fiction can be found online, where loyal followers of specific fictional realms create and distribute derivative stories. The Internet is also used for the development of blog fiction, where a story is delivered through a blog either as flash fiction or serial blog, and collaborative fiction, where a story is written sequentially by different authors, or the entire text can be revised by anyone using a wiki.\n\nTypes of literary fiction in prose include:\n\nFiction is commonly broken down into a variety of genres: subsets of fiction, each differentiated by a particular unifying tone or style, narrative technique, media content, or popularly defined criterion. Science fiction, for example, predicts or supposes technologies that are not realities at the time of the work's creation: Jules Verne's novel \"From the Earth to the Moon\" was published in 1865 and only in 1969 did astronaut Neil Armstrong first land on the moon.\n\nHistorical fiction places imaginary characters into real historical events. In the early historical novel \"Waverley\", Sir Walter Scott's fictional character Edward Waverley meets a figure from history, Bonnie Prince Charlie, and takes part in the Battle of Prestonpans. Some works of fiction are slightly or greatly re-imagined based on some originally true story, or a reconstructed biography. Often, even when the fictional story is based on fact, there may be additions and subtractions from the true story to make it more interesting. An example is Tim O'Brien's \"The Things They Carried\", a series of short stories about the Vietnam War.\n\nFictional works that explicitly involve supernatural, magical, or scientifically impossible elements are often classified under the genre of fantasy, including Lewis Carroll's \"Alice In Wonderland\", J. K. Rowling's \"Harry Potter\" series, and J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\". Creators of fantasy sometimes introduce imaginary creatures and beings such as dragons and fairies.\n\nLiterary fiction is a term used in the book-trade to distinguish novels that are regarded as having literary merit, from most commercial or \"genre\" fiction.\n\nNeal Stephenson has suggested that while any definition will be simplistic there is today a general cultural difference between literary and genre fiction. On the one hand literary authors nowadays are frequently supported by patronage, with employment at a university or a similar institution, and with the continuation of such positions determined not by book sales but by critical acclaim by other established literary authors and critics. On the other hand, he suggests, genre fiction writers tend to support themselves by book sales. However, in an interview, John Updike lamented that \"the category of 'literary fiction' has sprung up recently to torment people like me who just set out to write books, and if anybody wanted to read them, terrific, the more the merrier. ... I'm a genre writer of a sort. I write literary fiction, which is like spy fiction or chick lit\". Likewise, on \"The Charlie Rose Show\", he argued that this term, when applied to his work, greatly limited him and his expectations of what might come of his writing, so he does not really like it. He suggested that all his works are literary, simply because \"they are written in words\".\n\nLiterary fiction often involves social commentary, political criticism, or reflection on the human condition. In general it focuses on \"introspective, in-depth character studies\" of \"interesting, complex and developed\" characters. This contrasts with genre fiction where plot is the central concern. Usually in literary fiction the focus is on the \"inner story\" of the characters who drive the plot, with detailed motivations to elicit \"emotional involvement\" in the reader. The style of literary fiction is often described as \"elegantly written, lyrical, and ... layered\". The tone of literary fiction can be darker than genre fiction, while the pacing of literary fiction may be slower than popular fiction. As Terrence Rafferty notes, \"literary fiction, by its nature, allows itself to dawdle, to linger on stray beauties even at the risk of losing its way\".\n\nRealistic fiction typically involves a story whose basic setting (time and location in the world) is real and whose events could feasibly happen in a real-world setting; non-realistic fiction involves a story where the opposite is the case, often being set in an entirely imaginary universe, an alternative history of the world other than that currently understood as true, or some other non-existent location or time-period, sometimes even presenting impossible technology or a defiance of the currently understood laws of nature. However, all types of fiction arguably invite their audience to explore real ideas, issues, or possibilities in an otherwise imaginary setting, or using what is understood about reality to mentally construct something similar to reality, though still distinct from it.\n\nIn terms of the traditional separation between fiction and non-fiction, the lines are now commonly understood as blurred, showing more overlap than mutual exclusion. Even fiction usually has elements of, or grounding in, truth. The distinction between the two may be best defined from the perspective of the audience, according to whom a work is regarded as non-fiction if its people, places, and events are all historically or factually real, while a work is regarded as fiction if it deviates from reality in any of those areas. The distinction between fiction and non-fiction is further obscured by an understanding, on the one hand, that the truth can be presented through imaginary channels and constructions, while, on the other hand, imagination can just as well bring about significant conclusions about truth and reality.\n\nLiterary critic James Wood, argues that \"fiction is both artifice and verisimilitude\", meaning that it requires both creative invention as well as some acceptable degree of believability, a notion often encapsulated in poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge's term: willing suspension of disbelief. Also, infinite fictional possibilities themselves signal the impossibility of fully knowing reality, provocatively demonstrating that there is no criterion to measure constructs of reality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39695140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39695140", "title": "Four field approach", "text": "Four field approach\n\nThe four field approach in anthropology sees the discipline as composed of the four subfields of Archaeology, Linguistics, Physical Anthropology and Cultural anthropology. The approach is conventionally understood as having been developed by Franz Boas who developed the discipline of anthropology in the United States. A 2013 re-assessment of the evidence has indicated that the idea of four-field anthropology has a more complex 19th-century history in Europe and North America.\n\nFor Boas, the four field approach was motivated by his holistic approach to the study of human behavior, which included integrated analytical attention to culture history, material culture, anatomy and population history, customs and social organization, folklore, grammar and language use. For most of the 20th century, U.S. Anthropology departments housed anthropologists specializing in all of the four branches, but with the increasing professionalization and specialization, elements such as linguistics and archaeology came to be regarded largely as separate disciplines. Today, physical anthropologists often collaborate more closely with biology and medicine than with cultural anthropology.\n"}
{"id": "25067975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25067975", "title": "GLAM (industry sector)", "text": "GLAM (industry sector)\n\nGLAM is an acronym for \"galleries, libraries, archives, and museums\", and refers to cultural institutions that have access to knowledge as their mission.\n\nVarious versions of the acronym exist, such as LAM, which leaves out galleries, which may be seen as a subset of museums, and may be confused with commercial galleries where art is bought and sold. GLAMR is another variant which includes Records. More generally, GLAMs are institutions in the public interest, collecting cultural heritage materials.\n\nThe term LAM has been in use at least since the 1990s. It emerged as these institutions saw their missions overlapping, creating the need for a wider industry sector grouping. This became apparent as they placed their collections online—artworks, books, documents, and artifacts all effectively becoming \"information resources.\"\n\nProponents of greater collaboration argue that the present convergence is actually a return to traditional unity. These institutions share epistemological links dating from the “Museum” of Alexandria and continuing through the cabinets of curiosities gathered in early modern Europe. Over time as collections expanded, they became more specialized and their housing was separated according to the form of information and kinds of users. Furthermore, during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries distinct professional societies and educational programs developed for each kind of institution.\n\nAs collecting institutions, GLAMs preserve and make accessible primary sources valuable for researchers. \n\n"}
{"id": "32780718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32780718", "title": "Gender-bias in medical diagnosis", "text": "Gender-bias in medical diagnosis\n\nGender-biased diagnosing is a controversial sociological observation which asserts that medical and psychological diagnosis may be influenced by the gender of the patient. Several studies have found evidence of differential diagnosis for patients with similar ailments but of different sexes.\n\nThe phenomenon may affect physical diagnosis. Women are more likely to be given a diagnosis of psychosomatic nature for a physical ailment than men, despite presenting with similar symptoms. Women sometimes have trouble being taken seriously by physicians when suffering from medically unexplained illness, and report difficulty receiving appropriate medical care for their illnesses because doctors repeatedly diagnose their physical complaints as related to psychiatric problems.\nClinical offices that rely on healthcare routines become less distinct due to biased medical knowledge of gender. There is a distinct differentiation between gender and sex in the medical sense. Gender is the societal construction of what femininity and masculinity is, whereas, sex is the biological aspect that defines the dichotomy of female and male. The way of lifestyle and the place in society are often considered when diagnosing patients.\n\nAccording to traditional medical studies, most of these medical studies were done on men thus overlooking many issues that were related to women's health. This topic alone sparked controversy and brought about question to the medical standard of our time. Research that was done on diseases that affected women more were less funded than those diseases that affected men and women equally.\n\nThere was an example of gender bias in the psychiatric field as well, Hamburg notes that, \"psychiatrists would diagnose women with depression and then, eventually psychiatrists would begin to assume that women were more depressed than men due to the fact that the patients that were examined by the psychiatrists were women and they had similar symptoms. As for the men, they were diagnosed with drug or alcohol problems and they were thrown out of the study.\"\n\nAs for the Women's Health Equity Act that was passed in 1993, this Act gave women the chance to participate in medical studies and examine the gender differences. Before the Women's Health Equity Act was introduced there was no research done on infertility, breast cancer, and ovarian cancer which were essential to women's health.\n\nThere is a suggestion that assumptions regarding gender specific behavioural characteristics can lead to a diagnostic system which is biased. The issue of gender bias with regard to \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM) personality disorder criteria has been controversial and widely debated. The fourth DSM (4th ed., text revision; DSM–IV–TR; American Psychiatric Association, 2000) makes no explicit statement regarding gender bias among the ten personality disorders (PDs), but it does state that six PDs (antisocial, narcissistic, obsessive-compulsive, paranoid, schizotypal, schizoid) are more frequently found in men. Three others (borderline, histrionic, dependent) are more frequent in women. Avoidant is equally common in men and women.\n\nThere are many ways to interpret differential prevalence rates as a function of gender. Some critics have argued that they are an artifact of gender bias. In other words, the PD criteria assume unfairly that stereotypical female characteristics are pathological. The results of this study conclude with no indication of gender-biased criteria in the borderline, histrionic, and dependent PDs. This is in contrast with what is predicted by critics of these disorders, who suggest they are biased against women. It is possible, however, that other sources of bias, including assessment and clinical bias, are still at work in relation to these disorders. The results do show that the group means are higher in women than in men, an expected result considering the higher prevalence rate of these disorders for women.\n\nThe original purpose of the DSM–IV was to provide an accurate classification of psychopathology, not to develop a diagnostic system that will, democratically, diagnose as many men with a personality disorder as women\". However, if the criteria are to serve equally as indicators of disorder for both men and women, it will be important to establish that the implications of these criteria for functional impairment are comparable for both sexes. Whereas it is plausible that there are gender-specific expressions of these disorders, DSM–IV criteria that function differentially for men and women can systematically over-pathologize or under-represent mental illness in a particular gender. The present study is limited by the investigation of only four personality disorders and the lack of inclusion of additional diagnoses that have also been controversial in the gender bias debate (such as dependent and histrionic personality disorders), although it offers a clearly articulated methodology for studying this possibility. In addition, it provides an examination of a clinical sample of substantial size and uses functional assessments that cut across multiple functional domains and multiple assessment methods. Our results indicate that BPD criteria showed some evidence of differential functioning between genders on global functioning, although there is little evidence of sex bias within the diagnostic criteria for avoidant, schizotypal, or obsessive–compulsive personality disorders. Further investigation and validation across sexes for those disorders would be an important direction of future research.\n\nConsiderable evidence indicates a prominent role for trauma-related cognitions in the development and maintenance of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms. The present study utilized regression analysis to examine the unique relationships between various trauma-related cognitions and PTSD symptoms after controlling for gender and measures of general affective distress in a large sample of trauma-exposed college students. In terms of trauma-related cognitions, only negative cognitions about the self were related to PTSD symptom severity. Gender and anxiety symptoms were also related to PTSD symptom severity. Theoretical implications of the results are consistent with previous studies on the relationship between PTSD and negative cognitions, the self, world, and blame subscales of the PTCI were significantly related to PTSD symptoms. The study correlations indicated that increased negative trauma-related cognitions were related to more severe PTSD symptoms. Also consistent with previous reports, correlations also indicated that gender was related to PTSD symptom severity, such that women had more severe PTSD symptoms. PTSD symptom severity was also positively related to depression, anxiety, and stress reactivity.\n\nDistinguishing between borderline personality disorder (BPD) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is often challenging, especially when the client has experienced a trauma such as childhood sexual abuse (CSA), which is strongly linked to both disorders. Although the individual diagnostic criteria for these two disorders do not overlap substantially, patients with either of these disorders can display similar clinical pictures. Both patients with BPD and PTSD may present as aggressive toward self or others, irritable, unable to tolerate emotional extremes, dysphoric, feeling empty or dead, and highly reactive to mild stressors. Despite having similar clinical pictures, PTSD and BPD are regarded differently by many clinicians. Results from a 2009 study concluded that patient gender does not affect diagnosis. This finding is consistent with research suggesting that women are not more likely to be given the BPD diagnosis, all else being equal, though it contradicts other findings from studies that have used similar case vignettes. Nor did the data support an effect of clinician gender or age on diagnosis.\n\nA 2012 study examined gender-specific associations between trauma cognitions, alcohol cravings and alcohol-related consequences in individuals with dually diagnosed PTSD and alcohol dependence (AD). Participants had entered a treatment study for concurrent PTSD and AD; baseline information was collected from participants about PTSD-related cognitions in three areas: (a) Negative Cognitions About Self, (b) Negative Cognitions About the World, and (c) Self-Blame. Information was also collected on two aspects of AD: alcohol cravings and consequences of AD. Gender differences were examined while controlling for PTSD severity. The results indicate that Negative Cognitions About Self are significantly related to alcohol cravings in men but not women, and that interpersonal consequences of AD are significantly related to Self-Blame in women but not in men. These findings suggest that for individuals with comorbid PTSD and AD, psychotherapeutic interventions that focus on reducing trauma-related cognitions are likely to reduce alcohol cravings in men and relational problems in women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9002010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9002010", "title": "Gender in speculative fiction", "text": "Gender in speculative fiction\n\nGender has been an important theme explored in speculative fiction. The genres that make up speculative fiction (SF), science fiction, fantasy, supernatural fiction horror, superhero fiction, science fantasy and related genres (utopian/dystopian literature), have always offered the opportunity for writers to explore social conventions, including gender, gender roles, and beliefs about gender. Like all literary forms, the science fiction genre reflects the popular perceptions of the eras in which individual creators were writing; and those creators' responses to gender stereotypes and gender roles.\n\nMany writers have chosen to write with little or no questioning of gender roles, instead effectively reflecting their own cultural gender roles onto their fictional world. However, many other writers have chosen to use science fiction and non-realistic formats in order to explore cultural conventions, particularly gender roles. This article discusses works that have explored or expanded the treatment of gender in science fiction.\n\nIn addition to the traditional human genders, science fiction has extended the idea of gender to include transgender humans and hypothetical alien species and robots, and imagined trans-real genders, such as with aliens that are truly hermaphroditic or have a \"third\" gender, or robots that can change gender at will or are without gender.\n\nScience fiction has been described as a useful tool for examining society attitudes to and conceptions of gender; this is particularly true of literature, more so than for other media. The conventions of speculative fiction genres encourage writers to explore the subject of biological sex and present alternative models for societies and characters with different beliefs about gender. Extrapolation of an initial speculative premise can as easily start from an idea about marriage customs or chromosomes as a technological change. In spite of this potential, SF has been said to present only ideas about sex and gender that are fashionable or controversial in the present day, which it then projects into a future or fantasy setting.\n\nScience fiction in particular has traditionally been a puritanical genre orientated toward a male readership, and has been described as being by men for men, or sometimes for boys. Most of the stereotypical tropes of science fiction, such as aliens, robots or superpowers can be employed in such a way as to be metaphors for gender.\n\nFantasy has been perceived as more accepting of women compared to science fiction or horror (and offering more roles than historical fiction or romance), yet seldom attempts to question or subvert the bias toward male superiority. Science fiction's tendency to look to the future and imagine different societies gives it the potential to examine gender roles and preconceptions, whereas the use of archetypes and quasi-historical settings in fantasy has often included patriarchy.\n\nThe portrayal of women, or female-identified characters in the speculative genres, has varied widely throughout the genres' history. Some writers and artists have challenged their society's gender norms in producing their work; others have not. Among those who have challenged conventional understandings and portrayals of gender and sexuality, there have been of course significant variations. The common perception of the role of female-identified characters in SF works has long been dominated by one of two stereotypes: a woman who is evil (villainess) or one who is helpless (damsel in distress). These characters are usually physically attractive and provocatively dressed, often in scanty armor, and require redemption and validation by a male hero. As more contemporary Speculative fiction emerges, new gender roles and a way of viewing feminine-identified beings appear with it. Viewers are seeing femininity in a new light as more female-identified Authors and fans come into the speculative fiction world. There have been female-identified characters in forms of strong woman warriors, or even as a main character who can think for herself. Examples of these gender rules being broken can be seen in many texts such as “The Lord of the Rings” by J.R.R. Tolkien and even “The Man in the High Castle” by Philip K. Dick. As more and more readers and fans of science fiction become female identified, the portrayal of female characters changes just as speculative fiction changes.\nThe first critical work focusing on women in SF was \"Symposium: Women in Science Fiction\" (1975), edited by Jeffrey D. Smith, and other influential works include \"Future Females:A Critical Anthology\" (1981) edited by Marleen S. Barr.\n\nA gynoid is a robot designed to look like a human female, as compared to an android modeled after a male (or genderless) human. Gynoids are \"irresistibly linked\" to men's lust, and are mainly designed as sex-objects, having no use beyond \"pleasing men's violent sexual desires\". A long tradition exists in fiction of men attempting to create the stereotypical \"perfect woman\". Examples include the Greek myth of Pygmalion, and the female robot Maria in Fritz Lang's Metropolis. Female cyborgs have been similarly used in fiction, in which natural bodies are modified to become objects of fantasy. Fiction about gynoids or female cyborgs reinforce \"essentialist ideas of feminity\".\n\nMany male protagonists of science fiction are reflections of a single heroic archetype, often having scientific vocations or interests, and being \"cool, rational, competent\", \"remarkably sexless\", interchangeable, and bland. Annette Kuhn posits that these asexual characters are attempts to gain independence from women and mother figures, and that this and their unfailing mechanical prowess is what gives them fans. The \"super-male\" and boy genius are also common stereotypes frequently embodied by male characters.\n\nCritics argue that much of science fiction fetishizes masculinity, and that incorporation of technology into science fiction provides a metaphor for imagined futuristic masculinity. Examples are the use of \"hypermasculine cyborgs and console-cowboys\". Such technologies are desirable as they reaffirm the readers' masculinity and protect against feminisation. This fetishisation of masculinity via technology in science fiction differs from typical fetishisation in other genres, in which the fetishised object is always feminine.\n\nThe book \"Spreading Misandry\" argues that science fiction is often used to make unfounded political claims about gender, and attempt to blame men for all of society's ills.\n\nWhile the ability to shift gender is common in Speculative and Science fiction, there is very little representation of trans identified human characters that are used as little more than a plot device for the author. Male authors use the ability to change gender either speculate about medical technology or to act out an ideal of femininity. Female authors use shifting gender to discuss the condition of being woman identified. Both create trans-identified characters as caricatures of women, rather than full humans. This is beginning to shift as more trans and queer identified authors are writing within the Sci-Fi/Speculative Fiction/Fantasy genres.\n\nSingle-gender worlds or single-sex societies have long been one of the primary ways to explore implications of gender and gender differences. In speculative fiction, female-only worlds have been imagined to come about by the action of disease that wipes out men, along with the development of technological or mystical methods that allow female parthenogenic reproduction. The resulting society is often shown to be utopian by feminist writers. Many influential feminist utopias of this sort were written in the 1970s; the most often studied examples include Joanna Russ's \"The Female Man\", Suzy McKee Charnas's \"Walk to the End of the World\" and \"Motherlines\", and Marge Piercy's \"Woman on the Edge of Time\". Utopias imagined by male authors have generally included equality between sexes, rather than separation. Such worlds have been portrayed most often by lesbian or feminist authors; their use of female-only worlds allows the exploration of female independence and freedom from patriarchy. The societies may not necessarily be lesbian, or sexual at all—a famous early sexless example being \"Herland\" (1915) by Charlotte Perkins Gilman. Men-only societies are much less common; one example is Athos in \"Ethan of Athos\" (1986) by Lois McMaster Bujold. Joanna Russ suggests men-only societies are not commonly imagined, because men do not feel oppressed, and therefore imagining a world free of women does not imply an increase in freedom and is not as attractive.\n\nUtopias have been used to explore the ramification of gender being either a societal construct, or a hard-wired imperative. In Mary Gentle's \"Golden Witchbreed\", gender is not chosen until maturity, and gender has no bearing on social roles. In contrast, Doris Lessing's \"The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\" (1980) suggests that men's and women's values are inherent to the sexes and cannot be changed, making a compromise between them essential. In \"My Own Utopia\" (1961) by Elizabeth Mann-Borgese, gender exists but is dependent upon age rather than sex—genderless children mature into women, some of whom eventually become men. Charlene Ball writes in \"Women's Studies Encyclopedia\" that use of speculative fiction to explore gender roles in future societies has been more common in the United States compared to Europe and elsewhere.\n\nEric Leif Davin, for instance, documented almost 1,000 stories published in science fiction magazines by over 200 female-identified authors between 1926 and 1960.\n\nIn the early twentieth century, some women writers rebelled against the novels in which valiant men rescued weak women or fought against humourless, authoritarian female regimes. Charlotte Perkins Gilman wrote \"Herland\", an important early feminist utopia, and Virginia Woolf wrote \"Orlando\". Both Perkins and Woolf identified strongly with the first wave feminism of the period,and its call for equal rights and suffrage for women.\n\nSF portrayals of future societies remained broadly patriarchal, and female characters continued to be gender stereotyped and relegated to standardised roles that supported the male protagonists. Early feminist SF visions of all-women utopias were inverted by pulp writers to tell cautionary tales about the \"sex war\", in which brave men had to rescue society from joyless and dictatorial women, usually to the satisfaction of both sexes. John W. Campbell's \"Astounding Science Fiction\" was unusual in its covers not depicting men with ray guns and women with large breasts. William Knoles wrote in his 1960 \"Playboy\" article on the era, \"Girls of the Slime God\", that\n\nIsaac Asimov disagreed, stating in 1969 that \"until 1960 there was no branch of literature anywhere (except perhaps for the children's stories in Sunday school bulletins) as puritanical as science fiction\", and that Knoles had to get his quotes from one \"1938-39 magazine\" which, Asimov said, published \"spicy\" stories for its \"few readers\" before \"a deserved death\". Floyd C. Gale in his 1962 review of \"Stranger in a Strange Land\" said that until recently \"science-fictional characters owned no sexual organs\". \n\nIn the 1940s, post-WWII, female writers like Judith Merril and Leigh Brackett emerged, reclaiming female characters and carving out respect in their own right. C. L. Moore is an example of a woman successfully writing pulp speculative fiction tales under a genderless pen-name. Her story \"No Woman Born\" (1944), in which a female character's mind is transferred into a powerful robot body with feminine attributes is an early example of a work that challenged gender stereotypes of its day by combining femininity with power. Brian Attebery suggest that if the robot had appeared male, the gender would have been unremarkable or even invisible to readers, as masculine figures could be expected to be powerful.\n\nDuring the pulp era, unfavorable presentations of matriarchal societies, even dystopias were common. In John Wyndham's \"Consider Her Ways\" (1956), for example, male rule is described as repressive to women, but freedom from patriarchy was achieved through an authoritarian female-only society modelled on ants society.\n\nThe 1930s saw the beginnings of fantasy as a distinct publishing genre. Reacting against the hard, scientific, dehumanizing trends of contemporary science fiction, this new branch of SF drew on mythological and historical traditions and Romantic literature, including Greek and Roman mythologies, Norse sagas, the \"Arabian Nights\" and Adventure stories such as Alexandre Dumas’ \"Three Musketeers\". The conventions brought with them a tendency toward patriarchy and cast women in restrictive roles defined as early as in the plays of Euripides. These roles included that of the \"helper-maiden\" or of \"reproductive demon\".\n\nThe 1930s also saw the advent of the sword and sorcery subgenre of pulp tales, which brought overt sexualisation to the representation of women in fantasy. Although physically more capable, female characters frequently continued to act as helpers to the male leads, but were now depicted as extremely attractive and very briefly clothed. The first female lead character of a sword and sorcery story was Jirel of Joiry, created by C. L. Moore and first appearing in \"Black God's Kiss\" (\"Weird Tales\", volume 24, number 4, October 1934).\n\nWhereas the 1940s and 50s have been called the Golden Age of science fiction in general, the 1960s and 1970s are regarded as the most important and influential periods in the study of gender in speculative fiction.\n\nThis creative period saw the appearance of many influential novels by female authors, including Ursula K. Le Guin's \"The Left Hand of Darkness\" (1969), described as the book with which SF \"lost its innocence on matters of sex and gender\", and \"The Dispossessed\" (1974); Joanna Russ's most important works, particularly \"The Female Man\" (1975), regarded by many as the central work of women's SF; and \"The Two of Them\" (1978); Anne McCaffrey's prescient cyborg novel, \"The Ship Who Sang\" (1969); Vonda McIntyre's two most influential novels, \"The Exile Waiting\" (1975) and \"Dreamsnake\" (1978); Marge Piercy’s \"Woman on the Edge of Time\" (1976), the most important contribution to feminist sf by an author known mainly for realistic work; and several novels by Octavia Butler, especially \"Kindred\" (1979) and \"Wild Seed\" (1980), which have been described as groundbreaking, and established an African-American female voice in SF.\n\nImportant short stories included many by James Tiptree Jr. (a male pseudonym used by Alice Sheldon), for instance \"The Women Men Don't See\" (1973), \"The Girl Who Was Plugged In\" (1973), and \"The Screwfly Solution\" (1977).\n\nThese works coincided with the beginnings of application of feminist theory to SF. creating a self-consciously feminist science fiction. Feminist SF has been distinguished from earlier feminist utopian fiction by its greater attention to characterisation and inclusion of gender equality.\n\nMale writers also began to approach depiction of gender in new ways, with Samuel R. Delany establishing himself as the most radical voice among male SF figures for representations of alternative sexualities and gender-models in a series of major works, most importantly (with respect to gender), in \"Triton\" (1976). Gary Westfahl points out that \"Heinlein is a problematic case for feminists; on the one hand, his works often feature strong female characters and vigorous statements that women are equal to or even superior to men; but these characters and statements often reflect hopelessly stereotypical attitudes about typical female attributes. It is disconcerting, for example, that in \"Expanded Universe\" Heinlein calls for a society where all lawyers and politicians are women, essentially on the grounds that they possess a mysterious feminine practicality that men cannot duplicate.\" \n\nBy the 1980s the intersection of feminism and SF was already a major factor in the production of the literature itself.\n\nAuthors such as Nicola Griffith and Sheri S. Tepper frequently write on gender-related themes. Tepper's work has been described as \"the definition of feminist science fiction\", and her treatment of gender has varied from early optimistic science fantasies, in which women were equally as capable as men, to more pessimistic works, including \"The Gate to Women's Country\", in which men are the cause of war and pollution and true equality can only be achieved by transcending humanity altogether.\n\nThe Hugo, Nebula and Arthur C. Clarke award winning Ancillary Justice by Ann Leckie (2013) portrays a society where gender is an unimportant detail in people's lives. It refers to most characters as female, unless they're talking in a different language than the dominant one. This leaves the gender of most characters unclear. The reader, used to books that consistently use male pronouns, is constantly slightly on edge, because of the consistent use of 'she', 'her' etc.\n\nThe September 2017 anthology, Meanwhile, Elsewhere, is a collection of short stories written by trans-identified authors about trans-identified characters. While these authors are well known to Queer audiences, they are new to Speculative, Sci-Fi and Fantasy readers. The anthology covers multiple genres, from Ryka Aoki's \"The Gift\", in which the main character identifies as trans and everything is fine, to Jeanne Thornton's \"Angels Are Here To Help Us\", which explores access to technology, money and privilege in relation to trans identity. The book was edited by Cat Fitzpatrick and Casey Plett and was published by Topside Press.\n\nThere was a time when more girls read comics than boys, but these comics were generally realist, with a focus on romance and crime stories. However, for most of their existence, comic books audiences have been assumed to be mostly male. The female characters and superheroes were targeted towards this male demographic, rather than towards women readers. Although many female superheroes were created, very few starred in their own series or achieved stand-alone success. It has been debated whether the lack of female readership was due to male writers being uncomfortable with writing about or for women, or whether the comic book industry is male dominated due to the lack of intinsic interest of women in comics.\n\nThe first known female superhero is writer-artist Fletcher Hanks's minor character Fantomah, an ageless, ancient Egyptian woman in the modern day who could transform into a skull-faced creature with superpowers to fight evil; she debuted in 1940 in Fiction Houses \"Jungle Comics\".\n\nIn the early 1940s the DC line was dominated by superpowered male characters such as the Green Lantern, Batman, and its flagship character, Superman. The first widely recognizable female superhero is Wonder Woman, created by William Moulton Marston for All-American Publications, one of three companies that would merge to form DC Comics. Marston intended the character to be a strong female role-model for girls, with \"all the strength of Superman plus all the allure of a good and beautiful woman.\"\n\nFemale characters in early science fiction films such as Barbarella (1968) were often portrayed as simple sex kittens.\n\nProfessor Sherrie Inness has said that the portrayals of tough women in later science fiction embody women's fantasies of empowerment, such as the characters of Sharrow in the Iain M. Banks' novel \"Against a Dark Background\" (1993) or Alex in the film \"\", who both physically overpower male attackers.\n\nEarly television depicted women primarily as idealized \"perfect housewives\" or (often black) domestic workers. By the mid-1960s and 1970s, cultural mores had relaxed, and sexual objectification of women became more commonplace. This period also saw diversification in women's roles, with blurring between the roles of middle-class housewife and working mother and the representations of women of different age, race, class, sexual orientation. The appearance of strong female characters, such as in \"Charlie's Angels\", remained limited by associations of power with male approval.\n\nThe 1960s and 70s also saw the beginnings of SF and fantasy elements being incorporated into television programming.\n\nPopular early SF programming in the 1960s reconciled the use of SF tropes that empowered women with stereotypes of women's social domains and femininity. This was seen in popular series such as \"I Dream of Jeannie\" and \"Bewitched\", both of which have female protagonists with magical abilities. \"Bewitched\"'s Samantha is a witch who chooses to use her abilities as a home-maker, and her husband prefers that she limits such displays of power as much as possible, particularly when they could challenge his ego. Most of her uses of magic were to save her husband appearing foolish in front of his peers or undoing interference from her more empowered and feminist mother, Endora. In contrast, the titular character of \"I Dream of Jeannie\" was inept in her house-wifely duties and was more likely to use her magic when she felt it appropriate. However, this was always in the service of her \"Master\", who demanded her nature as a genie be kept secret. Jeannie's subservience and skimpy clothing also identified her primarily as a sex object. Both programs showed women gaining more power and prominence through the metaphor of magic, but that this power was limited by women's willingness to obey male authority.\n\nThe 1960s also saw the first speculative presentations of women outside the realm of domestic life. \"Star Trek\"'s Lt. Uhura is a famous early example of a woman space explorer, and her race made her a role-model for black women in particular. Her inclusion in the series is credited with bringing more women into science fiction fandom. The character was seen as a success of the feminist and civil rights movements of the era, representing the ideal of racial equality and women's ability to find meaningful employment outside of marriage and family. However, her role never rose beyond that of futuristic receptionist, and her uniform and prominent but generally silent placement in the background of scenes made her the series primary eye candy.\n\nSF series of the 1970s followed in a similar vein, with speculative elements used to physically empower women, while society required that they pretend to be typical and non-threatening. Examples include \"The Bionic Woman\" and the television adaption of \"Wonder Woman\".\n\n SF is used throughout as an abbreviation for speculative fiction, for convenience. Science fiction and slash fiction are written in full when referred to specifically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4682892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4682892", "title": "Gender mainstreaming", "text": "Gender mainstreaming\n\nGender mainstreaming is the public policy concept of assessing the different implications for people of different genders of any planned policy action, including legislation and programmes, in all areas and levels. Mainstreaming essentially offers a pluralistic approach that values the diversity among people of different genders.\n\nThe concept of gender mainstreaming was first proposed at the 1985 Third World Conference on Women in Nairobi, Kenya. The idea has been pushed in the United Nations development community. The idea was formally featured in 1995 at the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, China, and was cited in the document that resulted from the conference, the Beijing Platform for Action.\n\nMost definitions of gender mainstreaming conform to the UN Economic and Social Council formally defined concept:\nThere are different approaches to gender mainstreaming:\n\n\"Institutional perspective:\" The ways in which specific organizations adopt and implement mainstreaming policies. This will often involve an analysis of how national politics intersects with international norms and practices.\n\n\"Discursive\" \"perspective:\" Queries the ways in which mainstreaming reproduces power relations through language and issue-framing. This approach will often involve looking at documents, resolutions and peace agreements to see how they reproduce the narratives of gender in a political context.\n\nThese approaches are not necessarily competing, and can be seen as complimentary.\n\nThe ways in which approaches are used, however, can also reflect differing feminist theories. For example, \"liberal feminism\" is strongly invoked by mainstreaming through the binary approach of gender in strict relation to the public sphere of policymaking. \"Poststructuralist feminism\" can be seen in mainstreaming thought which seeks to displace gender difference as the sole axis of difference and to highlight the diversity of policy its ramifications.\n\nGender mainstreaming tries, among others, to ascertain a gender equality perspective across all policy areas. According to Jacqui True, a Professor of politics and international relations, \"[e]very policy or piece of legislation should be evaluated from the perspective of whether or not it reduces or increases gender inequalities.\" This concept of gender equality is not limited to formal equality, it includes as well equality de facto, which is a more holistic approach to gender policy in order to tackle the interconnected causes that create an unequal relation between the sexes in all areas of life (work, politics, sexuality, culture, and violence).\n\nLombardo notes that \"[t]here should be evidence that gender equality objective and policies of special concern for women (for example, social policy) have been prioritized in the organization among competing objectives (in terms of financial and human resources, type of measures adopted, voting systems used, and so forth).\"\n\nPuechguirbal takes a discursive approach to argue that in order to successfully mainstream a gendered perspective in politics, language needs to be reevaluated and used to change the parameters of how women are perceived.\n\nHistorically, documents concerning international agreements, peacekeeping arrangements and legal resolutions have perpetuated stereotypes that disempower women. This can be seen through the use of language, even as simply as in the UN Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration program's (DDR) motto: 'One man, on weapon'.\n\nReference of gender issues should be found in all policy areas. \"There must be evidence that the mainstream political agenda has been reoriented by rethinking and rearticulating policy ends and means from a gender perspective,\" Lombardo says, referencing Rounaq Jahan, a political scientists, feminist leader and author. As the Beijing Platform for Action states, \"women's equal participation in political life plays a pivotal role in the general process of the advancement of women.\"\n\nFurther, according to the Beijing Platform for Action \"[w]ithout the active participation of women and the incorporation of women's perspective at all levels of decision-making, the goals of equality, development and peace cannot be achieved.\" Therefore, Lombardo claims that women and men should be equally represented in any decision-making institution. Charlesworth agrees and believes that every effort should be made to broaden women's participation at all levels of decision-making.\n\nAn area of policy and decision making that will particularly benefit from gender mainstreaming is post-conflict peace-building, also known as PCPB. Various feminist research has concluded that men and women experience violent conflict differently and moreover, the current policies surrounding PCPB are insufficient in addressing the disadvantaged position of women in male-dominated power structures that are further reinforced by peace-building efforts, both from the domestic and international communities. Gender mainstreaming in PCPB would emphasize the importance of gendered considerations of particular issues that disproportionally affect women in post-conflict settings. This would mean that policy reflected an acknowledgment of the many instances of wartime sexualized violence perpetrated on women, among other issues that (primarily) women face during conflict. A major focus of the effort towards gender mainstreaming in post-conflict peace-building policy is to lessen the international community's inclination towards building a return to 'normal' for the post-conflict region. Much of feminist research has found that returning to 'normal' is of little comfort for women, who were burdened by the patriarchal systems that were in place before conflict broke out. As Handrahan notes, the international community involved in much of PCPB \"tolerates high levels of violence against women in their own societies.\" Policy that prioritized gender in its applications and goals would seek to build a society where women are better off than they were before conflict broke out.\n\nGender mainstreaming can be seen as a process of organizational change. Gender mainstreaming must be institutionalized through concrete steps, mechanisms, and processes in all parts of the organization. According to Lombardo, this change involves three aspects: policy process, policy mechanisms; and policy actors. She explains as follows:\n\n\"1. A shift in policy process means that the process \"is reorganized so that ordinary actors know how to incorporate a gender perspective\" or that gender expertise is included \"as normal requirement for policy-makers\" (Council of Europe 1998, 165).\n\n2. A shift in policy mechanism involves (a) the adoption of horizontal cooperation on gender issues across all policy areas, levels, and departments; and (b) the use of appropriate policy tools and techniques to integrate the gender variable in all policies and to monitor and evaluate all policies from a gender perspective.\n\n3. The range of policy actors participating in the policy-making process is broadened to include, apart from policy-makers and civil servants, gender experts and civil society.\"\n\nGender budgeting encompasses activities and initiatives aiming at the preparation of budgets or the analysis of policies and budgets from a gender perspective. It can also be referred to as gender-sensitive budgeting or gender-responsive budgeting. Gender budgeting does not aim at creating separate budgets for women, or only increasing spending on women’s programmes. It is rather concerned with addressing budgetary gender inequality concerns, as for instance, how gender hierarchies influence budgets, and gender-based unpaid or low paid work.\n\nAs Jacqui True says, \"[m]ainstreaming was established as a global strategy for achieving gender equality, and in turn for achieving sustainable economic development in the 1995 Beijing Platform for Action ratified by all United Nations member states. It is now incumbent upon nation-states and international organizations to carry out gender mainstreaming. As such, mainstreaming has achieved widespread endorsement by individual governments, regional supra-state bodies.\" What follows is a non-exhaustive list of examples of these endorsements.\n\nThe election of 1990 in Nicaragua brought to office the first female president in the Americas. On April 25, 1990, Violeta Chamorro became the first and only woman to defeat a male incumbent presentment. This helped to change and mobilize mainstream gender structure within Nicaragua. In 1993 the existing outdated Sandinista Women's organization, the Nicaraguan Institute for Research on Women, was revitalized and renamed by the Chamorro government as the Nicaraguan Institute for Woman (INIM). This was to encourage the involvement of Nicaraguan women in the country's economic, social, cultural, and political development and to promote a change in mainstream gender constructs. More specifically, the INIM aims to institute in all sectors a system of gender-focus indicators and to achieve equal opportunity in all State body programming. In 1994, the INIM with 62 women's groups held discussions to mobilize their initiatives and form a bill of action. The discussions formed a plan, which defined patriarchy, sexism, and gender stereotypes to reduce inequality in education, employment, and violence.\n\nAlthough the Nicaraguan Institute for Women claimed to \"have been instrumental in mainstreaming gender equality principles and strategies into agriculture, socio-economic development, higher education, and sexual and domestic violence prevention,\" the United Nations General Assembly on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women in 2007 raised several concerns, such as the backlog of important women's rights legislation in the country, the lack of studies on abortion, and the available funds of the Institute.\n\nUnder the influence of the UN community, the usage of the term increased in Taiwan since 2000. Local feminist organizations have different views on gender mainstreaming. Some groups considered that the Commission on Women Rights Promotion under Executive Yuan should be expanded, while other groups, including the National Alliance of Taiwan Women's Associations, considered that gender mainstreaming is not promotion of women's rights but an assessment of all policies and requires a specific organization.\n\nFoundation of Women's Rights Promotion and Development (FWRPD) has conducted research on gender mainstreaming and gender equality development, produced gender resources kits for training and education, networked women groups and entrepreneurs, participated in international exchange in UN, APEC gender related meetings.\n\nIn late 2006, the city council of Vienna, capital of Austria, ordered several gender mainstreaming measures for public facilities and areas. Pictograms and information display charts will feature a male silhouette holding a baby in his arms to advise passengers on the underground railway to offer seating to parents with children.\n\nEmergency escape paths will be marked by a square table featuring a long-haired lady running in her high heel boots.\n\nA pilot kindergarten now uses a flexible open play area instead of separate \"playing corners\" with toy cars and LEGO for boys or dolls and faux fireplaces for girls.\nIn some pilot kindergartens, traditional fairy tales were rewritten, and a songbook featuring active women was created.\n\nInfrastructure changes have included \"unisex\" playgrounds for city parks, which encourage young boys and girls to mix and redesigned streetlights to make parks and sidewalks safer for late night joggers.\n\nThe United Nations began acknowledging the importance of gender mainstreaming as a tool towards achieving gender equality in the mid-1990s, as outlined in the Beijing Platform for Action and the Report from the Secretary General to the Economic and Social Council.\n\nIn October 2000, the UN Security Council passed Resolution 1325, a resolution that called for an enhanced female participation in the prevention, management and resolution of conflict. Peacekeeping was an area of particular concern, and the Security Council recognized \"the urgent need to mainstream a gender perspective into peacekeeping operations.\" The Council requested \"the Secretary-General, where appropriate, to include in his reporting to the Security Council, progress on gender mainstreaming throughout peacekeeping missions and all other aspects relating to women and girls.\" As a result, there has been an increase in female peacekeeping personnel. As of 2012, in peacekeeping operations and special political missions, 29 percent of international and 17 percent of national staff were women. If we compare these figures with the 48 percent representation of women at the UN Headquarters, the participation of women in the United Nations Peacekeeping operations still faces challenges.\n\nThe equality policy of the European Union consists of three pillars: (1) anti-discrimination, (2) affirmative action policies, and (3) gender mainstreaming.\n\nIn the 1990s the European Union officially put gender mainstreaming on their agenda, \"fixing the principle in treaty articles, action programs and communications, and setting up institutional bodies and mechanisms to promote the incorporation of a gender perspective into policymaking.\" More specifically, gender mainstreaming was introduced in 1991 in the European Community as an element of the Third Action Programme on Equal Opportunities. Currently, the legal basis for gender mainstreaming in European law is Article 8 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). This article states the following: \"In all its activities, the Union shall aim to eliminate inequalities, and to promote equality, between men and women\".\n\nWhat follows is a non-exhaustive overview of current gender governance initiatives in the European Union that encourages gender mainstreaming.\n\nFor instance, since 1997 gender mainstreaming has been part of the European Employment Strategy, a concept launched by the European Council. The European Employment Strategy requires governments to adopt an approach that complies with the concept of gender mainstreaming, while deciding on employment policies. Some concrete examples: new equal opportunities acts requiring mainstreaming (e.g., in France social partners are required to promote gender equality through collective bargaining); mainstreaming or gender assessment in individual ministries or areas of public services (e.g., in Finland and Sweden); and gender assessment of all new pieces of legislation. According to Jill Rubery, a Professor of comparative employment system at Manchester School of Management, so far \"the experience has been mixed: though the argument that increasing women's employment is critical to the achievement of Europe's aspirations for a higher employment rate has been widely accepted, there is a much weaker and more fragile commitment to improving the quality of work available to women.\"\n\nA second example is the Transnational Women's Networks. As such we can cite the European Women's Lobby (EWL) as an important women's organization at EU level that was created in 1990. About 2,500 NGOs of 30 European countries are part of the EWL. The European Women's Lobby encourages \"coordination of women's civic groups on the EU stages.\" The EWL lobbied for increasing the involvement of women's organizations in the process of gender governance. In addition the EWL has been pushing for \"an EU Strategy to promote, implement and facilitate civil society and specifically women's organizations input into the European debate as an essential part of the European social model.\" Another important organization is Women in Development Europe (WIDE). This network, created in 1985, consists of NGOs, women's organizations, gender experts, and activists active in development. Women in Development Europe monitors European economic and developmental policies and practices and is involved at many phases in policy-making activities as knowledge source.\n\nAnother gender governance actor is the European Institute for Gender Equality (EIGE), established in May 2007. The EIGE has as mandate to \"provide expertise, improve knowledge and raise visibility of equality between men and women\".\n\nObviously there are many more initiatives on EU level, to name a few: Advisory Committee on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men, High Level Group on Gender Mainstreaming, Inter-Service Group on Gender Equality, Informal Group of Experts on Gender Equality in Development Cooperation, Women in Europe for our Common Future.\n\nMaria Stratigaki, Assistant Professor at the Department of Social Policy of Panteion University, claims that the transformative effect of gender mainstreaming was minimal and its application has led to contradictory results. It opened important opportunities for specific policies in new policy areas, whereas in some other it diluted positive action. She also claims that, at least as of 2003, gender mainstreaming has failed to affect core policy areas or radically transform policy processes within the European Institutions.\n\nSome say that gender mainstreaming has not increased women's participation in decision making. As Charlesworth notes, \"[i]n the most readily measurable area, the United Nations' employment of women in professional and managerial posts, progress has been glacial. In 2004, women held 37.4 percent of these positions. The annual growth rate toward the 50 percent target [...] is predicted to be 0.4 percent. On top of this slow growth, there is a considerable hierarchy based on sex. On June 30, 2004, women held 83.3 percent of positions at the lowest professional level, P-1, but just 16.7 percent at the highest staff level, Under-Secretary-General.\" In a similar vein, concerning the European Union, Lombardo reports that as of 2003 women represented only 20 percent of the representatives of the head of state or government the member states, 10 percent of the representatives of national parliaments, 31.25 percent of the representatives of the European Parliament and so forth.\n\nTrue claims that mainstreaming gender does not end in simply increasing the number of women within a specific institution. It is about changing social consciousness, so that the effects of a policy for both women and men are truly analyzed before they are implemented. While it is necessary for feminists to engage with mainstream institutions, the ability of gender mainstreaming to deconstruct the embedded masculinization of institutions varies depending on the characteristics of the policy, the political nature of the institution, and the depth of the institution's consultation with civil society and other members of the women's rights movement. The danger of gender mainstreaming is that large compromises can be made for small gains and can lead to what feminist and sociology professor Carol Dines calls \"trickle-down feminism\"—i.e., \"working to increase the ranks of women in elite jobs without a strategy for wider economic and social change represents a kind of \"trickle-down feminism.\"\n\nCharlesworth remarks that \"[a]lthough it has not been difficult to encourage the adoption of the vocabulary of mainstreaming, there is little evidence of monitoring or follow-up. A consistent problem for all the organizations that adopted gender mainstreaming is the translation of the commitment into action.\" She continues: \"A review of gender mainstreaming policies implemented under the United Nations Development Programme, World Bank, and ILO found inadequate budgeting for the gender components of projects, insufficient development of analytical skills, poor supervision of the implementation of gender components and a general lack of political commitment both within the organization and at the country level.\"\n\nStratigaki claims that positive action was sidelined after the launch of gender mainstreaming as a result of the specific way gender mainstreaming was used by the opponents of gender equality. According to Stratigaki, \"[a]lmost all analyses of [gender mainstreaming] agree that it is a strategy which complements but does not replace previous gender specific equality policies like equal treatment legislation and positive action.\" However, she states too that \"in a hostile gender equality policy environments (i.e. patriarchal structures of institutional organisations or the prevalence of policy objectives contrary to gender equality etc.), [gender mainstreaming] may be conceived and applied as an alternative to positive action and used to downplay the final overall objective of gender equality.\n\nTrue is of the opinion that in practice, attempts to mainstream gender within international institutions have led to the marginalization and increasing invisibility of gender in each policy area. Anne-Marie Goetz, a Clinical Professor at NYU, and Joanne Sandler, a consultant for gender equality and organizational development, argue that ironically, mainstreaming gender runs the risk of becoming everyone's responsibility, yet nobody's at the same time. Gender mainstreaming can allow those in power who are not genuinely interested in the women's movement to adopt the language of women's rights, a reflection of power politics that becomes more of a tool used to legitimize the actions of governments. Gender mainstreaming then becomes more about advising governments than advancing gender equality.\n\nAs differences are silenced, the kind of feminism that is likely to be mainstreamed could be a western, white, or middle class brand of feminism. When mainstreaming decisions within international organizations are made by elites can undermine the input of local women's groups.\n\nWhen gender mainstreaming policies are drafted without consulting sections of the women's movement (i.e., women's rights civil society groups), they lack ground level-expertise. Policy decisions related to gender that are made without consulting sections of the women's movement do not demonstrate a clear political willingness to addressing gender inequality. When institutions reach out to the women's rights movement, it demonstrates transparency, inclusiveness, accountability and the implementation process is more likely to be monitored with diligence. For example, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), as an attempt at mainstreaming gender into development, were formed with minimal consultation with women's groups. The MDGs have led to a considerable amount of theoretically discourse about the goals but less analysis about how they will be implemented.\n\nTrue highlights the tendency for gender mainstreaming to become a guise under which women are used as economic subjects. Women are framed in terms of advancing economic growth, as opposed to the inherent normative ideal for women and men to hold equal positions of power in society.\n\n"}
{"id": "14234903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14234903", "title": "Gynophobia", "text": "Gynophobia\n\nGynophobia or gynephobia is an abnormal fear of women, a type of specific social phobia. In the past, the Latin term horror feminae was used.\n\nGynophobia should not be confused with misogyny, the hatred, contempt for and prejudice against women, although some may use the terms interchangeably, in reference to the social, rather than pathological aspect of negative attitudes towards women.\n\nThe antonym of misogyny is philogyny, the love, respect for and admiration of women.\n\nThis term is analogous with androphobia, the abnormal or irrational fear of men.\n\nThe term \"gynophobia\" comes from the Greek γυνή - \"gunē\", meaning \"woman\" and φόβος - \"phobos\", \"fear\".\n\nHyponyms of the term \"gynophobia\" include \"feminophobia\",\n\nGynophobia was previously considered a driving force toward homosexuality. In his 1896 \"Studies in the Psychology of Sex\", Havelock Ellis wrote:\n\nIt is, perhaps, not difficult to account for the horror – much stronger than that normally felt toward a person of the same sex – with which the invert often regards the sexual organs of persons of the opposite sex. It cannot be said that the sexual organs of either sex under the influence of sexual excitement are esthetically pleasing; they only become emotionally desirable through the parallel excitement of the beholder. When the absence of parallel excitement is accompanied in the beholder by the sense of unfamiliarity as in childhood, or by a neurotic hypersensitiveness, the conditions are present for the production of intense \"horror feminae\" or \"horror masculis\", as the case may be. It is possible that, as Otto Rank argues in his interesting study, \"Die Nacktheit in Sage und Dichtung,\" [\"sic\"] this horror of the sexual organs of the opposite sex, to some extent felt even by normal people, is embodied in the Melusine type of legend.\nIn his book \"Sadism and Masochism: The Psychology of Hatred and Cruelty\", Wilhelm Stekel discusses \"horror feminae\" of a male masochist.\n\nIn \"The Dread of Woman\" (1932), Karen Horney traced the male dread of woman to the boy's fear that his genital is inadequate in relation to the mother.\n\nProfessor Eva Keuls argues that violent Amazons are the evidence of the obsessive fear of women in Classical Athens.\n\n"}
{"id": "11325429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11325429", "title": "Historical figure", "text": "Historical figure\n\nA historical figure is a famous person in history, such as Catherine the Great, Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, or Napoleon.\n\nThe significance of such figures in human progress has been debated. Some think they play a crucial role, while others say they have little impact on the broad currents of thought and social change. The concept is generally used in the sense that the person really existed in the past, as opposed to being legendary. However, the legends that can grow up around historical figures may be hard to distinguish from fact. Sources are often incomplete and may be inaccurate, particularly those from early periods of history. Without a body of personal documents, the more subtle aspects of personality of a historical figure can only be deduced. With historical figures who were also religious figures attempts to separate fact from belief may be controversial.\n\nIn education, presenting information as if it were being told by a historical figure may give it greater impact. Since classical times, students have been asked to put themselves in the place of a historical figure as a way of bringing history to life. Historical figures are often represented in fiction, where fact and fancy are combined. In earlier traditions, before the rise of a critical historical tradition, authors took less care to be as accurate when describing what they knew of historical figures and their actions, interpolating imaginary elements intended to serve a moral purpose to events: such is the Monk of St. Gall's anecdotal account of Charlemagne, \"De Carolo Magno\". More recently there has been a tendency once again for authors to freely depart from the \"facts\" when they conflict with their creative goals.\n\nThe significance of historical figures has long been the subject of debate by philosophers. Hegel (1770–1831) considered that \"world-historical figures\" played a pivotal role in human progress, but felt that they were bound to emerge when change was needed. Thomas Carlyle (1795–1881) saw the study of figures such as Muhammad, William Shakespeare and Oliver Cromwell as key to understanding history. Herbert Spencer (1820–1903), an early believer in evolution and in the universality of natural law, felt that historical individuals were of little importance.\n\nThe German philosopher Hegel defined the concept of the world-historical figure, who embodied the ruthless advance of Immanuel Kant's World Spirit, often overthrowing outdated structures and ideas. To him, Napoleon was such a figure.\nHegel proposed that a world-historical figure essentially posed a challenge, or thesis, and this would generate an antithesis, or opposing force. Eventually a synthesis would resolve the conflict.\nHegel viewed Julius Caesar as a world historical figure, who appeared at a stage when Rome had grown to the point it could no longer continue as a republican city state but had to become an empire. Caesar failed in his bid to make himself an emperor, and was assassinated, but the empire came into existence soon afterward, and Caesar's name has become synonymous with \"emperor\" in forms such as \"kaiser\" or \"czar\".\n\nSøren Kierkegaard, in his early essay \"The Concept of Irony\", generally agrees with Hegel's views, such as his characterization of Socrates as a world-historical figure who acted as a destructive force on Greek received views of morality.\nIn Hegel's view, Socrates broke down social harmony by questioning the meaning of concepts like \"justice\" and \"virtue\".\nEventually, the Athenians quite rightly *(Name source) condemned Socrates to death. But they could not stop the evolution of thought that Socrates had begun, which would lead to the concept of individual conscience.\nHegel said of world-historical figures,\nHowever, Hegel, Thomas Carlyle and others noted that the great historical figures were just representative men, expressions of the material forces of history. Essentially they have little choice about what they do. This is in conflict with the views of George Bancroft or Ralph Waldo Emerson, who praised self-reliance and individualism, and in conflict with Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, who also felt that individuals can determine their destiny.\nEngels found that Hegel's system contained an \"internal and incurable contradiction\", resting as it does on both dialectical relativism and idealistic absolutism.\n\nThe Scottish philosopher and evolutionist Herbert Spencer, who was highly influential in the latter half of the nineteenth century, felt that historical figures were relatively unimportant.\nHe wrote to a friend, \"I ignore utterly the personal element in history, and, indeed, show little respect for history altogether as it is ordinarily conceived.\"\nHe wrote, \"The births, deaths, and marriages of kings, and other like historic trivialities, are committed to memory, not because of any direct benefits that can possibly result from knowing them: but because society considers them parts of a good education.\"\nIn his essay \"What Knowledge Is of Most Worth?\" he wrote:\nTaken to an extreme, one may consider that what Hegel calls the \"world spirit\" and T. S. Eliot calls \"those vast impersonal forces\" hold us in their grip. What happens is predetermined. \nBoth Hegel and Marx advocated historical inevitability in contrast to the doctrine of contingency, allowing for alternative outcomes, that was advocated by Friedrich Nietzsche, Michel Foucault and others.\nHowever, Marx argued against the use of the \"historical inevitability\" argument when used to explain the destruction of early communes in Russia.\nAs an orthodox Marxist, Vladimir Lenin accepted the laws of history that Marx had discovered, including the historical inevitability of capitalism followed by a transition to socialism.\nDespite this, Lenin also believed the transition could be effected faster by voluntary action.\n\nIn 1936 Karl Popper published an influential paper on \"The Poverty of Historicism\", published as a book in 1957, that attacked the doctrine of historical inevitability.\nThe historian Isaiah Berlin, author of \"Historical Inevitability\", also argued forcibly against this view, going as far as to say that some choices are entirely free and cannot be predicted scientifically.\nBerlin presented his views in a 1953 lecture at the London School of Economics, published soon afterwards. When speaking he referred to Ludwig Wittgenstein's views, but the published version speaks approvingly of Karl Popper, which caused a stir among academics.\n\nThomas Carlyle has espoused the \"heroic view\" of history, famously saying in his essay on the Norse god Odin in his book \"On heroes, hero-worship, & the heroic in history\" that \"No great man lives in vain. The History of the world is but the Biography of great men ... We do not now call our great men Gods, nor admire \"without\" limit; ah no, \"with\" limit enough! But if we have no great men, or do not admire at all,— that were a still worse case.\"\nCarlyle's historical philosophy was based on the \"Great Man theory\", saying, \"Universal History, the history of what man has accomplished in the world ... [is] at bottom the History of the Great Men who have worked here.\"\nAn extreme believer in individuality, he also believed that the masses of people should let themselves be guided by the great leaders of men.\nTalking of poets he said,\n\nMore recently, in his 1943 book \"The Hero in History\", the pragmatist scholar Sidney Hook asserts:\n\nHook recognizes the relevance of the environment within which the \"great man\" or \"hero\" acted, but asserts that this can provide the backdrop but never the plot of the \"dramas of human history\". and distinguish life and species\n\nThere have been rankings of the significance of major historical figures. For example, Cesar A. Hidalgo and colleagues at the MIT Media Lab has calculated the memorability of historical figures using data such as the number of language editions for which there are articles for each person, the pageviews received, and other factors. These lists are available at MIT's Pantheon project.\n\nIt is sometimes hard to discern whether apparently historical figures from the earliest periods did in fact exist, due to the lack of records. Even with more recent personages, stories or anecdotes about the person often accumulate that have no basis in fact. Although the external aspects of a historical figure may be well documented, their inner nature can only be a subject of speculation. With religious figures, often the subjects of voluminous literature, separating \"fact\" from \"belief\" can be difficult if not impossible.\n\nWith older texts it can be difficult to be sure whether a person in the text is, in fact, a historical figure. \"Wisdom literature\" from early middle-eastern cultures (such as the Book of Job), mainly consist of verbal expositions or discussions that must be considered the work of the author, rather than the character supposedly speaking. It may still be possible to identify a figure in such texts with a historical figure known from some other context, and the text may be taken as informative about this figure, even if not verified by an independent source. On the other hand, a text may include realistic settings and references to historical people, while the central character may or may not be a historical figure.\n\nNapoleon spoke of history as being a fable which had been agreed upon:– \"la fable convenue qu'on appellera l'histoire\". Great figures of the past have stories told about them which grow in the telling, and so become myths and legends which may dominate or displace the more prosaic historical facts about them. For example, some ancient chroniclers said that the Emperor Nero fiddled while Rome burned, but Tacitus disputed this by saying the stories were just malicious rumours. Similarly, there is no good evidence that Marie-Antoinette ever said \"let them eat cake\", or that Lady Godiva rode naked through the streets of Coventry.\n\nThomas Carlyle pointed out that even to the person living it, every life \"remains in so many points unintelligible\". The historian must struggle when writing biographies, \"the very facts of which, to say nothing of the purport of them, we know not, and cannot know!\"\nSome psychologists have sought to understand the personalities of historical figures through clues about the way in which they were raised. However, this theoretical psychoanalytic approach is not supported empirically. An alternative approach, favored by psychobiographers such as William Runyan, is to explain the personality of the historical figure in terms of their life history. This approach has the advantage of recognizing that personality may evolve over time in response to events.\n\nWith historical religious figures, fact and belief may be difficult to disentangle.\nThere are cultural differences in the treatment of historical figures. Thus the Chinese can recognise that Mencius or Confucius were historical individuals, while also endowing them with sanctity. In Indian Hinduism, on the other hand, figures such as Krishna or Rama are almost always seen as embodiments of gods rather than as historical people. The Nirvana Sutra states: \"Do not rely on the man but on the Dharma.\" A teacher such as Gautama Buddha is thus treated almost exclusively as a lesser god rather than a historical figure.\n\nE. P. Sanders, author of \"The Historical Figure of Jesus\", called Jesus of Nazareth \"one of the most important figures in human history\". Various writers have struggled to present \"historical\" views of Jesus, as opposed to views distorted by belief. When writing about this subject, a historian who relies only on sources other than the New Testament may be criticized for implying that it is not a sufficient source of information about the subject.\n\nThe theologian Martin Kähler is known for his work \"Der sogenannte historische Jesus und der geschichtliche, biblische Christus\" (The so-called historical Jesus, and the historic, biblical Christ). He clearly distinguished between \"the Jesus of history\" and \"the Christ of faith\". Some historians openly admit bias, which may anyway be unavoidable. Paul Hollenback says he writes about the historical Jesus, \"...in order to overthrow, not simply correct, the mistake called Christianity.\" Another historian who has written about Jesus, Frederick Gaiser, says, \"historical investigation is part and parcel of biblical faith.\"\n\nA historical figure may be interpreted to support political aims.\nIn France in the first half of the seventeenth century, there was an outpouring of writing about Joan of Arc, including seven biographies, three plays and an epic poem. Joan had become a symbol of national pride and the Catholic faith, helping unite a country that had been divided by the recent wars of religion. The reality of the historical Joan was subordinated to the need for a symbol of feminine strength, Christian virtue and resistance to the English.\nGeorge Bernard Shaw, introducing his 1923 play \"Saint Joan\", discussed representations of Joan by other authors.\nHe felt that William Shakespeare's depiction in \"Henry VI, Part 1\" was constrained from making her a \"beautiful and romantic figure\" by political considerations. Voltaire's version in his poem \"La Pucelle d'Orléans\" was also flawed by Voltaire's biases and Friedrich Schiller's play \"Die Jungfrau von Orleans\" \"is not about Joan at all, and can hardly be said to pretend to be.\"\n\nA historical figure may be used to validate a politician's claim to authority,\nwhere the modern leader shapes and exploits the ideas associated with the historical figure,\nwhich they are presumed to have inherited.\nThus Jesse Jackson has frequently evoked the spirit of Martin Luther King, Jr..\nFidel Castro often presented himself as following the path defined by José Martí.\nHugo Chávez of Venezuela has frequently identified himself with the historical figure Simón Bolívar, the liberator of South America from Spanish rule.\n\nHegel believed in the role of the state in guaranteeing individual liberties, and his views were therefore rejected by the German National Socialists, who considered him dangerously liberal and perhaps a proto-Marxist. On the other hand, Adolf Hitler identified himself as a Hegelian world historical figure, and justified his actions on this basis.\n\nPlato used historical figures in his writing, but only to illustrate his points. Xenophon used Cyrus the Great in the same way.\nWhen Plato apparently quotes Socrates in \"The Republic\", it is only to add dramatic effect to the presentation of his own thought. For this reason, Plato's writings on Socrates tell us little, at least directly, about Socrates. The historical figure is used only as a device for communicating Plato's ideas. In classical Rome, students of rhetoric had to master the \"suasoria\" — a form of declamation in which they wrote the soliloquy of a historical figure who was debating a critical course of action. For example, the poet Juvenal wrote a speech for the dictator Sulla, in which he was counselled to retire. The poet Ovid enjoyed this exercise more than the other final challenge — the \"controversia\".\n\nThe German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche wrote an influential essay \"On the Uses and Disadvantages of History for Life\". He said \"the unhistorical and historical are necessary in equal measure for the health of an individual, of a people and of a culture.\"\nNietzsche identifies three approaches to history, each with dangers.\nThe monumental approach describes the glories of the past, often focusing on heroic figures like Elizabeth I of England or Louis Pasteur. \nBy treating these figures as models, the student is tempted to consider that there can be nobody of such stature today.\nThe antiquarian view examines the past in minute and reverent detail, turning its back on the present.\nThe critical approach challenges traditional views, even though they may be valid.\n\nHistorical figures may today be simulated as animated pedagogical agents to teach history and foreign culture. An example is Freudbot, which acted the part of Sigmund Freud for psychology students. When a variety of simulated character types were tried as educational agents, students rated historical figures as the most engaging.\nThere are gender differences in the perception of historical figures. When modern US schoolchildren were asked to roleplay or illustrate historical stereotypes, boys tended to focus upon male figures exclusively while girls showed more varied family groupings.\n\nUsing historical figures in marketing communicationsn and in branding is a new area of marketing research but historical figures’ names were used to promote products as early as in the Middle Ages. \n\nHistorical figure brand is using famous historical person in branding, for instance Mozartkugel, Chopin (vodka) or Café Einstein https://www.cafeeinstein.com/. \n\nHistorical figure is a person who lived in the past and whose deeds exerted a significant impact on other people’s lives and consciousness. These figures are attributed with certain features that are a compilation of the actual values they proclaimed and the manner they were perceived by others. This perception evolves and subsequent generations read the biography of a given historical figure in their own way through their own knowledge and experience. In order to determine the popularity of the commercialisation of historical figures, a study was conducted at the beginning of 2014 on the number of trademark protection applications filed with the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland as a measure of entrepreneurs’ interest in this activity. The names of 300 most prominent Polish historical figures were considered. The study showed that over 21% of the names analysed were recorded in the trademark register. 1,033 trademark protection applications were filed for 64 names out of the 300 historical figures investigated [Aldona Lipka, 2015,]. The greatest number of trademark protection applications were recorded for Mieszko (295), followed by Nicolaus Copernicus (250), John III Sobieski (94) and Chopin (81).\n\nThere is a huge body of historical fiction, where the text includes both imaginary and factual elements. In early English literature, Robin Hood was a fictional character, but the historical King Richard I of England also appears.\nWilliam Shakespeare wrote plays about people who were historical figures in his day, such as \"Julius Caesar\". He did not present these people as pure history, but dramatised their lives as a commentary about the people and politics of his own time.\nNapoleon figured in Victor Hugo's 1862 classic \"Les Misérables\".\nThere are many more examples.\n\nThe compiler of a survey of historical novels in the 1920s claimed that the \"appearance of reality ... is the great charm of the historical novel.\" He went on to assert, regarding novels about periods of which little is known, that \"the danger is that the very elements which add to our interest in the tale as such will go far to mislead us in our conception of the period dealt with\".\nTraditionally the treatment of historical figures in fiction was realistic in style and respectful of fact. A historical novel would be true to the facts known about the period in which the novel is set, a biographical novel would follow the facts that are known about the protagonist's life, and a \"roman à clef\" would try to give an accurate interpretation of what is known about a public figure's private life. In each genre, the novelist would avoid introducing any elements that were clearly in conflict with the facts.\n\nA writer may be handicapped by his readers' preconceptions about a historical person, which may or may not be accurate, and the facts about the historical person may also conflict with the novelist's plot requirements.\nAccording to the Marxist philosopher György Lukács in his 1937 book on \"The Historical Novel\", \"The 'world-historical individual' can only figure as a minor character in the [historical] novel because of the complexity and intricacy of the whole social-historical process.\"\nAs Jacobs observes, the \"realist aesthetic\" of the historical novel \"assumes that a recognizable historical figure in fiction must not 'do things' its model did not do in real life; it follows that historical figures can be used only in very limited ways.\"\nThe author of a traditional historical novel should therefore focus more on the people who have been lost to history.\nA novelist such as Sir Walter Scott or Leo Tolstoy (\"War and Peace\") would describe historical events accurately. They would give rein to their imagination only in scenes that were not significant historically, when interactions with fictional characters could safely be introduced.\n\nMore recently, however, starting with works such as \"The Confessions of Nat Turner\", and \"Sophie's Choice\" by William Styron,\nthe novelist has felt more free to introduce much larger amounts of purely imaginary detail about historical people.\nE. L. Doctorow illustrates this different attitude when discussing his book \"Ragtime\": \"Certain details were so delicious that I was scrupulous about getting them right. Others ... demanded to be mythologized.\" This reflects a changing attitude about the distinction between \"fact\" and \"truth\", expressed by Ursule Molinaro when he makes his Cassandra say, \"I've come as close to the truth as facts would let me ... facts oppress the truth, which can breathe freely only in poetry & art.\"\n\nMany films have depicted historical figures. Often the way in which the films interpret these figures and their times reflects the social and cultural values of the period in which the film was made.\nHistorical figures are familiar to the general reader and so may be used in speculative fiction so that readers marvel at their appearance in novel settings or with a fresh perspective.\nFor example, the time traveler The Doctor has encountered numerous historical figures such as Marco Polo and Queen Elizabeth I in his adventures.\nThey appeared most frequently when the television series first started, as it was directed at children and the use of historical figures in historical settings was intended to be educational.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40138324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40138324", "title": "Humanities Indicators", "text": "Humanities Indicators\n\nThe Humanities Indicators is a project of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences that equips researchers and policymakers, universities, foundations, museums, libraries, humanities councils and other public institutions with statistical tools for answering basic questions about primary and secondary humanities education, undergraduate and graduate education in the humanities, the humanities workforce, levels and sources of program funding, public understanding and impact of the humanities, and other areas of concern in the humanities community. \n\nData from the Humanities Indicators has been widely discussed in recent conversations about a \"crisis in the humanities\", in light of a national decline in the number of college majors. To address questions about the workforce outcomes of humanities graduates (which are often cited as playing a role in the falling number of majors as of 2015), the Indicators issued \"The State of the Humanities 2018: Graduates in the Workforce & Beyond\", which examined not only their employment and earnings relative to other fields, but also graduates’ satisfaction with their work after graduation and their lives more generally. The data reveal that despite disparities in median earnings, humanities majors are quite similar to graduates from other fields with respect to their \"perceived\" well-being. The report was widely cited in the media as an important intervention in the discussion.\n\n"}
{"id": "56137403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56137403", "title": "Hypogeum of Torre del Ram", "text": "Hypogeum of Torre del Ram\n\nThe Hypogeum of Torre del Ram is an archaeological site of de Torre del Ram, in Cala en Blanes (Ciutadella de Menorca), is a Bronze Age funerary hypogeum, which was used as a collective tomb by a family or a small community. Even though it was emptied in later centuries to be reused as a cattle shelter, which caused the loss of all the information about the interred population, grave goods and chronology, its resemblance with other prehistoric tombs of Menorca dates it to between 1700 and 1400 BC.\n\nA stepped corridor leads to the tomb's rectangular chamber, which has a stone bench that surrounds its internal perimeter. Part of the stone gallery, which used to cover the corridor and the entrance, is still preserved, which was built with the cyclopean technique. \n\nThe corridor is 2.60 m long, while the dimensions of the chamber are: 8.80 m long, 2.50 m wide and 1.95 m high. \nThe walls of the internal chamber present several engravings representing three sailing ships and other undetermined figures. Some authors claim the importance of these elements, since they could date back to the Bronze Age. However, the date of these engraving has not been determined and could have been made in any other subsequent period.\n\n"}
{"id": "44310262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44310262", "title": "Indignation (word)", "text": "Indignation (word)\n\nThe word indignation is used to describe strong displeasure at something considered unjust, offensive, insulting or unrighteous.\n\nThe term was coined in France during the 12th Century. It comes from the Latin word \"indignationem\", meaning displeasure. In nominative form, \"indignationem\" is \"indignatio\". \"Indignation\" is a noun of action from the past participle stem of \"indignari\", meaning unworthy, to be angry at, or to be displeased with.\n\nAccording to Cicero’s \"De Inventione\", Book I, “indignation is a kind of speech by which the effect produced is, that great hatred is excited against a man, or dislike of some proceeding is originated.” The goal is for the speaker to create anger projected towards the opponent or the accused such that the speaker is seen more positively than the opponent. One of the features of \"indignatio\" is that it cannot function without a target of displeasure. To successfully employ the technique, the speaker must have a target, an audience with which the speaker identifies, and a desired reaction. If a speaker achieves a reaction from the audience in which they are displeased with his opponent, then the speaker has successfully employed \"indignation\".\n\nAristotle wrote in his Book II, Chapter 9, “indignation is the emotion most directly opposed to pity.” Aristotle also writes “Indignation is pain caused by the sight of undeserved good fortune.” The terms indignation and indignatio are closely related in part by their common negative emotionality and anger. A speaker may successfully employ indignatio and the audience will feel indignation towards the opponent.\n"}
{"id": "27032460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27032460", "title": "Jugend debattiert international", "text": "Jugend debattiert international\n\nJugend debattiert international is a German-language debating competition for students based on the national German pupils' contest \"Jugend debattiert\". It is held in ten countries of Central and Eastern Europe: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia (Moscow and St. Petersburg), Slovakia, Slovenia, Czech Republic, Ukraine and Hungary. The project is funded by the Goethe-Institut, the Foundation \"Remembrance, Responsibility and Future\", the Hertie Foundation and the Central Agency for German Schools Abroad (Zentralstelle für das Auslandsschulwesen). There are local supporters in three countries: In Czech Republic the project is supported by the Czech-German Future Fund, in Lithuania by the Lithuanian Information and Technology Center for students. In Poland Jugend debattiert international is supported by the Foundation for Polish-German Cooperation.\n\n\"Jugend debattiert international\" is the only international German-language debating contest for students. It helps young people in Central and Eastern Europe to advocate their views and opinions and represents and promotes the German language as a medium of debate. Beyond supporting language acquisition, it strengthens conversation skills and promotes a deeper understanding of democracy. Thus the project not only encourages democracy, but also works towards the formation of an international young elite. The debates revolve around topics such as school life, fundamental rights, history (especially historical experiences of injustice), and Europe. \"Jugend debattiert international\" targets students from 10th grade onwards who master German at least to the level of B2 of the Common European Framework of Reference.\n\nIn 2015/16 more than 2300 students at 157 schools took part in the competition. The project is integrated into the curriculum. In class students are trained in the rules of debating and enter the competition on a school level. The best students compete the next stages of the competition: school district and national level. The winners (first and second) from each of the eight countries will finally compete in the international finale. Since the fourth international finale 2010 in Berlin, the winners of the German competition \"Jugend debattiert\" support them as advisors.\n\nThe format of the debate is strictly set up: Four students, two on the \"pro\" side, two on the \"contra\" side, debate for 24 minutes in German language on socio-political issues (e.g., \"Should Turkey accede to the European Union?\"). The debate starts with an opening round in which every participant has two minutes to outline his or her position. In the following twelve minutes the four debaters can exchange their arguments without strict regulations. During the final round the participants have one minute each to reflect on the arguments and summarize their final position in the light of the debate.\nA jury of three evaluates the debate according to the following points: expertise, eloquence, conversational competence and persuasiveness. Language skills are not included in the assessment.\n\n\"Jugend debattiert international\" was first carried out in Poland and the Czech Republic in 2005. Since 2006, schools in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Ukraine have been taking part in the project. In 2009 Moscow and Saint Petersburg joined the competition after a two-year pilot phase.\nIn 2007, students from all seven countries and Germany met for the first international finale in Prague under the auspices of the former president of Czech Republic, Václav Havel. Winners of the first international finale were Jakub Štefela from Liberec, Czech Republic and Peer Klüßendorf from Rostock, Germany. The Second international finale took place in October 2008 in \"Warsaw\" under the auspices of the Sejm Marshal of the Republic of Poland, Mr. Bronislaw Komorowski. Barbara Wasilewska from Warsaw, Poland and Wiebke Neelsen from Wismar, Germany, won this competition. In February 2010 the third international finale took place in Prague. Jitka Rutrlová from Prague, Czech Republic and Maximilian Behrens from Münster, Germany, were the winners of the final debate. The fourth international finale was held in Berlin in November 2010. Irina Avdeeva from Russia was awarded first place in competition 2009/2010 after the final debate. In 2011 the international final took place for the fifth time in Kiev, Ukraine. Annett Lymar from Estonia won the final debate. In 2012 the sixth international final was won by the Hungarian student Gréta Szabó from Budapest. The international final was held for the seventh time in 2013 in Budapest. Dominika Perlínová from the Czech Republic was announced as the international winner. The 8th international final took place in Warsaw. Anastasija Minitš from Estonia won this year´s competition. In 2015 the international finale was held for the 9th time in Latvian capital Riga. The international winner was Anna Ryan from Hungary. From 2016 on, Slovakia and Slovenia take part in the project. In this year the international final took place in Prague and Khoi Nguyen won in his hometown.\n\nInternational Finals\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55398305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55398305", "title": "Kate Harvey", "text": "Kate Harvey\n\nKate Harvey (13 November 1862 – 29 April 1946) was an English suffragist, physiotherapist, and charity worker. Profoundly deaf and widowed at a young age, she operated a home for women and children, and then later for disabled children. She participated in the Women's Tax Resistance League and was jailed for her refusal to pay tax if she were not allowed the right to vote. She was the first person imprisoned for failure to pay a tax under the Insurance Act.\n\nFelicia Catherine Glanvill was born on November the 13th, 1862 in Peckham, London. She married Frank Harvey and had three daughters, before she was widowed. She operated a home in her residence in Bromley for disabled children and was an early practitioner of physical therapy, at a time when Victorian society frowned upon women working in medicine, especially in a field which used physical contact. \n\nHarvey joined the Women's Freedom League (WFL)’s Bromley branch and by 1910 was one of the leading members of the organization. She met and became close friends with Charlotte Despard, another widow involved in charitable works, who operated a home for the poor in Wandsworth. The exact nature of their relationship is unknown, but Despard recorded in her diary that \"the anniversary of our love\" began on 12 January 1912. Harvey organized the suffrage march which took place in June 1911 as part of the Women's Coronation Procession for George V. Despard, who was president of the WFL, led the suffrage march.\n\nAs early as 1911 Harvey, who had become a member of the Women's Tax Resistance League, engaged in a protracted battle with the Kent County Council for refusal to pay a stamp tax to obtain a license for her gardener. \"The Vote\", the press organ of the WFL gave constant coverage of the conflict over the next two years. After several months, a warrant was issued for Harvey's arrest and she barricaded herself in her home. Refusing to pay taxes without having the ability to vote for her representation, after eight months, the barricade was broken and some of her property was seized in lieu of payment of the tax. A year later, having built stronger barricades and still refusing to pay, bailiffs broke through using a battering ram. Harvey was arrested and taken to the Bromley Police Court in August 1913, where she was ordered to pay fines under the Insurance Act. She refused to pay and was sentenced to serve two months in Holloway Prison. She was the first person sentenced under the Insurance Act, though two other suffragists had been imprisoned for failure to pay taxes in previous years for such things as dog licenses, carriage duties and inhabitant taxes. Protests to her arrest, attended by both men and women, cited the inequity of her fines being much higher than those imposed upon men for the same offence. After serving only one month of her sentence, Harvey was released because of concerns for her health. In November, authorities attempted to auction her belongings to pay her fines, but were forced to close the sale when no bids were made. She was awarded a medal from suffragists depicting the entry of Holloway Prison.\n\nDuring the war, most suffragists suspended the campaign for enfranchisement, but Harvey and Despard, continued to press for reform and were ardent pacifists, speaking against war. The pair attended the Seventh Conference of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance in Budapest and were interested in promoting the international feminist movement. Both were also involved in the Theosophy movement, believing that moral and spiritual development of the individual would result in societal change. Harvey was described as \"intensely pious\" and conducted religious instruction for the children in her care in a chapel she built in her home. In 1916, Harvey and Despard bought a large house together, along with two cottages and a wood shed on twelve acres of land in Upper Hartfield at the edge of the Ashdown Forest. Naming the facility \"Kurundai\", they created a thirty-one-bed hospital for women and children. Though initially Despard paid expenses for some of the hospital patients, in 1917, the Theosophical Society became involved and the home was renamed as the Brackenhill Theosophical Home School. It housed children from broken homes, illegitimate children, as well as those who were sick or disabled and was directed by Harvey. In 1920, the Theosophical Society withdrew their support and moved the Theosophical Home School to the Old Rectory in Letchworth but Harvey continued operating the facility at Kurundai. In 1921, Harvey and Despard split up after nine years together when Despard moved to Ireland. Harvey maintained sole ownership of the facility, but between 1923 and 1928 it was operated by the Invalid Children’s Aid Association as a convalescent center for children who had rheumatic diseases and she moved to a house near the facility known as \"Wroth Tyes\".\n\nIn 1928, Harvey took over management again and converted Kurundai to a boarding school, which she called Brackenhill Open Air Home School. An open-air, facility, she focused on vegetarianism and physical exercise, providing the children with a \"natural\" life where they slept in the open air in shuttered shelters. The sides of the roofed dwellings only were shuttered in extremely poor weather. She continued to live at Wroth Tyes with the headmistress of the school, Helen Smith. The two women operated the school until the advent of the Second World War, when the government repurposed the estate for the war effort.\n\nHarvey died at Wroth Tyes, in Hartfield, East Sussex, England on 29 April 1946 and left the Brackenhill property to Smith. In 2005, Harvey's suffragette medal was auctioned by Bonhams bringing £840 and renewed interest in the suffragette.\n"}
{"id": "9895310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9895310", "title": "Legal anthropology", "text": "Legal anthropology\n\nLegal anthropology, also known as the anthropology of laws, is a sub-discipline of anthropology which specializes in \"the cross-cultural study of social ordering\". The questions that Legal Anthropologists seek to answer concern how is law present in cultures? How does it manifest? How may anthropologists contribute to understandings of law?\n\nEarlier legal anthropological research focused more narrowly on conflict management, crime, sanctions, or formal regulation. Bronisław Malinowski's 1926 work, \"Crime and Custom in Savage Society\", explored law, order, crime, and punishment among the Trobriand Islanders. The English lawyer Sir Henry Maine is often credited with founding the study of Legal Anthropology through his book \"Ancient Law\" (1861), and although his evolutionary stance has been widely discredited within the discipline, his questions raised have shaped the subsequent discourse of the study. This ethno-centric evolutionary perspective was pre-eminent in early Anthropological discourse on law, evident through terms applied such as ‘pre-law’ or ‘proto-law’ and applied by so-called armchair anthropologists. However, a turning point was presented in the 1926 publication of \"Crime and Custom in Savage Society\" by Malinowski based upon his time with the Trobriand Islanders. Through emphasizing the order present in acephelous societies, Malinowski proposed the cross-cultural examining of law through its established functions as opposed to a discrete entity. This has led to multiple researchers and ethnographies examining such aspects as order, dispute, conflict management, crime, sanctions, or formal regulation, in addition (and often antagonistically) to law-centred studies, with small-societal studies leading to insightful self-reflections and better understanding of the founding concept of law.\n\nLegal anthropology remains a lively discipline with modern and recent applications including issues such as human rights, legal pluralism, Islamophobia and political uprisings.\n\nLegal Anthropology provides a definition of law which differs from that found within modern legal systems. Hoebel (1954) offered the following definition of law: \"“A social norm is legal if its neglect or infraction is regularly met, in threat or in fact, by the application of physical force by an individual or group possessing the socially recognized privilege of so acting”\"\n\nMaine argued that human societies passing through three basic stages of legal development, from a group presided over by a senior agnate, through stages of territorial development and culminating in an elite forming normative laws of society, stating that \"“what the juristical oligarchy now claims is to monopolize the knowledge of the laws, to have the exclusive possession of the principles by which quarrels are decided”\"\n\nThis evolutionary approach, as has been stated, was subsequently replaced within the anthropological discourse by the need to examine the manifestations of law’s societal function. As according to Hoebel, law has four functions:\n\n1) to identify socially acceptable lines of behaviour for inclusion in the culture. \n2) To allocate authority and who may legitimately apply force.\n3) To settle trouble cases.\n4) To redefine relationships as the concepts of life change.\n\nLegal theorist H. L. A. Hart, however, stated that law is a body of rules, and is a union of two sets of rules: \n\nWithin modern English Theory, law is a discrete and specialized topic. Predominantly positivist in character, it is closely linked to notions of a rule-making body, the judiciary and enforcement agencies. The centralized state organisation and isolates are essentials to the attributes of rules, courts and sanctions. To learn more on this view, see Hobbes. 1651 Leviathan, part 2, chapter 26 or Salmond, J. 1902 Jurisprudence.\n\nHowever, this view of law is not applicable everywhere. There are many acephelous societies around the world where the above control mechanisms are absent. There are no conceptualized and isolated set of normative rules – these are instead embodied in everyday life. Even when there may be a discrete set of legal norms, these are not treated similarly to the English Legal System’s unequivocal power and unchallenged pre-eminence. Shamans, fighting and supernatural means are all mechanisms of superimposing rules within other societies. For example, within Rasmussen’s work of Across Arctic America (1927) he recounts Eskimo nith-songs being used as a public reprimand by expressing the wrongdoing of someone guilty.\n\nThus, instead of focusing upon the explicit manifestations of law, legal anthropologists have taken to examining the functions of law and how it is expressed. A view expressed by Leopold Pospisil and encapsulated by Bronislaw Malinowski:\n\n\"“In such primitive communities I personally believe that law ought to be defined by function and not by form, that is we ought to see what are the arrangements, the sociological realities, the cultural mechanisms which act for the enforcement of law”\"\n\nThus, law has been studied in ways that may be categorized by as:\n\n1) prescriptive rules\n2) observable regularities\n3) Instances of dispute.\n\nOrder and regulatory behaviour are required if social life is to be maintained. The scale and shade of this behaviour depends on the values and beliefs held by a society deriving from implicit understandings of the norm developed through socialization. There are socially constructed norms with varying degrees of explicitness and levels of order. Conflict may not be interpreted as an extreme pathological event but as a regulatory acting force.\n\nThis processual understanding of conflict and dispute became apparent and subsequently heavily theorized upon by the anthropological discipline within the latter half of the nineteenth century as a gateway to the law and order of a society. Disputes have become to be recognised as necessary and constructive over pathological whilst the stated rules of law only explain some aspects of control and compliance. The context and interactions of a dispute are more informative about a culture than the rules.\n\nClassic studies deriving theories of order from disputes include Evans-Pritchard work Witchcraft, Oracles and Magic among the Azande which focused upon functional disputes surrounding sorcery and witchcraft practices, or Comaroff and Roberts (1981) work among the Tswana which examine the hierarchy of disputes, the patterns of contact and the effect norms affect the course of dispute as norms important to dispute are rarely \"“especially organised for jural purpose”\" \n\nOther examples include:\n\nLeach, 1954. Political Systems of Highland Burma.\nBarth, 1959. Political Leadership among Swat Pathans.\n\nWithin the history of Legal Anthropology there have been various methods of data gathering adopted; ranging from literature review of traveller/missionary accounts, consulting informants and lengthy participant observation.\n\nFurthermore, when evaluating any research it is appropriate to have a robust methodology capable of scientifically analysing the topic at hand.\n\nThe broad method of study by legal anthropologists prevails upon the Case Study Approach first developed by Llewellyn and Hoebel in The Cheyenne Way (1941) not as \"“a philosophy but a technology”\" \n\nThis methodology is applied to situations of cross-cultural conflict and the correlating resolution, which can have sets of legal notions and jural regularities extracted from them \n\nThis method may be safe-guarded against accusations of imposing western ideological structures as it is often an emic sentiment: for example,\n\n\"“The Tiv drove me to the case method…what they were interested in. They put a lot of time and effort into cases”\"\n\nRegarding law, in Anthropology’s characteristically self-conscious manner, the comparative analysis inherent to Legal Anthropology has been speculated upon and most famously debated by Paul Bohannan and Max Gluckman. The discourse highlights one of the primary differences between British and American Anthropology regarding fieldwork approaches and concerns the imposition of Western terminology as ethnological categories of differing societies.\n\nEach author’s uses the Case Study Approach, however, the data’s presentation in terms of achieving comparativeness is a point of contention between them.\n\nPaul Bohannan promotes the use of native terminology presented with ethnographic meaning as opposed to any Universal categories, which act as barriers to understanding the true nature of a culture’s legal system.\n\nAdvocating that it is better to appreciate native terms in their own medium, Bohannan critiques Gluckman’s work for its inherent bias.\n\nGluckman has argued that Bohannan’s excessive use of native terminology creates barriers when attempting to achieve comparative analysis. He in turn has suggested that in order to further the cross-cultural comparative study of law, we should use English terms and concepts of law which will aid in the refinement of dispute facts and interrelations Thus, all native terms should be described and translated into an Anglo-American conceptual equivalent for the purpose of comparison.\n\nAs disputes and order began to be recognised as categories worthy of study, interest in the inherent aspects of conflicts emerged within legal anthropology. The processes and actors involved within the events became an object of study for ethnographers as they embraced conflict as a data-rich source.\n\nOne example of such an interest is expressed by Philip Gulliver, 1963, Social Control in an African Society in which the intimate relations between disputes are postulated as being important. He examines the patterns of alliance between actors of a dispute and the strategies that develop as a result, the roles of mediators and the typologies for intervention.\n\nSee \"Lyon, 2002 Local arbitration and conflict deferment in Punjab, Pakistan\" or \"Engel, D. 1980. Legal pluralism in an American community: perspectives on a civil trial court.\"\n\nPolitical anthropologists have had much to say about the UDHR(Universal Declaration of Human Rights). Original critiques, most notably by the AAA(American Anthropological Association), argued that cultural ideas of rights and entitlement differ between societies. They warned that any attempt to endorse one set of values above all others amounted to a new western imperialism, and would be counter to ideas of cultural relativism. Most anthropologists now agree that universal human rights have a useful place in today's world. Zechenter (1997) argues there are practices, such as Indian 'sati' (the burning of a widow on her husband's funeral pyre) that can be said to be wrong, despite justifications of tradition. This is because such practices are about much more than a culturally established world view, and frequently develop or revive as a result of socio-economic conditions and the balance of power within a community. As culture is not bounded and unchanging, there are multiple discourses and moral viewpoints within any community and among the various actors in such events (Merry 2003). Cultural relativists risk supporting the most powerfully asserted position at the expense of those who are subjugated under it.\n\nMore recent contributions to the question of universal human rights include analysis of their use in practice, and how global discourses are translated into local contexts (Merry 2003). Anthropologists such as Merry (2006) note how the legal framework of the UNDHR is not static but is actively used by communities around the globe to construct meaning. As much as the document is a product of western Enlightenment thinking, communities have the capacity to shape its meaning to suit their own agendas, incorporating its principles in ways that empower them to tackle their own local and national discontents.\n\nFemale genital cutting (FGC), also known as female circumcision or female genital mutilation remains a hotly debated, controversial issue contested particularly among legal anthropologists and human rights activists. Through her ethnography (1989) on the practice of pharonic circumcision among the Hofriyat of Sudan (1989) Boddy maintains that understanding local cultural norms is of crucial importance when considering intervention to prevent the practice. Human rights activists attempting to eradicate FGC using the legal framework of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UNDHR) as their justification, run the risk of imposing a set of ideological principles, alien to the culture attempting to be helped, potentially facing hostile reactions. Moreover, the UNDHR as a legal document, is contested by some as being restrictive in its prescription of what is and is not deemed a violation of a human right (Ross 2003) and overlooks local customary justifications which operate outside of an international legalistic framework (Ross 2003). Increasingly (FGC) is becoming a global issue due to increased mobility. What was once deemed a largely African practice has seen a steady increase in European countries such as Britain. Although made illegal in 1985 there have as yet been no convictions and girls as old as nine continue to have the procedure. Legislation has now also been passed in Sweden, the United States and France where there have been convictions. Black, J. A. and Debelle, G. D. (1995) \"Female Genital Mutilation in Britain\" \"British Medical Journal\".\n\nThere are a number of useful introductions to the field of legal anthropology, Sally Falk Moore, a leading legal anthropologist, held both a law degree and a PhD in anthropology. An increasing number of legal anthropologists hold both JDs and advanced degrees in anthropology, and some teach in law schools while maintaining scholarly connections within the field of legal anthropology; examples include Rebecca French, John Conley, Elizabeth Mertz, and Annelise Riles. Such combined expertise has also been turned to more applied anthropological pursuits such as tribal advocacy and forensic ethnography by practitioners. There is a growing interest in the intersection of legal and linguistic anthropology.\n\nIf looking for Anthropology departments with faculty specializing in legal anthropology in North America, try the following schools and professors:\nUniversity of California, Berkeley (Laura Nader), University of California, Irvine (Susan Bibler Coutin, Bill Maurer), University of Chicago (Justin B. Richland), Duke University (William M. O'Barr), Princeton University (Lawrence Rosen, Carol J. Greenhouse), State University of New York at Buffalo (Rebecca French), New York University (Sally Engle Merry), Harvard University (Jean Comaroff and John Comaroff) and Cornell University (Annelise Riles), and George Mason University (Susan Hirsch).\n\nIn Europe, the following scholars and schools will be good resources:\nVanja Hamzić (SOAS University of London), Jane Cowan (University of Sussex), Ann Griffiths and Toby Kelly (University of Edinburgh), Sari Wastell (Goldsmiths, University of London), Harri Englund and Yael Navaro (University of Cambridge), and Richard Rottenburg (Martin-Luther Universität).\n\nThe Association for Political and Legal Anthropology (APLA), a section of the American Anthropological Association, is the primary professional association in the U.S. for legal anthropologists and also has many overseas members. It publishes \"PoLAR: Political and Legal Anthropology Review\", the leading U.S. journal in the field of legal anthropology, which is accessible via http://polarjournal.org/ or http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10.1111/(ISSN)1555-2934\n\n'Allegra: a Virtual Laboratory of Legal Anthropology' is an online experiment by a new generation of legal anthropologists designated to facilitate scholarly collaboration and awareness of the sub-discipline.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7931966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7931966", "title": "Mario Mieli", "text": "Mario Mieli\n\nMario Mieli (21 May 1952, Milan – 12 March 1983) was a leading figure in the Italian gay movement of the 1970s. He combined a radical theoretical perspective with a provocative public persona. His sometimes outrageous public behavior made him a controversial figure, but he was nonetheless respected as one of the movement's most important intellectuals. He’s best known among English speakers for \"Towards a Gay Communism\", a political pamphlet excerpted from his major theoretical work \"Homosexuality and Liberation: Elements of a Gay Critique\".\n\nMieli was born in Milan on May 21, 1952 into a large and prosperous family. He lived for the first sixteen years of his life on his family's estate near Como. He moved back to Milan with his family in 1968. Politically precocious, he threw himself into the student uprising of that year, beginning a long commitment to revolutionary causes.\n\nIn 1971 he moved to London as a student, where he took an active part in the London Gay Liberation Front. Though he spent intermittent time in London until 1975, in 1972 based himself in Milan where he studied at university. In April 1972, he, along with Massimo Consoli (1945–2007), Nicolino Tosoni (b. 1943), Angelo Pezzana (b. 1940) and the French writer Françoise d'Eaubonne (1920–2005) held the first homosexual demonstration in Italy at a Congress of Sexology in San Remo. They protested against psychiatric condemnation of homosexual conduct and the use of aversion therapy to \"convert\" homosexuals.\n\nIn 1972, Mieli helped found the collective Fronte Unitario Omosessuale Rivoluzionario Italiano (Italian revolutionary homosexual united front). Better known by its acronym F.U.O.R.I! (Come out!), it was Italy's first major gay-rights group. Started in Turin in 1971, F.U.O.R.I! appeared almost simultaneously in Rome, Padua, Venice and in Milan, where Mieli was an organizer. After the collective united with the Italian Radical Party, Mieli criticized the move as \"counter-revolutionary,\" since he thought the gay movement should remain independent of political parties. He left the organization over political differences in 1974–75.\n\nAfter 1974 Mieli continued his activism by organizing the Collettivi Omosessuali Milanesi (Homosexual collectives of Milan). In 1976 the group’s gay theatrical group, Nostra Signora dei Fiori, staged his play \"La Traviata Norma. Ovvero: Vaffanculo... ebbene sì!\" (the title’s numerous puns defy translation). This outrageous production was successfully staged in Milan, Florence, and Rome. An in-your-face spectacle, it deliberately presented behavior designed to flout conventional, heterosexual norms.\n\nA controversial personality, Mieli sometimes made a spectacle of himself. Once in Rome he publicly ate his own excrement and that of a dog. While some may have found this behavior outrageous or frightening, others knew him as a gentle person who enjoyed cross-dressing, capable of being very charming in private.\n\nBy 1976, Mieli had graduated and began revising for publication his doctoral thesis in Moral Philosophy. The revision was published as \"Elementi di critica omosessuale\". An English translation of the book was made by David Fernbach as \"Homosexuality and Liberation: Elements of a Gay Critique\". The translation’s last chapter – \"Towards a Gay Communism\"—was excerpted as a political pamphlet and became Mieli’s most widely known work among English speakers.\n\nThis major theoretical work is widely considered the most important text from the Italian gay community. With rich humor and a cosmopolitan gay sensibility, Mieli contends that homosexual liberation is an integral and indispensable part of a much wider emancipation. Mieli cites \"educastration\" at the core of a repressive set of norms intended to stifle the full expression of a natural human transsexuality. He combines Freud's ideas on \"polymorphous perversion\" (see Polymorphous perverse) with Marxist economics to argue that human liberation is possible only through a revolution allowing uninhibited pansexuality.\n\nBy 1981, Mieli became increasingly pessimistic about his cause. In 1983, he told friends about a forthcoming book titled \"Il risveglio dei Faraoni\" (\"The Awakening of the Pharaohs\"). It was to be an autobiographical novel, set in Egypt featuring a resurrected Jesus. However, in early March, he decided to stop publication of the book, writing in a letter to a friend that the book might inspire someone to \"have his hide\". In another letter dated March 11, he wrote, \"My book will not be published by my free choice\".\n\nMario Mieli killed himself the following day, on March 12, 1983. He died at age 30 from asphyxiation by inhaling gas in his Milan apartment.\n\nIt seems that Mieli's suicide stemmed from adverse reaction he expected from the book’s publication. Although a pirated edition was later published, his family brought legal action and had all copies destroyed. Only in 1994 was \"Il risveglio dei Faraoni\" published legally.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3209520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3209520", "title": "Oldest Dryas", "text": "Oldest Dryas\n\nThe Oldest Dryas was a climatic period, which occurred during the coldest stadial after the Weichselian glaciation in north Europe. In the Alps, the Oldest Dryas corresponds to the Gschnitz stadial of the Würm glaciation. The three “Dryas” periods (younger, older, oldest) are named for a marker species, \"Dryas octopetala\", detected in core samples of glacial ice and peat bogs. The Oldest Dryas corresponds to pollen zone Ia.\n\nThe period was between 16,050-13,050 BC, from Roberts, 1998. A date from Kilkeel, Northern Ireland, extends the start of the period to as early as 17,050 BC. A strong sequence of carbon-14 dates derived from layered material in the Hauterive/Rouges-Terres excavations on the northwest shore of Lake Neuchâtel in Switzerland, 1992–1993, places the end of the Oldest Dryas at about 12,700 BC, calibrated. The same date from Antarctica and the south China sea is 14,600 and 14,700, respectively, and a Greenland ice core indicates 14,500. David Miles refers to the Oldest Dryas as the last Heinrich event (H1) and dates it to between 16,500 and 14,500 years ago.\n\nThe ultimate standard to which all these dates are to be compared is the graph of the oxygen isotope ratio cycles, which gives change in isotope concentration on the y-axis, with time on the x-axis. The graph plots many events that are sharply defined, but others are not. The selection of a terminal point is sometimes partially arbitrary.\n\nThe end of the Oldest Dryas is sharply defined. The beginning is a long, gently sloping band, probably no earlier than 17,050 BC, but the date might be set later by approximately 1000 years. Data derived from isotope variation of nitrogen and argon trapped in Greenland ice gives a high-resolution date for the end of the oldest Dryas at the sharp temperature rise of 14.67 ky BP.\nThe complete sequence of late Pleistocene climatic periods, defined for Northern Europe, are the Oldest Dryas (stadial), the Bölling (interstadial), the Older Dryas (stadial), the Allerød (interstadial), and the Younger Dryas (stadial). The Holocene begins immediately afterward. The last three are also Blytt-Sernander periods.\n\nSometimes, the Older Dryas is missing, as in the Jura Mountains of France, or it is negligible in the evidence. In that case, the initial part of the sequence appears to be Oldest Dryas (cold), Bølling-Allerød (warm), Younger Dryas (cold). The Bølling-Allerød corresponds to the Windermere interstadial in Britain.\n\nOften, however, the apparently-missing Older Dryas is a problem of resolution in the evidence. Some scientists have undertaken high-resolution studies, which combine a variety of climatological methods. They, like the ones conducted on Owens and Mono Lakes, in California, usually detect the Older Dryas. Even when it is detected, it appears to be no more than a few centuries of slightly-cooler weather on the oxygen isotope ratio graph.\n\nDuring the Oldest Dryas, Europe was treeless and similar to the Arctic tundra, but much drier and grassier than the modern tundra. It contained shrubs and herbaceous plants such as the following:\nSpecies were mainly Arctic but during the Glacial Maximum, the warmer weather species had withdrawn into refugia and began to repopulate Europe in the Oldest Dryas.\n\nThe brown bear, \"Ursos arctos\", was among the first to arrive in the north. Genetic studies indicate North European brown bears came from a refugium in the Carpathians of Moldavia. Other refugia were in Italy, Spain and Greece.\n\nThe bears would not have returned north except in pursuit of food. The tundra must already have been well populated. It is likely that the species hunted by humans at Lake Neuchâtel in Switzerland by the end of the period were present during it. Here are other animals present:\n\nAves\n\nThe above birds are primarily maritime. They must have fed in the copious glacial waters of the north that were just beginning to be released.\n\nFish\nThe smaller mammals of the food chain inhabited the herbaceous blanket of the tundra:\n\nCricetidae\n\nLeporidae\n\nSciuridae\n\nIn addition to bears and birds were other predators of the following small animals:\n\nCarnivora\nHumans were interested in the large mammals, which included:\n\nAt some point, the larger mammals arrived: hyena, woolly rhinoceros, cave bear and mammoth.\n\nHuman cultures in Europe were Upper Palaeolithic and belonged to Cro-Magnon man. Neanderthals had long since disappeared by replacement or amalgamation with \"Homo sapiens\". The Magdalenian culture of reindeer hunters prevailed in Western Europe. From the Carpathians eastward, the Epigravettian continued the prior Gravettian. In Japan, the Jōmon culture had already become sedentary and was producing some food, and possibly grew rice, but it was not at all urban. It was manufacturing the first known pottery.\n\nOne of the most remarkable discoveries of the period was the domestic wolf, a distinct breed of \"Canis lupus\", with smaller teeth. The domestic dog, \"Canis familiaris\", also has been found. It is thought that the animals helped with the hunting, but they would, by the nature of the hunt, have gradually become adept at herding.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40669364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40669364", "title": "Ordenanzas del Baratillo de México", "text": "Ordenanzas del Baratillo de México\n\nAn unpublished manuscript entitled \"Ordenanzas del Baratillo de México\" (Decrees of the Baratillo of Mexico) was signed and dated in 1754 by Pedro Anselmo Chreslos Jache, likely a pseudonym for an educated Spaniard. It is a satirical piece of eighteenth-century colonial literature written in New Spain (modern day Mexico), which sought to offer an alternative view of life in colonial Spanish America.\n\nThe Baratillo was an infamous market in Mexico City known for the sale of used items, many of which had been stolen and were cheaply priced. It was a place for the poor and lower class of Mexico, usually racially mixed people, to mingle and purchase items for subsistence.\n\nOrdenanzas, or official decrees, were established to regulate New Spanish society in general. The author’s 377 ordenanzas mimicked the official statutes, but would completely reverse the power system based on the sistema de castas. In effect, Chreslos Jache mocks the limpieza de sangre by creating a separate system of classification for Spaniards. For example, “medio Españoles” (half-Spanish) and “cuartilla de Español” (one-quarter Spanish) were parodies of terms to identify persons of mixed race, like “mestizo”, “castiza”, “lobo”, and countless others.\n\nThe purpose of this manuscript was to show a chaotic view of life in Mexico in which the castas used a variety of strategies to substantiate their control over society and that the casta system itself is self-regulating. Chreslos Jache pokes fun at this idea of self-regulation by making up ridiculous names that are impossible to adequately translate for the terminology of the sistema de castas. The manuscript states that the sistema de castas was also mocked by the formation of the Baratillo “brotherhood” which was composed exclusively of non-whites, mainly mulattos. This brotherhood banned membership to Spaniards and their descendants, and instead made them targets of the brotherhood’s scams. By using the Baratillo brotherhood, Chreslos Jache inverts the traditional racial attitude of the time where Spaniards and creoles dominated the system.\n\nThe manuscript reinforced race as a category of power differentiation within New Spain because it was a text that circulated among the educated elite in a time when primarily upper class people were literate. The significance of this satirical manuscript in relation to Casta paintings is that, much like the manuscript, the paintings reflect racial debate and also contribute to the interpretation of racial culture during the second half of the eighteenth-century in New Spain.\n"}
{"id": "27006902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27006902", "title": "Peter McGraw", "text": "Peter McGraw\n\nA. Peter McGraw (born 1970) is an associate professor of Marketing and Psychology at the University of Colorado Boulder. His research spans the fields of judgment and decision making, emotion, affect, and mood.\n\nMcGraw is known for his early research on expectations and emotions. In studying the emotional reactions of Olympic athletes, he finds that bronze medalists often appear happier with their accomplishment than silver medalists because silver medalists are more likely to have higher (gold medal) aspirations, whereas bronze medalists are more likely to be the dark horse and exceed their expectations.\n\nMcGraw and Jonathan Levav have published work based on their theory of Emotional Accounting, which is a complement to prior research on Mental Accounting. Emotional accounting posits that people use their feelings about money to guide how they spend it. For example, if people have negative feelings about a windfall of money, they tend to make utilitarian or virtuous expenditures in lieu of hedonic expenditures.\n\nMcGraw also investigates what makes things funny. His humor research was inspired in part by his research on moral violations with Philip Tetlock and mixed emotions with Jeff Larsen. McGraw, along with Caleb Warren, developed the Benign Violation Theory (BVT), a general theory of humor based on evolutionary accounts of laughter and amusement. The BVT predicts that humor occurs when a person simultaneously appraises a situation as wrong or unsettling some way (i.e., a violation) and yet appraises the situation to be okay or acceptable in some way (i.e., benign). His research is quickly moving the study of humor from the niche to mainstream psychology.\n\nIn 2014, McGraw co-authored \"The Humor Code\", a book about the science of humor and his travels around the world with journalist Joel Warner. McGraw and his work often appears in major media outlets, such as BBC, the Wall Street Journal and Wired magazine. He also gives talks to businesses and the general public.\n\nMcGraw received his Ph.D. from The Ohio State University in 2002, at which time he pursued a post-doc at Princeton University with Nobel Laureate Daniel Kahneman. In 2004, he joined the faculty at the Leeds School of Business, University of Colorado Boulder. In 2008, he received an appointment (courtesy) in the Department of Psychology and Neuroscience.\n\nAt the University of Colorado, McGraw teaches courses in consumer behavior and decision making. He directs the Humor Research Lab (HuRL) and co-directs a virtual research lab, the Moral Research Lab (MoRL) with Daniel Bartels. His research has been published in the Journal of Consumer Research, Journal of Marketing Research, Journal of Consumer Psychology, Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, and Psychological Science. McGraw was named a Marketing Science Institute Young Scholar in 2007.\n\nOutside academic pursuits, McGraw, from 2004 to 2010, served as academic coordinator, assistant coach, and associate head coach of the men’s lacrosse team at the University of Colorado. He was the head coach of the men’s lacrosse club at Princeton University from 2002 to 2004.\n\nIn 2010, McGraw met journalist Joel Warner, who was fascinated by McGraw's humor research and unified theory of humor. Starting in 2011, the two created \"The Humor Code Project,\" a two-year, 91,000-mile global search for what makes things funny. Their travels took them to Tanzania, Scandinavia, Japan, Israel, Peru, and several other destinations in North America. McGraw and Warner authored The Humor Code, a book about their travels and the experiments they conducted along the way. The two maintained multiple blogs about their adventures on Wired, Huffington Post, and Psychology Today. McGraw's research and the book have been widely covered by the media, including the Wall Street Journal, NPR, MSNBC, The Boston Globe, Scientific American, The Atlantic, Denver Post, and others.\n\nHumor Research Laboratory (HuRL) \nHuRL is dedicated to the scientific study of humor and its antecedents and consequences. The lab’s theoretical and methodological base is in the interdisciplinary fields of consumer behavior, emotion, and judgment and decision making, with an emphasis in social and cognitive psychology.\n\nMoral Research Laboratory (MoRL) \nMoRL is a (virtual) research laboratory that investigates the mental processes underlying morally motivated judgment and choice, with a focus on consumer behavior and implications for public policy. The lab’s theoretical base is in the interdisciplinary field of judgment and decision making, with an emphasis in social and cognitive psychology.\n\nBartels, D. M., Bauman, C.W., Cushman, F.A., Pizarro, D.A., & McGraw, A.P., (Forthcoming), Moral judgment and decision making. In G. Keren & G. Wu (Eds.) The Wiley Blackwell Handbook of Judgment and Decision Making. Chichester, UK: Wiley.\nMcGraw, A.P. & Warren, C. (2014). Benign violation theory. In S. Attardo (Ed.). Encyclopedia of Humor Studies, Vol. 1 (pp. 75–77) Sage Publications.\nMcGraw, A.P., Williams, L.T., & Warren, C. (2014). The rise and fall of humor: Psychological distance modulates humorous responses to tragedy. Social Psychology and Personality Science5, 566-572.\nMcGraw, A.P., Warren, C., Williams, L., & Leonard, B., (2012). Too close for comfort, or too far to care? Finding humor in distant tragedies and close mishaps. Psychological Science, 25, 1215 - 1223.\nMcGraw, A.P., Schwartz, J. & Tetlock, P. (2012). From the commercial to the communal: Reframing taboo trade-offs in religious and pharmaceutical marketing. Journal of Consumer Research, 39, 157-173.\nLarsen, J.T. & McGraw, A.P. (2011). Further evidence for mixed emotions. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 100, 1095-1110. \nMcGraw, A.P., Todorov, A., & Kunreuther, H. (2011). A policy maker’s dilemma: Preventing blame or preventing terrorism. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 115, 25-34. \nMcGraw, A.P., Larsen, J.T., Kahneman, D., & Schkade, D. (2010). Comparing gains and losses. Psychological Science, 21, 1438-1445. \nMcGraw, A.P., Shafir, E., & Todorov, A. (2010). Valuing money and things: Why a $20 item can be worth more and less than $20. Management Science, 56, 816-830. \nMcGraw, A.P. & Warren, C. (2010). Benign violations: Making immoral behavior funny. Psychological Science, 21, 1141-1149. \nLevav, J., & McGraw, A.P. (2009). Emotional accounting: How feelings about money influence consumer choice. Journal of Marketing Research, 46, 66-80. \nMcGraw, A.P., Mellers, B.A, & Tetlock, P.E. (2005). Expectations and emotions of Olympic athletes. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, 41, 438-446. \nMcGraw, A.P., & Tetlock, P.E. (2005). Taboo trade-offs, relational framing and the acceptability of exchanges. Journal of Consumer Psychology, 15, 2-15. \nLarsen, J.T., McGraw, A.P., Mellers, B.A. & Cacioppo, J. (2004). The agony of victory and thrill of defeat: Mixed emotional reactions to disappointing wins and relieving losses. Psychological Science, 15, 325-330. \nMcGraw, A.P., Tetlock, P.E., & Kristel, O.V. (2003). The limits of fungibility: Relational schemata and the value of things. Journal of Consumer Research, 30, 219-229. \nLarsen, J.T., McGraw, A.P., & Cacioppo, J. (2001). Can people feel happy and sad at the same time? Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 81, 684-696.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24154908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24154908", "title": "Pimpleia", "text": "Pimpleia\n\nPimpleia (Ancient Greek: Πιμπλεία) was a city in Pieria in Ancient Greece, located near Dion and ancient Leivithra at Mount Olympus. Pimpleia is described as a \"κώμη\" (\"quarter, suburb\") of Dion by Strabo. The location of Pimpleia is possibly to be identified with the modern village of Agia Paraskevi near Litochoron.\n\nIt was renowned as the birthplace and early abode of Orpheus. Many springs and memorials dedicated to Orpheus and Orphic cults. Cults of the Muses were also celebrated, under the epithet \"Pimpleids\" (Πιμπληίδες).\n\n"}
{"id": "584318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584318", "title": "Polarization (politics)", "text": "Polarization (politics)\n\nIn politics, polarization (or polarisation) can refer to the divergence of political attitudes to ideological extremes. Almost all discussions of polarization in political science consider polarization in the context of political parties and democratic systems of government. When polarization occurs in a two-party system, like the United States, moderate voices often lose power and influence.\n\nPolitical polarization refers to the cases in which an individual's stance on a given issue, policy, or person is more likely to be strictly defined by their identification with a particular political party (e.g., Democrat or Republican) or ideology (e.g., liberal or conservative). According to DiMaggio et al. (1996), \"Polarization is both a state and a process. Polarization as a state refers to the extent to which opinions on an issue are opposed in relation to some theoretical maximum. Polarization as a process refers to the increase in such opposition over time.\" Some political scientists argue that polarization requires divergence on a broad range of issues based on a consistent set of beliefs. Others argue polarization occurs when there are stark partisan or ideological divides, even if the opinion is polarized only on a few issues.\n\nPolitical scientists typically distinguish between two types of political polarization: elite polarization and popular polarization. \"Elite polarization\" refers to the polarization of political elites, like party organizers and elected officials, while \"popular polarization\" (or mass polarization) refers to the polarization in the electorate and general public. In either context, opinions and policy positions are characterized by strict adherence to party lines. Elite polarization and popular polarization can occur at the same time or independent of each other. A central issue in the study of political polarization is investigating the relationship between elite polarization and popular polarization, particularly any causal relationships between the two.\n\nElite polarization refers to polarization in the party-in-government and party-as-organization. It occurs when party members (both elected government officials and activists within the party organization itself) grow more internally homogenous on policy positions and more divergent relative to members of other parties. Polarized political parties are internally cohesive, unified, programmatic, and ideologically distinct; they are typically found in a parliamentary system of democratic governance. \n\nIn a two-party system like the U.S., a polarized legislature has two important characteristics: first, there is little-to-no ideological overlap between members of the two parties; and second, almost all conflict over legislation and policies is split across the broad liberal/conservative ideological divide. This leads to the conflation of political parties and ideologies (i.e., Democrat and Republican become nearly perfect synonyms for liberal and conservative) and the collapse of the ideological center.\n\nThe vast majority of studies on elite polarization focus on legislative and deliberative bodies. For many years, political scientists measured polarization by examining the ratings of party members published by interest groups, but now, most analyze roll-call voting patterns to determine trends in party-line voting and party unity. Many political scientists studying American politics rely on Poole and Rosenthal's DW-NOMINATE scores, which assign a single liberal-conservative score to each congressperson, enabling comparisons of members from different Congresses. There is much more research on polarization in Congress than on polarization in the other branches of government or in state governments. Azzimonti's political polarization index is more comprehensive instead because it is based on media coverage of newspaper articles reporting political disagreement about policy in all branches of government. Recent work by Gentzkow, Shapiro, and Taddy has used the text of the Congressional Record to document differences in speech patterns between Republicans and Democrats as a measure of polarization. They find that polarization has increased dramatically since 1994.\n\nPopular polarization, or mass polarization, occurs when the electorate's attitudes towards political issues, policies, and people are starkly divided along partisan lines. Members of the electorate and general public typically become less moderate in cases of popular polarization. In the U.S., media accounts typically simplify popular polarization to a divide between red states and blue states or a \"culture war\" between values-voters and progressives. Political scientists, though, generally agree that such accounts are too simplistic and ignore the complex factors that can account for polarization. Many political scientists consider political polarization a top-down process, in which elite polarization leads to – or at least precedes – popular polarization. However, polarization among elites does not necessarily produce polarization within the electorate, and polarized electoral choices can often reflect elite polarization rather than voters' preferences.\n\nPolitical scientists studying popular polarization typically rely on data from opinion polls and election surveys. They look for trends in respondents' opinions on a given issue, their voting history, and their political ideology (conservative, liberal, moderate, etc.), and they try to relate those trends to respondents' party identification and other potentially polarizing factors (like geographic location or income bracket). Political scientists typically limit their inquiry to issues and questions that have been constant over time, in order to compare the present day to what the political climate has historically been. Oft-cited public opinion polls in the U.S. include those run by the Pew Research Center and Gallup, Inc., while political scientists also rely on more academic surveys, like the General Social Survey and the election surveys and \"feeling thermometer\" polls conducted by National Election Studies.\n\nThere are various causes of political polarization and these include political parties, redistricting, the public's political ideology, and the mass media.\n\nSome scholars argue that diverging parties has been one of the major driving forces of polarization as policy platforms have become more distant. This theory is based on recent trends in the United States Congress, where the majority party prioritizes the positions that are most aligned with its party platform and political ideology. The adoption of more ideologically distinct positions by political parties can cause polarization among both elites and the electorate. For example, after the passage of the Voting Rights Act, the number of conservative Democrats in Congress decreased, while the number of conservative Republicans increased. Within the electorate during the 1970s, Southern Democrats shifted toward the Republican Party, showing polarization among both the elites and the electorate of both main parties.\n\nPolitical scientists have shown politicians have an incentive to advance and support polarized positions. These argue that during the early 1990s, the Republican Party used polarizing tactics to become the majority party in the United States House of Representatives—which political scientists Thomas E. Mann and Norman Ornstein refer to as Newt Gingrich's \"guerrilla war.\" What political scientists have found is that moderates are less likely to run than are candidates who are in line with party doctrine, otherwise known as \"party fit.\"Other theories state politicians who cater to more extreme groups within their party tend to be more successful, helping them stay in office while simultaneously pulling their constituency toward a polar extreme. A study by Nicholson (2012) found voters are more polarized by contentious statements from leaders of the opposing party than from the leaders of their own party. As a result, political leaders may be more likely to take polarized stances.\n\nWith regards to multiparty systems, Giovanni Sartori (1966, 1976) claims the splitting of ideologies in the public constituency causes further divides within the political parties of the countries. He theorizes that the extremism of public ideological movement is the basis for the creation of highly polarized multiparty systems. Sartori named this polarizing phenomenon polarized pluralism and claimed it would lead to further polarization in many opposing directions (as opposed to in simply two directions, as in a polarized two-party system) over policy issues. Polarization in multiparty systems can also be defined along two ideological extremes, like in the case of India in the 1970s. Ideological splits within a number of India's major parties resulted in two polarized coalitions on the right and left, each consisting of multiple political parties.\n\nPolitical fund-raisers and donors can also exert significant influence and control over legislators. Party leaders are expected to be productive fund-raisers, in order to support the party's campaigns. After \"Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission\", special interests in the U.S. were able to greatly impact elections through increased undisclosed spending, notably through Super political action committees. Some, such as \"Washington Post\" opinion writer Robert Kaiser, argued this allowed wealthy people, corporations, unions, and other groups to push the parties' policy platforms toward ideological extremes, resulting in a state of greater polarization. Other scholars, such as Raymond J. La Raja and David L. Wiltse, note that this does not necessarily hold true for mass donors to political campaigns. These scholars argue a single donor who is polarized and contributes large sums to a campaign does not seem to usually drive a politician toward political extremes.\n\nIn democracies and other representative governments, citizens vote for the political actors who will represent them. Some scholars argue that political polarization reflects the public's ideology and voting preferences. Dixit and Weibull (2007) claim that political polarization is a natural and regular phenomenon. They argue that there is a link between public differences in ideology and the polarization of representatives, but that an increase in preference differences is usually temporary and ultimately results in compromise.\n\nMorris P. Fiorina (2006, 2008) posits the hypothesis that polarization is a phenomenon which does not hold for the public, and instead is formulated by commentators to draw further division in government. Other studies indicate that cultural differences focusing on ideological movements and geographical polarization within the United States constituency is correlated with rises in overall political polarization between 1972 and 2004.\n\nReligious, ethnic, and other cultural divides within the public have often influenced the emergence of polarization. According to Layman et al. (2005), the ideological split between U.S. Republicans and Democrats also crosses into the religious cultural divide. They claim that Democrats have generally become more moderate in religious views whereas Republicans have become more traditionalist. For example, political scientists have shown that in the United States, voters who identify as Republican are more likely to vote for a strongly evangelical candidate than Democratic voters. This correlates with the rise in polarization in the United States. Another theory contends that religion does not contribute to full-group polarization, but rather, coalition and party activist polarization causes party shifts toward a political extreme.\n\nIn some post-colonial countries, the public may be polarized along ethnic divides that remain from the colonial regime. In South Africa in the late 1980s, members of the conservative, pro-apartheid National Party of South Africa were no longer supportive of apartheid, and, therefore, no longer ideologically aligned with their party. Dutch Afrikaners, white English, and native Africans split based on racial divisions, causing polarization along ethnic lines.\n\nEconomic inequality can also motivate the polarization of the public. For example, in post-World War I Germany, the Communist Workers Party, and the National Socialists, a fascist party, emerged as the dominant political ideologies and proposed to address Germany's economic problems in drastically different ways. In Venezuela in the late 20th century, the entrance of the oil industry into the local economy caused economic disparities that led to sharp ideological divides. As a result, the disenfranchised working class aligned with extreme socialist leader Hugo Chávez.\n\nGerrymandering or the manipulation of the electoral borders to favor a political party or the electoral outcome affect the redistricting process in the U.S. It has been linked to the rise in polarization by some political scientists. Some scholars argue that the practice of redistricting creates political polarization by making more homogeneous, ideologically distinct districts. This results in elected representatives who represent more polarized beliefs. According to Carson et al. (2007), this makes it easier for more extreme candidates to win elections (and re-election) as the makeup of the voting block shifts in the direction of a polar extreme. This effect is more modest when analyzed over multiple election cycles and in the United States as a whole. Politically motivated redistricting has been associated with the rise in partisanship in the U.S. House of Representatives between 1992 and 1994. Many political scientists however, argue that redistricting practices have not played a major role in causing political polarization. The impact of redistricting on political polarization is measurable, but over broad areas and time periods, the effect of redistricting on polarization is found to be minimal.\n\nThe mass media has grown as an institution over the past half-century. Political scientists argue that this has particularly affected the voting public in the last three decades, as previously less partisan viewers are given more polarized news media choices. The mass media's current, fragmented, high-choice environment has induced a movement of the audience from more even-toned political programming to more antagonistic and one-sided broadcasts and articles. These programs tend to appeal to partisan viewers who watch the polarized programming as a self-confirming source for their ideologies. Countries with less diversified but emerging media markets, such as China and South Korea, have become more polarized due to the diversification of political media. In addition, most search engines and social networks (e.g., Google, Facebook) now utilize computer algorithms as filters, which personalize web content based on a user's search history, location, and previous clicking patterns, creating more polarized access to information. This method of personalizing web content results in \"filter bubbles\", a term coined by digital activist Eli Pariser that refers to the polarized ideological bubbles that are created by computer algorithms filtering out unrelated information and opposing views.\n\nA 2011 study found ideological segregation of online news consumption is lower than the segregation of most offline news consumption and lower than the segregation of face-to-face interactions. This suggests that the filter bubbles effects of online media consumption are exaggerated. Other research also shows that online media does not contribute to the increased polarization of opinions.\n\nA 2017 study found that providing people with impartial, objective information has the potential to reduce political polarization, but the effect of information on polarization is highly sensitive to contextual factors. Specifically, polarization over government spending was reduced when people were provided with a \"Taxpayer Receipt,\" but not when they were also asked how they wanted the money to be spent. This suggests that subtle factors like the mood and tone of partisan news sources may have a large effect on how the same information is interpreted.\n\nThe implications of political polarization \"are not entirely clear and may include some benefits as well as detrimental consequences.\" While its exact effects are disputed, it clearly alters the political process and the political composition of the general public. Solomon Messing and Sean J. Westwood state that individuals do not necessarily become polarized through media because they choose their own exposure, which tends to already align with their views.\n\nNegative effects of polarization on the United States Congress include increased gridlock and partisanship at the cost of quality and quantity of passed legislation. It also incentivizes stall tactics and closed rules, such as filibusters on non-contentious issues and excluding minority party members from committee deliberations. These strategies hamper transparency, oversight, and the government's ability to handle long-term domestic issues, especially those regarding the distribution of benefits. Further, they foster animosity, as majority parties lose bipartisan and legislative coordination trying to expedite legislation to overcome them.\n\nSome scholars claim that political polarization is not so pervasive or destructive in influence, contending that partisan agreement is the historical trend in Congress and still frequent in the modern era, including on bills of political importance. Some studies have found approximately 80% of House bills passed in the modern era to have had support from both parties.\n\nOpinions on polarization's effects on the public are mixed. Some argue that the growing polarization in government has directly contributed to political polarization in the electorate, but this is not unanimous.\n\nSome scholars argue that polarization lowers public interest in politics, party identification and voter turnout. It encourages confrontational dynamics between parties that can lower overall public trust and approval in government., and causes the public to perceive the general political debate as less civil, which can alienate voters. More polarized candidates, especially when voters aren't aware of the increase, also tend to be less representative of the public's wishes.\n\nOn the other hand, others assert that elite polarization has galvanized the public's political participation in the United States, citing greater voting and nonvoting participation, engagement and investment in campaigns, and increased positive attitude toward government responsiveness. Polarized parties become more ideologically unified, furthering voter knowledge about their positions and increasing their standard to similarly-aligned voters.\n\nAs Mann and Ornstein argue, political polarization and the proliferation of media sources have \"reinforce[d] tribal divisions, while enhancing a climate where facts are no longer driving the debate and deliberation, nor are they shared by the larger public.\" As other scholars have argued, the media often support and provoke the stall and closed rules tactics that disrupt regular policy procedure.\n\nWhile the media are not immune to general public opinion and reduced polarization allows them to appeal to a larger audience, polarized environments make it easier for the media and interest groups to hold elected officials more accountable for their policy promises and positions, generally healthy for democracy.\n\nJudicial systems can also be affected by the implications of political polarization. For the United States, in particular, polarization lowers confirmation rates of judges; In 2012, the confirmation rate of presidential circuit court appointments was approximately 50% as opposed to the above 90% rate in the late 1970s and early 1980s. More polarized parties have more aggressively block nominees and used tactics to hinder executive agendas. Political scientist Sarah Binder (2000) argues that \"senatorial intolerance for the opposing party’s nominees is itself a function of polarization.\" Negative consequences of this include higher vacancy rates on appellate courts, longer case-processing times and increased caseloads for judges.\n\nPolitical scientists argue that in highly polarized periods, nominees become less reflective of the moderate voter as \"polarization impacts the appointment and ideological tenor of new federal judges.\" It also influences the politics of senatorial advice and consent, giving partisan presidents the power to appoint judges far to the left or right of center on the federal bench, obstructing the legitimacy of the judicial branch.\n\nUltimately, the increasing presence of ideology in a judicial system impacts the judiciary's credibility. Polarization can generate strong partisan critiques of federal judges, which can damage the public perception of the justice system and the legitimacy of the courts as nonpartisan legal arbiters. \n\nPolitical polarization can undercut unified agreement on foreign policy and harm a nation's international standing; divisiveness on foreign affairs strengthens enemies, discourages allies and destabilize a nation's determination.\n\nPolitical scientists point to two primary implications of polarization with regards to the foreign policy of the United States\". First, when the United States conducts relations abroad and appears divided, allies are less likely to trust its promises, enemies are more likely to predict its weaknesses, and uncertainty as to the country's position in world affairs rises. Second, elite opinion has a significant impact on the public's perception and understanding of foreign policy, a field where Americans have less prior knowledge to rely on.\n\nOutside of the U.S., there are plenty of modern day examples of polarization in politics. A bulk of the research into global polarization comes from Europe. One example includes Pasokification in Greece. This is the trend from a shift from the center-left to a more far-left stance. Pasokification was caused by the Greek populous growing dissatisfied with the country's centrist, left wing party and how they handled the Great Recession and the austerity measures the European Union put in place during recovery. Although the shift further to the left was a massive benefits to the liberal population in Greece, the results in Greece (as well as other nations like Germany, Sweden and Italy) have not been able to sustain themselves. Parties who have made the shift left have recently shown a decline in the voting booths, evidence their supporters are uneasy of the future. \n\nThe shift in Greece to the far-left is similar to the shift in countries like Poland, France and the U.K. to more far-right conservative positions. In those countries, there is heavy anti-Islam sentiment and the rise of populist commentary. The general population of the right in these countries tends to hold onto these more aggressive stances and pulls the parties further to the right. These stances include populist messages with Islamophobic, isolationist, and anti-LGBTQ language. Much of the polarization in these nations leads to either a more socialist left wing party, or more nationalist right wing party. These more polarized parties grow from the discontent of more moderate parties inability to provide progressive changes in either direction. \n\nThere have long been numerous scholarly debates that argue over the concept of political polarization, both in whether it is valid, and how it can accurately be measured. There are four primary arguments against the validity of political polarization: 1) Limitations of the Two-Party System, 2) Issue Partisanship, 3) Cultural Differences, and 4) Westernized Focuses.\n\nBy solely acknowledging voting patterns, one cannot make an accurate conclusion as to the presence or absence of political polarization, because in the United States, there is a limited number of presidential candidates in the two-party system. To assume that the majority of voters are mostly or completely in agreement with the plethora of political issues within their party is a false assumption. Despite contrary beliefs, there are many liberal Republicans and conservative Democrats in the U.S. who have differing political beliefs within their parties. However, these voters most often align with their party because of the limited choice of candidates, and to do otherwise (i.e. vote for a third-party candidate) is perceived as a waste of time.\n\nDespite various claims that argue American society is more polarized today than leading up to the U.S. Civil War, numerous scholars explain that much evidence shows there is a relatively stable public opinion on the majority of sociopolitical issues. Where the most polarization exists, rather, is in the \"hot topic\" or \"sensitive\" issues (e.g. abortion, gay marriage, U.S. involvement in war). Over-reliance on focusing on opinions regarding social issues to draw conclusion about political polarization is not a valid measurement to fully represent the concept.\n\nIn regard to views on public policies, Fiorina and Abrams (2008) found virtually no evidence of an increase in widespread political polarization over the past thirty years. Nonetheless, many scholars explain that it is not an increase in ideological coherence among individuals which separates them; it is the partisan extremism (i.e. Democrat v. Republican) which eventually separates voters into one party or the other.\n\nProponents of the cultural differences argument are critical of political polarization because of numerous factors, influences, and demographics. Among voter demographic features, there is much evidence of race, sex, age, and educational attainment as being some of the main influences in voting behaviors. In addition to these factors, the geographic region often plays a major role in voting behavior. Lastly, one's socioeconomic status is a reliable predictor of voting behavior. The combination of these factors and influences compel researchers to reconsider the causes of political polarization.\n\nMuch like many academic studies, political polarization scholars often are too narrowly focused within one nation and, thus, make broad generalizations regarding the concept from a national study. To have a better picture of the presence or absence of political polarization, scholars must consider widening the scope of their studies to the international contexts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "188949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188949", "title": "Quest", "text": "Quest\n\nA quest is a journey toward a specific mission or a goal. The word serves as a plot device in mythology and fiction: a difficult journey towards a goal, often symbolic or allegorical. Tales of quests figure prominently in the folklore of every nation and ethnic culture. In literature, the object of a quest requires great exertion on the part of the hero, who must overcome many obstacles, typically including much travel. The aspect of travel allows the storyteller to showcase exotic locations and cultures (an objective of the narrative, not of the character). The object of a quest may also have supernatural properties, often leading the protagonist into other worlds and dimensions. The moral of a quest tale often centers on the changed character of the hero.\n\nThe hero normally aims to obtain something or someone by the quest, and with this object to return home. The object can be something new, that fulfills a lack in his life, or something that was stolen away from him or someone with authority to dispatch him.\n\nSometimes the hero has no desire to return; Sir Galahad's quest for the Holy Grail is to find it, not return with it. A return may, indeed, be impossible: Aeneas quests for a homeland, having lost Troy at the beginning of Virgil's \"Aeneid,\" and he does not return to Troy to re-found it but settles in Italy (to become an ancestor of the Romans).\n\nIf the hero does return after the culmination of the quest, he may face false heroes who attempt to pass themselves off as him, or his initial response may be a rejection of that return, as Joseph Campbell describes in his critical analysis of quest literature, \"The Hero With a Thousand Faces\".\n\nIf someone dispatches the hero on a quest, the overt reason may be false, with the dispatcher actually sending him on the difficult quest in hopes of his death in the attempt, or in order to remove him from the scene for a time, just as if the claim were sincere, except that the tale usually ends with the dispatcher being unmasked and punished. Stories with such false quest-objects include the legends of Jason and Perseus, the fairy tales \"The Dancing Water, the Singing Apple, and the Speaking Bird\", \"Go I Know Not Whither and Fetch I Know Not What\", and the story of Beren and Lúthien in J. R. R. Tolkien's \"Silmarillion\".\n\nThe quest object may, indeed, function only as a convenient reason for the hero's journey. Such objects are termed MacGuffins. When a hero is on a quest for several objects that are only a convenient reason for his journey, they are termed plot coupons.\n\nThe quest, in the form of the Hero's Journey, plays a central role in the Monomyth described by Joseph Campbell; the hero sets forth from the world of common day into a land of adventures, tests, and magical rewards. Most times in a quest, the knight in shining armor wins the heart of a beautiful maiden/ princess.\n\nAn early quest story tells the tale of Gilgamesh, who seeks a secret to eternal life after the death of Enkidu, including the search for an emerald.\n\nAnother ancient quest tale, Homer's \"Odyssey\", tells of Odysseus, whom the gods have cursed to wander and suffer for many years before Athena persuades the Olympians to allow him to return home. Recovering the Golden Fleece is the object of the travels of Jason and the Argonauts in the \"Argonautica\". Psyche, having lost Cupid, hunted through the world for him, and was set tasks by Venus, including a descent into the underworld.\n\nMany fairy tales depict the hero or heroine setting out on a quest, such as:\n\n\nOther characters may set out with no more definite aim than to \"seek their fortune\", or even be cast out instead of voluntarily leaving, but learn of something that could aid them along the way and so have their journey transformed from aimless wandering into a quest. Other characters can also set forth on quests — the hero's older brothers commonly do — but the hero is distinguished by his success.\n\nMany medieval romances sent knights out on quests. The term \"Knight-errant\" sprang from this, as \"errant\" meant \"roving\" or \"wandering\". Sir Thomas Malory included many in \"Le Morte d'Arthur\". The most famous—perhaps in all of western literature—centers on the Holy Grail in Arthurian legend. This story cycle recounts multiple quests, in multiple variants, telling stories both of the heroes who succeed, like Percival (in Wolfram von Eschenbach's Parzival) or Sir Galahad (in the Queste del Saint Graal), and also the heroes who fail, like Sir Lancelot. This often sent them into a bewildering forest. Despite many references to its pathlessness, the forest repeatedly confronts knights with forks and crossroads, of a labyrinthine complexity. The significance of their encounters is often explained to the knights—particularly those searching for the Holy Grail—by hermits acting as wise old men -- or women. Still, despite their perils and chances of error, such forests, being the location where the knight can obtain the end of his quest, are places where the knights may become worthy; one romance has a maiden urging Sir Lancelot on his quest for the Holy Grail, \"which quickens with life and greenness like the forest.\"\n\nSo consistently did knights quest that Miguel de Cervantes set his Don Quixote on mock quests in a parody of chivalric tales. Nevertheless, while Don Quixote was a fool, he was and remains a hero of chivalry.\n\nQuests continued in modern literature. Analysis can interpret many (perhaps most) stories as a quest in which the main character is seeking something that he desires, but the literal structure of a journey seeking something is, itself, still common. Quests often appear in fantasy literature, as in Rasselas by Samuel Johnson, or \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\", where Dorothy, the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman, and the Cowardly Lion go on a quest for the way back to Kansas, brains, a heart, and courage respectively. Quests, also, play a major role in Rick Riordan's fantasy books, among them \"Percy Jackson & the Olympians\", \"The Heroes of Olympus\", and \"The Kane Chronicles\".\n\nA familiar modern literary quest is Frodo Baggins's quest to destroy the One Ring in \"The Lord of the Rings\". The One Ring, its baleful power, the difficult method which is the only way to destroy it, and the spiritual and psychological torture it wreaks on its Bearer; J. R. R. Tolkien uses all these elements to tell a meaningful tale of friendship and the inner struggle with temptation, against a background of epic and supernatural warfare.\n\n\"The Catcher in the Rye\" is often thought of as a quest plot, detailing Holden's search not for a tangible object but for a sense of purpose or reason.\n\nSome writers, however, may devise arbitrary quests for items without any importance beyond being the object of the quest. These items are known as MacGuffins, which is sometimes merely used to compare quests and is not always a derogatory term. Writers may also motivate characters to pursue these objects by meanings of a prophecy that decrees it, rather than have them discover that it could assist them, for reasons that are given.\n\n"}
{"id": "8983620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8983620", "title": "Restoration of the Sistine Chapel frescoes", "text": "Restoration of the Sistine Chapel frescoes\n\nThe conservation-restoration of the frescoes of the Sistine Chapel was one of the most significant conservation-restorations of the 20th century.\n\nThe Sistine Chapel was built by Pope Sixtus IV within the Vatican immediately to the north of St. Peter's Basilica and completed in about 1481. Its walls were decorated by a number of Renaissance painters who were among the most highly regarded artists of late 15th century Italy, including Ghirlandaio, Perugino, and Botticelli. The Chapel was further enhanced under Pope Julius II by the painting of the ceiling by Michelangelo between 1508 and 1512 and by the painting of the \"Last Judgment\", commissioned by Pope Clement VII and completed in 1541, again by Michelangelo. The tapestries on the lowest tier, today best known from the Raphael Cartoons (painted designs) of 1515–16, completed the ensemble.\n\nTogether the paintings make up the greatest pictorial scheme of the Renaissance. Individually, some of Michelangelo's paintings on the ceiling are among the most notable works of western art ever created. The frescoes of the Sistine Chapel and in particular the ceiling and accompanying lunettes by Michelangelo have been subject to a number of restorations, the most recent taking place between 1980 and 1994. This most recent restoration had a profound effect on art lovers and historians, as colours and details that had not been seen for centuries were revealed. It has been claimed that as a result \"Every book on Michelangelo will have to be rewritten\". Others, such as the art historian James Beck of ArtWatch International, have been extremely critical of the restoration, saying that the restorers have not realised the true intentions of the artist. This is the subject of continuing debate.\n\nThe frescoes on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel had a number of interventions prior to the restoration process which was started in 1980. Initial problems with the ceiling appear to have been caused by water penetrating through the floor above. In about 1547 Paolo Giovio wrote that the ceiling was being damaged by saltpetre and cracks. The effect of saltpetre is to leave a white efflorescence. Gianluigi Colalucci, Head Restorer at the Laboratory for the Restoration of Paintings for Papal Monuments, Museums and Galleries, states in his essay \"Michelangelo's colours rediscovered\", that the early conservators treated this cosmetically by an application of linseed or walnut oil which had the effect of making the crystalline deposit more transparent.\n\nIn 1625, a restoration was carried out by Simone Lagi, the \"resident gilder\", who wiped the ceiling with linen cloths and cleaned it by rubbing it with bread. He occasionally resorted to wetting the bread to remove the more stubborn accretions. His report states that the frescoes \"were returned to their previous beauty without receiving any harm\". Colalucci states that Lagi \"almost certainly\" applied layers of glue-varnish to revive the colours but does not state this in his report in the interests of \"preserving the secrets of their [the restorers'] craft\".\n\nBetween 1710 and 1713 a further restoration was carried out by the painter Annibale Mazzuoli and his son. They used sponges dipped in Greek wine which Colalucci suggests was necessitated by the accretion of grime caused by soot and dirt trapped in the oily deposits of the previous restoration. Mazzuoli then worked over the ceiling, according to Colalucci, strengthening the contrasts by overpainting details. They also repainted some areas the colours of which were lost because of the efflorescence of salts. Areas of repainting were hatched or treated with a linear brushstroke. Colalucci states that Mazzuoli also applied a great deal of glue varnish. The restoration concentrated on the ceiling and less attention was paid to the lunettes.\n\nThe penultimate restoration was undertaken by the Restoration Laboratory of the Vatican Museum between 1935 and 1938. The scope of the work was to consolidate some areas of the intonaco at the eastern end of the building and partially remove the soot and dirt.\n\nThe preliminary experimentation for the modern restoration began in 1979. The restoration team comprised Gianluigi Colalucci, Maurizio Rossi, Piergiorgio Bonetti, and others, who took as their guidelines the \"Rules for restoration of works of art\" as established in 1978 by Carlo Pietrangeli, director of the Vatican's Laboratory for the Restoration of Pictures, which govern the procedure and methods employed in restoration. An important part of modern restoration procedure, as established by these rules, is the study and analysis of the artwork. Part of this was the recording of every stage of the restoration process. This was done by the photographer Takashi Okamura for Nippon Television Network Corporation.\n\nBetween June 1980 and October 1984 the first stage of restoration, the work upon Michelangelo's lunettes, was achieved. The focus of the work then transferred to the ceiling, which was completed in December 1989 and from there to the Last Judgment. The restoration was unveiled by Pope John Paul II on 8 April 1994. The final stage was the restoration of the wall frescoes, approved in 1994 and unveiled on 11 December 1999.\n\nThe aims of the conservators were as follows:\n\n\nIn 1979 Colalucci undertook a series of experiments to discover the right approach for the restoration of the frescoes of the Sistine Chapel. The investigation began by testing small areas of the wall fresco, \"Conflict over the Body of Moses\" by Matteo de Lecce, which had similar physical and chemical attributes to the painting techniques employed on Michelangelo's frescoes. Trials to find the right solvents were continued on a small portion of the Eleazar and Matthan lunette.\n\nBecause of the height of the ceiling and the inaccessibility of the ceiling frescoes, the precise nature of the damage and the problems that would be encountered by the restoration team could not be entirely foreseen until after the decision to restore was taken, and the scaffolding was in place. According to Colalucci, the continued scientific analysis and the response of the restorers to the particular problems was an ongoing part of the process, rather than the conservation team deciding on a single treatment for every part of the building.\n\nIn 1980 the decision to undertake a total restoration was taken. Nippon Television Network Corporation of Japan provided major funding of US$4.2 million in exchange for the filming rights.\n\nThe team of restorers completed the first stage of the restoration, on the vertical surfaces and curved spandrels around the upper sections of the windows, from aluminium scaffolding projecting from just below the lunettes and using the same holes in the wall that had been made for Michelangelo's scaffold. When they moved to the ceiling, they likewise employed a system similar to Michelangelo's, which involved cantilevering a shelf outwards from the scaffolding to support a stepped and arched platform. The advantages of modern lightweight materials meant that the platform could be wheeled, facilitating easy movement along the length of the building rather than dismantling and replacement, as Michelangelo had done in 1506.\n\nThe findings of the investigation of 1979 were that the entire interior of the chapel, but particularly the ceiling, was covered with a grime of candle smoke comprising wax and soot (amorphous carbon). Above the windows (the main source of ventilation), the lunettes were particularly stained from the smoke and exhaust fumes of the city, being \"much dirtier than the ceiling proper\".\nThe building was a little unstable and had already shifted considerably prior to Michelangelo's work of 1508, causing cracking of the ceiling, the crack in the \"Judith\" pendentive being so large that it had to be filled with bricks and mortar before painting. The upper part of the ceiling provided Michelangelo an irregular surface due to cracks and water seepage.\n\nContinued ingress of water from the roof and from unroofed exterior walkways above the ceiling level had caused seepage which carried down salts from the building mortar and deposited them on the ceiling through evaporation. In places this caused the surface of the frescoes to bubble and lift. Although discolouration was a serious problem, bubbling was not, because the thinness and transparency of the paint which Michelangelo employed on the greater part of the ceiling permitted the salts to pass through rather than accumulating beneath the surface.\n\nEarlier restorations had all left their marks on the frescoes. To counteract the whitening caused by salination, animal fat and vegetable oil had been applied, which effectively made the salt crystals transparent, but left a sticky layer that accumulated dirt. An additional problem, most obvious in the small putti which hold the nameplates on the pendentives, was saltpetre seeping through small cracks and appearing as dark rings on the surface. Unlike the white crystalline salt deposits, this could not be removed and the staining was irreversible. Layers of varnish and glue had been applied to many areas. This had darkened and become opaque. Restorers had repainted details over the darkened areas in order to define the features of figures. This was particularly the case for the lunettes, spandrels and lower parts of the pendentives.\n\nClose examination revealed that apart from smoky deposits, seepage deposits and structural cracks, the thin \"pictorial skin\" of Michelangelo's frescoes was in excellent condition. Colalucci describes Michelangelo as having employed the best possible fresco techniques, as described by Vasari. Most of the paint was well adhered and required little retouching. The plaster, or intonaco, on which the paintings were executed was found, for the most part, to be secure, as previous restorers had fixed it in places with bronze pins.\n\nPrior to the restoration the team spent six months investigating the composition and condition of the frescoes, questioning members of the team that had restored the frescoes in the 1930s and making a detailed scientific study to ascertain which solvents and methods were best employed upon particular painted surfaces.\n\nThe first stage of the physical restoration was to re-attach any areas of the plaster surface (which was approximately 5 mm thick) that were in danger of separating and breaking away. This was done by injecting a polyvinylacetate resin. Earlier bronze braces that had been used to stabilise surfaces were removed in those places where they were causing cracking, and the holes filled. Pigments that appeared to be not well adhered were consolidated with the application of diluted acrylic resin.\n\nThe restorers washed the surfaces using a variety of solvents. Distilled water was used wherever possible to remove soot and dissolve water-soluble gums. Retouching and repainting that had been part of previous later restorations were removed with a gelatinous solvent, applied in several stages for measured times, and washed with distilled water. Salt efflorescences of calcium carbonate were treated by the application of a solution of dimethylformamide. The final step was the application of a weak solution of acrylic polymer to consolidate and protect the surface, and further washing.\n\nWhere necessary some areas were retouched in watercolour, to integrate the pictorial material. These areas are distinctively textured with vertical brushstrokes, not visible from a distance but easily discernible as restoration work when viewed close up.\n\nCertain small areas were left unrestored, in order to maintain a physical record of the previous restorations that had taken place, for example, an area left with overpainting and candle wax, and another area demonstrating the attempt to counteract salination with oil.\n\nOnce the many layers of candle wax, varnish, and animal glue were removed from the surface of the Sistine Chapel frescoes, they became subject to dangers that could not have been predicted by previous restorers.\n\nOne of the major dangers to the frescoes is automotive exhaust, and they are also vulnerable to the effects of the crowds of tourists that pass through the chapel every day, bringing with them heat, humidity, dust and bacteria (the latter of which can biodegrade paints and pigments). The clean plaster surfaces are more in danger from these destructive elements than they were when they were covered with a layer of smoky wax.\n\nPreviously, the Sistine Chapel's only ventilation was from its windows in the upper level of the walls. To prevent exhaust fumes and wind-blown pollutants from entering, the windows are now permanently closed and an air conditioning system has been installed. The installation is by Carrier of the United Technologies Corporation and was developed with the cooperation of the Vatican's Office of Technical Services. It has been designed to counteract the various problems specific to the Chapel, in particular the rapid changes of heat and humidity that occur with the admission of the first crowds of tourists each morning and the departure of the last visitors each afternoon. The air conditioning varies not only the heat but also the relative humidity between the summer and winter months so that changes to the atmospheric environment occur gradually. The air near the ceiling is kept at a temperate level, while the air in the lower section of the building is cooler and circulates more rapidly, with the effect that dirt particles fall towards the floor rather than being streamed upwards. Bacteria and chemical pollutants are filtered out.\n\nEnvironmental specifications:\n\nWhen the restoration of the Sistine Chapel was announced, it sparked a barrage of queries and objections from art historians around the world. One of the most vocal of these critics was James Beck, of ArtWatch International, who issued repeated warnings about the possibility of damage to Michelangelo's work from over-strenuous restoration. An argument that was used repeatedly was that all the previous interventions had caused damage of one sort or another. Any restoration, as opposed to conservation, puts an artwork at risk. Conservation, on the other hand, aids in the preservation of the work in its present state and in prevention of further deterioration. Beck has written about his concerns in \"Art Restoration, the Culture, the Business and the Scandal.\"\n\nWhile James Beck became \"embroiled in a public debate\" with Gianluigi Colalucci, Ronald Feldman, a New York art dealer, started a petition supported by 15 well-known artists including Robert Motherwell, George Segal, Robert Rauschenberg, Christo and Andy Warhol asking Pope John Paul II to call a halt to the procedure and also the restoration of Leonardo da Vinci's \"Last Supper\".\n\nAn undertaking of the restoration team was that everything would be handled in a transparent fashion, that reporters, art historians and others with a bona fide interest should have ready access to information and to view the work. However, a single company, Nippon Television Network Corporation, had sole photography rights. Michael Kimmelman, chief art critic of \"The New York Times\", wrote, in 1991, that the criticism of the restoration of the ceiling and lunettes was in part fuelled by the Nippon Television Network's reluctance to make public those photographs that they had taken by exclusive right, which had recorded every stage of the process and which were the only solid evidence that the work was being done appropriately.\n\nAccording to Kimmelman, the reason for their reluctance to produce the detailed photos, which could have put to rest the worst fears of many of the interested parties, was the intention of the company to produce a large limited-edition two-volume coffee-table book (\"as large as a coffee table\"). This book, when produced retailed for US$1,000. Kimmelman refers to the fact that these photos were only made available to the few who could afford the exorbitant price as \"ungenerous\" and \"immoral\".\n\nAs the work was progressively completed, there were those who were delighted; Pope John Paul II spoke an inaugural homily after each stage. In December 1999, after the completion of the wall frescoes, he said:\n\nCardinal Edmund Szoka, governor of Vatican City, said: \"This restoration and the expertise of the restorers allows us to contemplate the paintings as if we had been given the chance of being present when they were first shown.\"\n\nOther writers were less flattering. Andrew Wordsworth of \"The Independent\", London, expressed the major point of concern:\n\nThis crucial matter was also emphasised by Beck and defined in very clearly expressed terms on the website of the artist, Peter Layne Arguimbau.\n\nThat part of the restoration in the Sistine Chapel which has caused the most concern is the ceiling, painted by Michelangelo. The emergence of the brightly coloured Ancestors of Christ from the gloom sparked a reaction of fear that the processes being employed in the cleaning were too severe. Despite warnings, the work on the ceiling proceeded and, according to critics such as James Beck, their worst fears were confirmed once the ceiling was completed.\n\nThe cause for dissent lies in the analysis and understanding of the techniques utilised by Michelangelo, and the technical response of the restorers to their understanding of those techniques. A close examination of the frescoes of the lunettes convinced the restorers that Michelangelo worked exclusively in \"buon fresco\"; that is, the artist worked only on freshly laid plaster and each section of work was completed while the plaster was still in its fresh state. In other words, Michelangelo did not work \"a secco\"; he did not come back later and add details onto the dry plaster.\n\nThe restorers, by assuming that the artist took a universal approach to the painting, took a universal approach to the restoration. A decision was made that all of the shadowy layer of animal glue and \"lamp black\", all of the wax, and all of the overpainted areas were contamination of one sort or another: smoke deposits, earlier restoration attempts and painted definition by later restorers in attempt to enliven the appearance of the work. Based on this decision, according to Arguimbau's critical reading of the restoration data that has been provided, the chemists of the restoration team decided upon a solvent that would effectively strip the ceiling down to its paint-impregnated plaster. After treatment, only that which was painted \"buon fresco\" would remain.\n\nAccording to critics, the inherent problem with this approach is that it relied heavily upon an assumption that Michelangelo only painted \"buon fresco\", that he was always satisfied with the result at the end of the day, and that in four and a half years spent on the ceiling, he stuck exclusively to one approach, and never made small alterations or added details. Arguimbau, on his website, quotes Colalucci, the head of the team, as contradicting himself on this matter.\n\nA summary of the relevant statements of Colalucci, in the order that they occur in the Appendix entitled \"Michelangelo's colours uncovered\" is as follows:\n\nThe ongoing criticism has been that the restorers presumed to know what end result the master was seeking to achieve in every separate case across the ceiling, and by what method he sought to achieve it. The disagreements about this have been vociferous and are unresolved.\n\nThe restorers took for granted that all of the layers of grease and soot on the ceiling were the result of candle smoke. Contrary to this view, James Beck and numerous artists have suggested that Michelangelo used carbon black in a wash of glue to lay on shadows and crisp dark definition, \"a secco\". If this is the case, then the greater part was removed in the restoration.\n\nOn some of the figures, however, there still remains clear evidence of painting in carbon black. The apparent explanation for this is that over the long period that Michelangelo was at work, he probably, for a variety of reasons, varied his technique. Things that might affect the degree of finish achieved on a particular \"giornata\" include the heat and humidity of the day and the length of daylight hours. Whatever the reason for the difference is, a difference in approach to the light and shade on the individual figures is clearly apparent.\n\nThere are still intense areas of shadow which throw the Cumaean Sibyl into relief. But it is more than relief; it is the three-dimensionality which art-lovers expect to see in the work of the man who sculpted Moses. Critics of the restoration claim that this was Michelangelo's aim and that many frescoes had brightly contrasting colours laid side-by-side that were then worked over \"a secco\" to achieve this effect and that this is what has been lost by a too-scrupulous cleaning.\n\nConsistently missing from the restored ceiling is the crisp \"a secco\" detailing of the architecture: the scallop shells, acorns and \"bead and reel\" ornament which Michelangelo possibly would have left for completion by an assistant, when he moved on to the next panel. The treatment of these details varied considerably. In a few places, around the Ezekias spandrel, for example, the architectural detailing was painted \"buon fresco\" and remains intact.\nA comparison of two spandrels reveals different post-restoration states. The one on the left has shadows and details defined in black. The green robe with yellow highlights has been washed with black and defined with deep shadow. On the fictive architecture each motif is picked out in black. The eyes of the child are detailed in black and white. The continued presence of these details suggests that they were completed while the plaster was damp. The entire right spandrel has an unfinished look. Before cleaning it also had black defining the shadows of the robes and crisp detailing on the architecture.\n\nOn the corner pendentives, each of which depicts a violent subject, the removal of the carbon black has diminished the dramatic intensity of all four scenes. This is particularly noticeable in the loss of depth in the \"Punishment of Haman\". Where once the figure projected starkly against the darkly shadowed interior, now foreshortening, definition and drama is lost in the pastel monotone that remains.\n\nThe curator, Fabrizio Mancinelli, quotes the 18th-century French traveller De Lalande in saying that the colouring of the ceiling was, by that time, monotonous, \"tend[ing] towards dull red and grey\". Mancinelli writes that the restoration reveals \"a new Michelangelo\" as a colourist and that this \"new character makes much better sense of his historical position\". He goes on to say that perceptive viewers of the Sistine Chapel ceiling have always been aware that the range of colours used was very different from that which could be seen, and included the same pinks, apple greens, oranges, yellows and pale blues that were employed by Michelangelo's teacher, Domenico Ghirlandaio, one of the most competent fresco painters of the Renaissance.\n\nThe brilliant palette ought to have been expected by the restorers as the same range of colours appears in the works of Giotto, Masaccio and Masolino, Fra Angelico and Piero della Francesca, as well as Ghirlandaio himself and later fresco painters such as Annibale Carracci and Tiepolo. The reason for employing this range of colours is that many other pigments are not usable in fresco as they have chemical properties that react badly in interaction with wet plaster. The colour that is noticeably missing from Michelangelo's ceiling, but not \"The Last Judgment\", is the intense blue of lapis lazuli. This colour, achieved by grinding semi-precious stone, was always applied as a secondary, \"a secco\" stage, along with the gold leaf applied as haloes and decoration to robes.\n\nThe aspect of the colouring which was most unexpected was Michelangelo's treatment of shadows. The painting of the Libyan Sibyl and the Prophet Daniel, which are side-by-side, are exemplary. On the yellow dress of the Sibyl, Michelangelo has bright yellow highlights, passing through carefully graded tones of deeper yellow to pale orange, darker orange and almost to red in the shadows. While red shadows are of themselves unusual in a fresco, the gradation through adjacent parts of the spectrum is a natural enough solution. On Daniel's robes, there is no such gentle gradation. The yellow lining of his cloak becomes a sudden dense green in the shadows, while the mauve has shadows that are intensely red. These colour combinations, which are best described as iridescent, can be found at various places on the ceiling, including the hose of the young man in the \"Mathan\" lunette which is pale green and reddish purple.\n\nIn some instances, the colour combinations look garish: this is particularly the case with the Prophet Daniel. A comparison of the \"restored\" and \"unrestored\" figure gives strong evidence that Michelangelo worked over this figure in a wash of carbon black, and that the technique was preplanned. The bright red used on the robes of Daniel and the Libyan Sibyl does not, on its own, create effective shadows. In these and many other cases it appears to have been intended as underpainting, to be seen only through a thin black wash and with the deepest shadows picked out in more intense black, as they still are on the Cumaean Sibyl. This use of bright, contrasting colours as underpainting is not a common feature of frescoes, but it is commonly employed in both oil painting and tempera. Like Daniel, the Libyan Sibyl's yellow garment once had much more subtlety in its folds and shadows than it has now.\n\nThere is absolutely no doubt that before the restoration, the whole ceiling was dirtier, more muted and more monochrome than Michelangelo ever intended, but when images of the frescoes are viewed in their stained and unrestored state the subtle washes and intense definitions, described by Beck and Arguimbau, still make their presence known, giving mass and bulk to the forms.\n\nThe painter and biographer Giorgio Vasari, in his \"Lives of the Artists\", describes the figure of Jonah as it appeared in the mid-16th century:\nThe large figure of Jonah is of great significance to the total composition, both pictorially and theologically, being symbolic of the Risen Christ. The figure occupies the pendentive which rises from the altar wall to support the vault, and strains backward, his eyes turned towards God. The foreshortening described by Vasari was innovative and highly influential to later painters. The cleaning of this significant figure has left a few remnants of black shadow visible to the extreme left side of the painting. All the other, less intense, black lines and washes have been removed, lessening the impact of the radical foreshortening, and also robbing the great fish, the genii behind Jonah, and the architectural figures of much detail.\n\nThe missing depth is not the only factor that the critics deplore. An important feature of Michelangelo's work which, in many places, has disappeared forever is the painting of the eyeballs. Eyes appear in many instances to have been painted \"buon fresco\". Wherever they have not been painted buon fresco but added \"a secco\", they have been removed by the restorers.\n\nThey are an essential part of the most impressive and famous of the frescoes, the \"Creation of Adam\". Adam gazes at God. God looks directly at Adam. And under God's protective arm, Eve turns her eyes sideways in a look of admiration for her husband-to-be. Again and again, Michelangelo painted telling gazes into the faces of his characters. The eye sockets of the family in the Zorobabel lunette are empty as are the eyes of the man in the Aminadab lunette, but the removal that has caused the most distress to the critics are the eyes of the little figure in green and white who once looked out of the gloom above the lunette of Jesse.\n\nArguimbau says:\n\nRichard Serrin, in an essay entitled \"Lies and Misdemeanors: Gianluigi Colalucci's Sistine Chapel Revisited\" says:\n\nCarlo Pietrangeli, former Director General of the Vatican Museums, writes of the restoration: \"It is like opening a window in a dark room and seeing it flooded with light.\" His words resonate with those of Giorgio Vasari who, in the 16th century, said of the Sistine Chapel ceiling:\n\nPietrangeli, in his foreword to \"The Sistine Chapel\", written after the restoration of the lunettes, but prior to the restoration of the ceiling, commends those who had the courage to commence the restoration process, and thanks not only those who visited the restoration while it was in progress and gave the benefit of their knowledge and experience, but also those who were critical of the enterprise. Pietrangeli made acknowledgement that these people spurred the team on to punctilious documentation so that a full report of criteria and methods should be available to those who are interested, both in the present and the future.\n\n"}
{"id": "22902526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22902526", "title": "Separate spheres", "text": "Separate spheres\n\nTerms such as separate spheres and domestic–public dichotomy refer to a social phenomenon, within modern societies that feature, to some degree, an empirical separation between a domestic or private sphere and a public or social sphere. This observation may be controversial, and is often also seen as supporting patriarchal ideologies that seek to \"create or strengthen\", any such separation between spheres, and to confine women to the domestic/private sphere.\n\nThe patriarchal ideology of separate spheres, based primarily on notions of biologically determined gender roles and/or patriarchal religious doctrine, claims that women should avoid the public sphere – the domain of politics, paid work, commerce and law. Women's \"proper sphere\", according to the ideology, is the realm of domestic life, focused on childcare, housekeeping, and religion.\n\nIn Europe and North America, the idealization of separate spheres emerged during the Industrial Revolution. As observable phenomena, however, the existence of separate spheres is much older.\n\nThe idea that women should inhabit a separate domestic sphere has been extant in Western thought for centuries, extending as far back as the ancient Greeks. In \"Politics\", Aristotle described two separate spheres in Greek society, the home (\"oikos\") and the city (\"polis\"). Some have interpreted his views as confining women to the private realm while men were supposed to occupy the public sphere of the \"polis\". Each sphere intermingled in different ways with the other.\" Debates over the \"proper\" roles of women and men continued throughout antiquity.\n\nThe modern ideology of separate spheres emerged in the wake of the Industrial Revolution. Prior to the industrialization of the Western world, family members worked side by side and the workplace was located mostly in and around the home. With the shift from home-based to factory production, men left the home to sell their labor for wages while women stayed home to perform unpaid domestic work. The separate spheres ideology reflected and fueled these changes. At the same time, the Enlightenment and the French Revolution helped spread the ideas of liberty, equality, and political rights, but in practice such rights were denied to women, who were seen as belonging to a different social sphere. Feminist writers like Olympe de Gouges, Mary Wollstonecraft, and Lucy Stone demanded political equality for women as well as men and provided searing criticisms of the \"separate sphere\" ideals that confined women exclusively to the domestic sphere. Theorists such as Friedrich Engels and Karl Marx have argued that following the rise of capitalism, the home lost its control of the means of production and consequently became a private, separate sphere. As a result, Engels contended, women were excluded from participating directly in the production process and relegated to the subordinate domestic sphere.\n\nAnother major commentator on the modern idea of \"separate spheres\" was the French political thinker Alexis de Tocqueville. In \"Democracy in America\" (1840), in a chapter entitled \"How the Americans understand the Equality of the sexes\", Tocqueville wrote: \"In no country has such constant care been taken as in America to trace two clearly distinct lines of action for the two sexes and to make them keep pace one with the other, but in two pathways that are always different.\" He observed that married women, in particular, were subject to many restrictions, noting that \"the independence of woman is irrecoverably lost in the bonds of matrimony\", adding that \"in the United States the inexorable opinion of the public carefully circumscribes woman within the narrow circle of domestic interests and duties and forbids her to step beyond it.\" Tocqueville considered the separate spheres of women and men a positive development, arguing:although the women of the United States are confined within the narrow circle of domestic life, and their situation is in some respects one of extreme dependence, I have nowhere seen women occupying a loftier position; and if I were asked...to what the singular prosperity and growing strength of that people ought mainly to be attributed, I should reply,—to the superiority of their women.\n\nBetty Friedan's \"The Feminine Mystique\" asserted that women were being forced to rely on their husbands and children as the sole sources of their identity by an historically constructed oppressive paradigm, not by any \"intrinsic\" predisposition. Drawing on Friedan, historian Barbara Welter identified a \"Cult of True Womanhood\", an ideal of femininity prevalent among the upper and middle classes in the 19th century. \"True women\" were supposed to be pious, pure, submissive, and domestic. Domesticity, in particular, was regarded as a laudable virtue as the home was considered a woman's proper sphere. Unlike Tocqueville, Welter and other 20th-century historians were critical of the separate spheres ideology, seeing it as a source of women's denigration.\n\nIn Woman, Culture, and Society (1974), Michelle Rosaldo emphasizes the idea that these separate spheres can be explained in terms of a dichotomy, in the sense that these gender-oriented domains are viewed as so totally separate that it only reinforces the ideology of gender separation and inequality. Activities given to men, versus those assigned to women, were seen as having more value and contributing greatly to the society. Adversely, the woman's so-called simpler roles of housework and childrearing were held at a much lesser value. Rosaldo argues a \"universal asymmetry\" between the sexes that primarily caused these separations to arise. This model mainly focuses on the generational subordination of women in relation to men throughout history and across different cultures, defining the domestic and public spheres in very black and white terms.\n\nThis earlier model, however, has since been challenged by researchers in the field, claiming the spheres cannot be outlined in such simplistic terms. Woman, Culture, and Society co-editor Louis Lamphere breaks down Rosaldo's model and discusses the spheres in different terms. Lamphere primarily dispels the concept of \"universal asymmetry\", looking toward various societies worldwide for proof. Even in some Middle Eastern cultures that place women in extreme positions of subordination, the model could not be so easily applied. This is because the domestic and public spheres are almost always overlapping in some way, regardless of a cultural female subservience or even egalitarianism. Women enter public spaces in order to fulfill certain duties that fall within their domestic responsibilities. Men must return to the private, or domestic, space eventually to bring home the spoils of his labor in the public sphere. In this sense, there are two separate spheres created and enforced by gender ideologies; but they are not dichotomous. They, instead, form an integrated system of life in society, varying only in levels of intensities from culture to culture.\n\nAccording to Cary Franklin, the women’s rights movements in the mid-1960s proposed that to achieve true equality between the sexes, it is necessary for the laws to be put in place to move past the simple separate spheres model and address the “interspherical impacts”. In 1966, the National Organization for Women (NOW) pushed for equality of women in society and in the workplace and in order to attain this equality, there would have to be changes in family regulation. NOW stressed the importance of focusing on structurally altering the family sphere in order to then create gender equality in the education and workplace spheres. The family sphere is acting as a catalyst seeing that without a change in it, women would simply lack access to the opportunities that men already have available to them. Franklin also pointed out that the gender inequality among the American population in the 60’s and 70’s was a major contributor to the civil rights statutes of the Second Reconstruction.\n\nDeborah Rotman, an anthropologist at Notre Dame, analyzed this concept of separate spheres specifically among the people of Deerfield, Massachusetts in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century. In this community, there was a clear divide between men and women by means of a “proper allocation” in which females were given the domestic residence or sphere and the men were given the “economically productive agricultural land”. Men would migrate away from the women if agriculture was depleting in their given agricultural space. As the men were moving to work outside the home, women began to acclimate to the economic atmosphere and gain more opportunities in the public sphere with all the men working elsewhere. These women soon had various roles in the public and private spheres in Deerfield. As equal rights began to become part of the ideological framework in Deerfield, women found themselves voting in school boards, working on municipal water projects and working in fundraisers as men had done before them. Despite the traditional understanding of the late nineteenth and early twentieth century of completely separate public and private spheres, the Deerfield community challenged these “dichotomies of domesticity” and paved the way for equal rights for men and women.\n\nThe separation between female and male spheres was heavily influenced by biological determinism, the notion that women and men are naturally suitable for different social roles due to their biological and genetic makeup. The idea of biological determinism was popular during the Age of Enlightenment and among such thinkers as Jean-Jacques Rousseau who argued that women were inherently different from men and should devote themselves to reproduction and domesticity. Women were considered passive, dependent on men, and, due to their reproductive capacity, ill-suited for life outside the domestic realm. Rousseau described women's primary duties in \"Emile, or On Education\", stating that \"women's entire education should be planned in relation to men. To please men, to be useful to them, to win their love and respect, to raise them as children, to care for them as adults, correct and console them, make their lives sweet and pleasant; these are women's duties in all ages and these are what they should be taught from childhood.\"\n\nThe popular beliefs about inherent sex differences remained deeply embedded in popular consciousness throughout the Progressive Era. By the early 20th century, however, dissident anthropologists and other social scientists began to challenge the biological determination of human behavior, revealing great similarities between men and women and suggesting that many sex differences were socially constructed. Despite these new insights and social and economic changes such as women's entry into the labor force, the separate spheres ideology did not disappear.\n\nWomen's confinement to the private sphere was reinforced by cultural and legal arrangements, such as the lack of women's suffrage, legal prohibitions against women undertaking professions like medicine and law, and discouragement from obtaining higher education.\n\nStrong support for the separation of spheres came from antisuffragists who relied on the notion of inherent sexual differences to argue that women were unfit for political participation. Antifeminist men's groups in late 19th and early 20th century United States responded to the societal changes and shift in gender relations by advocating a return to a strict separation of spheres that would keep women from competing with men in the public sphere.\n\nSimilarly, Christian fundamentalists supported the separate spheres ideology and opposed women's suffrage as well as other attempts to broaden women's influence in the public sphere. Theological conservatism has been found to have a stable effect on the endorsement of separate spheres ideology. Leading evangelicals propagated a view of womanhood which reinforced gendered division. Thomas Gisborne's \"An Enquiry into the Duties of the Female Sex\" (1797) and Henry Venn's \"The Complete Duty of Man\" (1763) were two popular evangelical texts which described proper behavior for men and women, arguing that a woman's primary duty was to care for those in her domestic circle and obey her husband.\n\nIn her paper \"Separate Spheres or Shared Dominions\", Cathy Ross suggests that the separate spheres ideology had ambiguous effects on women's lives. She argues that while it \"was clear that women were supposed to be subordinate and that home and children were their sphere\", the separation of spheres enabled women \"to reach out to other women in sisterhood, in solidarity, on the common ground of domesticity\".\n\nThe ideology of separate spheres contributed to resistance to coeducation and to the emergence of gendered educational institutions such as the female seminary and women's college in higher education, and the woman's club in continuing education. The rise of teaching as a woman's profession was also closely linked to the ideology of separate spheres, as women came to be regarded as uniquely skilled at classroom management. In coeducational universities in the late 19th century, the separation of spheres contributed to the emergence of home economics as a field of advanced study for the woman's sphere, and the dean of women as frequently the only high-ranking woman administrator in coeducational institutions.\n\nAlthough it created a space for women's academic and professional advancement, the separation of spheres also provided an excuse for keeping women out of fields not specifically marked as female. Thus many talented woman scientists were pushed into professorships in home economics rather than in their principal fields. Some women educators resisted this typecasting even while working within the framework of separation. Frances Shimer, founder of Shimer College, which was a woman's school from 1866 to 1950, insisted that she was \"in favor of the co-education of the sexes\" and that the education at her school was equal to what was given to young men.\n\nA recent study by Jacqueline Henke explores the history of the separate spheres model in America. Henke points out that between 1820 and 1860 (a period sometimes called the dawn of separate spheres) three parenting models were common for two-parent, mother/father families:\n<br>\n1. Parenting duties are wholly the responsibility of mothers\n<br>\n2. Parenting duties are separated into fatherly responsibilities and motherly responsibilities\n<br>\n3. Parenting duties are shared equally among mothers and fathers.\n<br>\nAccording to Henke, many parenting books from this era suggested that mothers should take primary responsibility for their children. Yet, some parenting books argued that mothers and fathers should have separate childrearing duties or a completely equal distribution of childrearing responsibilities. Henke argues that, even during the height of domestic ideology and the dawn of separate spheres, parenting advice was not monolithic. Furthermore, the lived realities parents and families during this era were more diverse than the ideals of parenting books.\n\n"}
{"id": "218407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218407", "title": "Sexual assault", "text": "Sexual assault\n\nSexual assault is an act in which a person intentionally sexually touches another person without that person's consent, or coerces or physically forces a person to engage in a sexual act against their will. It is a form of sexual violence which includes rape (forced vaginal, anal or oral penetration or drug facilitated sexual assault), groping, child sexual abuse or the torture of the person in a sexual manner.\nGenerally, sexual assault is defined as unwanted sexual contact. The Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network defines sexual assault as \"unwanted sexual contact that stops short of rape or attempted rape. This includes sexual touching and fondling.\"\n\nThe National Center for Victims of Crime states:\n\nIn the United States, the definition of sexual assault varies widely among the individual states. However, in most states sexual assault occurs when there is lack of consent from one of the individuals involved. Consent must take place between two adults who are not incapacitated and can change during any time during the sexual act.\n\nChild sexual abuse is a form of child abuse in which an adult or older adolescent abuses a child for sexual stimulation. Forms of child sexual abuse include asking or pressuring a child to engage in sexual activities (regardless of the outcome), indecent exposure of the genitals to a child, displaying pornography to a child, actual sexual contact against a child, physical contact with the child's genitals, viewing of the child's genitalia without physical contact or using a child to produce child pornography.\n\nThe effects of child sexual abuse include depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety, propensity to re-victimization in adulthood, physical injury to the child, and increased risk for future interpersonal violence perpetration among males, among other problems. Sexual abuse by a family member is a form of incest. It is more common than other forms of sexual assault on a child and can result in more serious and long-term psychological trauma, especially in the case of parental incest.\n\nApproximately 15 to 25 percent of women and 5 to 15 percent of men were sexually abused when they were children. Most sexual abuse offenders are acquainted with their victims. Approximately 30 percent of the perpetrators are relatives of the child- most often brothers, fathers, mothers, sisters and uncles or cousins. Around 60 percent are other acquaintances such as friends of the family, babysitters, or neighbors. Strangers are the offenders in approximately 10 percent of child sexual abuse cases.\n\nStudies have shown that the psychological damage is particularly severe when sexual assault is committed by parents against children due to the incestuous nature of the assault. Incest between a child or adolescent and a related adult has been identified as the most widespread form of child sexual abuse with a huge capacity for damage to a child. Often, sexual assault on a child is not reported by the child for several of the following reasons:\n\n\nMany states have criminalized sexual contact between teachers or school administrators and students, even if the student is over the age of consent.\n\nDomestic violence is a crime of power and intimidation. It is strongly correlated with sexual assault. Not only can domestic abuse be emotional, physical, psychological and financial, but it can be sexual. Some of the signs of sexual abuse are similar to those of domestic violence.\n\nElderly sexual assault is victimization of persons over the age of 60, most of whom suffer from decreased functionality, frailty and weakness, and therefore are reliant on caretakers. Only 30 percent of people age 65 or older who are victimized report the assault to the police. The most common assailants are caretakers, adult children, spouses and fellow facility residents.\nSigns that an elder is being assaulted include increased vaginal tearing, bleeding, bruising, infection, pelvic injury, soft tissue or bone injury. Also, an altered mood might be an indication of sexual assault. These symptoms include extreme agitation, post-traumatic stress disorder, withdrawal, panic attacks, STDs, exacerbation of existing illness, sleep disturbances and longer recovery times.\n\nThe term \"groping\" is used to define the touching or fondling of another person in a sexual way without the person's consent. Groping may occur under or over clothing.\n\nOutside of law, the term rape, \"an assault by a person involving sexual intercourse with another person without that person's consent\", is often used interchangeably with sexual assault. Although closely related, the two terms are technically distinct in most jurisdictions. Assault typically includes rape and other forms of non-consensual sexual activity.\n\nAbbey \"et al.\" state that female victims are much more likely to be assaulted by an acquaintance, such as a friend or co-worker, a dating partner, an ex-boyfriend or a husband or other intimate partner than by a complete stranger. In a study of hospital emergency room treatments for rape, Kaufman \"et al.\" stated that the male victims as a group sustained more physical trauma and were more likely to have been a victim of multiple assaults from multiple assailants. It was also stated that male victims were more likely to have been held captive longer.\n\nIn the U.K., attempted rape under the Criminal Attempts Act 1981 is a 'sexual offence' within section 31(1) of the Criminal Justice Act 1991.\n\nSexual harassment is intimidation, bullying or coercion of a sexual nature. It may also be defined as the unwelcome or inappropriate promise of rewards in exchange for sexual favors. In the United States, sexual harassment is a form of discrimination which violates Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The legal and social definition of what constitutes sexual harassment differ widely by culture. Sexual harassment includes a wide range of behaviors from seemingly mild transgressions to serious forms of abuse. Some forms of sexual harassment overlap with sexual assault. According to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC): \"Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature constitutes sexual harassment when submission to or rejection of this conduct explicitly or implicitly affects an individual's employment, unreasonably interferes with an individual's work performance or creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive work environment.\"\n\nMass sexual assault takes place in public places and in crowds. It involves large groups of men surrounding and assaulting a woman, groping, manual penetration, and frottage, but usually stopping short of penile rape.\n\nAside from physical traumas, rape and other sexual assault often result in long-term emotional effects, particularly in child victims. These can include:\ndenial, learned helplessness, genophobia, anger, self-blame, anxiety, shame, nightmares, fear, depression, flashbacks, guilt, rationalization, moodswings, numbness, promiscuity, loneliness, social anxiety, difficulty trusting oneself or others, difficulty concentrating. Being the victim of sexual assault may lead to the development of posttraumatic stress disorder, addiction, major depressive disorder or other psychopathologies.\nFamily and friends experience emotional scarring including a strong desire for revenge, a desire to \"fix' the problem and/or move on, and a rationalization that \"it wasn't that bad\".\n\nWhile sexual assault, including rape, can result in physical trauma, many people who experience sexual assault will not suffer any physical injury. Rape myths suggest that the stereotypical victim of sexual violence is a bruised and battered young woman. The central issue in many cases of rape or other sexual assault is whether or not both parties consented to the sexual activity or whether or not both parties had the capacity to do so. Thus, physical force resulting in visible physical injury is not always seen. This stereotype can be damaging because people who have experienced sexual assault but have no physical trauma may be less inclined to report to the authorities or to seek health care. However, women who experienced rape or physical violence by a partner were more likely than people who had not experienced this violence to report frequent headaches, chronic pain, difficulty sleeping, activity limitation, poor physical health, and poor mental health.\n\nDue to rape or sexual assault, or the threat of, there are many resulting impacts on income and commerce at the macro level. Each sexual assault (excluding child abuse) costs $5,100 in tangible losses (lost productivity, medical and mental health care, police/fire services, and property damage) plus $81,400 in lost quality of life. This issue has been addressed in the Supreme Court. In his dissenting opinion of the U.S. Supreme Court case \"U.S. v. Morrison\", Justice Souter explained that 75% of women never go to the movies alone at night and nearly 50% will not ride public transportation out of fear of rape or sexual assault. It also stated that less than 1% of victims collect damages and 50% of women lose their jobs or quit after the trauma. The court ruled in \"U.S. v. Morrison\" that Congress did not have the authority to enact part of the Violence Against Women Act because it did not have a direct impact on commerce. The Commerce Clause of Article I Section VII of the U.S. Constitution gives authority and jurisdiction to the Federal government in matters of interstate commerce. As a result, the victim was unable to sue her attacker in Federal Court.\n\nSexual assault also has adverse economic effects for survivors on the micro level. For instance, survivors of sexual assault often require time off from work and face increased rates of unemployment. Survivors of rape by an intimate partner lose an average of $69 per day due to unpaid time off from work. Sexual assault is also associated with numerous negative employment consequences, including unpaid time off, diminished work performance, job loss, and inability to work, all of which can lead to lower earnings for survivors.\n\nIn the emergency room, emergency contraceptive medications are offered to women raped by men because about 5% of such rapes result in pregnancy. Preventative medication against sexually transmitted infections are given to victims of all types of sexual assault (especially for the most common diseases like chlamydia, gonorhea, trichomoniasis and bacterial vaginosis) and a blood serum is collected to test for STIs (such as HIV, hepatitis B and syphilis). Any survivor with abrasions are immunized for tetanus if 5 years have elapsed since the last immunization. Short-term treatment with a benzodiazepine may help with acute anxiety and antidepressants may be helpful for symptoms of PTSD, depression and panic attacks. Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) has also been proposed as a psychiatric treatment for victims of sexual assault. With regard to long term psychological treatment, prolonged exposure therapy has been tested as a method of long-term PTSD treatment for victims of sexual abuse.\n\nAfter the assault, victims may become the target of slut-shaming to cyberbullying. In addition, their credibility may be challenged. During criminal proceedings, publication bans and rape shield laws may operate to protect victims from excessive public scrutiny. Negative social responses to victims’ disclosures of sexual assault have the potential to lead to posttraumatic stress disorder symptoms. Social isolation, following a sexual assault, can result in the victim experiencing a decrease in their self-esteem and likelihood of rejecting unwanted sexual advances in the future.\n\nSexual harassment and assault may be prevented by secondary school, college, workplace and public education programs. At least one program for fraternity men produced \"sustained behavioral change\". At least one study showed that creative campaigns with attention grabbing slogans and images that market consent are effective tools to raise awareness of campus sexual assault and related issues.\n\nSeveral research based rape prevention programs have been tested and verified through scientific studies. The rape prevention programs that have the strongest empirical data in the research literature include the following:\n\nThe Men's and Women's Programs, also known as the One in Four programs, were written by John Foubert. and is focused on increasing empathy toward rape survivors and motivating people to intervene as bystanders in sexual assault situations. Published data shows that high-risk persons who saw the Men's and Women's Program committed 40% fewer acts of sexually coercive behavior than those who didn’t. They also committed acts of sexual coercion that were 8 times less severe than a control group. Further research also shows that people who saw the Men's and Women's Program reported more efficacy in intervening and greater willingness to help as a bystander after seeing the program. Several additional studies are available documenting its efficacy.\n\nBringing in the Bystander was written by Victoria Banyard. Its focus is on who bystanders are, when they have helped, and how to intervene as a bystander in risky situations. The program includes a brief empathy induction component and a pledge to intervene in the future. Several studies show strong evidence of favorable outcomes including increased bystander efficacy, increased willingness to intervene as a bystander, and decreased rape myth acceptance.\n\nThe MVP: Mentors in Violence Prevention was written by Jackson Katz. This program focuses on discussing a male bystander who didn't intervene when woman was in danger. An emphasis is placed on encouraging men to be active bystanders rather than standing by when they notice abuse. The bulk of the presentation is on processing hypothetical scenarios. Outcomes reported in research literature include lower levels of sexism and increased belief that participants could prevent violence against women.\n\nThe Green Dot program was written by Dorothy Edwards. This program includes both motivational speeches and peer education focused on bystander intervention. Outcomes show that program participation is associated with reductions in rape myth acceptance and increased bystander intervention.\n\nThe city of Edmonton, Canada, initiated a public education campaign aimed at potential perpetrators. Posters in bar bathrooms and public transit centers reminded men that \"It's not sex when she's wasted\" and \"It's not sex when he changes his mind\". The campaign was so effective that it spread to other cities. \"The number of reported sexual assaults fell by 10 per cent last year in Vancouver, after the ads were featured around the city. It was the first time in several years that there was a drop in sexual assault activity.\"\n\nPresident Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden introduced in September 2014 a nationwide campaign against sexual assault entitled \"It's on us\". The campaign includes tips against sexual assault, as well as broad scale of private and public pledges to change to provoke a cultural shift, with a focus on student activism, to achieve awareness and prevention nationwide. UC Berkeley, NCAA and Viacom have publicly announced their partnership.\n\nA United Nations report compiled from government sources showed that more than 250,000 cases of rape or attempted rape were recorded by police annually. The reported data covered 65 countries.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Justice's National Crime Victimization Survey states that on average there are 237,868 victims (age 12 or older) of sexual assault and rape each year. According to RAINN, every 107 seconds someone in America is sexually assaulted. Sexual assault in the United States military also is a salient issue. Some researchers assert that the unique professional and socially-contained context of military service can heighten the destructive nature of sexual assault, and, therefore, improved support is needed for these victims.\n\nThe victims of sexual assault:\n\nAge\n\nBy gender\nA study from 1998 finds that,\n\nIt has been estimated that one in six American women has been or will be sexually assaulted during her life. Largely because of child and prison rape, approximately ten percent of reported rape victims are male.\n\nLGBT\n\nLGBT identifying individuals, with the exception of lesbian women, are more likely to experience sexual assault on college campuses than heterosexual individuals.\n\n\nEffects\n\nThe reporting of sexual assault:\n\nThe assailants:\nAccording to the U.S. Department of Justice 1997 Sex Offenses and Offenders Study,\n\nIn 2001,\nAccording to the U.S. Department of Justice 2005 National Crime Victimization Study\n\nCollege\nIn the United States, several studies since 1987 have indicated that one in four college women have experienced rape or attempted rape at some point in their lifetime. These studies are based on anonymous surveys of college women, not reports to the police, and the results are disputed. In one study, nearly two thirds of students reported knowing victims of rape and over half reported knowing perpetrators of sexual assault. One in ten reported knowing a victim of rape when alcohol was not involved and 22.6% reported knowing a victim of alcohol-facilitated rape. In the documentary \"The Hunting Ground\", the prevalence of sexual assault on college campuses is brought to attention. The schools poor judicial systems are scrutinized for not helping the victims and trying to keep these issues from the public.\n\nIn 2015, Texas A&M University professor Jason Lindo and his colleagues analyzed over two decades worth of FBI data, noting that reports of rape increased 15-57% around the times of major American Football games at Division 1 schools while attempting to find a link between campus rape and alcohol.\n\nA 2006 report from the U.S. Department of Justice titled \"The Sexual Victimization of College Women\" reports that 3.1% of undergraduates survived rape or attempted rape during a 6–7 month academic year with an additional 10.1% surviving rape prior to college and an additional 10.9% surviving attempted rape prior to college. With no overlap between these groups, these percentages add to 24.1%, or \"One in Four\".\n\nKoss, Gidycz & Wisniewski published a study in 1987 where they interviewed approximately 6,000 college students on 32 college campuses nationwide. They asked several questions covering a wide range of behaviors. From this study 15% of college women answered \"yes\" to questions about whether they experienced something that met the definition of rape. An additional 12% of women answered \"yes\" to questions about whether they experienced something that met the definition of attempted rape, thus the statistic One in Four.\n\nA point of contention lies in the leading nature of the questions in the study conducted by Koss, Gidycz & Wisniewski. Koss herself later admitted that the question that had garnered the largest \"rape\" result was flawed and ultimately rendered the study invalid. Most prominently the problem was that many respondents who had answered yes to several questions had their responses treated as having been raped. The issue being that these same respondents did not feel they had been victimized and never sought redress for grievances. The resultant change shows a prevalence of only 1 in 22 college women having been raped or attempted to be raped during their time at college.\n\nIn 1995, the CDC replicated part of this study, however they examined rape only, and did not look at attempted rape. They used a two-stage cluster sample design to produce a nationally representative sample of undergraduate college students aged greater than or equal to 18 years. The first-stage sampling frame contained 2,919 primary sampling units (PSUs), consisting of 2- and 4-year colleges and universities. The second sampling stage consisted of a random sample drawn from the primary sample unit frame enrolled in the 136 participating colleges and universities to increase the sample size to 4,609 undergraduate college students aged greater than or equal to 18 years old with a representative sample demographic matching the national demographic. Differential sampling rates of the PSU were used to ensure sufficient numbers of male and female, black and Hispanic students in the total sample population. After differential sample weighting, female students represented 55.5% of the sample; white students represented 72.8% of the sample, black students 10.3%, Hispanic students 7.1%, and 9.9% were other. It was determined that nationwide, 13.1% of college students reported that they had been forced to have sexual intercourse against their will during their lifetime. Female students were significantly more likely than male students to report they had ever been forced to have sexual intercourse; 20% of approximately 2500 females (55% of 4,609 samples) and 3.9% of males reported experiencing rape thus far in the course of their lifetime.\n\nOther studies concerning the annual incidence of rape, some studies conclude an occurrence of 5%. The National Survey of Children’s Exposure to Violence found that in the 2013–2014 academic year, 4.6% of girls ages 14 – 17 experienced sexual assault or sexual abuse. In another study, Mohler-Kuo, Dowdall, Koss & Weschler (2004) found in a study of approximately 25,000 college women nationwide that 4.7% experienced rape or attempted rape during a single academic year. This study did not measure lifetime incidence of rape or attempted rape. Similarly, Kilpatrick, Resnick, Ruggiero, Conoscenti, & McCauley (2007) found in a study of 2,000 college women nationwide that 5.2% experienced rape every year.\n\nChildren\n\nOther research has found that about 80,000 American children are sexually abused each year.\n\nWithin Australia, the term sexual assault is used to describe a variation of sexual offences. This is due to a variety of definitions and use of terminology to describe sexual offences within territories and states as each territory and state have their own legislation to define rape, attempted rape, sexual assault, aggravated sexual assault, sexual penetration or intercourse without consent and sexual violence.\n\nIn the State of New South Wales, sexual assault is a statutory offence punishable under s 61I of the Crimes Act 1900. The term \"sexual assault\" is equivalent to \"rape\" in ordinary parlance, while all other assaults of a sexual nature are termed \"indecent assault\".\n\nTo be liable for punishment under the Crimes Act 1900, an offender must intend to commit an act of sexual intercourse as defined under s 61H(1) while having one of the states of knowledge of non-consent defined under s 61HA(3). But note that s 61HA(3) is an objective standard which only require the person has no reasonable grounds for believing the other person is consenting. The maximum penalty for sexual assault is 14 years imprisonment.\n\nAggravated sexual assault is sexual intercourse with another person without the consent of the other person and in circumstances of aggravation. The maximum penalty is imprisonment for 20 years under s 61J of the Crimes Act.\n\nIn the state of Victoria, rape is punishable under s 38 of the Crimes Act 1958, with a maximum penalty of 25 years imprisonment.\n\nIn the state of South Australia, rape is punishable under s 48 of the Criminal Law Consolidation Act 1935 (SA) with a maximum term of life imprisonment.\n\nIn the state of Western Australia, sexual penetration is punishable under s 325 the Criminal Code Act 1913 with a maximum sentence of 14 years imprisonment.\n\nIn the Northern Territory, offences of sexual intercourse and gross indecency without consent are punishable under s 192 of the Criminal Code Act 1983 and punishable with a maximum sentence of life imprisonment.\n\nIn Queensland, rape and sexual assault are punishable under s 349, Chapter 32 of the Criminal Code Act 1899 with a maximum penalty of life imprisonment.\n\nIn Tasmania, rape is punishable under s 185 of the Criminal Code Act 1924 with a maximum punishment of 21 years under s389 of the Criminal Code Act 1924.\n\nIn the Australian Capital Territory, sexual assault is punishable under Part 3 of the Crimes Act 1900 with a maximum punishment of 17 years.\n\nSexual assault is considered a gendered crime which results in 85% of sexual assaults never coming to the attention of the criminal justice system according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics. This is due to low reporting rates, treatment of victims and distrust of the criminal justice system, difficulty in obtaining evidence and the belief in sexual assault myths.\n\nHowever, once a person is charged, the public prosecutor will decide whether the case will proceed to trial based on whether there is sufficient evidence and whether a case is in the public interest. Once the matter has reached trial, the matter will generally be heard in the District Court. This is because sexually violent crimes are mostly categorised as indictable offences (serious offences), as opposed to summary offences (minor offences). Sexual offences can also be heard in the Supreme Court, but more generally if the matter is being heard as an appeal.\n\nOnce the matter is being heard, the prosecution must provide evidence which proves “beyond reasonable doubt” that the offence was committed by the defendant. The standard of proof is vital in checking the power of the State. While as previously stated that each jurisdiction (State and Territory) has its own sexual offence legislation, there are many common elements to any criminal offence that advise on how the offence is defined and what must be proven by the prosecution in order to find the defendant guilty. These elements are known as Actus Reus which comprises the physical element (see Ryan v Regina [1967]) and the Mens Rea which comprises the mental element (see He Kaw Teh (1985)).\n\nNotable sexual assault cases which have resulted in convictions are Regina v Bilal Skaf [2005] and Regina v Mohommed Skaf [2005] which were highly visible in New South Wales within the media the 2000s. These cases were closely watched by the media and led to legislative changes such as the passing of the Crimes Amendment (Aggravated Sexual Assault in Company) Act 2001 No 62 which dramatically increased the sentences for ‘gang rapists’ by creating a new category of crime known as Aggravated Sexual Assault in Company. Changes were also made to the Crimes (Sentencing Procedure) Act 1999. This change is known as the Crimes (Sentencing Procedure) Amendment (Victim Impact Statements) Act 2004 No 3 which expands the category of offences in respect of which a Local Court may receive and consider Victim Impact Statements to include some indictable offences which are usually dealt with summarily.\n\nSexual assault is defined as sexual contact with another person without that other person's consent. Consent is defined in section 273.1(1) as \"the voluntary agreement of the complainant to engage in the sexual activity in question\".\n\nSection 265 of the Criminal Code defines the offences of assault and sexual assault.\n\nSection 271 criminalizes \"Sexual assault\", section 272 criminalizes \"Sexual assault with a weapon, threats to a third party or causing bodily harm\" and section 273 criminalizes \"Aggravated sexual assault\".\n\nThe absence of consent defines the crime of sexual assault. Section 273.1 (1) defines consent, section 273.1 (2) outlines certain circumstances where \"no consent\" is obtained, while section 273.1 (3) states that subsection (2) \"does not limit\" the circumstances where \"no consent\" is obtained (i.e. subsection (2) describes \"some\" circumstances which deem the act to be non-consensual, but other circumstances, not described in this section, can also deem the act as having been committed without consent). \"No consent\" to sexual assault is also subject to Section 265 (3), which also outlines several situations where the act is deemed non-consensual. In 2011, the Supreme Court of Canada in \"R. v. J.A.\" interpreted the provisions below to find that a person must have an active mind during the sexual activity in order to consent, and that they cannot give consent in advance.\n\n\n\"273.1\" (1) Subject to subsection (2) and subsection 265(3), “consent” means, for the purposes of sections 271, 272 and 273, \"the voluntary agreement of the complainant to engage in the sexual activity in question\".\n\n\"Where no consent obtained\"\n\n(2) No consent is obtained, for the purposes of sections 271, 272 and 273, where\n(a) the agreement is expressed by the words or conduct of a person other than the complainant;\n(b) the complainant is incapable of consenting to the activity;\n(c) the accused induces the complainant to engage in the activity by abusing a position of trust, power or authority;\n(d) the complainant expresses, by words or conduct, a lack of agreement to engage in the activity; or\n(e) the complainant, having consented to engage in sexual activity, expresses, by words or conduct, a lack of agreement to continue to engage in the activity.\n\n\"Subsection (2) not limiting\"\n\n(3) Nothing in subsection (2) shall be construed as limiting the circumstances in which no consent is obtained.\n\n\n\"Consent\"\n\n(3) For the purposes of this section, no consent is obtained where the complainant submits or does not resist by reason of\n(a) the application of force to the complainant or to a person other than the complainant;\n(b) threats or fear of the application of force to the complainant or to a person other than the complainant;\n(c) fraud; or\n(d) the exercise of authority.\n\nIn accordance with 265 (4) an accused may use the defence that he or she believed that the complainant consented, but such a defence may be used only when \"a judge, if satisfied that there is sufficient evidence and that, if believed by the jury, the evidence would constitute a defence, shall instruct the jury when reviewing all the evidence relating to the determination of the honesty of the accused's belief, to consider the presence or absence of reasonable grounds for that belief\"; furthermore according to section 273.2(b) the accused must show that he or she took reasonable steps in order to ascertain the complainant's consent, also 273.2(a) states that if the accused's belief steams from self-induced intoxication, or recklessness or wilful blindness than such belief is not a defence.\n\n\"Accused’s belief as to consent\"\n\n(4) Where an accused alleges that he or she believed that the complainant consented to the conduct that is the subject-matter of the charge, a judge, if satisfied that there is sufficient evidence and that, if believed by the jury, the evidence would constitute a defence, shall instruct the jury, when reviewing all the evidence relating to the determination of the honesty of the accused’s belief, to consider the presence or absence of reasonable grounds for that belief.\n\n\n273.2 It is not a defence to a charge under section 271, 272 or 273 that the accused believed that the complainant consented to the activity that forms the subject-matter of the charge, where\n(a) the accused’s belief arose from the accused’s\n\n(i) self-induced intoxication, or\n\n(ii) recklessness or wilful blindness; or\n(b) the accused did not take reasonable steps, in the circumstances known to the accused at the time, to ascertain that the complainant was consenting.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Newfoundland and Labrador jury ruled in favour of a defense that added to the interpretation of the consent laws. The defenses stated and the Jury was reminded by Justice Valerie Marshall:\n\n\nThe coined phrase regarding this defense was \"Moral vs. legal consent\"\n\nBefore 1997, the definition of rape was: \"\"Whoever compels a woman to have extramarital intercourse with him, or with a third person, by force or the threat of present danger to life or limb, shall be punished by not less than two years’ imprisonment\".\"\n\nIn 1997, a broader definition was adopted with the 13th criminal amendment, section 177–179, which deals with sexual abuse. Rape is generally reported to the police, although it is also allowed to be reported to the prosecutor or District Court.\n\nThe Strafgesetzbuch reads:\n\n\nSubsections (3), (4) and (5) provide additional stipulations on sentencing depending on aggravating or mitigating circumstances.\n\nSection 178 provides that \"\"If the offender through sexual assault or rape (section 177) causes the death of the victim at least by gross negligence the penalty shall be imprisonment for life or not less than ten years\".\"\n\nAs in many other jurisdictions, the term sexual assault is generally used to describe non-penetrative sexual offences. Section 2 of the Criminal Law (Rape) Act of 1981 states that a man has committed rape if he has sexual intercourse with a woman who at the time of the intercourse does not consent to it, and at that time he knows that she does not consent to the intercourse or he is reckless as to whether she does or does not consent to it. Under Section 4 of the Criminal Law (Rape Amendment) Act of 1990, rape means a sexual assault that includes penetration (however slight) of the anus or mouth by the penis or penetration (however slight) of the vagina by any object held or manipulated by another person. The maximum penalty for rape in Ireland is imprisonment for life.\n\nThe Criminal Law (Sexual Offences and Related Matters) Amendment Act created the offence of sexual assault, replacing a common-law offence of indecent assault. \"Sexual assault\" is defined as the unlawful and intentional sexual violation of another person without their consent. The Act's definition of \"sexual violation\" incorporates a number of sexual acts, including any genital contact that does not amount to penetration as well as any contact with the mouth designed to cause sexual arousal. Non-consensual acts that involve actual penetration are rape rather than sexual assault.\n\nUnlawfully and intentionally inspiring the belief in another person that they will be sexually violated also amounts to sexual assault. The Act also created the offences of \"compelled sexual assault\", when a person forces a second person to commit an act of sexual violation with a third person; and \"compelled self-sexual assault\", when a person forces another person to masturbate or commit various other sexual acts on theirself.\n\nSexual assault is a statutory offence in England and Wales. It is created by section 3 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 which defines \"sexual assault\" as when a person (A)\n\nWhether a belief is reasonable is to be determined having regard to all the circumstances, including any steps A has taken to ascertain whether B consents.\n\nSections 75 and 76 apply to an offence under this section.\n\nA person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—\n\nSection 74 of the Sexual Offenses Act explains that \"a person consents if he agrees by choice and has the freedom and capacity to make that choice\".\n\nSection 75 clarifies what consent means\n\n75 Evidential presumptions about consent\n\n(1)If in proceedings for an offence to which this section applies it is proved—\n(a)that the defendant did the relevant act,\n(b)that any of the circumstances specified in subsection (2) existed, and\n(c)that the defendant knew that those circumstances existed, the complainant is to be taken not to have consented to the relevant act unless sufficient evidence is adduced to raise an issue as to whether he consented, and the defendant is to be taken not to have reasonably believed that the complainant consented unless sufficient evidence is adduced to raise an issue as to whether he reasonably believed it.\n\n(2)The circumstances are that—\n(a)any person was, at the time of the relevant act or immediately before it began, using violence against the complainant or causing the complainant to fear that immediate violence would be used against him;\n(b)any person was, at the time of the relevant act or immediately before it began, causing the complainant to fear that violence was being used, or that immediate violence would be used, against another person;\n(c)the complainant was, and the defendant was not, unlawfully detained at the time of the relevant act;\n(d)the complainant was asleep or otherwise unconscious at the time of the relevant act;\n(e)because of the complainant’s physical disability, the complainant would not have been able at the time of the relevant act to communicate to the defendant whether the complainant consented;\n(f)any person had administered to or caused to be taken by the complainant, without the complainant’s consent, a substance which, having regard to when it was administered or taken, was capable of causing or enabling the complainant to be stupefied or overpowered at the time of the relevant act.\n\n(3)In subsection (2)(a) and (b), the reference to the time immediately before the relevant act began is, in the case of an act which is one of a continuous series of sexual activities, a reference to the time immediately before the first sexual activity began.\n\nSexual assault is a statutory offence. It is created by article 7 of the Sexual Offences (Northern Ireland) Order 2008. Sexual assault is defined as follows:\nSexual assault is a statutory offence. It is created by section 3 of the Sexual Offences (Scotland) Act 2009.\nSexual assault is defined as follows:\n\nThe United States Department of Justice defines sexual assault as \"any type of sexual contact or behavior that occurs without the explicit consent of the recipient. Falling under the definition of sexual assault are sexual activities as forced sexual intercourse, forcible sodomy, child molestation, incest, fondling, and attempted rape.\"\n\nEvery U.S. state has its own code of laws, and thus the definition of conduct that constitutes a crime, including a sexual assault, may vary to some degree by state. Some states may refer to sexual assault as \"sexual battery\" or \"criminal sexual conduct\".\n\nThe Texas Penal Code, Sec. 22.011(a) defines sexual assault as\n"}
{"id": "25445767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25445767", "title": "Shadowgraphy (performing art)", "text": "Shadowgraphy (performing art)\n\nShadowgraphy or ombromanie is the art of performing a story or show using images made by hand shadows. It can be called \"cinema in silhouette\". Performers are titled as a shadowgraphist or shadowgrapher.\n\nThe art has declined since the late 19th century when electricity became available to homes because light bulbs and electric lamps do not give off good shadows and because cinema and television were becoming a new form of entertainment. Shadows are greatly defined by candlelight; therefore hand shadows were common in earlier centuries.\n\nThe modern art of hand shadows was made popular by the French entertainer Félicien Trewey in the 19th century. He popularized the art by making silhouettes of famous personalities.\n\nSince shadows have existed since the existence of objects obstructing light, it is hard to say when the art was first used by humans for entertainment. It could have been practiced by ancient or later humans, but it probably originated in the Far East. The French entertainer Félicien Trewey was interested in the art of Chinese shadow puppetry called Ombres Chinoises, which means \"Chinese shadows\". He popularized the art of hand shadows when he developed shadows of famous silhouettes. It then became popular in Europe in the 19th century.\n\nAlthough the art is popular amongst different kinds of entertainers it seems prominent amongst magicians, because it was popularized by a magician who inspired many other magicians. Félicien Trewey perfected the widely known elephant, bird, and cat hand shadows and created some of his own such as The Volunteer, Robinson Crusoe, The Jockey, The Rope Dancer and more. In 1889, Trewey joined with Alexander Herrmann who most likely learned it from him. David Tobias Bamberg most likely learned it from Alexander who then passed it down to his son Okito (Tobias Leendert Bamberg) who then passed it down to \"his\" son Fu Manchu (David Theodore Bamberg). Fu Manchu passed his skill to Marcelo Contento, one of his apprentices, who became famous worldwide for it. Contento died before he could pass it on to his son.\n\nOther magicians who used hand shadows in their act include David Devant, Edward Victor, and the duo Holden and Graham in which Holden was famous for his \"Monkey in the Belfry\" shadow.\n\nThe hands and fingers are exercised and different finger positions are practiced to help aid in forming shadows.\n\nThe light source to be used should be small and bright. The best shadows come from light proceeding from the smallest possible point. Albert Almoznino suggests a candle, a flashlight (with the lens and reflector removed) or any very small light. If a bulb is used, it should be clear. J. C. Cannell suggests in his book, \"Modern Conjuring For Amateurs\", that the best source of light is the electric arc, which Almoznino agrees to the small arc lamp, and the second best being the limelight (if used with a high-class jet). Trewey suggests the chalk for the limelight to be cut in a triangular form, or else it will produce a gray border around the shadow. Cannell states another favorite amongst shadowgraphists is the use of acetylene gas (i.e. acetylene gas lamp or carbide lamp). Nowadays it is possible to use a single lensless (for example, SMD) LED.\n\nAlbert Almoznino suggests to use a white or light-colored wall, sheet or table cloth for a small audience as in a private home. If a wall is dark-colored, the sheet or table cloth can be hung against it. If performing for a large audience such as in an auditorium or on a stage, he suggests a screen made of muslin or other thin cloth attached to a frame. In a nightclub, hall or small theater, he suggests a nylon screen on a pliable aluminum frame. It is a screen sometimes used for TV projection called a rear projection screen, but the light must be stronger like a small spotlight without the projector, lenses, or diffusers, or a motion-picture projector with the front lenses removed.\n\nThe performer sits or stands between the light source and the blank surface, while having the option to perform in front of the performance surface or behind it, with each having different advantages. The performer has another option to perform from the left or the right of the light source. The farther the hands are from the light, the smaller the shadows will be, while the closer the hands are to the light, the larger the shadows will be. Also, the closer the hands are to the blank surface, the sharper the shadows will be. Trewey suggests that the most convenient distance for the light from the hands is four feet while the hands from the performance surface should be about six feet. The performer should always watch their shadows instead of their hands.\n\nMovement helps give the shadows character and brings them to life. Some shadows are performed with accessories attached to the hands or fingers to achieve movements or images not applicable to hands alone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33692006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33692006", "title": "Shared historical authority", "text": "Shared historical authority\n\nShared historical authority is a current trend in museums and historical institutions which aims to open the interpretation of history to the public.\n\nThe concept of shared historical authority is defined by the premise that traditional institutions of historical authority, such as museums and historical societies, are increasingly inviting non-professionals (the general public) to share their historical viewpoints and experiences with the public. It is argued that this trend toward sharing authority is changing the nature of public historical experience in significant ways. Shared authority removes the hierarchy commonly practiced within cultural institutions. Moving away from a top down approach, shared authority is geared towards collaboration that includes dialogue, and participatory engagement. \n\nTypical examples of shared historical authority include:\n\nIn each case the institution serves as a catalyst for non-traditional participants to contribute to a body of information presented to the public. The institution uses its resources - e.g. staff expertise, collections, public space - to help non-traditional participants share their contributions in publicly accessible and engaging ways. At its most basic, shared authority turns people who would otherwise be historical consumers (visitors and audiences) into participants and co-generators of historical content for public display. Museums who coordinate programs that share historical authority often wish to imbue a sense of democratization to the historical narrative, in contrast to the top-down historical narratives that sometimes emerge in museums. In addition, shared authority projects frequently try to involve communities who have traditionally been disenfranchised or underrepresented in historical narratives and institutions, providing a platform for alternative voices to engage in a public historical dialogue. The role of shared historical authority continues to be debated in the field of public history.\n\nThe need for museums and other historical institutions to \"share authority\" with their audiences and surrounding communities is rooted in the ideologies of New Social History and social constructivism. Both paradigms reject the concept of a \"master narrative\" for describing historical events, finding it an inadequate method for representing the multiple experiences and perspectives of individuals involved. Arising from the work of folklorists such as John Lomax and Alan Lomax, New Deal-era Works Progress Administration (WPA) programs such as the Federal Writers' Project and the work of Studs Terkel, the social history movement of the 1960s placed new academic emphasis on the experiences of people not represented in traditional or \"official\" historical narratives, and gave further impetus to projects focused on collecting and sharing those experiences.\n\nMichael Frisch, a professor at the University at Buffalo, The State University of New York, popularized the term \"shared authority\" in his 1990 book \"A Shared Authority: Essays on the Craft and Meaning of Oral and Public History.\" In recent years, Frisch has distinguished between \"sharing authority\" and \"\"a\" shared authority.\" The former suggests that historians possess authority and have a responsibility to share it, reinforcing a traditional, top-down view of history. \"A shared authority\", by contrast, recognizes that traditional historical authorities and the public share in the interpretive and meaning-making process \"\"by definition\".\"\n\nBeginning in the early 2000s, the proliferation of Web 2.0 technologies that allow users to easily create and share content on digital platforms offered historical institutions a variety of new tools to facilitate public participation.\n\nOther examples of shared historical authority include StoryCorps, City of Memory, and Philaplace, an internet based neighborhood history project produced by the Historical Society of Philadelphia that combines scholarly essays with stories from anyone who cares to submit one. Staff members then curate the submitted stories. Dennis Severs House is a historic townhouse in London (18 Folgate St.) that was restored by Dennis Severs. The house is filled with historic objects alongside modern touches, sound clips of carriages and crying babies, and plates of real food set out each day by the staff. Visitors are encouraged to roam the house on their own, sit down on the furniture, interact with other visitors and draw their own conclusions. The experience is meant to blur the lines between art and history.\n\nThe Lower East Side Tenement Museum is the first museum to focus on the lives of urban, immigrant tenement dwellers. It shares authority by inviting the families of former residents to contribute objects, photographs, documents, interviews and oral histories to the museum tours. Part of the museum's mission is to address today's immigrant issues. This provides another avenue for sharing authority through public programs that connect speakers with varied backgrounds to public audiences. The museum invites sharing on one of its tours, \"Sweatshop Workers\", with the words:\n\nOpen House: If These Walls Could Talk is an exhibition that was produced by the Minnesota Historical Society in 2006. The exhibition traced the stories of families in a single house in St. Paul, Minnesota between 1888 and 2006. The curators did not want to show patterns or people as part of aggregate groups. Instead, they chose to emphasize singularity and individuality. To accomplish this, the Minnesota Historical Society built a house for visitors to walk through. Instead of reading large panels of wall texts, visitors had to interact with objects to hear, read, or see information. Unlike projects in which the content is produced in conjunction with a group of community members, here authority was shared at the level of narrative creation. Curators controlled the objects in the house, recordings of former residents, and the setup of the space. Without an overarching structure, visitors could wander through at random, co-creating their own narratives. There was no clear beginning and end beyond entering and exiting the house.\n\nThe Black Bottom Performance Project is a partnership between the University of Pennsylvania and residents of Black Bottom, an historically black neighborhood destroyed by urban renewal policies and the University of Pennsylvania's expansion in the 1960s. Billy Yalowitz, a theater professor working at the university, invited Penn students as well as student and teacher partners from University City High School—a school built in the former Black Bottom neighborhood—and former residents of the neighborhood to work together on the telling of the neighborhood's history, ultimately creating \"Black Bottom Sketches\" in 1998.\n\nThe Wing Luke Museum is an example of a museum in which shared authority is a core component of its programming policies.\n\nDespite the interest and affirmation that sharing authority is currently receiving in museum and public humanities circles, there are scholars and practitioners who criticise the practice. Generally, these criticisms are aimed at one of two levels. First, some scholars suggest that the phrase itself is wrong. \"Sharing authority\" implies that the process is something museums/archives do rather than something that just \"is.\" In his essay for \"Letting Go?\", Michael Frisch suggests that a more appropriate formulation of the concept is \"a shared authority.\"\n\nScholars and artists also worry that sharing authority devalues the hard-won expertise of professionals. The artist Fred Wilson, whose 1992-1993 exhibit \"Mining the Museum\" at the Maryland Historical Society is considered a landmark moment in museums' assessments of their role as historical arbiters, has expressed, \"I don't think people should share authority to the degree that you devalue your own scholarship, your own knowledge. That's not sharing anything. You're not giving what you have. That is highly problematic. You have to be realistic about your years of experience, what you can give, and what others can give.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57522070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57522070", "title": "Shigemi Inaga", "text": "Shigemi Inaga\n\nShigemi Inaga (稲賀 繁美 1957 in Hiroshima) is a Japanese scholar, in comparative literature, culture, history of cultural exchange.\n\nInaga studied for a Master of Arts in comparative literature and 19th-century French art history at University of Tokyo before being promoted in 1988 to Doctor of Philosophy (博士) (hakushi) at the Paris Diderot University.\n\nFrom 1988 to 1990 Inaga was employed as an assistant in the Department of Liberal Arts. He then promoted to Associate professor at Mie University, a position he held from 1990 to 1997. In 1997, Inaga was appointed to International Research Center for Japanese Studies and was promoted to full professor in 2004. In 2006 to 2007 he was appointed visiting scholar at the John W. Kluge Center in the Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.. Between 2013 to 2015, Inaga was appointed to Dean of the School of Cultural and Social Studies at the Graduate University for Advanced Studies (Japan). Between 2016 and 2018 Inaga was the Deputy Director-General, International Research Center for Japanese Studies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "83491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83491", "title": "Story within a story", "text": "Story within a story\n\nA story within a story is a literary device in which one character within a narrative narrates. \"Mise en abyme\" is the French term for a similar literary device (also referring to the practice in heraldry of placing the image of a small shield on a larger shield). A story within a story can be used in all types of narration: novels, short stories, plays, television programs, films, poems, songs, and philosophical essays. The inner stories are told either simply to entertain or more usually to act as an example to the other characters. In either case the story often has symbolic and psychological significance for the characters in the outer story. There is often some parallel between the two stories, and the fiction of the inner story is used to reveal the truth in the outer story. Often the stories within a story are used to satirize views, not only in the outer story, but also in the real world. When a story is told within another instead of being told as part of the plot, it allows the author to play on the reader's perceptions of the characters—the motives and the reliability of the storyteller are automatically in question. Stories within a story may disclose the background of characters or events, tell of myths and legends that influence the plot, or even seem to be extraneous diversions from the plot. In some cases, the story within a story is involved in the action of the plot of the outer story. In others, the inner story is independent, so that it can either be skipped over or be read separately, although many subtle connections may be lost. Sometimes, the inner story serves as an outlet for discarded ideas that the author deemed to be of too much merit to leave out completely, something that is somewhat analogous to the inclusion of deleted scenes with DVD releases of films. Often, there is more than one level of internal stories, leading to deeply-nested fiction.\n\nThe literary device of stories within a story dates back to a device known as a \"frame story\", where a supplemental story is used to help tell the main story. Typically, the outer story, or \"frame\" does not have much matter, and most of the bulk of the work consists of one or more complete stories told by one or more storytellers.\n\nThe earliest examples of \"frame stories\" and \"stories within stories\" were in ancient Egyptian and Indian literature, such as the Egyptian Tale of the Shipwrecked Sailor and Indian epics like the \"Ramayana\", \"Seven Wise Masters\", \"Hitopadesha\" and \"Vikram and the Vampire\". In Vishnu Sarma's \"Panchatantra\", an inter-woven series of colorful animal tales are told with one narrative opening within another, sometimes three or four layers deep, and then unexpectedly snapping shut in irregular rhythms to sustain attention. In the epic \"Mahabharata\", the Kurukshetra War is narrated by a character in Vyasa's \"Jaya\", which itself is narrated by a character in Vaisampayana's \"Bharata\", which itself is narrated by a character in Ugrasrava's \"Mahabharata\".\n\nBoth \"The Golden Ass\" by Apuleius and \"Metamorphoses\" by Ovid extend the depths of framing to several degrees. Another early example is the \"One Thousand and One Nights\" (\"Arabian Nights\"), where the general story is narrated by an unknown narrator, and in this narration the stories are told by Scheherazade. In many of Scheherazade's narrations there are also stories narrated, and even in some of these, there are some other stories. An example of this is \"The Three Apples\", a murder mystery narrated by Scheherazade. Within the story, after the murderer reveals himself, he narrates a flashback of events leading up to the murder. Within this flashback, an unreliable narrator tells a story to mislead the would-be murderer, who later discovers that he was misled after another character narrates the truth to him. As the story concludes, the \"\" is narrated within it. This perennially popular work can be traced back to Arabic, Persian, and Indian storytelling traditions. \n\nMary Shelley's \"Frankenstein\" has a deeply nested frame story structure, that features the narration of an Arctic explorer, who records the narration of Victor Frankenstein, who recounts the narration of his creation, who narrates the story of a cabin dwelling family he secretly observes. Similarly, Roald Dahl's story \"The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar\" is about a rich bachelor who finds an essay written by someone who learnt to \"see\" playing cards from the reverse side. The full text of this essay is included in the story, and itself includes a lengthy sub-story told as a true experience by one of the essay's protagonists, Imhrat Khan.\n\nChaucer's \"The Canterbury Tales\" and Boccacio's Decameron are also classic frame stories. In Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\", the characters tell tales suited to their personalities and tell them in ways that highlight their personalities. The noble knight tells a noble story, the boring character tells a very dull tale, and the rude miller tells a smutty tale. Homer's \"Odyssey\" too makes use of this device; Odysseus' adventures at sea are all narrated by Odysseus to the court of king Alcinous in Scheria. Other shorter tales, many of them false, account for much of the \"Odyssey\". Many modern children's story collections are essentially anthology works connected by this device, such as Arnold Lobel's \"Mouse Tales\", Paula Fox's \"The Little Swineherd\", and Phillip and Hillary Sherlock's \"Ears and Tails and Common Sense\".\n\nA well-known modern example of framing is \"The Princess Bride\" (both the book and the movie). In the movie, a grandfather is reading the story of \"The Princess Bride\" to his grandson. In the book, a more detailed frame story has a father editing a much longer (but fictive) work for his son, creating his own \"Good Parts Version\" (as the book called it) by leaving out all the parts that would bore a young boy. Both the book and the movie assert that the central story is from a book called \"The Princess Bride\" by a nonexistent author named S. Morgenstern.\nIn the Welsh novel, Aelwyd F'Ewythr Robert (1852) by Gwilym Hiraethog a visitor to a farm in north Wales tells the story of Uncle Tom's Cabin to those gathered around the hearth.\n\nSometimes a frame story exists in the same setting as the main story. On the television series \"The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles\", each episode was framed as though it were being told by Indy when he was older (usually acted by George Hall, but once by Harrison Ford). The same device of an adult narrator representing the older version of a young protagonist is used in the films \"Stand By Me\" and \"A Christmas Story\", and the television show \"The Wonder Years\".\n\nIn The Amory Wars, a tale told through the music of Coheed and Cambria, tells a story for the first two albums but reveals that the story is being actively written by a character called the Writer in the third. During the album, the Writer delves into his own story and kills one of the characters, much to the dismay of the main character.\n\nThe critically acclaimed Beatles album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" is presented as a stage show by the fictional eponymous band, and one of its songs, \"A Day in the Life\" is in the form of a story within a dream. Similarly, the Fugees album \"The Score\" is presented as the soundtrack to a fictional movie, as are several other notable concept albums, while Wyclef Jean's \"The Carnival\" is presented as testimony at a trial. The majority of Ayreon's albums outline a sprawling, loosely interconnected science fiction narrative, as do the albums of Janelle Monae.\n\nIn his 1895 historical novel \"Pharaoh\", Bolesław Prus introduces a number of stories within the story, ranging in length from vignettes to full-blown stories, many of them drawn from ancient Egyptian texts, that further the plot, illuminate characters, and even inspire the fashioning of individual characters. Jan Potocki's \"The Manuscript Found in Saragossa\" (1797–1805) has an interlocking structure with stories-within-stories reaching several levels of depth.\n\nThe provenance of the story is sometimes explained internally, as in \"The Lord of the Rings\" by J. R. R. Tolkien, which depicts the Red Book of Westmarch (a story-internal version of the book itself) as a history compiled by several of the characters. The subtitle of \"The Hobbit\" (\"There and Back Again\") is depicted as part of a rejected title of this book within a book, and \"The Lord of the Rings\" is a part of the final title.\n\nAn example of an interconnected inner story is \"The Mad Trist\" in Edgar Allan Poe's \"Fall of the House of Usher\", where through somewhat mystical means the narrator's reading of the story within a story influences the reality of the story he has been telling, so that what happens in \"The Mad Trist\" begins happening in \"The Fall of the House of Usher\". Also, in \"Don Quixote\" by Cervantes, there are many stories within the story that influence the hero's actions (there are others that even the author himself admits are purely digressive).\n\nA commonly independently anthologised story is \"The Grand Inquisitor\" by Dostoevsky from his long psychological novel \"The Brothers Karamazov\", which is told by one brother to another to explain, in part, his view on religion and morality. It also, in a succinct way, dramatizes many of Dostoevsky's interior conflicts.\n\nAn example of a \"bonus material\" style inner story is the chapter \"The Town Ho's Story\" in Herman Melville's novel \"Moby-Dick\"; that chapter tells a fully formed story of an exciting mutiny and contains many plot ideas that Melville had conceived during the early stages of writing \"Moby-Dick\"—ideas originally intended to be used later in the novel—but as the writing progressed, these plot ideas eventually proved impossible to fit around the characters that Melville went on to create and develop. Instead of discarding the ideas altogether, Melville wove them into a coherent short story and had the character Ishmael demonstrate his eloquence and intelligence by telling the story to his impressed friends. \n\nWith the rise of literary modernism, writers experimented with ways in which multiple narratives might nest imperfectly within each other. A particularly ingenious example of nested narratives is James Merrill's 1974 modernist poem \"Lost in Translation\".\n\nIn Rabih Alameddine's novel \"The Hakawati\", or \"The Storyteller\", the protagonist describes coming home to the funeral of his father, one of a long line of traditional Arabic storytellers. Throughout the narrative, the author becomes hakawati (an Arabic word for a teller of traditional tales) himself, weaving the tale of the story of his own life and that of his family with folkloric versions of tales from Qur'an, the Old Testament, Ovid, and One Thousand and One Nights. Both the tales he tells of his family (going back to his grandfather) and the embedded folk tales, themselves embed other tales, often 2 or more layers deep.\n\nIn Sue Townsend's \"\", Adrian writes a book entitled \"Lo! The Flat Hills Of My Homeland\", in which the main character, Jake Westmorland, writes a book called \"Sparg of Kronk\", whose eponymous character, Sparg, writes a book with no language.\n\nDreams are a common way of including stories inside stories, and can sometimes go several levels deep. Both the book \"The Arabian Nightmare\" and the curse of \"eternal waking\" from the Neil Gaiman series \"The Sandman\" feature an endless series of waking from one dream into another dream. In Charles Maturin's novel \"Melmoth the Wanderer\", the use of vast stories-within-stories creates a sense of dream-like quality in the reader.\n\nThis structure is also found in classic religious and philosophical texts. The structure of \"The Symposium\" and \"Phaedo\", attributed to Plato, is of a story within a story within a story. In the Christian Bible, the gospels are retellings of stories from the life and ministry of Jesus. However, they also include within them the stories (parables) that Jesus told. In more modern philosophical work, Jostein Gaarder's books often feature this device. Examples are \"The Solitaire Mystery\", where the protagonist receives a small book from a baker, in which the baker tells the story of a sailor who tells the story of another sailor, and \"Sophie's World\" about a girl who is actually a character in a book that is being read by Hilde, a girl in another dimension. Later on in the book Sophie questions this idea, and realizes that Hilde too could be a character in a story that in turn is being read by another.\n\nThe experimental modernist works that incorporate multiple narratives into one story are quite often science-fiction or science fiction influenced. These include most of the various novels written by the American author Kurt Vonnegut. Vonnegut includes the recurring character Kilgore Trout in many of his novels. Trout acts as the mysterious science fiction writer who enhances the morals of the novels through plot descriptions of his stories. Books such as \"Breakfast of Champions\" and \"God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater\" are sprinkled with these plot descriptions. Stanisław Lem's \"Tale of the Three Storytelling Machines of King Genius\" from \"The Cyberiad\" has several levels of storytelling. All levels tell stories of the same person, Trurl. \n\n\"House of Leaves\" is the tale of a man who finds a manuscript telling the story of a documentary that may or may not have ever existed, contains multiple layers of plot. The book includes footnotes and letters that tell their own stories only vaguely related to the events in the main narrative of the book, and footnotes for fake books. \n\nRobert A. Heinlein's later books (\"The Number of the Beast\", \"The Cat Who Walks Through Walls\" and \"To Sail Beyond the Sunset\") propose the idea that every real universe is a fiction in another universe. This hypothesis enables many writers who are characters in the books to interact with their own creations. Margaret Atwood's novel \"The Blind Assassin\" is interspersed with excerpts from a novel written by one of the main characters; the novel-within-a-novel itself contains a science fiction story written by one of \"that\" novel's characters. \n\nIn Philip K. Dick's novel \"The Man in the High Castle\", each character comes into interaction with a book called \"The Grasshopper Lies Heavy\", which was written by the Man in the High Castle. As Dick's novel details a world in which the Axis Powers of World War II had succeeded in dominating the known world, the novel within the novel details an alternative to this history in which the Allies overcome the Axis and bring stability to the world – a victory which itself is quite different from our history. \n\nIn \"Red Orc's Rage\" by Philip J. Farmer a doubly recursive method is used to interwine its fictional layers. This novel is part of a science-fiction series, the \"World of Tiers\". Farmer collaborated in the writing of this novel with an American psychiatrist, Dr. A. James Giannini. Dr. Giannini had previously used the World of Tiers series in treating patients in group therapy. During these therapeutic sessions, the content and process of the text and novelist was discussed rather than the lives of the patients. In this way subconscious defenses could be circumvented. Farmer took the real life case-studies and melded these with adventures of his characters in the series.\n\nThe \"Quantum Leap\" novel \"Knights Of The Morningstar\" also features a character who writes a book by that name. In Matthew Stover's novel \"Shatterpoint\", the protagonist Mace Windu narrates the story within his journal, while the main story is being told from the third-person limited point of view. \n\nSeveral \"Star Trek\" tales are stories or events within stories, such as Gene Roddenberry's novelization of \"\", J. A. Lawrence's \"Mudd's Angels\", John M. Ford's \"The Final Reflection\", Margaret Wander Bonanno's \"Strangers from the Sky\" (which adopts the conceit that it is book from the future by an author called Gen Jaramet-Sauner), and J. R. Rasmussen's \"Research\" in the anthology \" II\". Steven Barnes's novelization of \"Far Beyond the Stars\" partners with Greg Cox's \"\" (Volume Two) to tell us that the story \"Far Beyond the Stars\"—and, by extension, all of \"Star Trek\" itself—is the creation of 1950s writer Benny Russell.\n\nThe book \"Cloud Atlas\" (later adapted into a film by The Wachowkis and Tom Tykwer) consisted of six interlinked stories nested inside each other in a Russian doll fashion. The first story (that of Adam Ewing in the 1850s befriending an escaped slave) is interrupted halfway through and revealed to be part of a journal being read by composer Robert Frobisher in 1930s Belgium. His own story of working for a more famous composer is told in a series of letters to his lover Rufus Sixsmith, which are interrupted halfway through and revealed to be in the possession of an investigative journalist named Luisa Rey and so on. Each of the first five tales are interrupt in the middle, with the sixth tale being told in full, before the preceding five tales are finished in reverse order. Each layer of the story either challenges the veracity of the previous layer, or is challenged by the succeeding layer. Presuming each layer to be a true telling within the overall story, a chain of events is created linking Adam Ewing's embrace of the abolitionist movement in the 1850s to the religious redemption of a post apocalyptic tribal man over a century after the fall of modern civilization. The characters in each nested layer take inspiration or lessons from the stories of their predecessors in a manner that validates a belief stated in the sixth tale that \"Our lives are not our own. We are bound to others, past and present and by each crime, and every kindness, we birth our future.\"\n\n\"The Crying of Lot 49\" by Thomas Pynchon has several characters seeing a play called \"The Courier's Tragedy\" by the fictitious Jacobean playwright Richard Wharfinger. The events of the play broadly mirror those of the novel and give the main character, Oedipa Maas, a greater context with which to consider her predicament; the play concerns a feud between two rival mail distribution companies, which appears to be ongoing to the present day, and in which, if this is the case, Oedipa has found herself involved. As in \"Hamlet\", the director makes changes to the original script; in this instance, a couplet that was added, possibly by religious zealots intent on giving the play extra moral gravity, are said only on the night that Oedipa sees the play. From what Pynchon tells us, this is the only mention in the play of Thurn and Taxis' rivals' name—Trystero—and it is the seed for the conspiracy that unfurls. A significant portion of Walter Moers' \"Labyrinth of Dreaming Books\" is an ekphrasis on the subject of an epic puppet theater presentation. Another example is found in Samuel Delany's \"Trouble on Triton\", which features a theater company that produces elaborate staged spectacles for randomly selected single-person audiences. Plays produced by the \"Caws of Art\" theater company also feature in Russell Hoban's modern fable, The Mouse and His Child.\n\nIn Manuel Puig's \"Kiss of the Spider Woman\", ekphrases on various old movies, some real, and some fictional, make up a substantial portion of the narrative. In Paul Russell's \"Boys of Life\", descriptions of movies by director/antihero Carlos (loosely inspired by controversial director Pier Paulo Pasolini) provide a narrative counterpoint and add a touch of surrealism to the main narrative. They additionally raise the question of whether works of artistic genius justify or atone for the sins and crimes of their creators.\n\nThis dramatic device was probably first used by Thomas Kyd in \"The Spanish Tragedy\" around 1587, where the play is presented before an audience of two of the characters, who comment upon the action. From references in other contemporary works, Kyd is also assumed to have been the writer of an early, lost version of \"Hamlet\" (the so-called \"Ur-Hamlet\"), with a play-within-a-play interlude. William Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\" retains this device by having Hamlet ask some strolling players to perform the \"Murder of Gonzago\". The action and characters in \"The Murder\" mirror the murder of Hamlet's father in the main action, and Prince Hamlet writes additional material to emphasize this. Hamlet wishes to provoke the murderer, his uncle, and sums this up by saying \"the play's the thing wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king.\" Hamlet calls this new play \"The Mouse-trap\" (a title that Agatha Christie later took for the long-running play \"The Mousetrap\"). The play \"I Hate Hamlet\" and the movie \"A Midwinter's Tale\" are about a production of \"Hamlet\", which in turn includes a production of \"The Murder of Gonzago\", as does the Hamlet-based film \"Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead\" which even features a third-level puppet theatre version within their play. Similarly, in Anton Chekhov's \"The Seagull\" there are specific allusions to \"Hamlet\": in the first act a son stages a play to impress his mother, a professional actress, and her new lover; the mother responds by comparing her son to Hamlet. Later he tries to come between them, as Hamlet had done with his mother and her new husband. The tragic developments in the plot follow in part from the scorn the mother shows for her son's play.\n\nShakespeare adopted the play-within-a-play device for many of his other plays as well, including \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\"and \"Love's Labours Lost\". Almost the whole of \"The Taming of the Shrew\" is a play-within-a-play, presented to convince Christopher Sly, a drunken tinker, that he is a nobleman watching a private performance, but the device has no relevance to the plot (unless Katharina's subservience to her \"lord\" in the last scene is intended to strengthen the deception against the tinker) and is often dropped in modern productions. The musical \"Kiss Me, Kate\" is about the production of a fictitious musical, \"The Taming of the Shrew,\" based on the Shakespeare play of the same name, and features several scenes from it. \"Pericles\" draws in part on the 14th century \"Confessio Amantis\" (itself a frame story) by John Gower and Shakespeare has the ghost of Gower \"assume man's infirmities\" to introduce his work to the contemporary audience and comment on the action of the play. \n\nIn Francis Beaumont's \"Knight of the Burning Pestle\" (ca. 1608) a supposed common citizen from the audience, actually a \"planted\" actor, condemns the play that has just started and \"persuades\" the players to present something about a shopkeeper. The citizen's \"apprentice\" then acts, pretending to extemporise, in the rest of the play. This is a satirical tilt at Beaumont's playwright contemporaries and their current fashion for offering plays about London life.\n\nThe opera \"Pagliacci\" is about a troupe of actors who perform a play about marital infidelity that mirrors their own lives, and composer Richard Rodney Bennett and playwright-librettist Beverley Cross's \"The Mines of Sulphur\" features a ghostly troupe of actors who perform a play about murder that similarly mirrors the lives of their hosts, from whom they depart, leaving them with the plague as nemesis. And John Adams' \"Nixon in China\" (1985-7) features a surreal version of Madam Mao's \"Red Detachment of Women\" to extraordinary effect, illuminating the ascendance of human values over the disillusionment of high politics in the meeting.\n\nIn Bertolt Brecht's \"The Caucasian Chalk Circle,\" a play is staged as a parable to villagers in the Soviet Union to justify the re-allocation of their farmland: the tale describes how a child is awarded to a servant-girl rather than its natural mother, an aristocrat, as the woman most likely to care for it well. This kind of play-within-a-play, which appears at the beginning of the main play and acts as a 'frame' for it, is called an \"'induction'\". Brecht's one-act play \"The Elephant Calf\" (1926) is a play-within-a-play performed in the foyer of the theatre during his \"Man Equals Man\".\n\nIn Jean Giraudoux's play \"Ondine\", all of act two is a series of scenes within scenes, sometimes two levels deep. This increases the dramatic tension and also makes more poignant the inevitable failure of the relationship between the mortal Hans and water sprite Ondine.\n\n\"The Two-Character Play\" by Tennessee Williams has a concurrent double plot with the convention of a play within a play. Felice and Clare are siblings and are both actor/producers touring ‘The Two-Character Play.’ They have supposedly been abandoned by their crew and have been left to put on the play by themselves. The characters in the play are also brother and sister and are also named Clare and Felice.\n\n\"The Mysteries\", a modern reworking of the medieval mystery plays, remains faithful to its roots by having the modern actors play the sincere, naïve tradesmen and women as they take part in the original performances.\n\nAlternatively, a play might be about the production of a play, and include the performance of all or part of the play, as in \"Noises Off\", \"A Chorus of Disapproval\" or \"Lilies\". Similarly, the musical \"Man of La Mancha\" presents the story of Don Quixote as an impromptu play staged in prison by \"Quixote\"'s author, Miguel de Cervantes.\n\nIn most stagings of the musical \"Cats\", which include the song \"Growltiger's Last Stand\" — a recollection of an old play by Gus the Theatre Cat — the character of Lady Griddlebone sings \"The Ballad of Billy McCaw\". (However, many productions of the show omit \"Growltiger's Last Stand\", and \"The Ballad of Billy McCaw\" has at times been replaced with a mock aria, so this metastory isn't always seen.) Depending on the production, there is another musical scene called The Awful Battle of the Pekes and the Pollices where the Jellicles put on a show for their leader. In \"\", there are three play within a plays. First, when Lestat visits his childhood friend, Nicolas, who works in a theater, where he discovers his love for theater; and two more when the Theater of the Vampires perform. One is used as a plot mechanism to explain the vampire god, Marius, which sparks an interest in Lestat to find him.\n\nA play within a play also occurs in the musical \"The King and I\", where Princess Tuptim and the royal dancers give a performance of \"Small House of Uncle Thomas\" (or \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\") to their English guests. The play mirrors Tuptim's situation, as she wishes to run away from slavery to be with her lover, Lun Tha.\n\nIn stagings of Dina Rubina's play \"Always the Same Dream\", the story is about staging a school play based on a poem by Pushkin.\n\nJoseph Heller's 1967 play \"We Bombed in New Haven\" is about actors engaged in a play about military airmen; the actors themselves become at times unsure whether they are actors or actual airmen.\n\nThe 1937 musical Babes in Arms is about a group of kids putting on a musical to raise money. The central plot device was retained for the popular 1939 film version with Judy Garland and Mickey Rooney. A similar plot was recycled for the films White Christmas and The Blues Brothers.\n\nTV Tropes maintains a list of feature films that feature this plot device. \"Singin' in the Rain\" (1952) is frequently listed as the earliest example, although there are antecedents in silent cinema such as \"Mabel's Dramatic Career\" (1913).\n\nThe François Truffaut film \"Day for Night\" is about the making of a fictitious movie called \"Meet Pamela\" (\"Je vous présente Pamela\") and shows the interactions of the actors as they are making this movie about a woman who falls for her husband's father. The story of \"Pamela\" involves lust, betrayal, death, sorrow, and change, events that are mirrored in the experiences of the actors portrayed in \"Day for Night\". There are a wealth of other movies that revolve around the film industry itself, even if not centering exclusively on one nested film. These include the darkly satirical classic \"Sunset Boulevard\" about an aging star and her parasitic victim, and the Coen Brothers' farce \"Hail, Caesar!\"\n\nThe script to Karel Reisz's movie \"The French Lieutenant's Woman\" (1981), written by Harold Pinter, is a film-within-a-film adaptation of John Fowles's book. In addition to the Victorian love story of the book, Pinter creates a present-day background story that shows a love affair between the main actors.\n\nIn Buster Keaton's \"Sherlock, Jr.\", Keaton's protagonist actually enters into a film while it is playing in a cinema, as does the main character in the Arnold Schwarzenegger children's film \"The Last Action Hero\". A similar device is used in the seminal music video \"Take on me\" by A-ha, which features a young woman entering a cartoon universe. Conversely, Woody Allen's \"Purple Rose of Cairo\" is about a movie character exiting the movie to interact with the real world. Allen's earlier film \"Play it Again, Sam\" featured liberal use of characters, dialogue and clips from the film classic \"Casablanca\" as a central device.\n\nThe 2002 Pedro Almodóvar film \"Talk to Her\" (\"Hable con ella\") has the chief character Benigno tell a story called \"The Shrinking Lover\" to Alicia, a long-term comatose patient whom Benigno, a male nurse, is assigned to care for. The film presents \"The Shrinking Lover\" in the form of a black-and-white silent melodrama. To prove his love to a scientist girlfriend, \"The Shrinking Lover\" protagonist drinks a potion that makes him progressively smaller. The resulting seven-minute scene, which is readily intelligible and enjoyable as a stand-alone short subject, is considerably more overtly comic than the rest of \"Talk to Her\"—the protagonist climbs giant breasts as if they were rock formations and even ventures his way inside a (compared to him) gigantic vagina. Critics have noted that \"The Shrinking Lover\" essentially is a sex metaphor. Later in \"Talk to Her,\" the comatose Alicia is discovered to be pregnant and Benigno is sentenced to jail for rape. \"The Shrinking Lover\" was named Best Scene of 2002 in the \"Skandies\", an annual survey of online cinephiles and critics invited each year by critic Mike D'Angelo.\n\n\"Tropic Thunder\" (2008) is a comedy film revolving around a group of prima donna actors making a Vietnam War film (itself also named \"Tropic Thunder\") when their fed-up writer and director decide to abandon them in the middle of the jungle, forcing them to fight their way out. The concept was perhaps inspired by the 1986 comedy Three Amigos, where three washed-up silent film stars are expected to live out a real-life version of their old hit movies. The same idea of life being forced to imitate art was also reprised in the Star Trek parody Galaxy Quest.\n\nThe first episode of the anime series \"The Melancholy Of Haruhi Suzumiya\" consists almost entirely of a poorly made film that the protagonists created, complete with Kyon's typical, sarcastic commentary.\n\nChuck Jones's 1953 cartoon \"Duck Amuck\" shows Daffy Duck trapped in a cartoon that an unseen animator repeatedly manipulates. At the end, it is revealed that the whole cartoon was being controlled by Bugs Bunny. The \"Duck Amuck\" plot was essentially replicated in one of Jones' later cartoons, \"Rabbit Rampage\" (1955), in which Bugs Bunny turns out to be the victim of the sadistic animator (Elmer Fudd). A similar plot was also included in an episode of \"Baby Looney Tunes\", in which Bugs was the victim, Daffy was the animator, and it was made on a computer instead of a pencil and paper. In 2007, the \"Duck Amuck\" sequence was parodied on \"Drawn Together\" (\"Nipple Ring-Ring Goes to Foster Care\").\n\nAll feature-length films by Jörg Buttgereit except \"Schramm\" feature a film within the film. In \"Nekromantik\", the protagonist goes to the cinema to see the fictional slasher film \"Vera\". In \"Der Todesking\" one of the character watches a video of the fictional Nazi exploitation film \"Vera - Todesengel der Gestapo\" and in \"Nekromantik 2\", the characters go to see a movie called \"Mon dejeuner avec Vera\" which is a parody of Louis Malle's \"My Dinner with André\"\n\nQuentin Tarantino's \"Inglourious Basterds\" depicts a Nazi propaganda film called \"Nation's Pride\", which glorifies a soldier in the German army. \"Nation's Pride\" is directed by Eli Roth.\n\nJoe Dante's \"Matinee\" depicts \"Mant\", an early-'60s sci-fi/horror movie about a man who turns into an ant. In one scene, the protagonists see a Disney-style family movie called \"The Shook-Up Shopping Cart\".\n\nThe 2002 martial arts epic Hero presented the same narrative several different times, as recounted by different storytellers, but with both factual and aesthetic differences. Similarly, in the whimsical 1988 Terry Gilliam film The Adventures of Baron Munchausen, and the 2003 Tim Burton film Big Fish, the bulk of the film is a series of stories told by an (extremely) unreliable narrator. In the 2006 Tarsem film \"The Fall\", an injured silent-movie stuntman tells heroic fantasy stories to a little girl with a broken arm to pass time in the hospital, which the film visualizes and presents with the stuntman's voice becoming voiceover narration. The fantasy tale bleeds back into and comments on the film's \"present-tense\" story. There are often incongruities based on the fact that the stuntman is an American and the girl Persian—the stuntman's voiceover refers to \"Indians,\" “a squaw” and “a teepee,” but the visuals show a Bollywood-style devi and a Taj Mahal-like castle. The same conceit of an unreliable narrator was used to very different effect in the 1995 crime drama The Usual Suspects (which garnered an Oscar for Kevin Spacey's performance).\n\nThe seminal 1950 Japanese film \"Rashomon\", based on the Japanese short story \"In a Grove\" (1921), utilizes the flashback-within-a-flashback technique. The story unfolds in flashback as the four witnesses in the story—the bandit, the murdered samurai, his wife, and the nameless woodcutter—recount the events of one afternoon in a grove. But it is also a flashback within a flashback, because the accounts of the witnesses are being retold by a woodcutter and a priest to a ribald commoner as they wait out a rainstorm in a ruined gatehouse.\n\nThe movie \"Inception\" has a deeply nested structure that is itself part of the setting, as the characters travel deeper and deeper into layers of dreams within dreams. Similarly, in the beginning of the music video for the Michael Jackson song \"Thriller\", the heroine is terrorized by her monster boyfriend in what turns out to be a movie within a dream. The film \"Grand Budapest Hotel\" has four layers of narration; starting with a young girl at the author's memorial reading his book, it cuts to the old author in 1985 telling of an incident in 1968 when he, as a young author, stayed at the hotel and met the owner, old Zero. He was then told the story of young Zero and M Gustave, from 1932, which makes up most of the narrative.\n\nThe 2001 film \"Moulin Rouge!\" features a fictitious musical within a film, called \"Spectacular Spectacular\". The 1942 Ernst Lubitsch comedy \"To Be or Not to Be\" confuses the audience in the opening scenes with a play, \"The Naughty Nazis\", about Adolf Hitler which appears to be taking place within the actual plot of the film. Thereafter, the acting company players serve as the protagonists of the film and frequently use acting/costumes to deceive various characters in the film. \"Hamlet\" also serves as an important throughline in the film, as suggested by the title. Laurence Olivier sets the opening scene of his 1944 film of \"Henry V\" in the tiring room of the old Globe Theatre as the actors prepare for their roles on stage. The early part of the film follows the actors in these \"stage\" performances and only later does the action almost imperceptibly expand to the full realism of the Battle of Agincourt. By way of increasingly more artificial sets (based on mediaeval paintings) the film finally returns to The Globe. Mel Brook's film, \"The Producers\", revolves around a scheme to make money by producing a disastrously bad Broadway musical, \"Springtime For Hitler.\" Ironically the film itself was later made into its own Broadway musical (although a more intentionally successful one). The Outkast music video for the song \"Roses\" is a short film about a high school musical.\n\nThe main plot device in \"Repo! The Genetic Opera\" is an opera which is going to be held the night of the events of the movie. All of the principal characters of the film play a role in the opera, though the audience watching the opera is unaware that some of the events portrayed are more than drama.\n\nIn \"Diary of a Wimpy Kid\", the middle-schoolers put on a play of \"The Wizard of Oz\".\n\nThe 1990 biopic Korczak, about the last days of a Jewish children's orphanage in Nazi occupied Poland, features an amateur production of Rabindranath Tagore's \"The Post Office\", which was selected by the orphanage's visionary leader as a way of preparing his charges for their own impending death. That same production is also featured in the stage play \"Korczak's Children,\" also inspired by the same historical events.\n\nThe 1973 film adaptation of Peter Nichols's 1969 play, \"The National Health\" features a send-up of a typical American hospital soap-opera being shown on a television situated in an underfunded, unmistakably British NHS hospital.\n\nThe Jim Carey film The Truman Show is about a person who grows to adulthood without ever realizing that he is the unwitting hero of the immersive eponymous television show.\n\nThe first example of a video game within a video game is almost certainly Tim Stryker's 80s era text-only game Fazuul (also the world's first online multiplayer game), in which one of the objects that the player can create is a minigame. Another early use of this trope was in Cliff Johnson's 1987 hit The Fool's Errand, a thematically linked narrative puzzle game, in which several of the puzzles were semi-independent games played against NPCs.\n\n\"Power Factor\" has been cited as a rare example of a video game in which the entire concept is a video game within a video game: The player takes on the role of a character who is playing a \"Virtual Reality Simulator\", in which he in turn takes on the role of the hero Redd Ace. The \".hack\" franchise also gives the concept a central role. It features a narrative in which internet advancements have created an MMORPG franchise called The World. Protagonists Kite and Haseo try to uncover the mysteries of the events surrounding The World. Characters in .hack are self-aware that they are video game characters.\n\nMore commonly, however, the video game within a video game device takes the form of mini-games that are non-plot oriented, and optional to the completion of the game. For example, in the \"Yakuza\" and \"Shenmue\" franchises, there are playable arcade machines featuring other Sega games that are scattered throughout the game world.\n\nIn \"Final Fantasy VII\" there are several video games that can be played in an arcade in the Gold Saucer theme park. In \"Animal Crossing\", the player can acquire individual NES emulations through various means and place them within their house, where they are playable in their entirety. When placed in the house, the games take the form of a Nintendo Entertainment System. In \"Fallout 4\", the protagonist can find several cartridges throughout the wasteland that can be played on his pip-boy (an electronic device that exists only in the world of the game) or any terminal computer.\n\nIn the Remedy video game title \"Max Payne\" players can chance upon a number of ongoing television shows when activating or happening upon various television sets within the game environs, depending on where / when they are within the unfolding game narrative will dictate which episode of what show is found. Among them are \"Lords & Ladies\", \"Captain Baseball Bat Boy\", \"\" and the pinnacle television serial \"Address Unknown\" -heavily inspired by David Lynch style film narrative, particularly \"Twin Peaks\", Address Unknown sometimes prophesies events or character motives yet to occur in the Max Payne narrative.\n\nIn \"Grand Theft Auto IV\", the player can watch several TV channels which include many programs: reality shows, cartoons, and even game shows.\n\n\"Terrance & Phillip\" from \"South Park\" comments on the levels of violence and acceptable behaviour in the media and allow criticism of the outer cartoon to be addressed in the cartoon itself. Similarly, on the long running animated sitcom, \"The Simpsons\", Bart's favorite cartoon, \"Itchy and Scratchy\" (a parody of \"Tom & Jerry\"), often echoes the plotlines of the main show. \"The Simpsons\" also parodied this structure with numerous 'layers' of sub-stories in the Season 17 episode \"The Seemingly Never-Ending Story\".\n\nOn the show \"Dear White People\", the \"Scandal\" parody \"Defamation\" offers a ironic commentary on the main show's theme of interracial relationships. Similarly, on the HBO show \"Insecure\" the slavery-era soap opera \"Due North\" is an obsession for the show's main characters.\n\nThe Irish television series \"Father Ted\" features a television show, \"Father Ben\", which has characters and storylines almost identical to that of Father Ted.\n\nThe television shows \"30 Rock\", \"Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip\", \"Sonny with a Chance\", and \"Kappa Mikey\" feature a sketch show within the TV show.\n\nAn extended plotline on the semi-autobiographical sitcom \"Seinfeld\" dealt with the main characters developing a sitcom about their lives. The gag was reprised on \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", another semi-autobiographical show by and about \"Seinfeld\" co-creator Larry David, when the long-anticipated \"Seinfeld\" reunion was staged entirely inside the new show.\n\nThe \"USS Callister\" episode of the \"Black Mirror\" anthology television series is about a man obsessed with a Star-Trek like show, who recreates it as part of a virtual reality game.\n\nThe concept of a film within a television series is employed in the Macross universe. \"\" (1984) was originally intended as an alternative theatrical re-telling of the television series \"The Super Dimension Fortress Macross\" (1982), but was later \"retconned\" into the Macross canon as a popular movie within the television series \"Macross 7\" (1994).\n\n\"Seinfeld\" had a number of reoccurring fictional films, most notably \"Rochelle, Rochelle\", a parody of artsy but exploitative foreign films, while the trippy, metaphysically loopy thriller \"Death Castle\" is a central element of the \"Master of None\" episode \"New York, I Love You.\"\n\nStories inside stories can allow for genre changes. Arthur Ransome uses the device to let his young characters in the \"Swallows and Amazons series\" of children's books, set in the recognisable everyday world, take part in fantastic adventures of piracy in distant lands: two of the twelve books, \"Peter Duck\" and \"Missee Lee\" (and some would include \"Great Northern?\" as a third), are adventures supposedly made up by the characters. Similarly, the film version of \"Chitty Chitty Bang Bang\" uses a story within a story format to tell a purely fantastic fairy tale within a relatively more realistic frame-story. The film version of \"The Wizard of Oz\" does the same thing by making its inner story into a dream. Lewis Carroll's celebrated \"Alice\" books use the same device of a dream as an excuse for fantasy, while Carroll's less well-known \"Sylvie and Bruno\" subverts the trope by allowing the dream figures to enter and interact with the \"real\" world.\nSome stories feature what might be called a literary version of the Droste effect, where an image contains a smaller version of itself (also a common feature in many fractals). Among the stories that include versions of themselves are Neil Gaiman's \"\" which contains several instances of multiple storytelling levels, including \"Cerements\" (issue #55) where one of the inmost levels corresponds to one of the outer levels, turning the story-within-a-story structure into an infinite regression. Similarly, in Charlie Kaufman's 2008 film \"Synecdoche, New York\", the main character Caden Cotard is a skilled director of plays who receives a grant, and ends up creating a remarkable theater piece intended as a carbon copy of the outside world. The layers of copies of the world ends up several layers deep.\n\nThe long-running musical A Chorus Line dramatizes its own creation, and the life stories of its own original cast members. The famous final number does double duty as the showstopper for both the musical the audience is watching and the one the characters are appearing in.\n\nMichael Ende's classic children's novel The Neverending Story prominently features a book of the same title. This is later revealed to be the same book the audience is reading, when it begins to be retold again from the beginning, thus creating an infinite regression that features as a plot element. Similarly, in the Will Ferrell comedy Stranger than Fiction the main character discovers he is a character in a book that (along with its author) also exists in the same universe.\n\nIn Douglas Hofstadter's \"Gödel, Escher, Bach\", there is a narrative between Achilles and the Tortoise (characters borrowed from Lewis Carroll, who in turn borrowed them from Zeno), and within this story they find a book entitled \"Provocative Adventures of Achilles and the Tortoise Taking Place in Sundry Spots of the Globe\", which they begin to read, the Tortoise taking the part of the Tortoise, and Achilles taking the part of Achilles. Within this narrative, which itself is somewhat self-referential, the two characters find a book entitled \"Provocative Adventures of Achilles and the Tortoise Taking Place in Sundry Spots of the Globe\", which they begin to read, the Tortoise taking the part of Achilles, and Achilles taking the part of the Tortoise.\n\nThe music video for the Björk song \"Bachelorette\" features a musical that is about, in part, the creation of that musical. A mini-theater and small audience appear on stage to watch the musical-within-a-musical, and at some point, within that second musical a yet-smaller theater and audience appear.\n\nEpisode 14 of the anime series \"Martian Successor Nadesico\" is essentially a clip show, but has several newly animated segments based on \"Gekigangar III\", an anime that exists within its universe and that many characters are fans of, that involves the characters of that show watching Nadesico. The episode ends with the crew of the Nadesico watching the very same episode of Gekigangar, causing a paradox.\n\n\"Austin Powers in Goldmember\" begins with an action film opening, which turns out to be a sequence being filmed by Steven Spielberg. Near the ending, the events of the film itself are revealed to be a movie being enjoyed by the characters. The 1985 Tim Burton film Pee-Wee's Big Adventure ends with the main characters watching a film version of their own adventures, but as reimagined as a Hollywood blockbuster action film, with James Brolin as a more stereotypically manly version of the Paul Reubens title character. Mel Brooks's 1974 comedy \"Blazing Saddles\" leaves its Western setting when the climactic fight scene breaks out, revealing the setting to have been a set in the Warner Bros. studio lot; the fight spills out onto an adjacent musical set, then into the studio canteen, and finally onto the streets. The two protagonists arrive at Grauman's Chinese Theater, which is showing the \"premiere\" of \"Blazing Saddles\"; they enter the cinema to watch the conclusion of their own film. Brooks recycled the gag in his 1987 \"Star Wars\" parody, \"Spaceballs\", where the villains are able to locate the heroes by watching a copy of the movie they are in on VHS video tape (a comic exaggeration of the phenomenon of films being available on video before their theatrical release). Brooks also made the 1976 parody \"Silent Movie\" about a buffoonish team of filmmakers trying to make the first Hollywood silent film in forty years --which is essentially that film itself (another forty years later, life imitated art imitating art, when an actual modern silent movie became a hit, the Oscar nominated \"The Artist\").\n\nIn the latter two films of the \"Scream\" horror trilogy, a film-within-a-film format is used when the events of the first film spawn their own horror trilogy within the films themselves. In \"Scream 2\", characters get killed while watching a film version of the events in the first \"Scream\" film, while in \"Scream 3\" the actors playing the trilogy's characters end up getting killed, much in the same way as the characters they are playing on screen. In the latest \"Scream\" movie, \"Scream 4\", in the opening sequence, two characters are watching Stab 7 before they get killed. Also, the characters of Stab 7 are watching Stab 6. There's also a party in which all seven Stab movies were going to be shown. References are also made to Stab 5 involving time travel as a plot device.\n\nDirector Spike Jonze's \"Adaptation\" is a fictionalized version of screenwriter Charlie Kaufman's struggles to adapt the non-cinematic book \"The Orchid Thief\" into a Hollywood blockbuster. As his onscreen self succumbs to the temptation to commercialize the narrative, Kaufman incorporates those techniques into the script, including tropes such as an invented romance, a car chase, a drug-running sequence, and an imaginary identical twin for the protagonist. (The movie also features scenes about the making of \"Being John Malkovich\", previously written by Kaufman and directed by Jonze.) Robert Altman's satirical noir \"The Player\" about Hollywood ends with the antihero being pitched a movie version of his own story, complete with an unlikely happy ending.\n\nOccasionally a story within a story becomes such a popular element that the producer(s) decide to develop it autonomously as a separate and distinct work. This is an example of a spin-off.\n\nIn the fictional world of the \"Toy Story\" movies, Buzz Lightyear is an animated toy action figure, which was based on a fictitious cartoon series, \"Buzz Lightyear of Star Command\", which did not exist in the real world except for snippets seen within \"Toy Story\". Later, \"Buzz Lightyear of Star Command\" was produced in the real world.\n\n\"Kujibiki Unbalance\", a series in the \"Genshiken\" universe, has spawned merchandise of its own, and been remade into a series on its own.\n\nSuch spin-offs may be produced as a way of providing additional information on the fictional world for fans. In the \"Harry Potter\" series, three such supplemental books have been produced. \"Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them\" is a textbook used by the main character, and \"Quidditch Through the Ages\" is a book from the library at his school. \"The Tales of Beedle the Bard\" provides an additional layer of fiction, the 'tales' being instructional stories told to children in the characters' world.\n\nIn the works of Kurt Vonnegut, Kilgore Trout has written a novel called \"Venus on the Half-Shell\". In 1975 real-world author Philip José Farmer wrote a science-fiction novel called \"Venus on the Half-Shell\", published under the name Kilgore Trout.\n\nIn \"Homestuck\" by Andrew Hussie, there is a comic called Sweet Bro and Hella Jeff, created by one of the characters, Dave Strider. It was later adapted to its own ongoing series.\n\n\"Captain Proton: Defender of the Earth\", a story by Dean Wesley Smith, was adapted from the holonovel \"Captain Proton\" in the Star Trek universe.\n\nIn the animated online franchise \"Homestar Runner\" many of the best-known features were spun off from each other. The best known was \"Strong Bad Emails,\" which depicted the villain of the original story giving snarky answers to fan emails, but that in turn spawned several other long-running features which started out as figments of Strong Bad's imagination, including the teen-oriented cartoon parody \"Teen Girl Squad\" and the anime parody \"20X6.\"\n\nOne unique example is the Tyler Perry comedy/horror hit \"Boo! A Madea Halloween\" which originated as a parody of Tyler Perry films in the Chris Rock film \"Top 5\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4720758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4720758", "title": "Substantive rights", "text": "Substantive rights\n\nSubstantive rights are basic human rights possessed by people in an ordered society and include rights granted by natural law as well as the substantive law. Substantive rights involve a right to the substance of being human (life, liberty, happiness), rather than a right to a procedure to enforce that right, which is defined by procedural law.\n\n"}
{"id": "40013560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40013560", "title": "Tibetan Buddhist Resource Center", "text": "Tibetan Buddhist Resource Center\n\nTibetan Buddhist Resource Center (TBRC) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization dedicated to seeking out, preserving, organizing, and disseminating Tibetan Buddhist texts and Tibetan literature. Founded in 1999 by E. Gene Smith, TBRC is located in Cambridge, Massachusetts and hosts a digital library of the largest collection of digitized Tibetan texts in the world.\n\nTBRC's Harvard Square headquarters facilitates its ongoing cooperative relationships with Harvard University. TBRC also has international offices in New Delhi, India and Kathmandu, Nepal, and a newly opened scanning and text-preservation center located within the E. Gene Smith Library at Southwest University for Nationalities in Chengdu, China.\n\nTo preserve and share the Tibetan literary heritage through the union of technology and scholarship.\n\nIn the early 1960s, while working on his PhD. at the University of Washington, E. Gene Smith studied with the Venerable Dezhung Rinpoche. In 1964, Dezhung Rinpoche encouraged Smith to move to India in order to seek out and study Tibetan books more directly. He gave Smith letters of introduction to show to the lamas living among the Tibetan diaspora.\n\nIn 1968 the U.S. Library of Congress hired Smith as a field director in New Delhi where he worked on the Food for Peace humanitarian effort Public Law 480. Through the program, Smith began to copy and print thousands of Tibetan texts while keeping a version of each one for his own collection. He moved from India to Indonesia in 1985 and then Egypt, along with his collection of 12,000 volumes of texts.\n\nIn 1997 Smith retired from the Library of Congress and began working to implement his vision of making the preserved texts accessible using the new scanning and digitization technologies that were, at that time, just beginning to become available. In 1999 with friends including Harvard professor and fellow Tibetologist Leonard van der Kuijp, he founded the Tibetan Buddhist Resource Center in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Smith's texts from India that were digitized at TBRC became the foundation for Tibetan studies in the United States.\n\nIn 2002 with the support of Shelley and Donald Rubin, TBRC moved to New York City where Smith became an advisor to the Rubin Museum of Art. Major grants from the Patricia and Peter Gruber Foundation, Khyentse Foundation, and the Shelley and Donald Rubin Foundation allowed TBRC to acquire a significant number of texts, develop its archiving system, and add more professional staff. Starting as Technical Director in 2001, Jeff Wallman was personally selected by Smith to be Executive Director and was appointed by the Board of Directors in 2009.\n\nGene Smith died on December 16, 2010. TBRC had scanned 7 million pages of Tibetan texts at the time of his death.\n\nTBRC seeks out and preserves undiscovered texts, organizes them into a library catalog system, and disseminates the library online and to remote locations on hard drives so anyone can read, print, or share the texts. Tibetan language texts are cataloged by work, genre, subject, person, and place.\n\nCurrently, the collection contains more than 7,000 works (17,000 volumes, totaling nearly 9 million pages) of Tibetan texts. Scholars and students are able to study the physical qualities of the texts since the scans are searchable and zoomable.\n\nOver 5,000 users from 66 countries currently access the website per day, up from 815 per day in 2006. Between 500,000 and 1,000,000 pages are added every year.\n\nTBRC's work was recognized by the 17th Karmapa Ogyen Trinley Dorje in a letter offering his support, gratitude, and prayers. Gene Smith's life and TBRC were the subject of the 2012 documentary Digital Dharma, directed by Dafna Yachin of Lunchbox Communications. Variety film critic John Anderson described the film as, \"A divinely inspired gift... also an affectionate tribute to the late E. Gene Smith, the scholar, librarian and ex-Mormon who waged a 50-year struggle to save the endangered texts of Tibetan Buddhism.\"\n\nIn summer 2012 TBRC relocated back to Harvard Square in Cambridge, MA, where the staff hand-picked by Smith continues its ongoing mission to preserve and provide access to Tibetan literature.\n\nIn cooperation with the Harvard University Open Access Project (HOAP), TBRC is currently working to make its entire library completely open access. TBRC also coordinates internships with graduate students from Harvard Divinity School and the Department of South Asian Studies at Harvard.\n\nIn 2007, Gene Smith bequeathed his personal collection of 12,000 Tibetan texts to the Southwest University for Nationalities in Chengdu, China. These texts are now housed in a newly constructed library that bears Smith's name, and which is now China's pre-eminent center for Tibetan literature.\n\nIn October 2013, TBRC opened a scanning and text-preservation center at SWUN's E. Gene Smith Library, where four full-time archivists scan, catalog, and digitize Tibetan manuscripts, some centuries old, that are being brought to the library from around the region as news of its existence spreads. Some of these recent additions, now preserved and accessible in TBRC's digital archive, represent the only known versions of ancient texts.\n\nTBRC announced the expansion of institutional mission to include the preservation of texts in languages beyond Tibetan, including Sanskrit, Pali and Chinese. To reflect this expansion, they have officially changed organizational name from Tibetan Buddhist Resource Center (TBRC) to Buddhist Digital Resource Center (BDRC). In 2017, BDRC will begin preserving and making accessible texts in languages beyond Tibetan, starting with Pali, Sanskrit, and Chinese.\n\nExecutive Director: Jeffrey D. Wallman\n\nCangioli K. Che, Patricia Gruber, Janet Gyatso, Leonard van der Kuijp, Derek Kolleeny, Richard Lanier, David Lunsford (emeritus), Michele Martin, Timothy J. McNeill, Tudeng Nima Rinpoche, Dzogchen Ponlop Rinpoche (honorary), Shelley F. Rubin (emeritus), E. Gene Smith (emeritus, in memoriam), Tulku Thondup Rinpoche, Gray Tuttle, Lama Zopa Rinpoche (honorary), Jeffrey D. Wallman\n\n"}
{"id": "9715522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9715522", "title": "Turn construction unit", "text": "Turn construction unit\n\nA turn construction unit (TCU) is the fundamental segment of speech in a conversation, as analyzed in conversation analysis.\n\nThe idea was introduced in (Sacks, Schegloff, & Jefferson 1974) and is meant to describe pieces of conversation which may comprise an entire turn. The end of a TCU, called a \"transition relevance place\" (TRP), marks a point where the turn may go to another speaker, or the present speaker may continue with another TCU.\n\nA Turn Construction Unit (TCU) is a building component of a turn in a conversation. It is a unit of conversation that completes a communicative act.\n\nThere are four types of TCU categorized by the roles they play in the utterance:\n\n1. Lexical TCU: e.g. \"Yes\", \"There\"\n2. Phrasal TCU: e.g. \"In the basket\", \"out of here\"\n3. Clausal TCU: e.g. \"When I am free\", \"If I got the job\"\n4. Sentential TCU: e.g. \"I am working on my thesis\", \"He has got my car\"\n\nA general rule to identify a TCU would be to look for a possible completion in an ongoing utterance. There are three criteria to determine what constitutes a TCU:\n1. Intonationally Complete: This means the utterance is at a possible point of completion with the hint of a falling tone, signaling the possible ending of the utterance.\n2. Grammatically Complete: This means the utterance is at a possible point of completion with a hint of its syntactic completeness, i.e. it signals the end of a sentence in terms of its grammatical structure.\n3. Pragmatically Complete: This means the utterance is seen to have possibly accomplished its purpose in response to the situation during a conversation. For example, the utterance \"She is really\" can be seen as pragmatically complete in response to the exclamation, \"That girl is really pretty!\", in the sense that it functions as an agreement to the previous comment.\n\nScholars in the field of conversation analysis have debated over the relative significance of the above three criteria as signifiers of the end of an utterance. There are, however, no conclusive answer to the discussion, and one can classify a TCU as such when observing either one (or more) of the above features.\n\nTransition Relevance Place (or TRP) is a point of possible completion (or potential end) of an utterance (hence a TCU) where speaker change is a possible next action.\n\nSacks H, Schegloff E A, Jefferson G. \"A simplest systematics for the organization of turn-taking for conversation.\" \"Language\" 50 (1974) pp. 696–735\n\n"}
{"id": "42959804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42959804", "title": "Two layer hypothesis", "text": "Two layer hypothesis\n\nThe 'Two Layer' Hypothesis, or immigration hypothesis, is an archaeological theory that suggests the human occupation of mainland Southeast Asia occurred over two distinct periods by two separate racial groups, hence the term 'layer'. According to the Two Layer Hypothesis, early indigenous Australo-Melanesian peoples comprised the first population of Southeast Asia before their genetic integration with a second wave of inhabitants from East Asia, including Southern China, during the agricultural expansion of the Neolithic.\nThe majority of evidence for the Two Layer Hypothesis consists of dental and morphometric analyses from archaeological sites throughout Southeast Asia, most prominently Thailand and Vietnam. The credibility of the Two Layer Hypothesis has been criticized due mainly to similarities between Southeast Asian and Chinese cranial and dental characteristics, excluding Australo-Melanesians.\n\nThe first fossilized skeletal remains and indication of early 'Proto-Australian' Southeast Asian inhabitants surfaced in 1920 during an excavation by Dubois on the island of Java. Despite this, a formal connection to mainland Southeast Asia and the suggestion of an initial population of Australomelanesoids was not suggested until 1952 by Koenigswald in his response to Hooijer, who sharply criticized the attribution of 'big toothed' dental remains to early Australo-Melanesians.\nThe immigration hypothesis proposed by Koenigswald was formally termed the 'Two Layer' model by Jacob Teuku. In 1967, Teuku analyzed the cranial and dental proportions of 152 adult skeletal samples recovered from prehistoric sites in Malaysia and Indonesia, the majority displaying robust jaws and teeth, prominent glabellae, and slender, elongated limbs. Teuku argued these characteristics correspond to the Australo-Melanesian population proposed by Koenigswald that predated the East Asian immigrants of the Neolithic; also suggesting the initial inhabitants were likely forced south of Southeast Asia's mainland by the second wave of migrants, due to resource competition or conflict.\n\nExcavations at Moh Khiew Cave resulted in the discovery of a Late Pleistocene female human skeleton, an AMS radiocarbon date on a charcoal sample that was gathered from the burial grave gave an age of 25,800 +/- 600 BP. Measurements such as the bimaxillary breadth, upper facial height, bicondylar breadth, mandibular length, nasal breadth and height, palatal height, and mandibular angle were compared from the cranial and dental area to other female human specimens from East Asia and the Southwest Pacific regions. Twelve measurements were used in total for the statistical comparison in addition to 14 buccolingual crown diameters of the maxillary and mandibular teeth. After a comparison was completed the closest sample to the Moh Khiew Cave sample is the Late Pleistocene Coobool Creek from Australia. The next closest sample is the modern Australian Aborigines. However, those from Flores, Vietnam, and Thailand are distant samples in comparison. This discovery suggests that the Moh Khiew Cave skeleton may have shared a common ancestor with Australian Aborigines and Melanesians and also supports the ‘Two Layer’ hypothesis.\n\nA study conducted in 2005, examined and compared permanent teeth from 4,002 individuals found in 42 prehistoric and historic samples throughout East Asia, Southeast Asia, Australia, and Melanesia. Metric dental traits were denoted by mesiodistal and buccolingual crown diameters. Measurements were taken as maximum diameters and male individuals were primarily measured because males generally have larger teeth and therefore show more differences. One culture that was prevalent during this time was the Đa Bút culture which occurred during 6000-5000 BP. The metric and nonmetric dental analyses of the Đa Bút resulted in one culture that are highly differentiated from the East Asians. A cluster analysis of the transformed Q-mode correlation coefficients of the dental crown measurements, showed a major cluster with Australo-Melanesians. Da But also has similarities with Australo-Melanesians in tooth size proportions and nonmetric traits. These close traits indicates a likeness with Australo-Melanesians.\n\nThe main controversy concerning the 'Two Layer' hypothesis is whether or not the evolutionary process truly involved the Australo-Melanesians. Archaeologists such as Matsumura suggest Southern Chinese people comprised the initial population of Southeast Asia, rather than Australo-Melanesians while researchers such as Turner argue that prehistoric Southeast Asians did not mix with either racial group.\nThough the early prehistoric Vietnamese and Malaysians both resembled the Australo-Melanesian samples the most, the Mán Bạc people had a greater resemblance to the Đông Sơn samples dating back to the Iron Age. Analyzing cranial and dental remains, Matsumura concluded based on chronological differences that the Mán Bạc people were immigrants affiliated with peoples near the Yangtze River region in Southern China. Molecular anthropologists have used classical genetic markers and mtDNA to analyze the similarities between early Chinese and Southeast Asians. Such genetic markers suggest the genetic layout of Southern Chinese peoples is quite similar to that of Southeast Asians.\n\nOther controversies completely reject the 'Two Layer' hypothesis. Using dental evidence, Turner’s Sundadont/Sinodont hypothesis suggests the “Sundadont” trait seen in present-day Southeast Asians is a result of long-standing continuity. Turner created a cluster analysis of MMD values in order to test existing hypotheses of origins, concluding that all Southeast Asians, Micronesians, Polynesians, and Jomonese form their own branch and descend from a common ancestor. The Australians and Melanesians, however, are scattered over the African and European branch along with a side branch of Tasmanians and Solomon Islanders. Howell analyzed crania of major racial branches worldwide, and linked Australian and Melanesian cranial morphology most closely with African cranials. Howell discovered, however, that the size and features of present-day Asian cranial morphology differed significantly from that of Australians, Melanesians, and Africans.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52368113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52368113", "title": "Voyant Tools", "text": "Voyant Tools\n\nVoyant Tools is an open-source, web-based application for performing text analysis. It supports scholarly reading and interpretation of texts or corpus, particularly by scholars in the digital humanities, but also by students and the general public. It can be used to analyze online texts or ones uploaded by users. Voyant has a large, international user base: in October 2016 alone, Voyant's main server had 81,686 page views originating from 156 countries, invoking the tool 1,173,252 times.\n\nVoyant \"was conceived to enhance reading through lightweight text analytics such as word frequency lists, frequency distribution plots, and KWIC displays.\" Its interface is composed of panels which perform these varied analytical tasks. These panels can also be embedded in external web texts (e.g. a web article could include a Voyant panel that creates a word cloud from it). The book \"Hermeneutica: Computer-Assisted Interpretation in the Humanities\" demonstrates different approaches to text analysis using Voyant.\n\nVoyant Tools was developed by Stéfan Sinclair (McGill) and Geoffrey Rockwell (University of Alberta) and continues to be updated. It developed out of earlier text analysis tools including HyperPo, Taporware, and TACT. Contributors have included Andrew MacDonald, Cyril Briquet, Lisa Goddard,and Mark Turcato.\n\nResearchers have used Voyant Tools to analyze texts in a wide range of contexts including literature, language teaching, healthcare, and system architecture. Describing approaches to studying the internet using web scraping, Black has noted that \"the Voyant Tools project is an excellent source to learn about the kinds of data that humanists can extract from Internet sources because it already supports text extraction from webpages.\"\n\nA number of international digital humanities projects are running Voyant on their own servers. These include the French Huma-Num project, the Italian CNR ILC, and the German DARIAH-DE project.\n\n"}
