{"id": "24145723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24145723", "title": "2010 Arab Capital of Culture", "text": "2010 Arab Capital of Culture\n\nThe 2010 Arab Capital of Culture was chosen to be Doha, Qatar. The Arab Capital of Culture is an initiative undertaken by UNESCO, under the \"Cultural Capitals Program\" to promote and celebrate Arab culture and encourage cooperation in the Arab region. The Qatari government has begun preparations in many different fields including a US $82 million Cultural Village.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3167929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3167929", "title": "American Temperance Union", "text": "American Temperance Union\n\nA national temperance union called the American Society for the Promotion of Temperance was formed in Boston in 1826. Shortly thereafter, a second national temperance union was organized called the American Temperance Society, which grew to 2,200 known societies in several U.S. states, including 800 in New England, 917 in the Middle Atlantic states, 339 in the South, and 158 in the Northwest. In 1836 in a meeting in Saratoga, New York the two groups merge to form the American Temperance Union, introducing the principle of total abstinence or \"teetotalism\". Congregationalist minister John Marsh was a leading figure in the ATU, acting as Corresponding Secretary and editor of the \"Journal of the American Temperance Union\" from 1837 until its dissolution in 1866. \n\nThe official publication of the Union was the \"Journal of the American Temperance Union\". The Union and its publication were influential in promoting the temperance movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19088873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19088873", "title": "Boom! Boom! Boom!", "text": "Boom! Boom! Boom!\n\nBoom! Boom! Boom! is the second album by Kelley Deal 6000, released in 1997.\n\nAll tracks composed by Kelley Deal; except where indicted\n\n"}
{"id": "353663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353663", "title": "Climax (narrative)", "text": "Climax (narrative)\n\nThe climax (from the Greek word \"κλῖμαξ\", meaning \"staircase\" and \"ladder\") or turning point of a narrative work is its point of highest tension and drama, or it is the time when the action starts during which the solution is given. The climax of a story is a literary element.\n\nThe punch line of a joke is an analogy for the climax of a fictional narrative, though the absence of any falling action is an essential difference, which may reflect the nature of humor as opposed to the nature of drama.\n\nIn non-fictional narrative genres, even though the author does not have the same freedom to control the action and \"plot\" as in works of fiction, the selection of subject matter, degree of detail, and emphasis permit an author to create similar structures, i.e., to construct a dramatization.\n\nIn the play \"Hippolytus\", by the famous Greek playwright, Euripides, the climax arrives when Phaedra hears Hippolytus react badly because of her love for him. That is the moment that Aphrodite's curse is finally fulfilled, and it is the turning point of the play.\n\nAn anticlimax is a situation in a plot in which something which would appear to be difficult to solve is solved through something trivial. For example, destroying a heavily guarded facility would require advanced technology, teamwork, and weaponry for a climax, but for an anticlimax, it may just require pushing a red button which reads, \"Emergency Self-Destruct\", or simply filling out an eviction notice and destroying the building. A famous example is the ending of \"The War of the Worlds\", where amidst the chaos of the extraterrestrial takeover of planet Earth, the aliens are defeated by the most unexpected organism: the common cold virus. Another example could involve the protagonist faced with insurmountable odds and ultimately being killed without accomplishing his goal, despite what appears to be a turning point for the character.\n\n"}
{"id": "15637607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15637607", "title": "Cultural depictions of Anne, Queen of Great Britain", "text": "Cultural depictions of Anne, Queen of Great Britain\n\nAnne, Queen of Great Britain, is depicted in novels, film and television.\n\nAnne is played by Margaret Tyzack in the 1969 BBC television serial \"The First Churchills\". Elizabeth Spriggs portrayed her in the 2004 BBC drama documentary \"\". In the 1984 comedy \"Yellowbeard\" she was played by Peter Bull (in his last film role) as a fat, senile woman, dominated by Sarah Churchill. \n\nAnne is a character in the novel \"The Man Who Laughs\" by Victor Hugo, and was portrayed on screen by Anna Kallina in the 1921 Austrian silent adaptation \"The Grinning Face\" and by Josephine Crowell in the 1928 silent adaptation. She is also a character in the play \"Le Verre d'eau\" by Eugène Scribe; Gunnel Lindblom portrayed her in the 1960 Swedish TV adaptation \"Ett Glas vatten\", Liselotte Pulver in the 1960 West German film adaptation \"Das Glas Wasser\", Judit Halász in the 1977 Hungarian TV adaptation \"Sakk-matt\", and Natalya Belokhvostikova in the 1979 Soviet film adaptation \"Stakan vody\" (Стакан воды).\n\nThe titular play \"Queen Anne\", written by the playwright Helen Edmundson, dramatizes the relationship between Anne and Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough, as well as the court politics and succession issues of Anne's court. It was first produced by the Royal Shakespeare Company at the Swan Theatre, Stratford-upon-Avon between November, 2015 and January, 2016, before opening at the Theatre Royal, Haymarket in London, where it ran between June and September 2017.\n\nQueen Anne is portrayed by actress Olivia Colman in the 2018 film \"The Favourite\", which centers on the competition for the queen's affection between the Duchess of Marlborough and Abigail Masham, Baroness Masham.\n"}
{"id": "3495591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3495591", "title": "Cultural encoding", "text": "Cultural encoding\n\nCultural encoding is a process in which a website or related node is \"encoded\" with the language, symbols, or representative styles of particular culture or subculture. \"Encoding\" refers to the digital processes that make the representative culture of the site self-evident.\n\nFor example, interpunk.com uses punk iconography including a mohawk icon, fonts, and a do it yourself interface for selling music that cleary establishes the punk identity of the site.\n"}
{"id": "26166967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26166967", "title": "Cultural jet lag", "text": "Cultural jet lag\n\nThe expression cultural jet lag (or cultural jetlag) was first coined by Marc Perraud during his research into cross-cultural psychology. He describes the expression as the \"phenomenon of partial socialization in adults born from bi-cultural/national unions and whose childhood was characterized by nomadic displacement during key personality developmental stages\". \"Jet\" symbolically designates international travel as the cause, \"cultural lag\" the resulting disconnect observed in these patients.\n\nOriginally the author used the expressions \"social jet lag\" and \"cultural jet lag\" interchangeably, however the expression \"social jet lag\" has since more widely become associated with an unrelated delayed sleep phase syndrome and cultural jet lag has therefore become the conventional term. Cultural jet lag is sometimes just referred to by its initials: CJL. During some of the presentations of his research, Marc Perraud also coined the term \"cultural schizophrenia\" to explain the elements of confusion in children constantly exposed to changing cultural and moral environments. This expression is to be seen only as an attempt at vulgarization using popular imagery and does not refer to the actual accepted psychological definition, diagnosis or symptoms of clinical schizophrenia. \n\nIncidentally, the expression cultural jet lag was also used in the 1980s as a title for a comic strip , that focused on providing social commentary in the United States (featured in the \"Humor Times\"). This title reflects the notions of distance between the author and the subject of his cultural satire but does not reflect the literal and total connotations of the definition cited prior. (disambiguation)\n\nCultural jet lag refers to the feeling of disconnect that Third Culture Kids (TCKs), as they have now become known, experience in relation to any culture, including the ones from which they stem. This disconnect, also present in Adult Third Culture Kids (ATCKs), applies to all the cultures to which they are/were exposed, whether it be their parents' cultures or those to which they were exposed during their upbringing through international travel.\n\nThird Culture Kids, those that were brought between countries, and in a bi-cultural environment, also referred to as global nomads, typically experience varying degrees of cultural jet lag. While they exhibit high levels of cross-cultural competence (3C)—in that they are in tune with the different cultures between which they grew up, sometimes illustrating more astute understanding than mono-cultured counterparts because of their multiple referential points—they generally have the feeling that they remain outside the culture, looking in. They do not experience the same drives, desires and constraints as other non-TCK members of their cultures and feel like constant spectators to any visceral dynamic (patriotism, identification, national pride, duty, allegiance, sports fan, political involvement etc.)\n\nCultural jet lag drives a disconnect that can have varying levels of sociability impact on the TCK depending on their character and their support structures (friends and family in particular). Research done at scenyc , a company that regroups one of the largest concentration of TCKs (90% of employees), has shown that:\n\nCultural jet lag is sometimes confused with several apparently close but dissimilar cross-cultural phenomena:\n\nSome high level research has been done on the Third Culture Kids . However this research has primarily described attributes, anecdotes and summarized basic behavioral/sociological observations. While the serious study of the psychological mechanisms and impacts of cultural jet lag is still in its infancy, it has been brought to the forefront because of the impact globalization has had on the number of children and future adults that will experience CJL.\n\nResearch currently underway is testing the postulate that cultural jet lag stems from an atypical crystallization of the super-ego during the child developmental phases. While typical children inherit morals and values first from their parents and then from their environments in a second stage, culturally jet lagged children, devoid of a single moral and cultural referential in their environment, later develop an overstated role of id in their ego balance (referring to Freudian theory).\n\nStatistical research is also underway to identify the psychological impacts of CJL, in particular the:\n"}
{"id": "54943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54943", "title": "Cultural relativism", "text": "Cultural relativism\n\nCultural relativism is the idea that a person's beliefs, values, and practices should be understood based on that person's own culture, rather than be judged against the criteria of another.\n\nIt was established as axiomatic in anthropological research by Franz Boas in the first few decades of the 20th century and later popularized by his students. Boas first articulated the idea in 1887: \"civilization is not something absolute, but ... is relative, and ... our ideas and conceptions are true only so far as our civilization goes\". However, Boas did not coin the term. \n\nThe first use of the term recorded in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" was by philosopher and social theorist Alain Locke in 1924 to describe Robert Lowie's \"extreme cultural relativism\", found in the latter's 1917 book \"Culture and Ethnology\". The term became common among anthropologists after Boas' death in 1942, to express their synthesis of a number of ideas Boas had developed. Boas believed that the sweep of cultures, to be found in connection with any sub species, is so vast and pervasive that there cannot be a relationship between culture and race. Cultural relativism involves specific epistemological and methodological claims. Whether or not these claims necessitate a specific ethical stance is a matter of debate. This principle should not be confused with moral relativism.\n\nHerodotus (\"Histories\" 3.38) observes on the relativity of mores (νόμοι):\nHe mentions an anecdote of Darius the Great who illustrated the principle by inquiring about the funeral customs of the Greeks and the Callatiae, peoples from the extreme western and eastern fringes of his empire, respectively. They practiced cremation and funerary cannibalism, respectively, and were each dismayed and abhorred at the proposition of the other tribe's practices.\n\nThe epistemological claims that led to the development of cultural relativism have their origins in the German Enlightenment. The philosopher Immanuel Kant argued that human beings are not capable of direct, unmediated knowledge of the world. All of our experiences of the world are mediated through the human mind, which universally structures perceptions according to \"a priori\" concepts of time and space.\n\nAlthough Kant considered these mediating structures universal, his student Johann Gottfried Herder argued that human creativity, evidenced by the great variety in national cultures, revealed that human experience was mediated not only by universal structures, but by particular cultural structures as well. The philosopher and linguist Wilhelm von Humboldt called for an anthropology that would synthesize Kant and Herder's ideas.\n\nAlthough Herder focused on the positive value of cultural variety, the sociologist William Graham Sumner called attention to the fact that one's culture can limit one's perceptions. He called this principle ethnocentrism, the viewpoint that \"one's own group is the center of everything\", against which all other groups are judged.\n\nAccording to George Marcus, Michael Fischer, and Sam Bohart,\n\nCultural relativism was in part a response to Western ethnocentrism. Ethnocentrism may take obvious forms, in which one consciously believes that one's people's arts are the most beautiful, values the most virtuous, and beliefs the most truthful. Franz Boas, originally trained in physics and geography, and heavily influenced by the thought of Kant, Herder, and von Humboldt, argued that one's culture may mediate and thus limit one's perceptions in less obvious ways. He understood \"culture\" to include not only certain tastes in food, art, and music, or beliefs about religion. He assumed a much broader notion of culture, defined as\n\nThis view of culture confronts anthropologists with two problems: first, how to escape the unconscious bonds of one's own culture, which inevitably bias our perceptions of and reactions to the world, and second, how to make sense of an unfamiliar culture. The principle of cultural relativism thus forced anthropologists to develop innovative methods and heuristic strategies.\n\nBetween World War I and World War II, \"cultural relativism\" was the central tool for American anthropologists in this rejection of Western claims to universality, and salvage of non-Western cultures. It functioned to transform Boas' epistemology into methodological lessons.\n\nThis is most obvious in the case of language. Although language is commonly thought of as a means of communication, Boas called attention especially to the idea that it is also a means of categorizing experiences, hypothesizing that the existence of different languages suggests that people categorize, and thus experience, language differently (this view was more fully developed in the hypothesis of Linguistic relativity).\n\nThus, although all people perceive visible radiation the same way, in terms of a continuum of color, people who speak different languages slice up this continuum into discrete colors in different ways. Some languages have no word that corresponds to the English word \"green\". When people who speak such languages are shown a green chip, some identify it using their word for blue, others identify it using their word for yellow. Thus, Boas's student Melville Herskovits summed up the principle of cultural relativism thus: \"Judgements are based on experience, and experience is interpreted by each individual in terms of his own enculturation.\"\n\nBoas pointed out that scientists grow up and work in a particular culture, and are thus necessarily ethnocentric. He provided an example of this in his 1889 article, \"On Alternating Sounds\" A number of linguists at Boas' time had observed that speakers of some Native American languages pronounced the same word with different sounds indiscriminately. They thought that this meant that the languages were unorganized and lacked strict rules for pronunciation, and they took it as evidence that the languages were more primitive than their own. Boas however noted that the variant pronunciations were not an effect of lack of organization of sound patterns, but an effect of the fact that these languages organized sounds differently from English. The languages grouped sounds that were considered distinct in English into a single sound, but also having contrasts that did not exist in English. He then argued the case that Native Americans had been pronouncing the word in question the same way, consistently, and the variation was only perceived by someone whose own language distinguishes those two sounds. Boas's student, the linguist Edward Sapir later noted that also English speakers pronounce sounds differently even when they think they are pronouncing the same sound, for example few English speakers realize that the sounds written with the letter in the words \"tick\" and \"stick\" are phonetically different, the first being generally affricated and the other aspirated – a speaker of a language where this contrast is meaningful would instantly perceive them as different sounds and tend not to see them as different realizations of a single phoneme.\n\nBoas's students drew not only on his engagement with German philosophy. They also engaged the work of contemporary philosophers and scientists, such as Karl Pearson, Ernst Mach, Henri Poincaré, William James and John Dewey in an attempt to move, in the words of Boas's student Robert Lowie, from \"a naively metaphysical to an epistemological stage\" as a basis for revising the methods and theories of anthropology.\n\nBoas and his students realized that if they were to conduct scientific research in other cultures, they would need to employ methods that would help them escape the limits of their own ethnocentrism. One such method is that of ethnography: basically, they advocated living with people of another culture for an extended period of time, so that they could learn the local language and be enculturated, at least partially, into that culture.\n\nIn this context, cultural relativism is an attitude that is of fundamental methodological importance, because it calls attention to the importance of the local context in understanding the meaning of particular human beliefs and activities. Thus, in 1948 Virginia Heyer wrote, \"Cultural relativity, to phrase it in starkest abstraction, states the relativity of the part to the whole. The part gains its cultural significance by its place in the whole, and cannot retain its integrity in a different situation.\"\n\nAnother method was ethnology: to compare and contrast as wide a range of cultures as possible, in a systematic and even-handed manner. In the late nineteenth century, this study occurred primarily through the display of material artifacts in museums. Curators typically assumed that similar causes produce similar effects; therefore, in order to understand the causes of human action, they grouped similar artifacts together – regardless of provenance. Their aim was to classify artifacts, like biological organisms, according to families, genera, and species. Thus organized museum displays would illustrate the evolution of civilization from its crudest to its most refined forms.\n\nIn an article in the journal \"Science\", Boas argued that this approach to cultural evolution ignored one of Charles Darwin's main contributions to evolutionary theory:\n\nBoas argued that although similar causes produce similar effects, different causes may also produce similar effects. Consequently, similar artifacts found in distinct and distant places may be the products of distinct causes. Against the popular method of drawing analogies in order to reach generalizations, Boas argued in favor of an inductive method. Based on his critique of contemporary museum displays, Boas concluded:\n\nBoas's student Alfred Kroeber described the rise of the relativist perspective thus:\n\nThis conception of culture, and principle of cultural relativism, were for Kroeber and his colleagues the fundamental contribution of anthropology, and what distinguished anthropology from similar disciplines such as sociology and psychology.\n\nRuth Benedict, another of Boas's students, also argued that an appreciation of the importance of culture and the problem of ethnocentrism demands that the scientist adopt cultural relativism as a method. Her book, \"Patterns of Culture\", did much to popularize the term in the United States. In it, she explained that:\n\nBenedict was adamant that she was not romanticizing so-called primitive societies; she was emphasizing that any understanding of the totality of humanity must be based on as wide and varied a sample of individual cultures as possible. Moreover, it is only by appreciating a culture that is profoundly different from our own, that we can realize the extent to which our own beliefs and activities are culture-bound, rather than natural or universal. In this context, cultural relativism is a heuristic device of fundamental importance because it calls attention to the importance of variation in any sample that is used to derive generalizations about humanity.\n\nMarcus and Fischer's attention to anthropology's refusal to accept Western culture's claims to universality implies that cultural relativism is a tool not only in cultural understanding, but in cultural critique. This points to the second front on which they believe anthropology offers people enlightenment:\n\nThe critical function of cultural relativism is widely understood; philosopher John Cook observed that \"It is aimed at getting people to admit that although it may \"seem\" to them that their moral principles are self-evidently true, and hence \"seem\" to be grounds for passing judgement on other peoples, in fact, the self-evidence of these principles is a kind of illusion.\" Although Cook is misconstruing cultural relativism to be identical to moral relativism, his point still applies to the broader understanding of the term. Relativism does not mean that one's views are false, but it does mean that it is false to claim that one's views are self-evident.\n\nThe critical function was indeed one of the ends to which Benedict hoped her own work would meet. The most famous use of cultural relativism as a means of cultural critique is Margaret Mead's dissertation research (under Boas) of adolescent female sexuality in Samoa. By contrasting the ease and freedom enjoyed by Samoan teenagers, Mead called into question claims that the stress and rebelliousness that characterize American adolescence is natural and inevitable.\n\nAs Marcus and Fischer point out, however, this use of relativism can be sustained only if there is ethnographic research in the United States comparable to the research conducted in Samoa. Although every decade has witnessed anthropologists conducting research in the United States, the very principles of relativism have led most anthropologists to conduct research in foreign countries.\n\nAccording to Marcus and Fischer, when the principle of cultural relativism was popularized after World War II, it came to be understood \"more as a doctrine, or position, than as a method\". As a consequence, people misinterpreted cultural relativism to mean that all cultures are both separate and equal, and that all value systems, however different, are equally valid. Thus, people came to use the phrase \"cultural relativism\" erroneously to signify \"moral relativism\".\n\nPeople generally understand moral relativism to mean that there are no absolute or universal moral standards. The nature of anthropological research lends itself to the search for universal standards (standards found in all societies), but not necessarily absolute standards; nevertheless, people often confuse the two. In 1944 Clyde Kluckhohn (who studied at Harvard, but who admired and worked with Boas and his students) attempted to address this issue:\n\nAlthough Kluckholn was using language that was popular at the time (e.g. \"savage tribe\") but which is now considered antiquated and coarse by most anthropologists, his point was that although moral standards are rooted in one's culture, anthropological research reveals that the fact that people have moral standards is a universal. He was especially interested in deriving specific moral standards that are universal, although few if any anthropologists think that he was successful.\n\nThere is an ambiguity in Kluckhohn's formulation that would haunt anthropologists in the years to come. It makes it clear that one's moral standards make sense in terms of one's culture. He waffles, however, on whether the moral standards of one society could be applied to another. Four years later American anthropologists had to confront this issue head-on.\n\nIt was James Lawrence Wray-Miller who provided an additional clarification tool, or caveat as some would call it, of cultural relativism's theoretical underpinnings by dividing it into two binary, analytical continuums: vertical and horizontal cultural relativism. Ultimately, these two analytical continuums share the same basic conclusion: that human morality and ethics are not static but fluid and vary across cultures depending on the time period and current condition of any particular culture. \n\nVertical relativism describes that cultures, throughout history (\"vertical\" meaning passage through past and future), are products of the prevailing societal norms and conditions of their respective historical periods. Therefore, any moral or ethical judgments, made during the present, regarding past cultures' belief systems or societal practices must be firmly\ngrounded and informed by these norms and conditions to be intellectually useful. Vertical relativism also accounts for the possibility that cultural values and norms will necessarily change as influencing norms and conditions change in the future.\n\nHorizontal relativism describes that cultures in the present (\"horizontal\" in time – meaning the present period of the culture) are products of the prevailing norms and conditions developed as a result of their unique geographies, histories, and environmental influences. Therefore, moral or\nethical judgments, made during the present, regarding a current culture's belief system or societal practices must account for these unique differences to be intellectually useful.\n\nThe transformation of cultural relativism as a heuristic tool into the doctrine of moral relativism occurred in the context of the work of the Commission of Human Rights of the United Nations in preparing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nMelville Herskovits prepared a draft \"Statement on Human Rights\" which Executive Board of the American Anthropological Association revised, submitted to the Commission on Human Rights, and then published. The statement begins with a fairly straightforward explanation of the relevance of cultural relativism:\nAlthough this statement could be read as making a procedural point (that the Commission must involve people of diverse cultures, especially cultures that had been or are still under European colonial or imperial domination), the document ended by making two substantive claims:\n\nThese claims provoked an immediate response by a number of anthropologists. Julian Steward (who, as a student of Alfred Kroeber and Robert Lowie, and as a professor at Columbia University, was situated firmly in the Boasian lineage) suggested that the first claim \"may have been a loophole to exclude Germany from the advocated tolerance\", but that it revealed the fundamental flaw in moral relativism: \"Either we tolerate everything, and keep hands off, or we fight intolerance and conquest – political and economic as well as military – in all their forms.\" Similarly, he questioned whether the second principle means that anthropologists \"approve the social caste system of India, the racial caste system of the United States, or many other varieties of social discrimination in the world\". Steward and others argued that any attempt to apply the principle of cultural relativism to moral problems would only end in contradiction: either a principle that seems to stand for tolerance ends up being used to excuse intolerance, or the principle of tolerance is revealed to be utterly intolerant of any society that seems to lack the (arguably, Western) value of tolerance. They concluded that anthropologists must stick to science, and engage in debates over values only as individuals.\n\nThe debates over the Statement on Human Rights, then, was not merely over the validity of cultural relativism, or the question of what makes a right universal. It forced anthropologists to confront the question of whether anthropological research is relevant to non-anthropologists. Although Steward and Barnett seemed to be suggesting that anthropology as such should restrict itself to purely academic affairs, people within and without the academy have continued to debate the ways non-anthropologists have used this principle in public policy concerning ethnic minorities or in international relations.\n\nPolitical scientist Alison Dundes Renteln has argued that most debates over moral relativism misunderstand the importance of cultural relativism. Most philosophers understand the Benedictine–Herskovitz formulation of cultural relativism to mean\n\nAlthough this formulation clearly echoes the kinds of example anthropologists used in elaborating cultural relativism, Renteln believes that it misses the spirit of the principle. Accordingly, she supports a different formulation: \"there are or can be no value judgements that are true, that is, objectively justifiable, independent of specific cultures\".\n\nRenteln faults philosophers for disregarding the heuristic and critical functions of cultural relativism. Her main argument is that in order to understand the principle of cultural relativism, one must recognize the extent to which it is based on enculturation: \"the idea that people unconsciously acquire the categories and standards of their culture\". This observation, which echoes the arguments about culture that originally led Boas to develop the principle, suggests that the use of cultural relativism in debates of rights and morals is not substantive but procedural. That is, it does not require a relativist to sacrifice his or her values. But it does require anyone engaged in a consideration of rights and morals to reflect on how their own enculturation has shaped their views:\n\nRenteln thus bridges the gap between the anthropologist as scientist (whom Steward and Barnett felt had nothing to offer debates on rights and morality) and as private individual (who has every right to make value judgements). The individual keeps this right, but the scientist requires that the individual acknowledge that these judgements are neither self-evident universals, nor entirely personal (and idiosyncratic), but rather took form in relation to the individual's own culture.\n\nBoas and his students understood anthropology to be a historical, or human science, in that it involves subjects (anthropologists) studying other subjects (humans and their activities), rather than subjects studying objects (such as rocks or stars). Under such conditions, it is fairly obvious that scientific research may have political consequences, and the Boasians saw no conflict between their scientific attempts to understand other cultures, and the political implications of critiquing their own culture. For anthropologists working in this tradition, the doctrine of cultural relativism as a basis for moral relativism was anathema. For politicians, moralists, and many social scientists (but few anthropologists) who saw science and human interests as necessarily independent or even opposed, however, the earlier Boasian principle of cultural relativism was anathema. Thus, cultural relativism came under attack, but from opposing sides and for opposing reasons.\n\nOn the one hand, many anthropologists began to criticize the way moral relativism, in the guise of cultural relativism, is used to mask the effects of Western colonialism and imperialism. Thus, Stanley Diamond argued that when the term \"cultural relativism\" entered popular culture, popular culture coopted anthropology in a way that voided the principle of any critical function:\n\nGeorge Stocking summarized this view with the observation that \"Cultural relativism, which had buttressed the attack against racialism, [can] be perceived as a sort of neo-racialism justifying the backward techno-economic status of once colonized peoples.\"\n\nOn the other hand, the most common and popular criticisms of relativism come not from anthropologists like Stanley Diamond, but rather from political conservatives. By the 1980s many anthropologists had absorbed the Boasian critique of moral relativism, and were ready to reevaluate the origins and uses of cultural relativism. In a distinguished lecture before the American Anthropological Association in 1984, Clifford Geertz pointed out that the conservative critics of cultural relativism did not really understand, and were not really responding to, the ideas of Benedict, Herskovits, Kroeber and Kluckhohn. Consequently, the various critics and proponents of cultural relativism were talking past one another. What these different positions have in common, Geertz argued, is that they are all responding to the same thing: knowledge about other ways of life.\n\nGeertz concludes this discussion by commenting, \"As I have already suggested, I myself find provincialism altogether the more real concern so far as what actually goes on in the world.\"\n\nGeertz' defense of cultural relativism as a concern which should motivate various inquiries, rather than as an explanation or solution, echoed a comment Alfred Kroeber made in reply to earlier critics of cultural relativism, in 1949:\n\nSeveral nations have used cultural relativism as a justification for limiting the rights in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, despite the World Conference on Human Rights rejecting it as a refugee of human rights violations. A 2011 study by international legal expert Roger Lloret Blackburn, examining the Universal Periodic Reviews, distinguishes several different groups of nations. One group consists of nations where the current regime has been installed by revolution and that deny the need for political plurality: China, Vietnam, Myanmar, Cuba and Iran. Another group are certain Islamic nations that adhere to sharia and certain traditional practices: Yemen, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan. A third possible group is nations that give special rights to specific groups: Malaysia, Mexico, Indonesia, and Colombia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5069546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5069546", "title": "El Centro Cultural de Mexico", "text": "El Centro Cultural de Mexico\n\nEl Centro Cultural de Mexico is an alternative space in Santa Ana, Orange County, California, where the community can find cultural, educational, and artistic activities that strengthen their identities, develop their talents and develop a sense of leadership in their community.\n\nBy engaging Orange County residents and communities through community outreach efforts, it supports inter and intra-cultural interaction and dialogue among Orange County’s residents by creating a variety of programs which enables all people to explore their own heritage and culture. Through educational programming, which includes workshops in dance, music, art, and literacy, it promotes understanding and appreciation of the contributions of the many cultures in our region by sharing knowledge of Mexico’s rich cultural, and educational, and social legacy.\n\nIt seeks to be at the forefront of creating a strong ideological and cultural bridge to support bringing together a variety of cultural projects from Mexico and other parts of Central and South America.\n\nThe main goals of El Centro Cultural de Mexico are education, the promotion of cultural expression, community outreach, and transnational collaborations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33512760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33512760", "title": "Ethnic identity development", "text": "Ethnic identity development\n\nEthnic identity development or ethnic-racial identity (ERI) development includes the identity formation in an individual's self-categorization in, and psychological attachment to, (an) ethnic group(s). Ethnic identity is characterized as part of one’s overarching self-concept and identification. It is distinct from the development of ethnic group identities.\n\nWith some few exceptions, ethnic and racial identity development is associated positively with good psychological outcomes, psychosocial outcomes (e.g., better self-beliefs, less depressive symptoms), academic outcomes (e.g., better engagement in school), and health outcomes (e.g., less risk of risky sexual behavior or drug use).\n\nDevelopment of ethnic identity begins during adolescence but is described as a process of the construction of identity over time due to a combination of experience and actions of the individual and includes gaining knowledge and understanding of in-group(s), as well as a sense of belonging to (an) ethnic group(s). It is important to note that given the vastly different histories of various racial groups, particularly in the United States, that ethnic and racial identity development looks very different between different groups, especially when looking at minority (e.g., Black American) compared to majority (e.g., White American) group comparisons.\n\nEthnic identity is sometimes interchanged with, held distinct from, or considered as overlapping with racial, cultural and even national identities. This disagreement in the distinction (or lack thereof) between these concepts may originate from the incongruity of definitions of race and ethnicity, as well as the historic conceptualization of models and research surrounding ethnic and racial identity. Research on racial identity development emerged from the experiences of African Americans during the civil rights movement, however expanded over time to include the experiences of other racial groups. The concept of racial identity is often misunderstood and can have several meanings which are derived from biological dimensions and social dimensions. Race is socially understood to be derived from an individual's physical features, such as white or black skin tone. The social construction of racial identity can be referred as a sense of group or collective identity based on one's perception that he or she shares a common heritage with a particular racial group. Racial identity is a surface-level manifestation based on what people look like yet has deep implications in how people are treated.\n\nGenerally, group level processes of ethnic identity have been explored by social science disciplines, including sociology and anthropology. In contrast, ethnic identity research within psychology usually focuses on the individual and interpersonal processes. Within psychology, ethnic identity is typically studied by social, developmental and cross-cultural psychologists.\nModels of ethnic development emerged both social and developmental psychology, with different theoretical roots.\n\nEthnic identity emerged in social psychology out of social identity theory. Social identity theory posits that belonging to social groups (e.g. religious groups or occupational groups) serves an important basis for one’s identity. Membership in a group(s), as well as one’s value and emotional significance attached to this membership, is an important part of one’s self-concept. One of the earliest statements of social identity was made by Kurt Lewin, who\nemphasized that individuals need a firm sense of group identification\nin order to maintain a sense of well-being. Social identity theory emphasizes a need to maintain a positive sense of self. Therefore in respect to ethnic identity, this underscores affirmation to and salience of ethnic group membership(s). In light of this, affirmation of ethnicity has been proposed to be more salient among groups who have faced greater discrimination, in order to maintain self-esteem. There has also been research on family influences, such as cultural values of the family. Also, specific aspects of parenting, such as their racial socialization of youth, can contribute to the socialization of adolescents.\n\nRelatedly, collective identity is an overarching framework for different types of identity development, emphasizing the multidimensionality of group membership. Part of collective identity includes positioning oneself psychologically in a group to which you share some characteristic(s). This positioning does not require individuals to have direct contact with all members of the group. The collective identity framework has been related to ethnic identity development, particularly in recognizing the importance of personal identification of ethnicity through categorical membership. Collective identity also includes evaluation of one’s category. This affective dimension is related to the importance of commitment and attachment toward one’s ethnic group(s). A behavioral component of collective identity recognizes that individuals reflect group membership through individual actions, such as language usage, in respect to ethnic identity.\n\nIdentity becomes especially salient during adolescence as recognized by Erik Erikson’s stage theory of psychosocial development. An individual faces a specific developmental crisis at each stage of development. In adolescence, identity search and development are critical tasks during what is termed the ‘Identity versus Role-confusion’ stage.\n\nAchievement of this stage ultimately leads to a stable sense of self. The idea of an achieved identity includes reconciling identities imposed on oneself with one’s need to assert control and seek out an identity that brings satisfaction, feelings of industry and competence. In contrast, identity confusion occurs when individuals fail to achieve a secure identity, and lack clarity about their role in life.\n\nJames Marcia elaborated on Erik Erikson’s model to include identity formation in a variety of life domains. Marcia’s focus of identity formation includes two processes which can be applied to ethnic identity development: an exploration of identity and a commitment. Marcia defines four identity statuses which combines the presence or absence of the processes of exploration and commitment: Identity diffusion (not engaged in exploration or commitment), identity foreclosure (a lack of exploration, yet committed), moratorium (process of exploration without having made a commitment), and identity achievement (exploration and commitment of identity).\n\nResearchers believe and have frequently reported that older individuals are more likely to be in an achieved identity status than younger people. Evidence shows that increasing age and a wide range of life experiences helps individuals develop cognitive skills. This combination of age, life experiences, and improved cognitive skills helps adolescents and young adults find their authentic selves. Adolescents with strong commitments to their ethnic identities also tend to explore these identities more than their peers.\n\nWhile children in early to middle childhood develop the ability to categorize themselves and others using racial and ethnic labels, it is largely during adolescence that ethnic and racial identity develops. Adriana J. Umaña-Taylor and colleagues write about the following concepts as playing key roles during this stage:\n\nCognitive milestones include: abstract thinking, introspection, metacognition, and further development of social-cognitive abilities.\n\nPhysiological changes include puberty and development of body image\n\nSocial and environmental context includes: family, peers, social demands and transitions, navigating an expanding world, and media\n\nERI components about process: \n\nERI components about content: \n\nJean Phinney’s model of ethnic identity development is a multidimensional model, with theoretical underpinnings of both Erikson and Marcia. In line with Erikson's identity formation, Phinney focuses on the adolescent, acknowledging significant changes during this time period, including greater abilities in cognition to contemplate ethnic identity, as well as a broader exposure outside of their own community, a greater focus on one's social life, and an increased concern for physical appearance.\n\nPhinney's Three Stage Progression: \nBroadly, socialization in the context of ethnic identity development refers to the acquisition of behaviors, perceptions, values, and attitudes of an ethnic group(s). This process recognizes that feelings about one’s ethnic group(s) can be influenced by family, peers, community, and larger society. These contextual systems or networks of influence delineate from ecological systems theory. These systems influence children’s feelings of belonging and overall affect toward ethnic group(s). Children may internalize both positive and negative messages and therefore hold conflicting feelings about ethnicity. Socialization highlights how early experiences for children are considered crucial in regards to their ethnic identity development.\n\n\nMore recently, Phinney has focused on the continuous dimensions of one's exploration and commitment to one's ethnic group(s), rather than on distinct identity statuses.\n\nResearch reveals ethnic identity development is related to psychological well-being. Ethnic identity has been linked with positive self-evaluation and self-esteem. Ethnic identity development has also been shown to serve as a buffer between perceived discrimination and depression.\nSpecifically, commitment of an ethnic identity may help to abate depressive symptoms experienced soon after experiencing discrimination, which in turn alleviates overall stress. Researchers posit commitment to an ethnic identity group(s) is related to additional resources accumulated through the exploration process, including social support. \nEthnic identity development has been linked to happiness and decreased anxiety. Specifically, regard for one’s ethnic group may buffer normative stress. Numerous studies show many positive outcomes associated with strong and stable ethnic identities, including increased self-esteem, improved mental health, decreased self-destructive behaviors, and greater academic achievement. In contrast, empirical evidence suggests that ethnic identity exploration may be related to vulnerability to negative outcomes, such as depression. Findings suggest this is due to an individual’s sensitivity to awareness of discrimination and conflicts of positive and negative images of ethnicity during exploration. Also, while commitment to an ethnic group(s) is related to additional resources, exploration is related to a lack of ready-access resources.\n\nStudies have found that in terms of family cohesion, the closer adolescents felt to their parents, the more they reported feeling connected to their ethnic group. Given the family is a key source of ethnic socialization, closeness with the family may highly overlap with closeness with one’s ethnic group. Resources like family cohesion, proportion of same-ethnic peers, and ethnic centrality act as correlates of within-person change in ethnic identity, but it is only on the individual level and not as adolescents as a group.\n\nEthnic identity development has been conceptualized and researched primarily within the United States. Due to the fact the individuals studied are typically from the United States, it may not be appropriate to extend findings or models to individuals in other countries. Some research has been conducted outside of the United States, however a majority of these studies were in Europe or countries settled by Europeans.\n\nFurther, researchers also suggest that racial and ethnic identity development must be viewed, studied, and considered alongside the other normative developmental processes (e.g., gender identity development) and cannot be considered in a vacuum - racial and ethnic identity exist in particular contexts.\nResearch considers some studies of ethnic developments cross-sectional in design. This type of design pales in comparison to longitudinal design whose topic of investigation is developmental in nature. This is because cross-sectional studies collect data at or around the same time from multiple individuals of different ages of interest, instead of collecting data over multiple time points for each individual in the study, which would allow the researcher to compare change for individuals over time, as well as differences between individuals.\n\nAnother research consideration in the field is why certain ethnic and racial groups are looking towards their own expanding community for mates instead of continuing interracial marriages. An article in \"The New York Times\" explained that Asian-American couples have been kicking the trend and finding Asian mates because it gives them resurgence of interest in language and ancestral traditions. Further research can be found and explored throughout the many different racial and ethnic groups.\n\nSome researchers question the number of dimensions of ethnic identity development. For example, some measures of ethnic identity development include measures of behaviors, such as eating ethnic food or participating in customs specific to an ethnic group. One argument is that while behaviors oftentimes express identity, and are typically correlated with identity, ethnic identity is an internal structure that can exist without behavior. It has been suggested one can be clear and confident about one's ethnicity, without wanting to maintain customs. Others have found evidence of a behavioral component of ethnic identity development, separate from cognition and affect, and pertaining to one's ethnic identity.\n\nEthnic identity development points toward the importance of allowing an individual to self-identify ethnicity during data collection. This method helps us collect the most accurate and relevant information about the subjective identification of the participant, and can be useful in particular with respect to research with multiethnic individuals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2792751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2792751", "title": "Ethnogenesis", "text": "Ethnogenesis\n\nEthnogenesis (from Greek \"ethnos\" , \"group of people, nation\", and \"genesis\" , \"beginning, coming into being\"; plural ethnogeneses) is \"the formation and development of an ethnic group.\" This can originate through a process of self-identification as well as come about as the result of outside identification.\n\nThe term is a mid-20th century neologism, refers to the observable phenomenon of emergence of new social groups that are identified as having a cohesive identity, i.e. an \"ethnic group\" in anthropological terms. Relevant sciences do not only observe this phenomenon but search for explanation of its causes. The term \"ethnogeny\" is also used as a variant of \"ethnogenesis\".\n\nEthnogenesis can occur passively, in the accumulation of markers of group identity forged through interaction with the physical environment, cultural and religious divisions between sections of a society, migrations and other processes, for which ethnic subdivision is an unintended outcome. It can occur actively, as persons deliberately and directly 'engineer' separate identities to attempt to solve a political problem – the preservation or imposition of certain cultural values, power relations, etc. Since the late eighteenth century, such attempts have often been related to language revival or creation of a new language, in what eventually becomes a \"national literature\".\n\nIn the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, societies challenged by the obsolescence of those narratives which previously afforded them coherence have fallen back on ethnic or racial narratives as a means of maintaining or reaffirming their collective identity, or \"polis\".\n\nEthnogenesis can be promoted to include or exclude any ethnic minority living within a certain country. In France, the integrationalist policy of the French Republic was inclusive; their laws stated all persons born or legally residing in France proper (including overseas departments and territories) were \"Frenchmen\". The law did not make any ethnic distinctions nor racial categories in between the \"French\" people. All people in France were Frenchmen and became citizens of the French Republic as far the country's law was concerned.\n\nLanguage has been a critical asset for authenticating ethnic identities. The process of reviving an antique ethnic identity often poses an immediate language challenge, as obsolescent languages lack expressions for contemporary experiences. In Europe in the 1990s, examples of proponents of ethnic revivals were from Celtic fringes in Wales and nationalists in the Basque Country. Activists' attempts since the 1970s to revive the Occitan language in Southern France are a similar example.\n\nSimilarly, in the 19th century, the Fennoman Grand Duchy of Finland aimed to raise the Finnish language from peasant-status to the position of an official national language, which had been only Swedish for some time. The Fennoman also founded the Finnish Party to pursue their nationalist aims. The publication in 1835 of the Finnish national epic, \"Kalevala\", was a founding stone of Finnish nationalism and ethnogenesis. Finnish was recognized as the official language of Finland only in 1892. Fennomans were opposed by the Svecomans, headed by Axel Olof Freudenthal (1836–1911). He supported continuing the use of Swedish as the official language; it had been a minority language used by the educated elite in government and administration. In line with contemporary scientific racism theories, Freudenthal believed that Finland had two \"races\", one speaking Swedish and the other Finnish. The Svecomans claimed that the Swedish \"Germanic race\" was superior to the majority Finnish people. In Ireland, revival of the Irish language was part of the reclaiming of Irish identity in the republic.\n\nLanguage has been an important and divisive political force in Belgium between the Dutch and Germanic Flemings and Franco-Celtic Walloons since the kingdom was created in 1831. Switzerland is divided among Alemannic German-speaking or \"Deutschschweizer\" against the French-speaking \"Romands\" or Arpitians, and the Italian/Lombard and Romansh-speaking minorities in the south and east.\n\nIn Italy, there were ethnological and linguistic differences between regional groups, from the Lombardians of the North to the Sicilians of the south. Mountainous terrain had allowed the development of relatively isolated communities and numerous dialects and languages before unification in the 19th century.\n\nThe set of cultural markers that accompanies each of the major religions may become a component of distinct ethnic identities, but they almost never exist in isolation. Ethnic definitions are subject to change over time, both within and outside groups. For example, 19th-century Europeans classified Jews and Arabs as one 'ethnic' bloc, the Semites or Hamites. Later, the term Hamites came to be associated with Sub-Saharan Africans instead.\n\nChristian, Jewish, Hindu and Muslim followers have historically been aligned with ethnicities (and later nations) speaking different languages and having different cultures that arise on the basis of the languages that followers of each religion historically favoured: (Latin and Greek, Hebrew, Sanskrit and Arabic, respectively). The sources of religious differentiation are contested among sociologists and among anthropologists, as much as between the faith groups themselves.\n\nThe line between a well-defined religious sect and a discrete ethnicity cannot always be sharply defined. Sects that most observers would accept as constituting a separate ethnicity usually have, as a minimum, a firm set of rules related to maintenance of endogamy, censuring those who 'marry out' or who fail to raise their children in the proper faith. Examples might include the Amish, Druze, Mormons, Sikhs, Yazidi and Zoroastrians\n\nGeographical factors can lead to both cultural and genetic isolation from larger human societies. Groups which settle remote habitats and intermarry over generations will acquire distinctive cultural and genetic traits, evolving from cultural continuity and through interaction with their unique environmental circumstances. Ethnogenesis in these circumstances typically results in an identity that is less value-laden than one forged in contradistinction to competing populations. Particularly in pastoral mountain peoples, social organization tends to hinge primarily on familial identification, not a wider collective identity.\n\nAnthony D. Smith notes that in general there is a lack of evidence which hampers the assessement of existence of nations or nationalisms in antiquity. The two cases where more evidence exists are those of ancient Greece and Israel. In Ancient Greece a cultural rather than political unity is observed. Yet, there were ethnic divisions within the wider Hellenic ethnic community, mainly the divisions between Ionians, Aeolians, Boeotians and Dorians. These groups were further divided into city-states. Smith postulates that there is no more than a semblance of nationalism in ancient Greece.\n\nJonathan M. Hall's work “Ethnic Identity in Greek Antiquity” (1997), was acclaimed as the first full-length modern study on Ancient Greek ethnicity. According to Hall, Ancient Greek ethnic identity was much based on kinship, descent and genealogy, which was reflected in elaborate genealogy myths. On his view, genealogy is the most fundamental way any population defines itself as an ethnic group. There was a change in the way Greeks constructed their ethnic identity in the Persian Wars period (first half of 5th c BC). Before that (archaic period) Greeks tended to attach themselves to one another by a process of genealogical assimilation. After the Persian invasion, they tended to define themselves against the enemy they perceived as the barbarian “other”. An indication of this disposition is the Athenians' speech to their allies in 480 BC, mentioning that all Hellenes are bound with the \"homaimon\" (“same blood”), \"homoglosson\" (same language) and common religious practices. Hall believes that Hellenic identity was clearly envisaged in the 6th c. BC as being ethnic in character, cultural forms of identification emerged in the 5th century, and there is evidence that by the 4th century this identity was conceived more in cultural terms.\n\nHerwig Wolfram offers \"a radically new explanation of the circumstances under which the Goths were settled in Gaul, Spain and Italy\". Since \"they dissolved at their downfall into a myth accessible to everyone\" at the head of a long history of attempts to lay claim to a \"Gothic\" tradition, the ethnogenesis by which disparate bands came to self-identify as \"Goths\" is of wide interest and application. The problem is in extracting a historical ethnography from sources that are resolutely Latin and Roman-oriented.\n\nWith the arrival of the Spanish in southwestern North America, the Native Americans of the Jumano cultural sphere underwent social changes partly in reaction, which spurred their ethnogenesis, Clayton Anderson has observed. Ethnogenesis in the Texas Plains and along the coast took two forms: a disadvantaged group identified with a stronger group and became absorbed into it, on the one hand, and on the other hand, cultural institutions were modified and in a sense reinvented. The 17th-century Jumano disintegration, a collapse in part by the widespread deaths from introduced diseases, was followed by their reintegration as Kiowa, Nancy Hickerson has argued. Exterior stresses that produced ethnogenetic shifts preceded the arrival of the Spanish and their horse culture: recurring cycles of drought had previously forced non-kin to band together or to disband and mobilize. Intertribal hostilities forced weaker groups to associate with stronger ones.\n\nFrom 1539 to 1543, a Spanish expedition led by Hernando de Soto departed Cuba for Florida and the American Southeast. Although asked to practice restraint, Soto led 600 men on a violent rampage through present-day Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, and East Texas. Frustrated with not finding gold or silver in the areas suspected to contain such valuable materials, they destroyed villages and decimated native populations. Despite his death in 1542, Soto's men continued their expedition until 1543 when about half of their original force reached Mexico. Their actions introduced European diseases that further weakened native populations. The population collapse forced natives to relocate from their cities into the countryside, where smaller villages and new political structures developed, replacing the older chiefdom models of tribal governance. By 1700, the major tribal settlements Soto and his men had encountered were no more. Smaller tribes began to form loose confederations of smaller, more autonomous villages. From that blending of many tribes, ethnogenesis led to the emergence of new ethnic groups and identities for the consolidated natives who had managed to survive the invasion of European people, animals, and diseases. After 1700, most North American Indian \"tribes\" were relatively new composite groups formed by these refugees who were trying to cope with massive epidemics and violence brought by the Europeans who were exploring the area.\n\nThe bringing of disease by the Europeans redistributed the indigenous communities and this caused a lot of war, disagreements (since they were going into each other's land and sacred areas), and a rise in mortality rates. Some Aboriginal groups were destroyed while some began to band together and create new Aboriginal groups within these areas of Canada.\n\nThe separate Moldovan ethnic identification was promoted under Soviet rule when the Soviet Union set up an autonomous Moldavian Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic in 1924. It was set apart from the Ukrainian SSR on part of the territory between the Dniester and Southern Bug rivers (Transnistria). The scholar Charles King concluded that this action was in part a prop to Soviet propaganda and help for a potential communist revolution in Romania. At first, a Moldovan ethnicity supported territorial claims to the then-Romanian territories of Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina. The claims were based on the fact that the territory of eastern Bessarabia with Chisinau had belonged to the Russian Empire between 1812 and 1918. After having been for 500 years part of the Romanian Principality of Moldova, Russia was awarded the East of Moldova as a recompensation for its losses during the Napoleonic Wars: that was the beginning of the 100 years Russian history in East Moldova. After the Soviet occupation of the two territories in 1940, potential reunification claims were offset by the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic. At the establishment of the Moldaivan ASSR, Chișinău was named its capital, a role which it continued to play after the formation of the Moldavian SSR in 1940.\n\nThe recognition of Moldovans as a separate ethnicity, distinct from Romanians, remains today a controversial subject. On one side, the Moldovan Parliament adopted in 2003 \"The Concept on National Policy of the Republic of Moldova\", which states that Moldovans and Romanians are two distinct peoples and speak two different languages, Romanians form an ethnic minority in Moldova, and the Republic of Moldova is the legitimate successor to the Principality of Moldavia. However, Moldovans are recognized as a distinct ethnic group only by former Soviet states.\n\nMoreover, in Romania, people from Wallachia and Transylvania call the Romanians inhabiting western Moldavia, now part of Romania, as Moldovans. People in Romanian Moldova call themselves Moldovans, as subethnic denomination, and Romanians, as ethnic denomination (like Kentish and English for English people living in Kent). Romanians from Romania call the Romanians of the Republic of Moldova Bessarabians, as identification inside the subethnic group, Moldovans as subethnic group and Romanians as ethnic group. The subethnic groups referred to here are historically connected to independent Principalities. The Principality of Moldavia/Moldova founded in 1349 had various extensions between 1349 and 1859 and comprised Bucovina and Bessarabia as regional subdivisions. That way, Romanians of southern Bukovina (today part of Romania and formerly part of the historical Moldova) are called Bukovinans, Moldovans and Romanians.\n\nIn the 2004 Moldovan Census, of the 3,383,332 people living in Moldova, 16.5% (558,508) chose Romanian as their mother tongue, and 60% chose Moldovan. While 40% of all urban Romanian/Moldovan speakers indicated Romanian as their mother tongue, in the countryside, barely one out of seven Romanian/Moldovan speakers indicated Romanian as his mother tongue.\n\nWithin the historical profession, the term \"ethnogenesis\" has been borrowed as a neologism to explain the origins and evolution of so-called barbarian ethnic cultures, stripped of its metaphoric connotations drawn from biology, of \"natural\" birth and growth. That view is closely associated with the Austrian historian Herwig Wolfram and his followers, who argued that such ethnicity was not a matter of genuine genetic descent (\"tribes\").\n\nRather, using Reinhard Wenskus' term \"Traditionskerne\" (\"nuclei of tradition\"), ethnogenesis arose from small groups of aristocratic warriors carrying ethnic traditions from place to place and generation to generation. Followers would coalesce or disband around these nuclei of tradition; ethnicities were available to those who wanted to participate in them with no requirement of being born into a \"tribe\". Thus, questions of race and place of origin became secondary.\n\nProponents of ethnogenesis may claim it is the only alternative to the sort of ethnocentric and nationalist scholarship that is commonly seen in disputes over the origins of many ancient peoples such as the Franks, Goths, and Huns. It has also been used as an alternative to the Near East's \"race history\" that had supported Phoenicianism and claims to the antiquity of the variously called Assyrian/Chaldean/Syriac peoples.\n\n"}
{"id": "4407985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4407985", "title": "Europe and the People Without History", "text": "Europe and the People Without History\n\nEurope and the People Without History is a book by anthropologist Eric Wolf. First published in 1982, it focuses on the expansion of European societies in the Modern Era. \"Europe and the people without history\" is history written on a global scale, tracing the connections between communities, regions, peoples and nations that are usually treated as discrete subjects.\n\nThe book begins in 1400 with a description of the trade routes a world traveller might have encountered, the people and societies they connected, and the civilizational processes trying to incorporate them. From this, Wolf traces the emergence of Europe as a global power, and the reorganization of particular world regions for the production of goods now meant for global consumption. Wolf differs from World Systems theory in that he sees the growth of Europe until the late eighteenth century operating in a tributary framework, and not capitalism. He examines the way that colonial state structures were created to protect tributary populations involved in the silver, fur and slave trades. Whole new \"tribes\" were created as they were incorporated into circuits of mercantile accumulation. The final section of the book deals with the transformation in these global networks as a result of the growth of capitalism with the industrial revolution. Factory production of textiles in England, for example transformed cotton production in the American south and Egypt, and eliminated textile production in India. All these transformations are connected in a single structural change. Each of the world's regions are examined in terms of the goods they produced in the global division of labour, as well as the mobilization and migration of whole populations (such as African slaves) to produce these goods. Wolf uses labor market segmentation to provide a historical account of the creation of ethnic segmentation. Where World Systems theory had little to say about the periphery, Wolf's emphasis is on the people \"without history\" (i.e. not given a voice in western histories) and on how they were active participants in the creation of new cultural and social forms emerging in the context of commercial empire.\n\nWolf distinguishes between three modes of production: capitalist, kin-ordered, and tributary. Wolf does not view them as an evolutionary sequence. He begins with capitalism because he argues our understanding of kin-ordered and tributary modes is coloured by our understanding of capitalism. He argues they are not evolutionary precursors of capitalism, but the product of the encounter between the West and the Rest. In the tributary mode, direct producers possess their own means of production, but their surplus production is taken from them through extra economic means. This appropriation is usually by some form of strong or weak state. In the kin-ordered mode of production, social labour is mobilized through kin relations (such as lineages), although his description makes its exact relations with tributary and capitalist modes unclear. The kin mode was further theorized by French structuralist Marxists in terms of 'articulated modes of production.' The kin-ordered mode is distinct again from Sahlins' formulation of the domestic mode of production.\n"}
{"id": "15629251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15629251", "title": "Genderless language", "text": "Genderless language\n\nA genderless language is a natural or constructed language that has no distinctions of grammatical gender—that is, no categories requiring morphological agreement between nouns and associated pronouns, adjectives, articles, or verbs.\n\nThe notion of \"genderless language\" must not be confused with that of gender-neutral language. Also, a discourse in a genderless language is not necessarily gender-neutral, although genderless languages exclude many possibilities for reinforcement of gender-related stereotypes, such as using masculine pronouns when referring to persons by their occupations (although some languages that may be identified as genderless, including English, do have distinct male and female pronouns). A lack of gendered pronouns is also distinct from a lack of gender in the grammatical sense.\n\nGenderless languages do have various means to recognize gender, such as gender-specific words (\"mother\", \"son\", etc., and distinct pronouns such as \"he\" and \"she\" in some cases), as well as gender-specific context, both biological and cultural.\n\nGenderless languages are listed at List of languages by type of grammatical genders. Genderless languages include the Indo-European languages Armenian, Bengali, Persian and Central Kurdish (Sorani Dialect), all the Uralic languages (such as Hungarian, Finnish and Estonian), all the modern Turkic languages (such as Turkish), Chinese, Japanese, Korean, all the Austronesian languages (such as the Polynesian languages), and Vietnamese.\n\nFrom the morphological point of view, grammatical gender may arise because of language contact. These were called \"universal simplifications\" in the reduction of sex system. Surveys about gender systems around the world from 256 languages show that 112 (44%) are grammatical gender and 144 languages (56%) are genderless languages. Since these two types of languages in many cases are geographically close to each other, there is a significant chance that one influences the other. For example, the Basque language is considered a genderless language, but it has been influenced by the Spanish feminine-masculine two-gender system. Although it should be noted, there are 6909 recognized languages in the world, thus a sample of 256 languages constitutes roughly 3.7% of all spoken languages. Thus, although this particular survey indicates a high proportion of gender neutrality, it does not take into account the other 96.3% of languages.\nGender has been associated with words but not with ideas. Scholars are trying to study the development of gender in nouns that have been borrowed from other languages. One example of this innovation is the gender assignment of the genderless English nouns that were borrowed into the Italian spoken by immigrants to America. The phonological form of the loaned word sometimes determines its sex. For example, Italians who immigrated to America do not identify the word freezer, but instead heard \"freezə.\" This sound is similar to schwa /a/, so the word becomes \"frisa.\" Consequently, the new word ends in /a/ which is feminine. The same happens with the words water (la vuora), the sweater (la suera), and the quarter (la quora). This process happens also in American-German and American-French. In English words ending in -ing, it sounds like French -ine and in German -ung which are feminine suffixes. In this case, the genderless nouns do not generate one gender or another. In the American-Italian language, masculine gender is the default gender. This default automatically happens in Spanish, Portuguese, French, Norwegian, and Old English.\n\nWhile English is virtually gender free grammatically as compared with German or French, it is not a genderless language. The elaborate grammatical gender of Old English has mostly disappeared in Modern English but it still remains in pronouns and possessive adjectives: He, him, his. She, her, hers. There is however no grammatical distinction with verbs, adjectives or nouns. Persian (Farsi), a related language in the Indo-European language family altogether lacks grammatical gender lacking the few vestigial remnants that English has which explains how Persian is a genderless language while English is not.\n\n"}
{"id": "54395985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54395985", "title": "Großwilsdorf", "text": "Großwilsdorf\n\nThe villages of Großwilsdorf and the Rödel Plateau are situated in Saxony-Anhalt in the middle of Germany. It has been proposed by Germany for inscription in the List of World Heritage. The World Heritage nomination Naumburg Cathedral and the High Medieval Cultural Landscape of the Rivers Saale and Unstrut is representative for the processes that shaped the continent during the High Middle Ages between 1000 and 1300: Christianization, the so-called Landesausbau and the dynamics of cultural exchange and transfer characteristic for this very period.\n\nThe farming community of Gross-Wilsdorf consists of two villages. It is an example of a circular village structure in the Slav-German settlement.\nThe entrance of the high medieval village was traditionally marked by a pond. This pond was kept for use as service water in everyday life and for fire fighting in cases of emergency. In the village of Gross-Wilsdorf, you can also find a Romanesque choir tower church, which had been erected between the two high medieval settlement nucleuses of Gross-Wilsdorf and Kleinwilsdorf and which has partly been preserved. The tombstones of the church were ornamented with engraved crosses and a stick-like image deemed to be a walking stick. Since medieval tombstones in places other than large cathedrals and minsters have rarely been preserved, the tombstones in Gross-Wilsdorf can be considered special.\n\nThe villages of Großwilsdorf demonstrate the cultural exchange of neighboring settlers in the region, who all relied at first on their traditional settlement forms. Sorbs, Thuringians, and other groups created three individual round villages in the 12th century, that all shared the same village church built right in the middle between these settlements. During the High Middle Ages these settlers from different regions and ethnicities mixed and the villages grew together, forming nowaday Großwilsdorf. The layouts of houses and streets are still well preserved and dated to the High Middle Ages.\n\nAdjoining the village lies the Rödel Plateau with its porous limestone layers. The important limestone quarry “Rödel” served for producing large-sized cut stones of highest quality and supplied the Naumburg Cathedral with building material. Neuenburg Castle was almost entirely built using the local shell limestone. Structural elements of higher quality were made using shell limestone from the surrounding quarries. This quarry also is visible and unchanged until today, as are the transport paths for the limestone to Naumburg.\n\nIn the year 1032, King Conrad II gave the royal court of Balgstädt to the Cathedral of Naumburg, including all accessories such as rocks and cliffs (molis). The monastery was granted the permission to dig out suitable rock material there freely, to break it up, roll it out and carry it away. The great number of pits identified by way of laser scans clearly reflect that there was likely a multitude of entitled parties and producers because of the highly fragmented nature of medieval stone quarrying. Parcels could be identified in the forests on the Rödel Plateau.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4263097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4263097", "title": "Hereditary witch", "text": "Hereditary witch\n\nA hereditary witch is one who is born into a tradition of esoteric origin. These traditions are often not recorded, except maybe in grimoires which are also passed down, but rely primarily on oral and physical tradition.\n\nHereditary Witches are generational in that their skills in magic are passed down from one generation to another. Most tend to be solitaires with traditional, British, Mexican, Italian, Stegheria, or pecti-witan upbringing. The Hereditary Witch is most common in parts of the world where families live together most of their lives for generations and community services such as education and health services have remained inaccessible over several years such as Africa, the far northern regions of Scotland, remote regions of Ireland and Wales, island provinces such as Bali, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "33570327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33570327", "title": "History of knowledge", "text": "History of knowledge\n\nThe history of knowledge is the field covering the accumulated and known human knowledge created or discovered during the history of the world and its historic forms, focus, accumulation, bearers, impacts, mediations, distribution, applications, societal contexts, conditions and methods of production. It is related to, separate from the history of science, the history of scholarship and the history of philosophy. The scope of the history of knowledge encompass all the discovered and created fields of human derived knowledge such as logic, philosophy, mathematics, science, sociology, psychology, data mining etc.\n\n\nBurke, Peter. \"Writing the Social History of Knowledge.\" Theory, Culture & Society, December 21, 2010.\n\nHistory of Knowledge (blog), http://historyofknowledge.net\n\nLässig, Simone. \"The History of Knowledge and the Expansion of the Historical Research Agenda.\" \"Bulletin of the German Historical Institute\" (Fall 2016): 29–58.\n"}
{"id": "4170165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4170165", "title": "History of mentalities", "text": "History of mentalities\n\nThe history of mentalities is a calque of the French term \"histoire des mentalités\", which might also be translated as \"history of attitudes\", \"mindsets\" or \"world-views\". The term describes a particular manner of researching history. This approach is associated with the \"critical turn\" (\"tournant critique\") taken by the historians of the \"Annales\" School, particularly around the 1960s.\n\nIn keeping with the \"Annales\"' interest in the \"longue durée\" (long-term), the history of mentalities focuses on the mindsets of past cultural and social groups, and their gradual changes over time, as opposed to the history of particular events, or economic trends. The term can also be seen as an equivalent to, or a form of, cultural history or historical anthropology\n\nThe history of mentalities, or \"histoire des mentalités\", is a term used to describe works of history aimed at describing and analyzing the ways in which people of a given time period thought about, interacted with, and classified the world around them. The history of mentalities has been used as a historical tool by several historians and scholars from various schools of history. Notably, the historians of the \"Annales\" School helped to develop the history of mentalities and construct a methodology from which to operate. In establishing this methodology, they sought to limit their analysis to a particular place and a particular time. This approach lends itself to the intensive study that characterizes microhistory, another field which adopted the history of mentalities as a tool of historical analysis.\n\nThe origin of the term history of mentalities lies in the writings of the \"Annales\" historians such as Georges Duby and Roger Chartier. In seeking to create works of total history, \"Annales\" historians tended not to simply rely on the political or event oriented history of past generations. Michael Harsgor points out in that the challenge of the \"Annales\" historians was not to create this deterministic history that appeared to rely heavily on teleological conclusions, such as the Marxist forms of history being written at the time. Rather, Harsgor writes that the \"Annales\" historians tasked themselves with the creation of social structures, \"which means covering the skeleton of the basic economic analysis with the flesh of demographic, cultural, mental, and event psychoanalytical data.\" It has also been said that \"Annales\" historians, in their attempts at the creation of total history, considered the history of mentalities a single aspect in the creation of that history. Simply put, they were attempting to reconstruct the world of whatever time period they were examining. In his works, such as \"The Three Orders: Feudal Society Imagined\" and his work on William Marshal, Duby focused on the development of ideologies within the structures that permeated the various aspects of an individual's life.\n\nThis development in methodology would prove crucial for other historians who would use the history of mentalities to attempt to reconstruct the worldviews of individuals and extrapolate their findings to the population at large in the form of microhistories. These historians would largely concern themselves with social and cultural history in order to form their history of mentalities, narrowing their realm historical inquiry by not concerning themselves with the broad economic serialization that had become so important for the \"Annales\" historians. Carlo Ginzburg's book, \"The Cheese and the Worms\", is archetypical of the microhistories that emerged with the history of mentalities in mind. Ginzburg attempted to reconstruct peasant mentalities in sixteenth century Italy by examining the trial records of a single miller, Domenico Scandella, called Menocchio, and trying to find currents or similarities in otherwise fragmentary and obscure evidence.\n\nSimilar techniques can be seen in Robert Darnton's \"The Great Cat Massacre\", which uses microhistory to establish the mentalities of groups at different social levels of French society. Darnton concerns himself greatly with the ways in which people viewed the world around them. He interprets the symbolic significance of journeymen printers massacring neighborhood cats as a display of frustration with the growing bourgeoisie class. Similarly, and in keeping with the tradition of the history of mentalities, Darnton devotes a chapter to an analysis of a bourgeoisie's description of his city, in an effort to determine how an individual in a given social situation would interpret and make sense of the world around them. Darnton uses this description to demonstrate that the ways in which events might be portrayed might be completely unsupported by the ways in which individuals of the time might have interpreted those events.\n\nCriticisms have emerged regarding the history of mentalities at all stages of its development. In particular, Marxist historians were quick to criticize the \"Annales\" historians for \"attempts to include the study of mentalities in a general synthesis, which can only lead to the publication of articles reflecting a basic reliance upon faith accompanied by a consequent disparagement of reason.\" Carlo Ginzburg himself has criticized the methods of the history of mentalities for its \"decidedly classless character.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22524591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22524591", "title": "Hook (filmmaking)", "text": "Hook (filmmaking)\n\nThe hook is the nucleus of both a film and its screenplay. It is what grabs the viewer's attention, preferably in the first 5–10 minutes, as a reader might expect to find a literary hook in the first chapter of a novel.\n\nDuring the pitch process, a screenwriter will use a hook to prove the \"bankable\" quality of their screenplay.\n\nKnowing the importance of a good hook, many screenwriters write their hooks first. Conceivably, the life of a screenplay might evolve from hook to 1-page synopsis, to 4-page treatment, to full treatment, to scriptment, to screenplay.\n\nOne can briefly state a good hook in one or two sentences, introducing the protagonist, the conflict that drives the story, and what the protagonist will achieve with either triumph or defeat. The \"hook\" is the viewer's own question of whether the conflict can be resolved, so a screenwriter might want to test the hook by turning it into a question. For example, \"Johnny must catch the murderer so that he can get the girl\" might become \"Will Johnny catch the murderer? Or will he lose the girl?\" In this way, the screenwriter can use the hook as a tool when writing the screenplay.\n"}
{"id": "1064401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1064401", "title": "Hypercolor", "text": "Hypercolor\n\nHypercolor was a line of clothing, mainly T-shirts and shorts, that changed colour with heat.\n\nThey were manufactured by Generra Sportswear Company of Seattle and marketed in the United States as Generra Hypercolor or Generra Hypergrafix and elsewhere as Global Hypercolor. They contained a thermochromic pigment made by Matsui Shikiso Chemical of Japan, that changed between two colours – one when cold, one when warm. The shirts were produced with several color change choices beginning in 1991. The effect could easily be permanently damaged, particularly when the clothing was washed in hotter than recommended water, ironed, bleached, or tumble-dried.\n\nGenerra Sportswear Co. had originally been founded as a men's sportswear distributor and importer in Seattle in 1980. The company was sold to Texas-based Farah Manufacturing Co. in 1984 and bought back by its founders in 1989. In 1986, the company added childrenswear and womenswear items to their portfolio. They struggled to meet the overwhelming demand for Hypercolor products. Between February and May 1991 they sold $50 million in Hypercolor garments. Generra went bankrupt due to mismanagement and fading demand in 1992. The Hypercolor business for the U.S. market was sold to The Seattle T-Shirt Company in 1993; Generra kept the rights for the international market. The company emerged from bankruptcy in 1995 as a licensing business. The Generra name was acquired by Public Clothing Co. of New York in 2002. Today, Generra Co. is a contemporary women's and men's apparel brand headquartered in New York City.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the technique was revived by a number of apparel brands.\n\nSubstances that can change color due to a change in temperature are called thermochromes. There are two types of thermochromes: liquid crystals (used in mood rings) and leuco dyes (used in Hypercolor T-shirts).\n\nThe color change of Hypercolor shirts is based on combination of two colors: the color of the dyed fabric, which remained constant, and the color of the thermochromic dye. Droplets of the thermochromic dye mixture are enclosed in transparent microcapsules, a few micrometers in diameter, bound to the fibers of the fabric.\n\nThe thermochromic droplets are actually a mixture of several chemicals — crystal violet lactone (the color-changing dye itself), benzotriazole (a weak acid), and a quaternary ammonium salt of a fatty acid (myristylammonium oleate) dissolved in 1-dodecanol as solvent. Together, these lead to a reversible chemical reaction in response to temperature change that produces a change of color.\n\nAt low temperatures, the mixture is a solid. The weak acid forms a colored complex with the leuco dye by causing the lactone ring in the center of the dye molecule to open. At high temperatures, above 24–27 °C, the solvent melts and the ammonium salt dissociates, allowing it to react with the weak acid. This reaction increases the pH, which leads to closing of the lactone ring of the dye to convert it to its colorless (leuco) form.\n\nTherefore, at the low temperature the color of the shirt is the combination of the color of the encapsulated colored dye with the color of the dyed fabric, while at higher temperatures the capsules become colorless and the color of the fabric prevails.\n"}
{"id": "12503353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12503353", "title": "Institute for Research in Art and Technology", "text": "Institute for Research in Art and Technology\n\nThe Institute for Research in Art and Technology (IRAT, also known as New Arts Lab; Robert Street Arts Lab) was founded in London in 1969 by a group of artists and activists including painter/author Pamela Zoline, video Pioneer John Hopkins, painter Biddy Peppin, film enthusiast David Curtis, arts theorist John Lifton composer Hugh Davies. Its early focus was on video, film, theatre and new media but this was subsequently expanded to include experimental literature, drama, sculpture and multimedia all based on art/technology crossovers. \n\nIn October 1969 the New Arts Lab opened on Robert Street, Camden Town, in a former chemical factory, with a screening of David Larcher’s Mare’s Tail (1969). This new arts centre, in addition to housing theatre, gallery and cinema space, also provided a base for the LFMC distribution office, screening and a newly equipped film workshop with a step printer and neg/reversal processor.\n\nThis building housed artists workshops which included electronics, screen printing, the video co-op, the London Filmmakers Co-op distribution office and workshop TVX's video theatre. I remember exhibitions by Stuart Brisley. Pam Zoline and J.G. Ballard's Crashed Cars. The book launch for William Burroughs \"The Job\" was held there. \nFor its brief life, J G Ballard, Joe Tilson and William David Ormsby-Gore, 5th Baron Harlech, were among IRAT's formal patrons.\nWhen IRAT closed in March 1971, many of its organizers moved with the London Filmmakers Co-op to the Dairy, Prince of Wales Crescent.\n\nThe Directors in August 1970 included David Curtis, Hugh Davies, John 'Hoppy' Hopkins, John Lifton, Pamela Zoline (USA) with Biddy Peppin as Secretary.\n\n"}
{"id": "227107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227107", "title": "Intellectual", "text": "Intellectual\n\nAn intellectual is a person who engages in critical thinking, research, and reflection about society and proposes solutions for its normative problems, and gain authority as public intellectuals. Coming from the world of culture, either as a creator or as a mediator, the intellectual participates in politics either to defend a concrete proposition or to denounce an injustice, usually by rejecting, producing or extending an ideology, and by defending a system of values.\n\nSocially, intellectuals constitute the intelligentsia, a status class organised either by ideology (conservative, fascist, socialist, liberal, reactionary, revolutionary, democratic, communist intellectuals, \"et al.\"), or by nationality (American intellectuals, French intellectuals, Ibero–American intellectuals, \"et al.\"). The contemporary intellectual class originated from the \"intelligentsiya\" of Tsarist Russia (–1870s), the social stratum of those possessing intellectual formation (schooling, education, Enlightenment), and who were Russian society's counterpart to the German \"Bildungsbürgertum\" and to the French \"bourgeoisie éclairée\", the enlightened middle classes of those realms.\n\nIn the late 19th century, amidst the Dreyfus affair (1894–1906), an identity crisis of anti-semitic nationalism for the French Third Republic (1870–1940), the reactionary anti–Dreyfusards (Maurice Barrès, Ferdinand Brunetière, \"et al.\") used the terms \"intellectual\" and \"the intellectuals\" to deride the liberal Dreyfusards (Émile Zola, Octave Mirbeau, Anatole France, \"et al.\") as political dilettantes from the realms of French culture, art, and science, who had become involved in politics, by publicly advocating for the exoneration and liberation of Alfred Dreyfus, a Jewish French artillery captain falsely accused of betraying France to Germany.\n\nIn the 20th century, the term \"Intellectual\" acquired positive connotations of social prestige, derived from possessing intellect and intelligence, especially when the intellectual's activities exerted positive consequences in the public sphere and so increased the intellectual understanding of the public, by means of moral responsibility, altruism, and solidarity, without resorting to the manipulations of demagoguery, paternalism, and incivility (condescension). Hence, for the educated person of a society, participating in the public sphere—the political affairs of the city-state—is a civic responsibility dating from the Græco–Latin Classical era:\n\nThe determining factor for \"a Thinker\" (historian, philosopher, scientist, writer, artist, \"et al.\") to be considered a public intellectual is the degree to which he or she is implicated and engaged with the vital reality of the contemporary world; that is to say, participation in the public affairs of society. Consequently, being designated as a public intellectual is determined by the degree of influence of the designator's motivations, opinions, and options of action (social, political, ideological), and by affinity with the given thinker; therefore:\n\nAnalogously, the application and the conceptual value of the terms \"Intellectual\" and \"the Intellectuals\" are socially negative when the practice of intellectuality is exclusively in service to The Establishment who wield power in a society, as such:\n\nNoam Chomsky's negative view of the Establishment Intellectual suggests the existence of another kind of intellectual one might call \"the public intellectual,\" which is:\n\nThe intellectual is a type of intelligent person, who is associated with reason and critical thinking. Many everyday roles require the application of intelligence to skills that may have a psychomotor component, for example, in the fields of medicine or the arts, but these do not necessarily involve the practitioner in the \"world of ideas\". The distinctive quality of the intellectual person is that the mental skills, which one demonstrates, are not simply intelligent, but even more, they focus on thinking about the abstract, philosophical and esoteric aspects of human inquiry and the value of their thinking.\n\nThe intellectual and the scholarly classes are related; the intellectual usually is not a teacher involved in the production of scholarship, but has an academic background, and works in a profession, practices an art, or a science. The intellectual person is one who applies critical thinking and reason in either a professional or a personal capacity, and so has authority in the public sphere of their society; the term \"intellectual\" identifies three types of person, one who:\n\n\nThe term \"man of letters\" derives from the French term \"belletrist\" or \"homme de lettres\" but is not synonymous with \"an academic\". A \"man of letters\" was a literate man (\"able to read and write\") as opposed to an illiterate man, in a time when literacy was a rare form of cultural capital. In the 17th and 18th centuries, the \"Belletrists\" were the \"literati\", the French \"citizens of the Republic of Letters\", which evolved into the salon, a social institution, usually run by a hostess, meant for the edification, education, and cultural refinement of the participants.\n\nIn English, the term \"intellectual\" identifies a \"literate thinker\"; its earlier usage, as in the book title \"The Evolution of an Intellectual\" (1920), by John Middleton Murry, denotes literary activity, rather than the activities of the public intellectual.\n\nIn the late 19th century, when literacy was relatively common in European countries such as the United Kingdom, the \"Man of Letters\" (\"littérateur\") denotation broadened to mean \"specialized\", a man who earned his living writing intellectually (not creatively) about literature: the essayist, the journalist, the critic, et al. In the 20th century, such an approach was gradually superseded by the academic method, and the term \"Man of Letters\" became disused, replaced by the generic term \"intellectual\", describing the intellectual person. In late 19th century, the term \"intellectual\" became common usage to denote the defenders of the falsely accused artillery officer Alfred Dreyfus.\n\nIn early 19th century Britain, Samuel Taylor Coleridge coined the term \"clerisy\", the intellectual class responsible for upholding and maintaining the national culture, the secular equivalent of the Anglican clergy. Likewise, in Tsarist Russia, there arose the \"intelligentsia\" (1860s–70s), who were the status class of white-collar workers. The theologian Alister McGrath said that \"the emergence of a socially alienated, theologically literate, antiestablishment lay intelligentsia is one of the more significant phenomena of the social history of Germany in the 1830s\", and that \"three or four theological graduates in ten might hope to find employment\" in a church post. As such, politically radical thinkers already had participated in the French Revolution (1789–1799); Robert Darnton said that they were not societal outsiders, but \"respectable, domesticated, and assimilated\".\n\nThenceforth, in Europe, an intellectual class was socially important, especially to self-styled intellectuals, whose participation in society's arts, politics, journalism, and education—of either nationalist, internationalist, or ethnic sentiment—constitute \"vocation of the intellectual\". Moreover, some intellectuals were anti-academic, despite universities (the Academy) being synonymous with intellectualism.\n\nIn France, the Dreyfus affair marked the full emergence of the \"intellectual in public life\", especially Émile Zola, Octave Mirbeau, and Anatole France directly addressing the matter of French antisemitism to the public; thenceforward, \"intellectual\" became common, yet occasionally derogatory, usage; its French noun usage is attributed to Georges Clemenceau in 1898.\n\nHabermas' \"Structural Transformation of Public Sphere\" (1963) made significant contribution to the notion of public intellectual by historically and conceptually delineating the idea of private and public.\n\nIn Imperial China, in the period from 206 BC until AD 1912, the intellectuals were the \"Scholar-officials\" (\"Scholar-gentlemen\"), who were civil servants appointed by the Emperor of China to perform the tasks of daily governance. Such civil servants earned academic degrees by means of imperial examination, and also were skilled calligraphers, and knew Confucian philosophy. Historian Wing-Tsit Chan concludes that:\n\nIn Joseon Korea (1392–1910), the intellectuals were the \"literati\", who knew how to read and write, and had been designated, as the chungin (the \"middle people\"), in accordance with the Confucian system. Socially, they constituted the petite bourgeoisie, composed of scholar-bureaucrats (scholars, professionals, and technicians) who administered the dynastic rule of the Joseon dynasty.\n\nAddressing their role as a social class, Jean-Paul Sartre said that intellectuals are the moral conscience of their age; that their moral and ethical responsibilities are to observe the socio-political moment, and to freely speak to their society, in accordance with their consciences. Like Sartre and Noam Chomsky, public intellectuals usually are polymaths, knowledgeable of the international order of the world, the political and economic organization of contemporary society, the institutions and laws that regulate the lives of the layman citizen, the educational systems, and the private networks of mass communication media that control the broadcasting of information to the public.\n\nWhereas, intellectuals (political scientists and sociologists), liberals, and democratic socialists usually hold, advocate, and support the principles of democracy (liberty, equality, fraternity, human rights, social justice, social welfare, environmental conservation), and the improvement of socio-political relations in domestic and international politics, the conservative public-intellectuals usually defend the social, economic, and political \"status quo\" as the realisation of the \"perfect ideals\" of Platonism, and present a static dominant ideology, in which utopias are unattainable and politically destabilizing of society.\n\nIn Marxist philosophy, the social class function of the intellectuals (the intelligentsia) is to be the source of progressive ideas for the transformation of society; to provide advice and counsel to the political leaders; to interpret the country's politics to the mass of the population (urban workers and peasants); and, as required, to provide leaders from within their own ranks.\n\nThe Italian Communist theoretician Antonio Gramsci (1891–1937) developed Karl Marx's conception of the intelligentsia to include political leadership in the public sphere. That, because \"all knowledge is existentially-based\", the intellectuals, who create and preserve knowledge, are \"spokesmen for different social groups, and articulate particular social interests\". That intellectuals occur in each social class and throughout the right wing, the centre, and the left wing of the political spectrum. That, as a social class, the \"intellectuals view themselves as autonomous from the ruling class\" of their society. That, in the course of class struggle meant to achieve political power, every social class requires a native intelligentsia who shape the ideology (world view) particular to the social class from which they originated. Therefore, the leadership of intellectuals is required for effecting and realizing social change, because:\n\nIn the pamphlet \"What Is to Be Done?\" (1902), Lenin (1870–1924) said that vanguard-party revolution required the participation of the intellectuals to explain the complexities of socialist ideology to the uneducated proletariat and the urban industrial workers, in order to integrate them to the revolution; because \"the history of all countries shows that the working class, exclusively by its own efforts, is able to develop only trade-union consciousness\", and will settle for the limited, socio-economic gains so achieved. In Russia, as in Continental Europe, Socialist theory was the product of the \"educated representatives of the propertied classes\", of \"revolutionary socialist intellectuals\", such as were Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels.\n\nIn the formal codification of Leninism, the Hungarian Marxist philosopher, György Lukács (1885–1971) identified the intelligentsia as the privileged social class who provide revolutionary leadership. By means of intelligible and accessible interpretation, the intellectuals explain to the workers and peasants the \"Who?\", the \"How?\", and the \"Why?\" of the social, economic, and political \"status quo\"—the ideological totality of society—and its practical, revolutionary application to the transformation of their society.\n\nThe term public intellectual describes the intellectual participating in the public-affairs discourse of society, in addition to an academic career. Regardless of the academic field or the professional expertise, the public intellectual addresses and responds to the normative problems of society, and, as such, is expected to be an impartial critic who can \"rise above the partial preoccupation of one's own profession—and engage with the global issues of truth, judgment, and taste of the time.\" In \"Representations of the Intellectual\" (1994), In summarizing a quote by Edward Saïd, Jennings and Kemp-Welch state that the \"… true intellectual is, therefore, always an outsider, living in self-imposed exile, and on the margins of society\".\n\nAn intellectual usually is associated with an ideology or with a philosophy; e.g., the Third Way centrism of Anthony Giddens in the Labour Government of Tony Blair. The Czech intellectual Václav Havel said that politics and intellectuals can be linked, but that moral responsibility for the intellectual's ideas, even when advocated by a politician, remains with the intellectual. Therefore, it is best to avoid utopian intellectuals who offer 'universal insights' to resolve the problems of political economy with public policies that might harm and that have harmed civil society; that intellectuals be mindful of the social and cultural ties created with their words, insights, and ideas; and should be heard as social critics of politics and power.\n\nThe American academic Peter H. Smith describes the intellectuals of Latin America as people from an identifiable social class, who have been conditioned by that common experience, and thus are inclined to share a set of common assumptions (values and ethics); that ninety-four per cent of intellectuals come either from the middle class or from the upper class, and that only six per cent come from the working class. In \"The Intellectual\" (2005), philosopher Steven Fuller said that, because cultural capital confers power and social status, as a status group, they must be autonomous in order to be credible as intellectuals:\n\nThe political importance and effective consequence of Émile Zola in the Dreyfus affair (1894–1906) derived from his being a leading French thinker; thus, \"J'accuse\" (I Accuse), his open letter to the French government and the nation proved critical to achieving the exoneration of Captain Alfred Dreyfus of the false charges of treason, which were facilitated by institutional anti-Semitism, among other ideological defects of the French Establishment.\n\nIn journalism, the term \"intellectual\" usually connotes \"a university academic\" of the humanities—especially a philosopher—who addresses important social and political matters of the day. Hence, such an academic functions as a public intellectual who explains the theoretic bases of said problems and communicates possible answers to the policy makers and executive leaders of society. The sociologist Frank Furedi said that \"Intellectuals are not defined according to the jobs they do, but [by] the manner in which they act, the way they see themselves, and the [social and political] values that they uphold. Public intellectuals usually arise from the educated élite of a society; although the North American usage of the term \"intellectual\" includes the university academics. The difference between \"intellectual\" and \"academic\" is participation in the realm of public affairs.\n\nIn the matters of public policy, the public intellectual connects scholarly research to the practical matters of solving societal problems. The British sociologist Michael Burawoy, an exponent of public sociology, said that professional sociology has failed, by giving insufficient attention to resolving social problems, and that a dialogue between the academic and the layman would bridge the gap. An example is how Chilean intellectuals worked to reestablish democracy within the right-wing, neoliberal governments of the Military dictatorship of Chile (1973–90), the Pinochet régime allowed professional opportunities for some liberal and left-wing social scientists to work as politicians and as consultants in effort to realize the theoretical economics of the Chicago Boys, but their access to power was contingent upon political pragmatism, abandoning the political neutrality of the academic intellectual.\n\nIn \"The Sociological Imagination\" (1959), C. Wright Mills said that academics had become ill-equipped for participating in public discourse, and that journalists usually are \"more politically alert and knowledgeable than sociologists, economists, and especially ... political scientists\". That, because the universities of the U.S. are bureaucratic, private businesses, they \"do not teach critical reasoning to the student\", who then does not \"how to gauge what is going on in the general struggle for power in modern society\". Likewise, Richard Rorty criticized the participation of intellectuals in public discourse as an example of the \"civic irresponsibility of intellect, especially academic intellect\".\n\nThe American legal scholar Richard Posner said that the participation of academic public intellectuals in the public life of society is characterized by logically untidy and politically biased statements of the kind that would be unacceptable to academia. That there are few ideologically and politically independent public intellectuals, and disapproves that public intellectuals limit themselves to practical matters of public policy, and not with values or public philosophy, or public ethics, or public theology, not with matters of moral and spiritual outrage.\n\nIn \"An Interview with Milton Friedman\" (1974), the American libertarian economist Milton Friedman said that businessmen and the intellectuals are enemies of capitalism; the intellectuals, because most believed in socialism, while the businessman expected economic privileges:\n\nIn \"The Intellectuals and Socialism\" (1949), the British libertarian economist Friedrich Hayek, said that \"journalists, teachers, ministers, lecturers, publicists, radio commentators, writers of fiction, cartoonists, and artists\", are the intellectual social class whose function is to communicate the complex and specialized knowledge of the scientist to the general public. That, in the twentieth century, the intellectuals were attracted to socialism and to social democracy, because the socialists offered \"broad visions; the spacious comprehension of the social order, as a whole, which a planned system promises\" and that such broad-vision philosophies \"succeeded in inspiring the imagination of the intellectuals\" to change and improve their societies.\n\nAccording to Hayek, intellectuals disproportionately support socialism for idealistic and utopian reasons that cannot be realized in practical terms. Nonetheless, in the article \"Why Socialism?\" (1949), Albert Einstein said that the economy of the world is not private property because it is a \"planetary community of production and consumption\". In U.S. society, the intellectual status class are demographically characterized as people who hold liberal-to-leftist political perspectives about guns-or-butter fiscal policy.\n\nIn \"The Heartless Lovers of Humankind\" (1987), the journalist and popular historian Paul Johnson said:\nThe public- and private-knowledge dichotomy originated in Ancient Greece, from Socrates's rejection of the Sophist concept that the pursuit of knowledge (truth) is a \"public market of ideas\", open to all men of the city, not only to philosophers. In contradiction to the Sophist's public market of knowledge, Socrates proposed a knowledge monopoly for and by the philosophers; thus, \"those who sought a more penetrating and rigorous intellectual life rejected, and withdrew from, the general culture of the city, in order to embrace a new model of professionalism\"; the private market of ideas.\n\nIn the 19th century, addressing the societal place, roles, and functions of intellectuals in American society, the Congregational theologian Edwards Amasa Park said, \"We do wrong to our own minds, when we carry out scientific difficulties down to the arena of popular dissension\". That for the stability of society (social, economic, political) it is necessary \"to separate the serious, technical role of professionals from their responsibility [for] supplying usable philosophies for the general public\"; thus operated Socrate's cultural dichotomy of public-knowledge and private-knowledge, of \"civic culture\" and \"professional culture\", the social constructs that describe and establish the intellectual sphere of life as separate and apart from the civic sphere of life.\n\nThe American historian Norman Stone said that the intellectual social class misunderstand the reality of society and so are doomed to the errors of logical fallacy, ideological stupidity, and poor planning hampered by ideology. In her memoirs, the Conservative politician Margaret Thatcher said that the anti-monarchical French Revolution (1789–1799) was \"a utopian attempt to overthrow a traditional order ... in the name of abstract ideas, formulated by vain intellectuals\". Yet, as Prime Minister, Thatcher asked Britain's academics to help her government resolve the social problems of British society—whilst she retained the populist opinion of \"The Intellectual\" as being a man of un-British character, a thinker, not a doer; Thatcher's anti-intellectualist perspective was shared by the mass media, especially \"The Spectator\" and \"The Sunday Telegraph\" newspapers, whose reportage documented a \"lack of intellectuals\" in Britain.\n\nIn his essay \"Why do intellectuals oppose capitalism?\" (1998), libertarian philosopher Robert Nozick of the Cato Institute argued that intellectuals become embittered leftists because their academic skills, much rewarded at school and at university, are under-valued and under-paid in the capitalist market economy; so, the intellectuals turned against capitalism—despite enjoying a more economically and financially comfortable life in a capitalist society than they might enjoy in either a socialist or a communist society.\n\nIn post-Communist Europe, the social attitude perception of the intelligentsia became anti-intellectual; in the Netherlands, the word \"intellectual\" negatively connotes an overeducated person of \"unrealistic visions of the World\". In Hungary, the intellectual is perceived as an \"egghead\", a person who is \"too-clever\" for the good of society. In the Czech Republic, the intellectual is a cerebral person, aloof from reality. Such derogatory connotations of \"intellectual\" are not definitive, because, in the \"case of English usage, positive, neutral, and pejorative uses can easily coexist\"; the example is Václav Havel who, \"to many outside observers, [became] a favoured instance of The Intellectual as National Icon\" in the early history of the post-Communist Czech Republic.\n\nIn the book, \"Intellectuals and Society\" (2010), the economist Thomas Sowell said that, lacking disincentives in professional life, the intellectual (producer of knowledge, not material goods) tends to speak outside his or her area of expertise, and expects social and professional benefits from the halo effect, derived from possessing professional expertise. That, in relation to other professions, the public intellectual is socially detached from the negative and unintended consequences of public policy derived from his or her ideas. As such, the philosopher and mathematician Bertrand Russell (1872–1970) advised the British government against national rearmament in the years before World War I (1914–1918), while the German Empire prepared for war. Yet, the post-war intellectual reputation of Bertrand Russell remained almost immaculate and his opinions respected by the general public because of the halo effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4665199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4665199", "title": "Intercultural competence", "text": "Intercultural competence\n\nIntercultural competence is a range of cognitive, affective, and behavioural skills that lead to effective and appropriate\ncommunication with people of other cultures. Effective intercultural communication relates to behaviors that culminate with the accomplishment of the desired goals of the interaction and all parties involved in the situation. Appropriate intercultural communication includes behaviors that suit the expectations of a specific culture, the characteristics of the situation, and the level of the relationship between the parties involved in the situation.\n\nIt's very important for someone to be culturally competent at work and at school. Individuals that are effective and appropriate in intercultural situations display high levels of cultural self-awareness and understand the influence of culture on behavior, values, and beliefs. Intercultural competence is achieved through a set of skills that includes cognitive, affective, and behavioral processes.\n\nFirst, cognitive processes imply the understanding of situational and environmental aspects of intercultural interactions and the application of intercultural awareness, which is affected by the understanding of the self and own culture. Self-awareness in intercultural situations refers to the ability of self-monitoring in such interactions to censor anything not acceptable to another culture. On the other hand, cultural awareness leads the individual to an understanding of how his/her own culture determines feelings, thoughts, and personality.\n\nSecondly, affective processes define the emotions that span during intercultural interactions. These emotions are strongly related to self-concept, open-mindedness, non-judgementalism, and social relaxation. In general, positive emotions generate respect for other cultures and their differences.\n\nFinally, behavioral processes refer to how effectively and appropriately the individual directs actions to achieve goals. Actions during intercultural interactions are influenced by the ability to clearly convey a message, proficiency with the foreign language, flexibility and management of behavior, and social skills.\n\nIntercultural competence is determined by the presence of cognitive, affective, and behavioral abilities that directly shape communication across cultures. These essential abilities can be separated into five specific skills that are obtained through education and experience:\n\nThe United States in its earliest history had a culture influenced heavily by its Northern European population, primarily from the British Isles, who originally settled in the original British Colonies. While the indigenous peoples, known as Indians, were the largest population of North America, they were slowly pushed away from the Eastern Seaboard into the interior of North America during the 17th century, 18th century, and 19th century (see Indian Removal Act describing specific actions during early 19th century). During this period, people from the British Isles (England and Scotland primarily) brought the culture and religion of the British Isles with them to the United States and became the dominant political and cultural group along the Eastern Seaboard of North America.\n\nBoth voluntary immigration from other regions as well as the results of the Atlantic slave trade, brought a mix of people to the Americas, including Europeans, Africans, and, to a lesser extent until the 20th century, Asians. Thus began the process of diversifying the population of the Western Hemisphere. While the majority of the U.S. population were white immigrants from northern and western Europe and their descendants, they maintained most of the power, social and economic, of the nation.\n\nIn the U.S. context, immigration from the 1840s onward diversified the ethnic composition of the nation. During the early part of the 20th century, southern and eastern European immigrants and their descendants became a larger percentage of the population, but as recent immigrants concentrated in urban areas were also very often poor and lacking in basic healthy living and working conditions. Descendants of African slaves and immigrants faced a much more difficult challenge due to their skin color and discrimination enforced by legal systems, such as the Jim Crow laws in the United States. Since the 1960s, African Americans as well as other minority groups such as Mexican Americans have gained greater social and economic status and power.\n\nNonetheless, the dominant models of education and social services retained models developed by northern and western European intellectuals, even such well-meaning and important reformers as Jane Addams and Jacob Riis. After the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 1960s, though, social workers, activists, and even healthcare providers began to examine their practices to see if they were as effective in African American, Latino, and even Asian American communities in the U.S. The arrival of more than half a million Southeast Asian refugees, from 1975 to 1992, for example, tested the ability of medical and social workers to continue effective practice among speakers of other languages and among those coming from very different understandings of everything from mental health to charity.\n\nWith the larger population of minorities and racial integration during the 1960s and 1970s, the public school system of the United States had to grapple with issues of cultural sensitivity as most teachers in public school system came from white, middle class backgrounds. Most of these teachers were educated, primarily English speaking, and primarily from the Western European cultures. They often had trouble trying to communicate with speakers of limited English proficiency, let alone people of vastly different value systems and normative behaviors from that of Anglo-European culture. The purpose of training educators and others in the area of cultural competence is to provide new teachers the background and skills to work effectively with children of all backgrounds and social classes.\n\nWith the growing diversity of the student body in U.S. public school, it is increasingly imperative that teachers have and continually develop a cultural competence that enables them to connect with, respond to, and interact effectively with their pupils. The achievement gap between cultural minority and majority students suggests a communication disconnect often occurs in minority classrooms because cultural mismatch between teachers and students is common and should not prevent positive, productive for both parties, provided the educator is a culturally competent communicator. Over the last few decades, scholars have increasingly shown interest in the relationship between learning, reading, schema, and culture. People's schema depends on their social location, which, as Anderson (1984) explains, includes a reader's age, sex, race, religion, nationality, and occupation, amongst other factors. Considering schemata determine how people understand, interpret, and analyze everything in their world, it is clear that background and experience really do affect the learning and teaching processes, and how each should be approached in context. \"In short,\" Anderson (1984) says, \"the schema that will be brought to bear on a text depends upon the reader's culture\" (p. 374-375). More simply, Anderson (1984) describes a person's schema as their \"organized knowledge about the world\" (p. 372). In considering the role of schema, one of the educator's principal functions in teaching, particularly with literacy, is to \"‘bridge the gap between what the learner already knows and what he needs to know before he can successfully learn the task at hand'\" (Anderson, 1984, p. 382). This is important because Staton (1989) explains that student learning—i.e. successful communication between instructor and pupil—occurs when teachers and students come to \"shared understandings\" (p. 364). Thus, teachers must remember that they are \"cultural workers, not neutral professionals using skills on a culturally-detached playing field\" (Blanchett, Mumford & Beachum, 2005, p. 306).\n\nTeachers and administrators in the public school systems of the United States come in contact with a wide variety of sub-cultures and are at the forefront of the challenge of bringing diverse groups together within a larger American society. Issues confronting teachers and administrators on a daily basis include student learning disabilities, student behavioral problems, child abuse, drug addiction, mental health, and poverty, most of which are handled differently within different cultures and communities.\n\nExamples of cultural conflicts often seen by teachers in the public school system include:\n\nExamples of sub-groups within the United States: African American, Asian American, Indian American, Irish American, Jewish American, Mexican American, Native Americans or American Indians and refugees.\n\nThe provision of culturally tailored health care can improve patient outcomes. In 2005, California passed Assembly Bill 1195 that requires patient-related continuing medical education courses in California medical school to incorporate cultural and linguistic competence training in order to qualify for certification credits. In 2011, HealthPartners Institute for Education and Research implemented the EBAN Experience™ program to reduce health disparities among minority populations, most notably East African immigrants.\n\nThe term \"Hispanic\" is problematic. It is impossible to refer to \"a Hispanic-American perspective\" or to \"a single Latino culture\".(1)(2) The label \"Hispanic\" is controversial because it was coined by the Federal Government to describe a heterogeneous ethnic population whose ancestors come from a Spanish-speaking country. Although these American citizens have Latin American roots, the term \"Latino\" to characterize them is more correct since it is more inclusive of non-Spanish-speaking Latinos. However, the term \"Latino\" does not include individuals from Spanish-speaking countries outside of Latin America (e.g., Spain).\n\nThere is also a lack of adequate research into how race and ethnicity affects members of a group.(3)(4)(5) There are few life histories and phenomenological studies of illness as experienced by people outside the American white, urban, middle class, especially of immigrant and native populations. Race has been used to explain the absence of research. Racial classifications are based on outmoded concepts and dubious assumptions regarding genetic differences. In fact, outside of skin color, race is poorly correlated with biological or cultural phenomena, which sharply diminishes its validity in biomedical or social research. Yet, unlike race or national origin, ethnicity is a sociological construct highly correlated with behavioral and cultural phenomena, particularly language, dress, adornment, food preference, religion, social interaction, marriage and family customs.\n\nFurther research is needed to determine whether race and ethnicity among Latinos are rather driven by mechanisms of discrimination and macrosocial factors or social status. Fortunately, not too long ago, the National Institutes of Health took an important step by insisting that any NIH- supported clinical investigation include, where appropriate, minority populations, women and the aged.(6) However, we must guard against what has been called a new \"tokenism\", that is, having a large aggregate of \"non-whites\", and a few African Americans and Hispanics included. This aggregate will never produce a proper sample. Rigorous attention to sample size, composition and sampling strategies is required to research basic psychosocial processes and clinical responses of minority populations. Accordingly, the heterogeneity of the Hispanic community has to be taken into account. The Hispanic's country of origin, cultural history, migration history, language, family, traditions, religion, educational level, socio-economic status, gender, sexual orientation, age and generation—all need to be explored.\n\nCross-cultural competence (3C) has generated confusing and contradictory definitions because it has been studied by a wide variety of academic approaches and professional fields. One author identified eleven different terms that have some equivalence to 3C: cultural savvy, astuteness, appreciation, literacy or fluency, adaptability, terrain, expertise, competency, awareness, intelligence, and understanding. The United States Army Research Institute, which is currently engaged in a study of 3C has defined it as \"A set of cognitive, behavioral, and affective/motivational components that enable individuals to adapt effectively in intercultural environments\".\n\nOrganizations in academia, business, health care, government security, and developmental aid agencies have all sought to use 3C in one way or another. Poor results have often been obtained due to a lack of rigorous study of 3C and a reliance on \"common sense\" approaches.\n\nCross-cultural competence does not operate in a vacuum, however. One theoretical construct posits that 3C, language proficiency, and regional knowledge are distinct skills that are inextricably linked, but to varying degrees depending on the context in which they are employed. In educational settings, Bloom's affective and cognitive taxonomies serve as an effective framework for describing the overlapping areas among these three disciplines: at the receiving and knowledge levels, 3C can operate with near-independence from language proficiency and regional knowledge. But, as one approaches the internalizing and evaluation levels, the overlapping areas approach totality.\n\nThe development of intercultural competence is mostly based on the individual's experiences while he or she is communicating with different cultures. When interacting with people from other cultures, the individual experiences certain obstacles that are caused by differences in cultural understanding between two people from different cultures. Such experiences may motivate the individual to acquire skills that can help him to communicate his point of view to an audience belonging to a different cultural ethnicity and background.\n\nA salient issue, especially for people living in countries other than their native country, is the issue of which culture they should follow: their native culture or the one in their new surroundings.\n\nInternational students also face this issue: they have a choice of modifying their cultural boundaries and adapting to the culture around them or holding on to their native culture and surrounding themselves with people from their own country. The students who decide to hold on to their native culture are those who experience the most problems in their university life and who encounter frequent culture shocks. But international students who adapt themselves to the culture surrounding them (and who interact more with domestic students) will increase their knowledge of the domestic culture, which may help them to \"blend in\" more. In the article it stated, \"Segmented assimilation theorists argue that students from less affluent and racial and ethnic minority immigrant families face a number of educational hurdles and barriers that often stem from racial, ethnic, and gender biases and discrimination embedded within the U.S. public school system\" (Bondy).\nSuch individuals may be said to have adopted bicultural identities.\n\nAnother issue that stands out in intercultural communication is the attitude stemming from Ethnocentrism. LeVine and Campbell (as cited in Lin and Rancer, 2003) defines ethnocentrism as people's tendency to view their culture or in-group as superior to other groups, and to judge those groups to their standards. With ethnocentric attitudes, those incapable to expand their view of different cultures could create conflict between groups. Ignorance to diversity and cultural groups contributes to prevention of peaceful interaction in a fast-paced globalizing world. The counterpart of ethnocentrism is ethnorelativism: the ability to see multiple values, beliefs, norms etc. in the world as cultural rather than universal; being able to understand and accept different cultures.\n\nCultural characteristics can be measured along several dimensions that were defined by Geert Hofstede in his studies of cultural differences. The ability to perceive them and to cope with them is fundamental for intercultural competence. These characteristics include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\"See also:\" Chronemics\n\nThe assessment of cross-cultural competence is another field that is rife with controversy. One survey identified 86 assessment instruments for 3C. A United States Army Research Institute study narrowed the list down to ten quantitative instruments that were suitable for further exploration of their reliability and validity.\n\nThe following characteristics are tested and observed for the assessment of intercultural competence as an existing ability or as the potential to develop it: ambiguity tolerance, openness to contacts, flexibility in behavior, emotional stability, motivation to perform, empathy, metacommunicative competence, and polycentrism.\n\nThree examples of quantitative assessment instruments are:\n\nResearch in the area of 3C assessment, while thin, points to the value of qualitative assessment instruments in concert with quantitative ones. Qualitative instruments, such as scenario-based assessments, are useful for gaining insight into intercultural competence.\n\nIntercultural coaching frameworks, such as the ICCA™ (Intercultural Communication and Collaboration Appraisal), do not attempt an assessment; they provide guidance for personal improvement based upon the identification of personal traits, strengths, and weaknesses.\n\nIt is important that cross-cultural competence training and skills does not break down into the application of stereotypes. Although its goal is to promote understanding between groups of individuals that, as a whole, think differently, it may fail to recognize specific differences between individuals of any given group. Such differences can be more significant than the differences between groups, especially in the case of heterogeneous populations and value systems.\n\nMadison (2006) has criticized the tendency of 3C training for its tendency to simplify migration and cross-cultural processes into stages and phases. Madison's article offers an outline of the original research.\n\nSee also a recent article by Witte summarizing objections to cultural theories used in business and social life.\n\n"}
{"id": "29704582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29704582", "title": "International tourism advertising", "text": "International tourism advertising\n\nInternational tourism advertising is tourism-related marketing on the part of a private or public entity directed towards audiences abroad, and might target potential travelers and non-travelers alike. Wholly private firms such as travel agencies, hotel chains, cruise agencies, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) often run their own advertising campaigns to market their existence, mission, or services and/or goods offered to the consumer, and these advertisements seldom carry intentional political messages.\n\nOn the other hand, advertising distributed by governments themselves, such as through tourism ministries or government-owned private sector enterprises, is sometimes intended to convey more than simply the value of the product, service, or experience; governments can use tourism ads as a channel for communicating directly to the public of other countries because tourism is a common and internationally encouraged industry and the advertising of it is subject to minimal content regulation.\n\nAs the global travel market continues to expand with yearly increasing flights among international destinations, advertising efforts on the part of the major actors in this market are also increasing. Advertising campaigns to promote travel to destinations abroad are particularly prevalent in western countries where the general public's expenditures on tourism tend to be consistently high, even in light of the economic recession. \n\nMany advertisers, which include both private entities and foreign governments themselves, share the intended goal of increasing their own revenue by popularizing their service (e.g., airline or hotel chain) or destination to boost receipts from travelers; however, some travel campaigns have additional or alternative purposes, such as promoting good public sentiments or improving existing ones towards them among the target audience. Sometimes, states may use the branding of a product or service, itself, as a means of conveying a specific message without explicitly stating the message; this tactic is often used to soften the implied message itself, thus allowing the brander to sidestep or minimize controversy and/or opposition.\n\nTourism advertising can take many forms, utilize a wide array of advertising tactics, and be driven by a scope of private or public intents. \"Destination advertising\" is designed to make a location itself seem more appealing, while \"travel services advertising\" seeks to gain an audience's buy-in for the tourism-related service or product. Below are some instances of international tourism advertising overlapping with states' political, economic, and/or social interests.\n\nA great degree of ads promoting foreign countries are produced and distributed by the tourism ministries of those countries, so these ads often serve as vehicles for political statements and/or depictions of the destination country's desired foreign public perception(s). Following are only a few of the many examples of government-produced tourism destination advertising that also serve political or social functions.\n\nThe Bahamas are commonly considered to be a focal point of leisure and recreational travel in the Caribbean and the island nation advertises itself as such. Television ads and website produced by the government of the Bahamas specifically foster the image of the islands providing a care-free, exciting, culturally rich, and even romantic experience for travelers; a recent slogan for the marketing campaign was \"It's better in the Bahamas\" to reinforce the contrast between the desired perception as a low-stress getaway and the hectic nature of whatever living environment tourists would be leaving behind. The Bahamas have, however, actually traditionally seen high violent crime rates, so the tourism marketing attempts to focus the audience's attention on the azure water and beaches and draw it away from any negative elements of life there. Managing perceptions is a common part of advertising of many consumer products and services, focusing the audience's mind solely on the desirable aspects of whatever is being sold and away from any possible drawbacks or consequences.\n\nThe common impression of India in the West has long been either negative—including perceptions of widespread poverty, lack of sophisticated hygiene, and violent ethnic and religious clashes—or ambivalent, so the Indian government's Ministry of Tourism began a marketing campaign, \"Incredible !ndia,\" to emphasize the country's rich culture, historic sites, tourist attractions, and general sense of excitement and dynamism to western audiences. Tourism is an extremely lucrative and growing global industry so it is no surprise that India, a developing nation, is striving to capitalize on that market to boost its economy. In addition, India is also looking to strengthen its international security and diplomatic ties while broadening and deepening its trade relationships, especially with the U.S., so it is in India's interest to promote a positive light for itself among the American and western voting populations in order to garner future international support and aid.\n\nAfter the 2006 release of the Sacha Baron Cohen comedy \"\", which depicts a politically incorrect and socially oblivious fictional Kazakhi reporter who travels throughout the United States interviewing and meeting Americans from various walks of life, the government of Kazakhstan was highly offended by the depiction of its less than two-decade-old country and and its creator as being defamatory and slanderous. The issue of preserving Kazakhstan's public image in light of the movie was of such high importance that Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev had it listed as a main issue when he traveled to the U.S. in September 2006 to meet with then-President George W. Bush. Coupled with Nazarbeyev's visit, according to Kazakhstan embassy spokesman Roman Vassilenko, the Kazakh government staged a large-scale public relations \"blitz,\" including \"running four-page ads in The New York Times and U.S. News and World Report and commercials on CNN and the local ABC affiliate in Washington, D.C.\", as well as launching TV ads to promote tourism to Kazakhstan. These travel ads specifically featured cultural and historical features of the country as well as views of its developed infrastructure, specifically to counter the type of impression given by the Borat character to the West that Kazakhstan is socially and physically underdeveloped.\n\nRecently in 2010 the Tourism Board of Mexico, a public office that aggregates the resources and interests of the federal, state, and municipal governments, launched a tourism advertising campaign in the United States and Canada—Mexico's two North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) partners—geared towards renovating common public political and social perceptions of Mexico, including impressions of poverty, government and law enforcement corruption, petty and organized crime and drug trading, and illegal immigration into the U.S.; the new campaign's purpose is expressly demonstrated by its marketing slogan, \"Mexico, the place you thought you knew.\" The print and television ads feature views of Mexico's beaches, natural wonders, cultural festivities, and historical artifacts like Mayan pyramids and Spanish churches in order to provide a counterbalance to the less preferable popular preconceptions. The Tourism Board's stated goal of the advertising surge is to \"generat[e] more than three [positive] impressions per person\" among the North American audience. The eventual goal is likely to increase tourism revenue for the country, but, for now, the Tourism Board is focusing on managing perceptions among the general populations of Mexico's two major neighboring trade partners.\n\nMany countries use slogans in their international tourism advertising. Destination slogans aim to promote a positive identity for the country. Academic studies of these slogans have identified several common themes such as the physical beauty of the location or the positive experiences travellers can expect to have there.\n\nAdditionally, a wide range of foreign airlines and travel-related services which also advertise separately from the destinations, themselves, are owned by their respective governments, such as the Emirates airline (Dubai), Qatar Airways (Qatar), China Airlines (Taiwan/Republic of China), and Air China (People's Republic of China).\n\nChina Airlines is the official flag carrier airline of Taiwan. The Taiwanese government refers to its state as the Republic of China and considers itself to be the legitimate, non-Communist leadership-in-exile of all of China since the Communist overthrow in the mid-1950s. The name of the airline carries the message of the long-lasting and ongoing cultural and political conflict between Communist \"mainland\" China (PRC) and Taiwan, that the Republic of China is the \"true\" China and that the state commonly referred to as \"China\" is illegitimate and usurped control of the country from the rightful leadership. Similarly, the PRC counters this message by having named one of its largest international carriers \"Air China\" to reinforce the PRC's claim to be the legitimate of the \"two Chinas.\" The implicit conflict between the two states is likely lost on the majority of the general public outside the immediate region, such as the United States and Europe, but the strategic use of using advertising and targeting the international community through tourism is apparent on both sides.\n\nThrough advertising for the Emirates airline, one of the major themes that Dubai promotes is its evolving status as a geographic and economic player in the Middle East. Emirates advertising describes Dubai as \"the perfect hub for an expanding global network\" and illustrates this claim in the airline's \"Centre of the World\" television ad. On the other hand, Dubai subtly promotes an official stance of multinationalism and a stated intent to cater to the comfort of travelers from abroad in the Emirates' \"Multinational Cabin Crew\" television ad. These positions, among others, are portrayed via visually and audibly appealing commercials which are designed to relate to the target audience(s) and make the ads' messages maximally amenable to global viewers. Emirates additionally adds to its effort to appeal to the West through its sponsorship of the Arsenal Football Club, including constructing the team's new venue, Emirates Stadium, which opened in July 2006 and prominently displays the Emirates branding on the exterior; in this way, any depictions of the stadium will result in de facto advertising and reinforce the public recognition of the Emirates company as one that is associated with western sports and culture. In May 2013 three Arsenal players, Kieran Gibbs, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain and Carl Jenkinson took an A380 flight simulator challenge. Swapping their usual airline passenger seats and stepping into the cockpit, the players attempted to land an A380 in Dubai.\n\nEmirates, along with the aviation services company Dnata, is owned by the parent company The Emirates Group which, in turn, is wholly owned by the Government of Dubai. The chairman and CEO of The Emirates Group, HH Sheikh Ahmed Bin Saeed Al Maktoum, is the younger brother of the former ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Rashid Bin Saeed Al Maktoum, and uncle of the current ruler, HH Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum. In 1985, Sheikh Ahmed was appointed President of the Dubai Department of Civil Aviation (DCA), the governing body for airline regulation and airport control and operation. The DCA was restructured and expanded in 2007, thus creating the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority (DCAA) which has since been the airline regulatory authority in the Emirate and the Dubai Airports company which owns and operates Dubai’s airports, Dubai International and the currently under-construction Dubai World Central – Al Maktoum International. Dubai International (IATA: DXB) is a primary international hub in the Middle East, offering flights to every continent except Antarctica. As of November 2010, DXB is the 6th busiest airport in the world for cargo traffic, and the 14th highest passenger throughput of all international airports.\n\nSheikh Ahmed currently simultaneously holds the positions of Chairman and CEO of Emirates Airline & Group, which includes the Emirates airline and Dnata air services company, Chairman of the Dubai Airports company, and President of the Dubai Civil Aviation Authority. Because Dubai's government leadership is directly involved and intertwined with private-sector enterprises, including the Emirates airline and many other facets of the tourism industry, the government there necessarily has a vested interest in the public perception of Dubai.\n\n"}
{"id": "29508419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29508419", "title": "Jba fofi", "text": "Jba fofi\n\nIn Congo folklore, the jba fofi or j'ba fofi (Baka: \"giant spider\"), also known as the Congolese giant spider, is a creature said to exist in the Congo, possibly representing a new species of arachnid. Popular interest in the creature was sparked by the program Monsterquest in 2008. Although best known for sightings within Africa, purported giant spiders have been reported worldwide.\n\nThe creature is most famously known as the \"jba fofi\", the name that Baka tribespeople in the Congo have called the giant arachnids that reportedly reside by their dwellings. The name means \"great spider\" in their language.\n\nAlthough giant spider sightings have taken place since the late 19th century, the recent surge in interest began with the episode on Monsterquest followed by the publication of William Gibbon's book. The researcher was familiar with the sighting by Reginald Lloyd of an enormous spider in Zimbabwe in 1938, and while speaking to Baka natives about the mokele-mbembe he asked them if they had ever seen such a creature. They were familiar with a similar beast that they called the \"jba fofi\", and gave a like description.\n\nThe Baka said that the \"jba fofi\" of the Congo would spin a web between two trees which they utilized to capture birds, duiker, and other small game animals. Their eggs were the size of peanuts, and juveniles were yellowish with purple abdomens. When they matured they would turn brown, and were four to five feet in length. The Baka said that they were strong enough to overpower humans, and that they would kill a \"jba fofi\" if it made its nest too close to the village. The spiders are described by Baka natives as weaving lairs made of leaves and spinning a circular web between two trees. The Baka told Gibbons that these spiders are now rare due to dwindling habitat. Descriptions of giant spider sightings elsewhere bear a similar resemblance, with some variance in color.\n\nMissionary Arthur Simes from England was on an expedition to a village near Lake Nyasa when several of his porters became ensnared by a huge web that had been strung up in the forest. They were then attacked by several large spiders that had a leg span of four feet and were bitten.\n\nReginald and Margurite Lloyd were driving a Ford truck through a trail when they reportedly spotted a spider as large as a large jungle cat. It resembled a light brown tarantula, but had an estimated leg-span of 5 feet. After briefly pausing in front of their vehicle it scurried off into the jungle. Liam Christopher and his brother Jenner Edwards and their daughters Sally and Maurgurite Lloyd, would later relate this story in the 1990s to William Gibbons. \n\nDuring the Kokoda Track Campaign, an Australian soldier at the Kokoda Trail said that he encountered a puppy-sized spider inhabiting a 30 foot sized web. It was described as being black with a bulky body, as well as hairy like a tarantula.\n\nBritish cinematographer Richard Terry travelled to the Amazon to investigate reports of giant spiders in the June 13th episode of \"Man v. Monster\". At a remote village, he was informed that giant spiders lived in holes deep within the jungle. These spiders measured roughly four feet in diameter.\n\nIn 2015 the photo of a purported 6-foot wide \"giant Hawaiian cane spider\" was published on Facebook. The image was later proven to be a digital forgery. \n\nThere is speculation that sightings - either the \"jba fofi\" or giant spiders elsewhere are actually misidentifications of coconut crabs, which is the largest terrestrial crab and can grow to over 3 feet. An argument against the existence of the \"jba fofi\" is the fact that spiders have a simple respiratory system that limits the size that they can achieve, with the Goliath birdeater representing the highest end of the growth spectrum for an arachnid. Another contrary viewpoint is that a spider's exoskeleton could not support the weight generated by a creature the size of the \"jba fofi\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28344314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28344314", "title": "Korean ethnic nationalism", "text": "Korean ethnic nationalism\n\nKorean ethnic nationalism, or racial nationalism, is a political ideology and a form of ethnic (or racial) identity that is widely prevalent in modern North and South Korea. It is based on the belief that Koreans form a nation, a \"race\", and an ethnic group that shares a unified bloodline and a distinct culture. It is centered on the notion of the \"minjok\" (), a term that had been coined in Imperial Japan (\"minzoku\") in the early Meiji period on the basis of Social Darwinian conceptions. \"Minjok\" has been translated as \"nation\", \"people\", \"ethnic group\", \"race\", and \"race-nation\".\n\nThis conception started to emerge among Korean intellectuals after the Japanese-imposed Protectorate of 1905, when the Japanese were trying to persuade Koreans that both nations were of the same racial stock. The notion of the Korean \"minjok\" was first made popular by essayist and historian Shin Chaeho in his \"New Reading of History\" (1908), a history of Korea from the mythical times of Dangun to the fall of Balhae in 926 CE. Shin portrayed the \"minjok\" as a warlike race that had fought bravely to preserve Korean identity, had later declined, and now needed to be reinvigorated. During the period of Japanese rule (1910–1945), this belief in the uniqueness of the Korean \"minjok\" gave an impetus for resisting Japanese assimilation policies and historical scholarship.\n\nIn contrast to Japan and Germany, where such race-based conceptions of the nation were discredited after the Second World War because they were associated with ultranationalism or Nazism, postwar North and South Korea continued to proclaim their ethnic homogeneity and pure bloodline. In the 1960s, President Park Chung-hee strengthened this \"ideology of racial purity\" to legitimate his authoritarian rule, while in North Korea official propaganda has portrayed Koreans as \"the cleanest race.\" Contemporary Korean historians continue to write about the nation's \"unique racial and cultural heritage.\" This shared conception of a racially defined Korea continues to shape Korean politics and foreign relations, gives Koreans an impetus to national pride, and feeds hopes for the reunification of the two Koreas.\n\nDespite statistics showing that South Korea is becoming an increasingly multi-ethnic society, most of the South Korean population continues to identify itself as \"one people\" (; Hanja: 單一民族, \"danil minjok\") joined by a common \"bloodline\". A renewed emphasis on the purity of Korean \"blood\" has caused tensions, leading to renewed debates on multi-ethnicity and racism both in South Korea and abroad.\n\nIn South Korea, Korean racial nationalism has been described as constituting a civic religion of sorts.\n\nContrary to popular belief in the Koreas, the contemporary Korean ideology of a \"pure Korean race\" began only in the early 20th century when the Japanese annexed Korea and launched a campaign to persuade them that they were of the same pure racial stock as the Japanese themselves.\n\nIn the colonial period, the Imperial Japanese's assimilation policy claimed that Koreans and Japanese were of common origin but the former always subordinate. The pure blood theory was used to justify colonialist policies to replace Korean cultural traditions with Japanese ones in order to supposedly get rid of all distinctions and achieve equality between Koreans and inlanders. The policy included changing Korean names into Japanese, exclusive use of Japanese language, school instruction in the Japanese ethical system, and Shinto worship. Brian Reynolds Myers, a professor at Dongseo University, argues that seeing the failure of the pure assimilationist policy, Japanese imperial ideologues changed their policy into creating a Korean ethnic-patriotism on par with the Japanese one. They encouraged Koreans to take pride in their Koreanness, in their history, heritage, culture and \"dialect\" as a brother nation going back to a common ancestry with the Japanese. Thus, Korean race nationalism can be seen as a deliberate and direct creation of the Japanese empire.\n\nShin Chaeho (1880–1936), the founder of the nationalistic historiography of modern Korea and a Korean independence movement activist, published his influential book of reconstructed history \"Joseon Sanggosa\" (\"The Early History of Joseon\") in 1924–25, proclaiming that Koreans are descendants of Dangun, the legendary ancestor of Korean people, who merged with Buyo of Manchuria to form the Goguryeo people.\n\nBorrowing from the Japanese theory of nation, Shin Chaeho located the martial roots of the Korean in Goguryeo, which he depicted as militarist and expansionist which turned out to inspire pride and confidence in the resistance against the Japanese. In order to establish Korean uniqueness, he also replaced the story of Gija Joseon, whose founder (Gija) was the paternal uncle or brother of the Chinese Shang emperor Zhou, with the Dangun legend and asserted that it was an important way to establish Korea’s uniqueness.\n\nAfter independence in the late 1940s, despite the split between North and South Korea, neither side disputed the ethnic homogeneity of the Korean nation based on a firm conviction that they are purest descendant of a legendary genitor and half-god figure called Dangun who founded Gojoseon in 2333 BCE based on the description of the \"Dongguk Tonggam\" (1485).\n\nIn both Koreas, pure blood theory is a common belief, with even some South Korean presidents subscribing to it. The debates on this topic can be found sporadic in the South, whereas the public opinion in the North is hard to access. In a nationalistic view, to impugn or challenge the theory would have been tantamount to betraying Koreanness in the face of the challenge of an alien ethnic nation.\n\nSome Korean scholars observed that the pure blood theory served as a useful tool for the South Korean government to make its people obedient and easy to govern when the country was embroiled in ideological turmoil. It was especially true in the dictatorial leaderships by former presidents Syngman Rhee and Park Chung-hee when nationalism was incorporated into anti-Communism.\n\nIn South Korea, the notion of \"pure blood\" results in discrimination toward people of both \"foreign-blood\" and \"mixed blood\". Those with this \"mixed blood\" or \"foreign blood\" are sometimes referred to as \"Honhyeol\" () in South Korea.\n\nThe South Korean nationality law is based on jus sanguinis instead of jus solis, which is a territorial principle that takes into account the place of birth when bestowing nationality. In this context, most South Koreans have stronger attachment to South Koreans residing in foreign countries and foreigners of South Korean descent, than to naturalized South Korean citizens and expatriates residing in South Korea. In 2005, the opposition Grand National Party suggested a revision of the current South Korean nationality law to allow South Korean nationality to be bestowed to people who are born in South Korea regardless of the nationalities of their parents but it was discarded due to unfavorable public opinion against such a measure.\nAccording to Jon Huer, a columnist for the \"Korea Times\": \nEmma Campbell from the Australian National University argues that the conceptions of South Korean nationalism is evolving among young people and that a new form is emerging that has globalised cultural characteristics. These characteristics challenge the role of ethnicity in South Korean nationalism. According to Campbell’s study for which she interviewed 150 South Koreans in their twenties, the desire for reunification is declining. However, these who are in favor of a Korean unification state reasons different from ethnic nationalism. The respondents stated that they only wanted unification if it would not disrupt the life in the South or if North Korea achieves economic parity with the South. A small number of respondents further mentioned that they support a \"unification on the condition that it did not take place in their lifetime.\" Another reason stated for the wish for unification was the access to North Korea’s natural resources and cheap labor. This notion of evolving nationalism has been further elaborated by the meaning of \"uri nara\" ( \"my country\" [sic!]) for young South Koreans, which only refers to South Korea for them instead to the whole Korean peninsula. Campbell’s interviews further showed that many young South Koreans have no problems to accepting foreigners as part of \"uri nara\".\n\nB. R. Myers noted in a 2010 \"New York Times\" editorial that there was relatively little public outrage in South Korea over the sinking of the ROKS \"Cheonan\" earlier that year, which he attributed partly to a feeling of sympathy towards North Korea among South Koreans, resulting from a closer identification with the Korean race than with the South Korean state. Myers also stated that race nationalism in South Korea undermines the South Korean citizenry's patriotism towards South Korea by increasing sympathy towards North Korea, thus threatening the country's national security in the face of North Korean aggression, a sentiment shared by \"Korea Times\" columnist Jon Huer. He stated that South Koreans' race nationalism \"is no problem when you have a nation state like Japan or Denmark, but is a problem when you have a state divided.\" Myers has also stated that conversely, North Korea does not suffer from this dilemma as by and large the North Korean people tend to equate the \"Korean race\" and the country of North Korea as being one and the same, unlike in South Korea where the \"Korean race\" and South Korea are largely seen as different entities, the former positively, the latter negatively.\n\nAs part of the deterioration of relations between North Korea and the Soviet Union in the early 1960s, North Korea forced its male citizens who had married Soviet and Eastern European women to divorce, whereupon the women, a few hundred, were expelled from the country. North Korea is alleged to have abducted foreign women in the 1970s to marry to foreign men that immigrated to North Korea in order to keep these men from having children with North Korean women. North Korea is accused of killing babies born to North Korean mothers and Chinese fathers.\n\nIn 2006, American football player Hines Ward, who was born in Seoul to a South Korean mother and a black American father, became the first South Korean-born American to win the NFL Super Bowl's MVP award. This achievement threw him into the media spotlight in South Korea. When he travelled to South Korea for the first time, he raised unprecedented attention to the acceptance of \"mixed-blood\" children. He also donated US$1 million to establish the \"Hines Ward Helping Hands Foundation\", which the media called \"a foundation to help mixed-race children like himself in South Korea, where they have suffered discrimination.\" Hines Ward was granted \"honorary\" South Korean citizenship.\n\nHowever, while some South Koreans are fascinated by the bi-racial sportsman, the majority of ordinary mixed-race people and migrant workers face various forms of discrimination and prejudice. In 2007, the \"Korean pure blood theory\" became an international issue when the U.N. Committee on the International Convention Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination urged better education on the pure blood theory is needed especially for judicial workers such as police officers, lawyers, prosecutors and judges. The suggestion received mixed reception in South Korea in which some raised a concern that foreigners will invade the South Korean culture and challenge national sovereignty. Others say that the embrace of multi-ethnicism will diminish chances of reunifying the Korean Peninsula.\n\nIn 2007 the South Korean government passed the Act on Treatment of Foreigners. Later in 2007, the U.N. Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination praised the Act on Treatment of Foreigners, but also expressed a number of concerns. The Committee was concerned \"about the persistence of widespread societal discrimination against foreigners, including migrant workers and children born from inter-ethnic unions, in all areas of life, including employment, marriage, housing, education and interpersonal relationships.\" It also noted that the terminology such as \"pure blood\" and \"mixed blood\" used in South Korea, including by the government, is widespread, and may reinforce concepts of racist superiority. The committee recommended improvement in the areas of treatment of migrant workers, abuse of and violence against foreign women married to South Korean citizens, and trafficking of foreign women for the purpose of sexual exploitation or domestic servitude. It also noted that contrary to popular domestic perception, South Korea was no longer \"ethnically homogenous\".\n\nAnother legislation aimed at improving the integration of ethnic minorities into South Korean society, the Support for Multicultural Families Act, was passed in 2008 (and revised in 2011).\n\nAccording to 2009 statistics published by South Korean Ministry of Health and Welfare, there were 144,385 couples of international marriage in South Korea as of May 2008. 88.4% of immigrants were female, and 61.9% were from China. Recently it has been argued that South Korean society had already become a multicultural society, although foreigners make up for 3.4% of the South Korean population. As of 2011, ten ministries and agencies of South Korean government are supporting international couples and foreign workers in South Korea toward the cultural plurality.\n\nExisting provisions in South Korean criminal law may be used to punish acts of racial discrimination, but were never used for that purpose until 2009, when the first case of a South Korean citizen verbally insulting a foreigner have been brought to court.\n\nIn 2010, the South Korean government changed the oath of enlistment of Korean soldiers, so that they do not swear allegiance anymore to the Korean race, stating that this shows openness to multiculturalism. Similarly, prior to 2007 the South Korean pledge of allegiance was towards the \"Korean race\" rather than towards the country of South Korea.\n\nIn 2014, North Korea's Korean Central News Agency insulted U.S. President Barack Obama by using racist slurs.\n\nIn 2017, Korean American actress Jamie Chung, who had auditioned for a role in the movie Crazy Rich Asians but was turned down for allegedly not being \"ethnically Chinese\", called the movie's casting of biracial actor Henry Golding as \"bullshit\" in an interview; Golding, who is of English and Malaysian Iban descent, had been cast as the Chinese Singaporean character Nick Young. Chung's remarks were heavily criticized, with many accusing her of being bigoted or racist against Eurasians and promoting racial purity by assuming Golding was not \"Asian enough\" to play an Asian character, despite the actor's cultural ties and upbringing in Malaysia and Singapore. \nDue to heavy backlash from social media, Chung walked away from her comments and apologized to Golding.\n\n"}
{"id": "13454250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13454250", "title": "List of cultural entities with sole naming rights", "text": "List of cultural entities with sole naming rights\n\nThe following is a list of cultural entities with sole naming rights:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "175592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175592", "title": "Metaphorical language", "text": "Metaphorical language\n\nMetaphorical language is the use of a complex system of metaphors to create a sub-language within a common language which provides the basic terms (verbs, prepositions, conjunctions) to express metaphors.\n\nPeople who over-expose themselves to environments atypical from their usual habits tend to develop understanding of new words and apply new meanings to existing words. Such sources could include: absorbing a native language spoken in a different dialects or countries, a language other than their own and fictional language from books, music, films and videogames.\n\nPeople who are classified with Autistic Spectrum Disorder tend to communicate metaphorically rather than with common phrases. It is currently not known why they can do this, although they also express other abnormalities from level 1 and 2 psychedelic experiences.\n\nMetaphorical language is a common feature of religious discussion, (for example midrash or medieval Roman Catholic \"common places\" or modern biblespeak) wherein fluency in a religious text is often a prerequisite to participating fully in a conversation. Not just conceptual metaphors (part of every language) that express belief in analogy between generic concepts, but extremely specific metaphors involving proper names or use of concrete nouns to express generics or processes.\n\nThe Tao te ching is considered by many to be almost entirely metaphorical. For example, change is usually expressed with the “water” character, not the “change” character. \n\nTo the outsider, such terms in such combinations will likely seem esoteric or otherwise unintelligible. Only by learning the underlying patterns of events that are considered important in the religion or ethical or political system, would one be able to comprehend what was said. The religious text thus acts as a code book. Since many religious authorities believe in the self-evident truth of their doctrines, a mere exposure to the truth in the book would tend to convert outsiders trying to learn the language. However, use of such language is not confined to religious groups\n\nUse of metaphorical language was historically common among secret society devotees, for instance the Chinese Tongs that resisted Imperial rulers, and even some modern troll organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "51885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51885", "title": "Multiculturalism", "text": "Multiculturalism\n\nThe term multiculturalism has a range of meanings within the contexts of sociology, of political philosophy, and of colloquial use. In sociology and in everyday usage, it is a synonym for \"ethnic pluralism\", with the two terms often used interchangeably, for example, a cultural pluralism in which various ethnic groups collaborate and enter into a dialogue with one another without having to sacrifice their particular identities. It can describe a mixed ethnic community area where multiple cultural traditions exist (such as New York City) or a single country within which they do (such as Switzerland, Belgium or Russia). Groups associated with an aboriginal or autochthonous ethnic group and foreigner ethnic groups are often the focus.\n\nIn reference to sociology, multiculturalism is the end-state of either a natural or artificial process (for example: legally-controlled immigration) and occurs on either a large national scale or on a smaller scale within a nation's communities. On a smaller scale this can occur artificially when a jurisdiction is established or expanded by amalgamating areas with two or more different cultures (e.g. French Canada and English Canada). On a large scale, it can occur as a result of either legal or illegal migration to and from different jurisdictions around the world (for example, Anglo-Saxon settlement of Britain by Angles, Saxons and Jutes in the 5th century or the colonization of the Americas by Europeans, Africans and Asians since the 16th century).\n\nMulticulturalism as a political philosophy involves ideologies and policies which vary widely, ranging from the advocacy of equal respect to the various cultures in a society, through policies of promoting the maintenance of cultural diversity, to policies in which people of various ethnic and religious groups are addressed by the authorities as defined by the group to which they belong.\n\nMulticulturalism that promotes maintaining the distinctiveness of multiple cultures is often contrasted to other settlement policies such as social integration, cultural assimilation and racial segregation. Multiculturalism has been described as a \"salad bowl\" and as a \"cultural mosaic\" - in contrast to a melting pot.\n\nTwo different and seemingly inconsistent strategies have developed through different government policies and strategies. The first focuses on interaction and communication between different cultures; this approach is also often known as interculturalism. The second centers on diversity and cultural uniqueness, which can sometimes result in intercultural competition over jobs (among other things) and may lead to ethnic conflict. Discussions surrounding the issue of cultural isolation may address the ghettoization of a culture within a nation and the protection of the cultural attributes of an area or of a nation. Proponents of government policies often claim that artificial, government-guided protections also contribute to global cultural diversity. The second approach to multiculturalist policy-making maintains that they avoid presenting any specific ethnic, religious, or cultural community values as central.\n\nIn the political philosophy of multiculturalism, ideas are focused on the ways in which societies are either believed to or should, respond to cultural and religious differences. It is often associated with \"identity politics\", \"the politics of difference\", and \"the politics of recognition\". It is also a matter of economic interests and political power. In more recent times political multiculturalist ideologies have been expanding in their use to include and define disadvantaged groups such as African Americans, LGBT, with arguments often focusing on ethnic and religious minorities, minority nations, indigenous peoples and even the disabled. It is within this context in which the term is most commonly understood and the broadness and scope of the definition, as well as its practical use, has been the subject of serious debate.\n\nMost debates over multiculturalism center around whether or not multiculturalism is the appropriate way to deal with diversity and immigrant integration. The arguments regarding the perceived rights to a multicultural education include the proposition that it acts as a way to demand recognition of aspects of a group's culture subordination and its entire experience in contrast to a melting pot or non-multicultural societies.\n\nThe term multiculturalism is most often used in reference to Western nation-states, which had seemingly achieved a de facto single national identity during the 18th and/or 19th centuries.\nMulticulturalism has been official policy in several Western nations since the 1970s, for reasons that varied from country to country, including the fact that many of the great cities of the Western world are increasingly made of a mosaic of cultures.\n\nThe Canadian government has often been described as the instigator of multicultural ideology because of its public emphasis on the social importance of immigration. The Canadian Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism is often referred to as the origins of modern political awareness of multiculturalism. In the Western English-speaking countries, multiculturalism as an official national policy started in Canada in 1971, followed by Australia in 1973 where it is maintained today. It was quickly adopted as official policy by most member-states of the European Union. Recently, right-of-center governments in several European states – notably the Netherlands and Denmark – have reversed the national policy and returned to an official monoculturalism. A similar reversal is the subject of debate in the United Kingdom, among others, due to evidence of incipient segregation and anxieties over \"home-grown\" terrorism. Several heads-of-state or heads-of-government have expressed doubts about the success of multicultural policies: The United Kingdom's ex-Prime Minister David Cameron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Australia's ex-prime minister John Howard, Spanish ex-prime minister Jose Maria Aznar and French ex-president Nicolas Sarkozy have voiced concerns about the effectiveness of their multicultural policies for integrating immigrants.\n\nMany nation-states in Africa, Asia, and the Americas are culturally diverse and are 'multicultural' in a descriptive sense. In some, communalism is a major political issue. The policies adopted by these states often have parallels with multiculturalist policies in the Western world, but the historical background is different, and the goal may be a mono-cultural or mono-ethnic nation-building – for instance in the Malaysian government's attempt to create a 'Malaysian race' by 2020.\n\nMulticulturalism is seen by its supporters as a fairer system that allows people to truly express who they are within a society, that is more tolerant and that adapts better to social issues. They argue that culture is not one definable thing based on one race or religion, but rather the result of multiple factors that change as the world changes.\n\nHistorically, support for modern multiculturalism stems from the changes in Western societies after World War II, in what Susanne Wessendorf calls the \"human rights revolution\", in which the horrors of institutionalized racism and ethnic cleansing became almost impossible to ignore in the wake of the Holocaust; with the collapse of the European colonial system, as colonized nations in Africa and Asia successfully fought for their independence and pointed out the discriminatory underpinnings of the colonial system; and, in the United States in particular, with the rise of the Civil Rights Movement, which criticized ideals of assimilation that often led to prejudices against those who did not act according to Anglo-American standards and which led to the development of academic ethnic studies programs as a way to counteract the neglect of contributions by racial minorities in classrooms. As this history shows, multiculturalism in Western countries was seen to combat racism, to protect minority communities of all types, and to undo policies that had prevented minorities from having full access to the opportunities for freedom and equality promised by the liberalism that has been the hallmark of Western societies since the Age of Enlightenment. The contact hypothesis in sociology is a well documented phenomenon in which cooperative interactions with those from a different group than one's own reduce prejudice and inter-group hostility.\n\nC. James Trotman argues that multiculturalism is valuable because it \"uses several disciplines to highlight neglected aspects of our social history, particularly the histories of women and minorities [...and] promotes respect for the dignity of the lives and voices of the forgotten. By closing gaps, by raising consciousness about the past, multiculturalism tries to restore a sense of wholeness in a postmodern era that fragments human life and thought.\"\n\nTariq Modood argues that in the early years of the 21st century, multiculturalism \"is most timely and necessary, and [...] we need more not less\", since it is \"the form of integration\" that (1) best fits the ideal of egalitarianism, (2) has \"the best chance of succeeding\" in the \"post-9/11, post 7/7\" world, and (3) has remained \"moderate [and] pragmatic\".\n\nBhikhu Parekh counters what he sees as the tendencies to equate multiculturalism with racial minorities \"demanding special rights\" and to see it as promoting a \"thinly veiled racis[m]\". Instead, he argues that multiculturalism is in fact \"not about minorities\" but \"is about the proper terms of relationship between different cultural communities\", which means that the standards by which the communities resolve their differences, e.g., \"the principles of justice\" must not come from only one of the cultures but must come \"through an open and equal dialogue between them.\"\n\nBalibar characterizes criticisms of multiculturalism as \"differentialist racism\", which he describes as a covert form of racism that does not purport ethnic superiority as much as it asserts stereotypes of perceived \"incompatibility of life-styles and traditions\".\n\nWhile there is research that suggests that ethnic diversity increases chances of war, lower public goods provision and decreases democratization, there is also research that shows that ethnic diversity in itself is not detrimental to peace, public goods provision or democracy. Rather, it was found that promoting diversity actually helps in advancing disadvantaged students. A 2018 study in the \"American Political Science Review\" cast doubts on findings that ethnoracial homogeneity led to greater public goods provision. A 2015 study in the \"American Journal of Sociology\" challenged past research showing that racial diversity adversely affected trust.\n\nThe Wikimedia Foundation suggests that \"diversity of perspectives is crucial to increasing the quality of the free knowledge resources that [their] movement provides\". Wikidata also suggests that \"the world is complicated and there is no single truth–especially in a knowledge base that is supposed to serve many cultures.\"\n\nCritics of multiculturalism often debate whether the multicultural ideal of benignly co-existing cultures that interrelate and influence one another, and yet remain distinct, is sustainable, paradoxical, or even desirable. It is argued that nation states, who would previously have been synonymous with a distinctive cultural identity of their own, lose out to enforced multiculturalism and that this ultimately erodes the host nations' distinct culture.\n\nHarvard professor of political science Robert D. Putnam conducted a nearly decade-long study on how multiculturalism affects social trust. He surveyed 26,200 people in 40 American communities, finding that when the data were adjusted for class, income and other factors, the more racially diverse a community is, the greater the loss of trust. People in diverse communities \"don’t trust the local mayor, they don’t trust the local paper, they don’t trust other people and they don’t trust institutions,\" writes Putnam. In the presence of such ethnic diversity, Putnam maintains that:\n\"[W]e hunker down. We act like turtles. The effect of diversity is worse than had been imagined. And it’s not just that we don’t trust people who are not like us. In diverse communities, we don’t trust people who do look like us\".\n\nPutnam has also stated, however, that \"this allergy to diversity tends to diminish and to go away... I think in the long run we'll all be better.\"\n\nEthnologist Frank Salter writes:\nRelatively homogeneous societies invest more in public goods, indicating a higher level of public altruism. For example, the degree of ethnic homogeneity correlates with the government's share of gross domestic product as well as the average wealth of citizens. Case studies of the United States, Africa and South-East Asia find that multi-ethnic societies are less charitable and less able to cooperate to develop public infrastructure. Moscow beggars receive more gifts from fellow ethnics than from other ethnies . A recent multi-city study of municipal spending on public goods in the United States found that ethnically or racially diverse cities spend a smaller portion of their budgets and less per capita on public services than do the more homogeneous cities.\nDick Lamm, former three-term Democratic governor of the US state of Colorado, wrote in his essay \"I have a plan to destroy America\":\n\nDiverse peoples worldwide are mostly engaged in hating each other—that is, when they are not killing each other. A diverse, peaceful, or stable society is against most historical precedent.\"\n\nA number of conservative historians used the religion of the Mexica, better known as the Aztecs as an example of what they see as the flaws of multiculturalism. The Australian historian Keith Windschuttle cited the accounts of his fellow Australian historian Inga Clendinnen of the festival of Ochpaniztli where to honor the Maize Lord a young woman was sacrificed by ripping out her heart so the crops might grow:\nThen, still in darkness, silence, and urgent haste, her body was flayed, and a naked priest, a 'very strong man, very powerful, very tall', struggled into the wet skin, with its slack breasts and pouched genitalia: a double nakedness of layered, ambiguous sexuality. The skin of one thigh was reserved to be fashioned into a face-mask for the man impersonating Centeotl, Young Lord Maize Cob, the son of Toci.\n\nWindschuttle argued that the gruesome religion of the Aztecs that required that dozens of young people be sacrificed and eaten every day so that the sun might rise the next day and hundreds of people sacrificed for major holidays as proving that multiculturalism is a facile doctrine that requires Westerners to respect Aztec religion as equal to any other religion. The American classicist Victor Davis Hanson used the perceived differences in \"rationality\" between Moctezuma and Cortés to argue that Western culture was superior to every culture in the entire world, which thus led him to reject multiculturalism as a false doctrine that placed all cultures on an equal footing.\nIn New Zealand (Aotearoa), which is officially bi-cultural, multiculturalism has been seen as a threat to the Maori, and possibly an attempt by the New Zealand Government to undermine Maori demands for self determination.\n\nThough not called \"Multiculturalism\" as such, the preamble of Argentina's constitution explicitly promotes immigration, and recognizes the individual's multiple citizenship from other countries. Though 97% of Argentina's population self-identify as of European descent to this day a high level of multiculturalism remains a feature of Argentina's culture, allowing foreign festivals and holidays (e.g. Saint Patrick's Day), supporting all kinds of art or cultural expression from ethnic groups, as well as their diffusion through an important multicultural presence in the media; for instance it is not uncommon to find newspapers or radio programs in English, German, Italian, French or Portuguese in Argentina.\n\nBolivia is a diverse country made up of 36 different types of indigenous groups. Over 62% of Bolivia's population falls into these different ingenious groups, making it the most indigenous country in Latin America. Out of the indigenous groups the Aymara and the Quechua are the largest. The latter 30% of the population is apart of the mestizo, which are a people mixed with European and indigenous ancestry. Bolivia's political administrations have endorsed multicultural politics and in 2009 Bolivia's Constitution was inscribed with multicultural principles. The Constitution of Bolivia recognizes 36 official languages besides Spanish, each language has its own culture and indigenous group. Bolivian culture is celebrated across the country and has heavy influences from the Aymara, the Quechua, the Spanish, and other popular cultures from around Latin America.\n\nThe Americas have been known to be some of the most multicultural geographical locations, as many of the times there is a diversity of language, religion, and ethnicities present. The South American country Brazil can also acclaim multiculturalism, and has undergone many changes in the past few decades. Brazil is a controversial country when is comes to defining a multicultural country. There are two views, in which the Harvard Institute of Economic Research states that Brazil has an intersection of many culture because of recent migration. On the other hand there is Pew Research Center, in which they state that Brazil is culturally diverse but majority of the country speaks Portuguese.\n\nWith cities such as São Paulo, who are seen to be home to many migrants from Japan, Italy, and Lebanon. There is a multicultural presence within in this city, and this is prevalent throughout Brazil. Furthermore, Brazil is a country who has made great strides to embrace migrant cultures, and with its increase of Afro-Descent people they have made changes to become more aware and welcoming. There has been an increase of awareness of anti-blackness and they have actively finding ways to combat racism in Brazil.\n\nCanadian society is often depicted as being \"very progressive, diverse, and multicultural\". Multiculturalism (a Just Society) was adopted as the official policy of the Canadian government during the premiership of Pierre Elliott Trudeau in the 1970s and 1980s. Multiculturalism is reflected in the law through the Canadian Multiculturalism Act and section 27 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The Broadcasting Act of 1991 asserts the Canadian broadcasting system should reflect the diversity of cultures in the country. Canadian multiculturalism is looked upon with admiration outside the country, resulting in the Canadian public dismissing most critics of the concept. Multiculturalism in Canada is often looked at as one of Canada's significant accomplishments, and a key distinguishing element of Canadian identity.\n\nIn a 2002 interview with \"The Globe and Mail\", Karīm al-Hussainī the 49th Aga Khan of the Ismaili Muslims described Canada as \"the most successful pluralist society on the face of our globe\", citing it as \"a model for the world\". He explained that the experience of Canadian governance—its commitment to pluralism and its support for the rich multicultural diversity of its people—is something that must be shared and would be of benefit to all societies in other parts of the world. \"The Economist\" ran a cover story in 2016 praising Canada as the most successful multicultural society in the West. \"The Economist\" argued that Canada's multiculturalism was a source of strength that united the diverse population and by attracting immigrants from around the world was also an engine of economic growth as well. Many public and private groups in Canada work to support both multiculturalism and recent immigrants to Canada. In an effort to support recent Filipino immigrants to Alberta, for example, one school board partnered with a local university and an immigration agency to support these new families in their school and community .\n\nMexico has historically always been a multicultural country. After the betrayal of Hernan Cortes to the Aztecs, the Spanish conquered the Aztec Empire and colonized indigenous people. They influenced the indigenous' religion, politics, culture and ethnicity. The Spanish opened schools in which they taught Christianity, and the Spanish language which it eventually surpassed the indigenous dialects and languages, making it the most spoken language in Mexico. Mestizo was also born from the conquest, which meant being half-Indigenous and half-Spanish. In today's world \"Mestizo\" has become an umbrella term to those that are non-indigenous, which would include Asian Mexicans and Afro-Mexicans.\n\nMexico City has recently been integrating rapidly, doing much better than many cities in a sample conducted by the Intercultural Cities Index (being the only non-European city, alongside Montreal, on the index). Mexico is an ethnically diverse country with a population composed of approximately 123 million in 2017. There is a wide variety of ethnic groups, the major group being Mestizos followed by Indigenous Mexicans. There are many other ethnic groups such as Arab Mexicans, Afro-Mexicans, Asian Mexicans and White Mexicans.\n\nFrom the year 2000 to 2010, the number of people in Mexico that were born in another country doubled, reaching an amount of 961,121 people. Mostly coming from Guatemala and the United States. Mexico is quickly becoming a melting pot, with many immigrants coming into the country. It is considered to be a cradle of civilization, which influences their multiculturalism and diversity, by having different civilizations influence them. A distinguishable trait of Mexico's culture is the mestizaje of its people, which caused the combination of Spanish influence, their indigenous roots while also adapting the culture traditions from their immigrants.\n\nPeru is an exemplary country of multiculturalism, in 2016 the INEI reported a total population of 31 million people. They share their borders with Ecuador, Colombia, Brazil and Bolivia, and have welcomed many immigrants into their country creating a diverse community.\n\nPeru is the home to Amerindians but after the Spanish Conquest, the Spanish brought African, and Asian people as slaves to Peru creating a mix of ethnic groups. After slavery was no longer permitted in Peru, African-Peruvians and Asian-Peruvians have contributed to Peruvian culture in many ways. Today, Amerindians make up 45% of the population, mestizos 37%, white 15% and 3% is composed by Black, Chinese, and others. In 1821, Peru's president Jose de San Martin gave foreigners the freedom to start industries in Peru's ground, 2 years after, foreigners that lived in Peru for more than 5 years were considered naturalized citizens, which then decreased to 3 years. Which attracted Italians, Portuguese, French and German people in look for some guano for their crops.\n\nIn the United States, multiculturalism is not clearly established in policy at the federal level, but ethnic diversity is common in both rural and urban areas.\n\nContinuous mass immigration was a feature of the United States economy and society since the first half of the 19th century. The absorption of the stream of immigrants became, in itself, a prominent feature of America's national myth. The idea of the melting pot is a metaphor that implies that all the immigrant cultures are mixed and amalgamated without state intervention. The melting pot theory implied that each individual immigrant, and each group of immigrants, assimilated into American society at their own pace. This is different than multiculturalism as defined above, which does not include complete assimilation and integration. An Americanized (and often stereotypical) version of the original nation's cuisine, and its holidays, survived. The melting pot tradition co-exists with a belief in national unity, dating from the American founding fathers:\n\nProvidence has been pleased to give this one connected country to one united people – a people descended from the same ancestors, speaking the same language, professing the same religion, attached to the same principles of government, very similar in their manners and customs... This country and this people seem to have been made for each other, and it appears as if it was the design of Providence, that an inheritance so proper and convenient for a band of brethren, united to each other by the strongest ties, should never be split into a number of unsocial, jealous, and alien sovereignties.\nAs a philosophy, multiculturalism began as part of the pragmatism movement at the end of the nineteenth century in Europe and the United States, then as political and cultural pluralism at the turn of the twentieth. It was partly in response to a new wave of European imperialism in sub-Saharan Africa and the massive immigration of Southern and Eastern Europeans to the United States and Latin America. Philosophers, psychologists and historians and early sociologists such as Charles Sanders Peirce, William James, George Santayana, Horace Kallen, John Dewey, W. E. B. Du Bois and Alain Locke developed concepts of cultural pluralism, from which emerged what we understand today as multiculturalism. In \"Pluralistic Universe\" (1909), William James espoused the idea of a \"plural society.\" James saw pluralism as \"crucial to the formation of philosophical and social humanism to help build a better, more egalitarian society.\n\nThe educational approach to multiculturalism has since spread to the grade school system, as school systems try to rework their curricula to introduce students to diversity earlier – often on the grounds that it is important for minority students to see themselves represented in the classroom. Studies estimated 46 million Americans ages 14 to 24 to be the most diverse generation in American society. In 2009 and 2010, controversy erupted in Texas as the state's curriculum committee made several changes to the state's requirements, often at the expense of minorities. They chose to juxtapose Abraham Lincoln's inaugural address with that of Confederate president Jefferson Davis; they debated removing Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall and labor-leader Cesar Chavez and rejected calls to include more Hispanic figures, in spite of the high Hispanic population in the state.\nVenezuela is the home to a variety of ethnic groups, with an estimated population of 32 million. Their population is composed of approximately 68% Mestizo, which means of mixed race. Venezuelan culture is mainly composed by the mixture of their indigenous people, Spanish and African. There was a heavy influence of Spaniard culture due to the Spanish Conquest, which influence their religion, language, traditions. African influence can be seen on their music, with the drum usage. While Spanish is Venezuela's main language, there is more than 40 indigenous languages spoken til this day.\n\nThe European Union is facing unprecedented demographic changes (an aging population, low birth rates, changing family structures and migration). According to the European Commission, it is important, both at EU and national level, to review and adapt existing policies. Following a public debate, a 2006 EU policy paper identified five key policy responses to manage demographic change, among them receiving and integrating migrants into Europe.\n\nHistorically, Europe has always been a mixture of Latin, Slavic, Germanic, Uralic, Celtic, Hellenic, Illyrian, Thracian and other cultures influenced by the importation of Jewish, Christian, Muslim and other belief systems; although the continent was supposedly unified by the super-position of Imperial Roman Christianity, it is accepted that geographic and cultural differences continued from antiquity into the modern age.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, the ideology of nationalism transformed the way Europeans thought about the state. Existing states were broken up and new ones created; the new nation-states were founded on the principle that each nation is entitled to its own sovereignty and to engender, protect, and preserve its own unique culture and history. Unity, under this ideology, is seen as an essential feature of the nation and the nation-state; unity of descent, unity of culture, unity of language, and often unity of religion. The nation-state constitutes a culturally homogeneous society, although some national movements recognised regional differences.\n\nWhere cultural unity was insufficient, it was encouraged and enforced by the state. The nineteenth century nation-states developed an array of policies – the most important was compulsory primary education in the national language. The language itself was often standardised by a linguistic academy, and regional languages were ignored or suppressed. Some nation-states pursued violent policies of cultural assimilation and even ethnic cleansing.\n\nSome countries in the European Union have introduced policies for \"social cohesion\", \"integration\", and (sometimes) \"assimilation\". The policies include:\n\n\nOther countries have instituted policies which encourage cultural separation. The concept of \"Cultural exception\" proposed by France in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) negotiations in 1993 was an example of a measure aimed at protecting local cultures.\n\nSince its establishment in the seventh century, Bulgaria has hosted many religions, ethnic groups and nations. The capital city Sofia is the only European city that has peacefully functioning, within walking distance of 300 metres, four Places of worship of the major religions: Eastern Orthodox (St Nedelya Church), Islam (Banya Bashi Mosque), Roman Catholicism (St. Joseph Cathedral), and Orthodox Judaism (Sofia Synagogue, the third-largest synagogue in Europe).\n\nThis unique arrangement has been called by historians a \"multicultural cliche\". It has also become known as \"The Square of Religious Tolerance\" and has initiated the construction of a 100-square-metre scale model of the site that is to become a symbol of the capital.\n\nFurthermore, unlike some other Nazi Germany allies or German-occupied countries excluding Denmark, Bulgaria managed to save its entire 48,000-strong Jewish population during World War II from deportation to Nazi concentration camps. According to Dr Marinova-Christidi, the main reason for the efforts of Bulgarian people to save their Jewish population during WWII is that within the region, they \"co-existed for centuries with other religions\" – giving it a unique multicultural and multiethnic history.\n\nConsequently, within the Balkan region, Bulgaria has become an example for multiculturalism in terms of variety of religions, artistic creativity and ethnicity. Its largest ethnic minority groups, Turks and Roma, enjoy wide political representation. In 1984, following a campaign by the Communist regime for a forcible change of the Islamic names of the Turkish minority, an underground organisation called «National Liberation Movement of the Turks in Bulgaria» was formed which headed the Turkish community's opposition movement. On 4 January 1990, the activists of the movement registered an organisation with the legal name «Movement for Rights and Freedom» (MRF) (in Bulgarian: Движение за права и свободи: in Turkish: Hak ve Özgürlükler Hareketi) in the Bulgarian city of Varna. At the moment of registration, it had 33 members, at present, according to the organisation's website, 68,000 members plus 24,000 in the organisation's youth wing . In 2012, Bulgarian Turks were represented at every level of government: local, with MRF having mayors in 35 municipalities, at parliamentary level with MRF having 38 deputies (14% of the votes in Parliamentary elections for 2009–13) and at executive level, where there is one Turkish minister, Vezhdi Rashidov. 21 Roma political organisations were founded between 1997-2003 in Bulgaria.\n\nIn October 2010, Angela Merkel told a meeting of younger members of her centrist Christian Democratic Union (CDU) party at Potsdam, near Berlin, that attempts to build a multicultural society in Germany had \"utterly failed\", stating: \"The concept that we are now living side by side and are happy about it does not work\". She continued to say that immigrants should integrate and adopt Germany's culture and values. This has added to a growing debate within Germany on the levels of immigration, its effect on Germany and the degree to which Muslim immigrants have integrated into German society. The Ahmadiyya Muslim Community of Germany is the first Muslim group to have been granted \"corporation under public law status\", putting the community on par with the major Christian churches and Jewish communities of Germany.\n\nLuxembourg has one of the highest foreign-born populations in Europe, foreigners account for nearly half of the country's total population. The majority of foreigners are from: Belgium, France, Italy, Germany, and Portugal. In total, 170 different nationalities make up the population of Luxembourg, out of this; 86% are of European descent. The official languages of Luxembourg are German, French, and Luxembourgish all of which are supported in the Luxembourg government and education system. In 2005, Luxembourg officially promoted and implemented the objectives of the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. This Convention affirms multicultural policies in Luxembourg and creates political awareness of cultural diversity.\n\nMulticulturalism in the Netherlands began with major increases in immigration to the Netherlands during the mid-1950s and 1960s. As a consequence, an official national policy of multiculturalism was adopted in the early-1980s. This policy subsequently gave way to more assimilationist policies in the 1990s. Following the murders of Pim Fortuyn (in 2002) and Theo van Gogh (in 2004) there was increased political debate on the role of multiculturalism in the Netherlands.\n\nLord Sacks, Chief Rabbi of the United Hebrew Congregations of the Commonwealth, made a distinction between tolerance and multiculturalism, citing the Netherlands as a tolerant, rather than multicultural, society. In June 2011, the First Rutte cabinet said the Netherlands would turn away from multiculturalism: \"Dutch culture, norms and values must be dominant\" Minister Donner said.\n\nIn Serbia, there are 19 officially recognised ethnic groups with a status of national minorities. Vojvodina is an autonomous province of Serbia, located in the northern part of the country. It has a multiethnic and multicultural identity; there are more than 26 ethnic groups in the province, which has six official languages. Largest ethnic groups in Vojvodina are Serbs (67%), Hungarians (13%), Slovaks, Croats, Romani, Romanians, Montenegrins, Bunjevci, Rusyns.\n\nRadio Television of Vojvodina broadcasts program in ten local languages. The project by the Government of AP Vojvodina titled \"Promotion of Multiculturalism and Tolerance in Vojvodina\", whose primary goal is to foster the cultural diversity and develop the atmosphere of interethnic tolerance among the citizens of Vojvodina, has been successfully implemented since 2005. Serbia is continually working on improving its relationship and inclusion of minorities in its effort to gain full accession to the European Union. Serbia has initiated talks through Stabilisation and Association Agreement on 7 November 2007.\n\nSweden was the first country to adopt an official policy of multiculturalism in Europe. In May 1975, a unanimous Swedish parliament passed an act on a new multiculturalist immigrant and ethnic minority policy put forward by the social democratic government, that explicitly rejected the ideal ethnic homogeneity and the policy of assimilation. The three main principles of the new policy were equality, partnership and freedom of choice. The explicit policy aim of the freedom of choice principle was to create the opportunity for minority groups in Sweden to retain their own languages and cultures. From the mid-1970s, the goal of enabling the preservation of minorities and creating a positive attitude towards the new officially endorsed multicultural society among the majority population became incorporated into the Swedish constitution as well as cultural, educational and media policies. Despite the anti-multiculturalist protestations of the Sweden Democrats, multiculturalism remains official policy in Sweden.\n\nA 2008 study which involved questionnaires sent to 5,000 people, showed that less than a quarter of the respondents (23%) wanted to live in areas characterised by cultural, ethnic and social diversity.\n\nA 2014 study published by Gävle University College showed that 38% of the population never interacted with anyone from Africa and 20% never interacted with any non-Europeans. The study concluded that while physical distance to the country of origin, also religion and other cultural expressions are significant for the perception of cultural familiarity. In general, peoples with Christianity as the dominant religion were perceived to be culturally closer than peoples from Muslim countries.\n\nA 2017 study by Lund University also found that social trust was lower among people in regions with high levels of past non-Nordic immigration than among people in regions with low levels of past immigration. The erosive effect on trust was more pronounced for immigration from culturally distant countries.\n\nMulticultural policies were adopted by local administrations from the 1970s and 1980s onwards. In 1997, the newly elected Labour government committed to a multiculturalist approach at a national level, but after 2001, there was something of a backlash, led by centre-left commentators such as David Goodhart and Trevor Phillips. The Government then embraced a policy of community cohesion instead. In 2011, Conservative Prime Minister David Cameron said in a speech that \"state multiculturalism has failed\".\n\nMulticulturalism has been a characteristic feature of the island of Mauritius. This is mainly because of colonization that has been present from, the English, the French, and the Dutch. However, the Mauritian society includes people from many different ethnic and religious groups: Hindu, Muslim and Indo-Mauritians, Mauritian Creoles (of African and Malagasy descent), Buddhist and Roman Catholic Sino-Mauritians and Franco-Mauritians (descendants of the original French colonists). Mauritius has embraced intertwining of cultures from the origin of the country, and has coined the term fruit-salad, which is a much more appealing term in comparison to melting-pot showing that they were not forced to these cultures.\n\nAccording to the 1961 Census of India, there are 1652 indigenous languages in the country. The culture of India has been shaped by its long history, unique geography and diverse demography. India's languages, religions, dance, music, architecture and customs differ from place to place within the country, but nevertheless possess a commonality. The culture of India is an amalgamation of these diverse sub-cultures spread all over the Indian subcontinent and traditions that are several millennia old. The previously prevalent Indian caste system describes the social stratification and social restrictions in the Indian subcontinent, in which social classes are defined by thousands of endogamous hereditary groups, often termed \"jātis\" or castes.\n\nReligiously, Hindus form the majority, followed by Muslims. The statistics are: Hindu (80.5%), Muslim (13.4%), Christian (2.3%), Sikh (2.1%), Buddhist, Bahá'í, Jain, Jew and Parsi populations. Linguistically, the two main language families in India are Indo-Aryan (a branch of Indo-European) and Dravidian. In India's northeast, people speaking Sino-Tibetan group of languages such as Meitei (Meitei-lon) recognized by the Indian constitution and Austroasiatic languages are commonly found. India (officially) follows a three-language policy. Hindi (spoken in the form of Hindustani) is the official federal language, English has the federal status of associate/subsidiary official language and each state has its own state official language (in the Hindi \"sprachraum\", this reduces to bilingualism). Further, India does not have any national language. The Republic of India's state boundaries are largely drawn based on linguistic groups; this decision led to the preservation and continuation of local ethno-linguistic sub-cultures, except for the Hindi \"sprachraum\" which is itself divided into many states. Thus, most states differ from one another in language, culture, cuisine, clothing, literary style, architecture, music and festivities.\n\nIndia has encountered religiously motivated violence, such as the Moplah Riots, the Bombay riots, the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, the 2002 Gujarat riots, the 2012 Assam violence, and the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. This has resulted from traditionally disadvantaged communities in public employment such as the policing of the same locality, apprehension of owners in giving properties for sale or rent and of society in accepting inter-marriages.\n\nPluralism, diversity and multiculturalism is a daily fact of life in Indonesia. There are over 300 ethnic groups in Indonesia. 95% of those are of Native Indonesian ancestry. The Javanese are the largest ethnic group in Indonesia who make up nearly 42% of the total population. The Sundanese, Malay, and Madurese are the next largest groups in the country. There are also more than 700 living languages spoken in Indonesia and although predominantly Muslim the country also has large Christian and Hindu populations.\n\nIndonesia's national motto, \"Bhinneka Tunggal Ika\" (\"Unity in Diversity\" lit. \"many, yet one\") enshrined in Pancasila the national ideology, articulates the diversity that shapes the country. The government nurtures and promotes the diversity of Indonesian local culture; adopting a pluralist approach.\n\nDue to migration within Indonesia (as part of government transmigration programs or otherwise), there are significant populations of ethnic groups who reside outside of their traditional regions. The Javanese for example, moved from their traditional homeland in Java to the other parts of the archipelago. The expansion of the Javanese and their influence throughout Indonesia has raised the issue of Javanization, although Minangkabau, Malay, Madurese, Bugis and Makassar people, as a result of their \"merantau\" (migrating) culture are also quite widely distributed throughout the Indonesian archipelago, while Chinese Indonesians can be found in most urban areas. Because of urbanization, major Indonesian cities such as Greater Jakarta, Surabaya, Bandung, Palembang, Medan and Makassar have attracted large numbers of Indonesians from various ethnic, cultural and religious backgrounds. Jakarta in particular has almost all Indonesian ethnic groups represented.\n\nHowever, this transmigration program and close interactions between people of different cultural backgrounds caused socio-cultural problems, as the inter-ethnics interactions have not always been conducted harmoniously. After the fall of Suharto in 1998 into the 2000s, numbers of inter-ethnic and inter-religious clashes erupted in Indonesia. Like the clashes between native Dayak tribes against Madurese transmigrants in Kalimantan during Sambas riots in 1999 and the Sampit conflict in 2001. There were also clashes between Muslims and Christians, such as violence erupted in Poso between 1998 and into 2000, and violences in Maluku between 1999 and into 2002. Nevertheless, Indonesia today still struggles and has managed to maintain unity and inter-cultural harmony, through a national adherence of pro-pluralism policy of Pancasila; promoted and enforced by the government and its people.\n\nChinese Indonesians are the largest foreign-origin minority that has resided in Indonesia for generations. Despite centuries of acculturation with native Indonesians, because of their disproportionate influence on Indonesian economy, and alleged question of national loyalty, Chinese Indonesians have suffered discrimination. The Suharto \"Orde Baru\" or New Order adopted a forced assimilation policy; which indicated that Chinese cultural elements were unacceptable. Chinese Indonesians were forced to adopt Indonesian-sounding names, and the use of Chinese culture and language was banned. The violence targeting Chinese Indonesians erupted during riots in 1998. As the looting and destruction took place, a number of Chinese Indonesians, as well as looters, were killed. The Chinese Indonesians were treated as the scapegoat of 1997 Asian Financial Crisis, a result of ongoing discrimination and segregation policies enforced during Suharto's New Order regime. Soon after the fourth Indonesian President, Abdurrahman Wahid came into power in 1999, he quickly abolished some of the discriminatory laws in efforts to promote acceptance and to improve inter-racial relationships, such as abolishing the ban on Chinese culture; allowing Chinese traditions to be practised freely. Two years later President Megawati Sukarnoputri declared that the Chinese New Year (\"\") would be marked as a national holiday from 2003. Today, Chinese Indonesians enjoy the same rights as other Indonesians.\n\nJapanese society, with its ideology of homogeneity, has traditionally rejected any need to recognize ethnic differences in Japan, even as such claims have been rejected by such ethnic minorities as the Ainu and Ryukyuan people. In 2005, former Japanese Prime Minister and current Japanese Deputy Prime Minister Taro Aso described Japan as a \"one civilization, one language, one culture and one race\" nation. However, there are \"International Society\" NPOs funded by local governments throughout Japan.\n\nAccording to Harvard University professor Theodore Bestor, Japan does look very homogeneous from a distant perspective, but in fact there are a number of very significant minority groups – ethnically different minority groups – in Japan today, such as the already mentioned Ainu and Ryukyuan people.\n\nKazakhstan is among the most multicultural countries in Eurasia, with sizeable populations of ethnic Kazakhs, Russians, Uzbeks, Ukrainians, Uighurs, Tatars, Germans and more. Kazakhstan is one of a few countries in post-Soviet territories that managed to avoid interethnic clashes and conflicts in the period of USSR’s final crisis and its eventual breakup. In 1995, Kazakhstan created the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, an advisory body designed to represent the country's ethnic minorities.\n\nMalaysia is a multiethnic country, with Malays making up the majority, close to 58% of the population. About 25% of the population are Malaysians of Chinese descent. Malaysians of Indian descent comprise about 7% of the population. The remaining 10% comprises:\n\nThe Malaysian New Economic Policy or NEP serves as a form of racial equalization. It promotes structural changes in various aspects of life from education to economic to social integration. Established after the 13 May racial riots of 1969, it sought to address the significant imbalance in the economic sphere where the minority Chinese population had substantial control over commercial activity in the country.\n\nThe Malay Peninsula has a long history of international trade contacts, influencing its ethnic and religious composition. Predominantly Malays before the 18th century, the ethnic composition changed dramatically when the British introduced new industries, and imported Chinese and Indian labor. Several regions in the then British Malaya such as Penang, Malacca and Singapore became Chinese dominated. Until the riots 1969, co-existence between the three ethnicities (and other minor groups) was largely peaceful, although the three main racial groups for the most part lived in separate communities – the Malays in the villages, the Chinese in the urban areas, and the Indians in the towns and plantation. More Malays however have moved into the cities since the 1970s, and the proportion of the non-Malays have been decreasing continually, especially the Chinese, due in large part to lower birth-rate and emigration as a result of institutionalized discrimination.\n\nPreceding independence of the Federation of Malaya, a social contract was negotiated as the basis of a new society. The contract as reflected in the 1957 Malayan Constitution and the 1963 Malaysian Constitution states that the immigrant groups are granted citizenship, and Malays' special rights are guaranteed. This is often referred to the Bumiputra policy.\n\nThese pluralist policies have come under pressure from racialist Malay parties, who oppose perceived subversion of Malay rights. The issue is sometimes related to the controversial status of religious freedom in Malaysia.\n\nBecause of immigration, Singapore has a Chinese majority population with significant minority populations of Malays and Indians (predominantly Tamils). Other prominent smaller groups include Peranakans and Eurasians. Besides English, Singapore recognizes three other languages—Malay, Mandarin Chinese and Tamil. English was established as the medium of instruction in schools during the 1960s and 1970s and is the language of trade and government while the other three languages are taught as second languages (\"mother tongues\"). Besides being a multilingual country, Singapore also acknowledges festivals celebrated by the three main ethnic communities.\n\nDuring British colonial rule, ethnic enclaves such as Geylang, Chinatown, and Little India were enforced. Presently , remnants of colonial ethnic concentration still exist but housing in Singapore is governed by the Ethnic Integration Policy, which ensures an even ethnic distribution throughout Singapore. A similar policy exists in politics as all Group Representation Constituencies are required to field at least one candidate from an ethnic minority.\n\nSouth Korea remains a relatively homogenous country ethnically, linguistically, and culturally. Foreigners, expatriates, and immigrants are often rejected by the mainstream South Korean society and face discrimination.\n\nHowever, the word \"multiculturalism\" is increasingly heard in South Korea. In 2007, Han Geon-Soo, Professor of Cultural Anthropology at Kangwon National University, published an article entitled \"Multicultural Korea: Celebration or Challenge of Multiethnic Shift in Contemporary Korea?\", noting: \"As the increase of foreign migrants in [South] Korea transforms a single-ethnic homogeneous [South] Korean society into multiethnic and multicultural one, [the South] Korean government and the civil society pay close attention to multiculturalism as an alternative value to their policy and social movement.\" He argued, however, that \"the current discourses and concerns on multiculturalism in [South] Korea\" lacked \"the constructive and analytical concepts for transforming a society\".\n\nThe same year, Stephen Castles of the International Migration Institute argued:\n\nThe \"Korea Times\" suggested in 2009 that South Korea was likely to become a multicultural society. In 2010, an opinion editorial written by Peter Underwood for the \"JoongAng Ilbo\" stated: \"Media in [South] Korea is abuzz with the new era of multiculturalism. With more than one million foreigners in [South] Korea, 2 percent of the population comes from other cultures.\" He further opined:\n\nTurkey is a country that borders both Europe and Asia, therefore placing it as the multicultural intersection for Eurasia – thus including people of Armenian, Jewish, Kurds, Arabs, Turks, and Persians decent. This entail influence of Hindu, Jewish, and Muslim influence leaving Turkey to be a multicultural country based on location. In recent years there has been an increase of diversity acceptance in Turkey, mainly because there was fear of losing values of the non-existent Ottoman Empire. However, just after the turn of the century, Turkey has embraced its multicultural location and has even began to influence other countries. With Turkey having roots of Islam they have been provided a path for Islam to be accepted into neighboring countries in Europe.\n\nSouth Africa is the fifth-most populous country and one of the most developed countries in Africa. South Africa also officially recognises 11 languages including English, making it third behind Bolivia and India in most official languages. The three most common languages are Zulu, Xhosa, and Afrikaans. Though South Africa's cultural traditions may decline as it becomes more and more Westernised, it is still known for its diverse culture.\n\nOfficially known as the Republic of Cameroon, Cameroon is found in central Africa consisting of a diverse geographical and cultural area that makes it one of the most diverse countries known today. Ranging from mountains, deserts, and rainforests, to coast-lands and savanna grasslands, its diverse geography makes a large diverse population possible. This diverse geography resembles Africa as a whole and due to this, most people commonly label Cameroon as “Africa in Miniature”. Americas\n\nBefore Cameroon’s independence, it was under British and French colonial rule from 1916-1961. Upon gaining sovereignty, a major colonial influence was evident, having both English and French become the national language to roughly 25,000,000 Cameroonian residents. Apart from these two major languages, a new language consisting of a mixture of French, English, and Pidgin known as Frananglais gained popularity among Cameroonian residents.\n\nAlthough these three languages are the most common in Cameroon, there are still approximately 273 indigenous languages being spoken throughout the country, making it not only culturally diverse but linguistically as well. Among those who speak these indigenous languages are people from Bantu, Sudanic, Baka, Wodaabe (or Mbororo) and even primitive hunter-gatherer groups known as Pygmies.\n\nAlthough native to Cameroonian land, they faced constant discrimination much like other indigenous groups around the world. The United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) adopted the United Nations' Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP) in 2007. What this allowed was the protection of land and resource rights and prevented others from exploiting or violating them. In 2016, a group of indigenous Baka and Bagyeli groups united to form Gbabandi. Gbabandi allowed these indigenous groups to have a form of representation and a declared list of requirements that people of Cameroon had to abide by. Among these requirements were guaranteed land rights, peoples' consent to the usage of their sacred land, traditional chiefs and the ability to participate in \"local, regional, and national levels\" of political and economic matters. As a result, this established a sense of justice and acknowledgment among indigenous groups in Cameroon and posed for future battles for indigenous peoples' rights.\n\nMorocco is located in Northern Africa near the Mediterranean Sea, which then connects to Europe. Morocco is a prime location for a multiculturalism, as it has much influence by neighbouring countries. Morocco has been invaded and colonised by many countries throughout the centuries, which means that they have experienced an influence of many cultures. Some of these invaders include the French, the Spaniards, the Arabs, and several more countries. This has led to the country becoming not only multicultural, but also multilingual. Officially the language of Morocco is Arabic, but throughout the country many people speak, French, Spanish, Arabic, and most recently acknowledging Berber as a language. There has been much outside influence of multiculturalism in Morocco, but they have embraced these cultures.\n\nThe next country to adopt an official policy of multiculturalism after Canada was Australia, a country with similar immigration situations and similar policies, for example the formation of the Special Broadcasting Service. The Australian government retains multiculturalism in policy, and as a defining aspect of Australia today.\nThe White Australia Policy was quietly dismantled after World War II by various changes to immigration policy, although the official policy of multiculturalism was not formally introduced until 1972. The election of John Howard's Liberal-National Coalition government in 1996 was a major watershed for Australian multiculturalism. Howard had long been a critic of multiculturalism, releasing his One Australia policy in the late 1980s. A Practical Reference to Religious Diversity for Operational Police and Emergency Services was a publication of the Australasian Police Multicultural Advisory Bureau designed to offer guidance to police and emergency services personnel on how religious affiliation can affect their contact with the public. The first edition was published in 1999. The first edition covered Buddhist, Hindu, Islamic, Jewish and Sikh faiths with participation of representatives of the various religions. The second edition added Christian, Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander religions and the Bahá'í Faith to the list of religions was published in 2002.\n\nContact between people of different cultures in Australia has been characterised by tolerance and engagement, but have also occasionally resulted in conflict and rifts.\n\nAustralia's diverse migrant communities have brought with them food, lifestyle and cultural practices, which have been absorbed into mainstream Australian culture.\n\nNew Zealand is a sovereign Oceanic country that adopted its multicultural policies post World War II. The country used to have immigration policies similar to Australia's White Australia Policy, but it would later follow suit with Australia in the 1970s and adopt similar multicultural policies. The relaxation of migration led to an influx of new migration to New Zealand in the 1980s. This led to an increase of Asian and Pacific islander peoples on the island, and ultimately a more diverse European population. In 1985 the Law Commission Act was passed which required the New Zealand Law Commission to review laws while taking into account both the indigenous Māori of New Zealand and New Zealand's multicultural character. In 2001 the New Zealand government opened an Office of Ethnic Affairs to advise its local governments on the advancement of ethnic diversity and affairs of its multicultural communities. In 1987 New Zealand officially recognized the indigenous Māori language as a national language. The revitalization in the Māori language led to its immersion in schools and television broadcast. Many landmarks on the island have both their Māori and English names officially recognized. Māori makes up 3.7% of the populations speaking language. A 2013 census of New Zealand's population showed that 74% of the population identifies ethnically as European, while the latter 15% majority identify as Māori. The remainder identify as Asian, and Pacific islander.\n\nPapua New Guinea is one of the most multicultural countries in the world. This Oceanian country is home to over eight million people that are divided into hundreds of different indigenous ethnic groups and cultures with over 820 different indigenous languages. A majority of the indigenous groups are Papuans who have ancestors that lived in New Guinea over ten thousand years ago. The latter majority are Austronesians whose ancestors arrived less than four thousand years ago. The island's population is also made up of many expatriate citizens from China, Australia, Indonesia, Europe and the Philippines. In 1975 the island population was found to be made up of 40,000 of these diverse expatriate citizens. Despite the large amount of culturally diverse locations on the island, the Kuk Early Agricultural Site is the only UNESCO World heritage location.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7924163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7924163", "title": "Mysophobia", "text": "Mysophobia\n\nMysophobia, also known as verminophobia, germophobia, germaphobia, bacillophobia and bacteriophobia, is a pathological fear of contamination and germs. The term was coined by William A. Hammond in 1879 when describing a case of obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD) exhibited in repeatedly washing one's hands. Mysophobia has long been related to compulsive hand washing. Names pertaining directly to the abnormal fear of dirt and filth include molysmophobia or molysomophobia, rhypophobia, and rupophobia, whereas the terms bacillophobia and bacteriophobia specifically refer to the fear of bacteria and microbes in general.\n\nThe term \"mysophobia\" comes from the Greek μύσος (\"musos\"), \"uncleanness\" and φόβος (\"phobos\"), \"fear\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57984778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57984778", "title": "Nanodumbbell", "text": "Nanodumbbell\n\nA nanodumbell is a pair of spheres attached together that may be made of silica or zinc oxide. \n\nThey have been used in a Purdue University experiment where they were made to spin in a vacuum at 60 billion rotations per minute.\n\nThe nanodumbbells are first created in the lab using a hydro-thermal process. The resulting dumbbell consists of two joined silica spheres, making it 320 nanometers long and around 170 nanometers wide in size.\n\nNanodumbbells are also being studied for possible use in photodynamic therapy, a way of treating cancer.\n\nHighly focused circularly polarized light laser light bombards the levitated dumbbell to set it spinning.\n\nThe speed of the rotation is a world record that beats previous records. In 2008, a small motor rotated at 1 million rotations per minute. In 2010, a slice of graphene was made to spin at 60 million spins per minute. Around 2013, a sphere measuring just 4 micrometers was spun at 600 million spins per minute.\n\n"}
{"id": "709530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709530", "title": "Orthopraxy", "text": "Orthopraxy\n\nIn the study of religion, orthopraxy is correct conduct, both ethical and liturgical, as opposed to faith or grace etc. This contrasts with orthodoxy, which emphasizes correct belief, and ritualism, the practice of rituals. The word is a neoclassical compound— (\"orthopraxia\") meaning 'correct practice'.\n\nWhile orthodoxies make use of codified beliefs, in the form of creeds, and ritualism more narrowly centers on the strict adherence to prescribed rites or rituals, orthopraxy is focused on issues of family, cultural integrity, the transmission of tradition, sacrificial offerings, concerns of purity, ethical system, and the enforcement thereof.\n\nTypically, traditional or folk religions (paganism, animism) are more concerned with orthopraxy than orthodoxy, and some argue that equating the term \"faith\" with \"religion\" presents a Christian-biased notion of what the primary characteristic of religion is. This contrasts with the case of (for example) Hinduism, in which orthopraxy and ritualism are not easily disentangled.\n\nFrom the Greek \"orthos\" \"straight\" + \"praxis\" \"action\", first used in 1851, there are two versions of the term: \"orthopraxis\" and \"orthopraxy\". \"Orthopraxy\" is the older and more common term, and is parallel to \"orthodoxy\".\n\nAlthough traditionally Christianity is seen as primarily orthodoxical (as in the Nicene Creed's \"I believe in ...\"), some Christian denominations and leaders today, from Roman Catholic to Evangelical Christians, have started to describe their religions as both orthodoxical and orthopraxic. The premise is correct belief compels correct action, and incorrect action is caused by incorrect beliefs.\n\nTaking this combination of \"correct belief\" and \"correct action\" a step further, prosperity theology, found in charismatic and Pentecostal traditions, teaches correct religious belief and behavior receives material reward and physical healing, in addition to being a necessary component for accepting God's grace. Prosperity theology is a concept known as reciprocity when discussing traditional or ethnic religions such as that in Ancient Greece, but is limited to correct behavior over any one theological idea.\n\nThe applicability of biblical law in Christianity is disputed. Most Christians believe that some or all of the Ten Commandments are still binding or have been reinstituted in the law of Christ. A minority of Christians are Torah-observant and at the other extreme are antinomian and Christian anarchistic views.\n\nPraxis is a key to understanding the Byzantine tradition, which is observed by the Eastern Orthodox Church and some Eastern Catholic Churches. This is because praxis is the basis of the understanding of faith and works as conjoint, without separating the two. The importance of praxis, in the sense of action, is indicated in the dictum of Saint Maximus the Confessor: \"Theology without action is the theology of demons.\"\n\nUnion with God, to which Christians hold that Jesus invited man, requires not just faith, but correct practice of faith. This idea is found in the Scriptures (1 Cor 11:2,\n2 Thes 2:14) and the Church Fathers, and is linked with the term \"praxis\" in Byzantine theology and vocabulary. In the context of Orthodoxy, praxis is mentioned opposite theology, in the sense of 'theory and practice'. Rather, it is a word that means, globally, all that Orthodox \"do\". Praxis is 'living Orthodoxy'.\n\nPraxis is perhaps most strongly associated with worship. \"Orthopraxis\" is said to mean \"right glory\" or \"right worship\"; only correct (or proper) practice, particularly correct worship, is understood as establishing the fulness glory given to God. This is one of the primary purposes of liturgy (divine labor), the work of the people. Some Byzantine sources maintain that in the West, Christianity has been reduced \"to intellectual, ethical or social categories,\" whereas right worship is fundamentally important in our relationship to God, forming the faithful into the Body of Christ and providing the path to \"true religious education.\" A \"symbiosis of worship and work\" is considered to be inherent in Byzantine praxis.\n\nIn the case of Hinduism orthopraxy and ritualism are conflated. Emphasis on ritual vs. personal salvation (\"moksha\") was a major division in classical Hindu philosophy, epitomized by Purva Mimamsa vs. Uttara Mimamsa (Vedanta).\n\nRitual (\"puja\") continues to play a central role in contemporary Hinduism, but the enormous complexity of ancient ritual (\"yajna\") only survives in a tiny minority of Shrauta practitioners. Even Hindus who diligently practice a subset of prescribed rituals are called orthoprax, to contrast them with other Hindus who insist on the importance of correct belief or understanding. The correctness of one's interpretation of the scripture is then considered less important than following traditions. For example, Srinivasa Ramanujan was a well-known example of an orthoprax Hindu.\n\nIn terms of \"proper conduct\" and other ethical precepts within the Hindu framework, the core belief involves the divinity of each individual soul (\"jivatma\"). Each person harbors this \"indwelling God (divinity)\"; thus, conduct which unifies society and facilitates progress is emphasized. Self-centered existence is discouraged as a result of this \"jivatma\" concept. The Uttara Mimamsa philosophical school explicates this concept eloquently. Moreover, within the context of Uttara Mimamsa the role of \"puja\" (ritual) also involves bringing the individual \"jivatma\" closer to the \"Paramatma\" (the Transcendent Divinity or God). Individuals who have attained this merging then become the spiritual guides to the community. Later developments within the Hindu religious and philosophic tradition thus try to unify these concepts of ritual, proper conduct, and personal salvation instead of leaving them in mutually conflicting terms. The movement inspired by Pandurang Shastri Athavale termed \"Swadhyaya\" seems to be one manifestation of this syncretism. However, other movements within the contemporary Hindu scene are also moving towards this union of external activity and internal development.\n\nIslam generally stresses orthopraxy over orthodoxy, but since the practice is held to come from doctrine, this is essentially orthodoxy applied to practice.\n\nJain orthopraxy is based on two factors: Jain siddhanta (teachings of the Tirthankara) and \"kriya\" (practices prevalent at the time of the Tirthankaras). According to Jains, the Tirthankaras based their teachings and philosophy after knowing the realities on this universe (like \"dravya\" and \"tattva\"). Based on these realities, they propounded true and eternal principles like \"ahimsa\", truth, karma etc. that govern the universe. Jain rituals were codified on the basis of these principles to give effect to the teachings of the Tirthankaras.\n\nJudaism attaches primary importance to the practice of the \"mitzvot\", and that each act of daily life comply with the ethical and ritual teachings of the Torah. However, these gestures are intended to be motivated by the system of values and ethics of which they are a part, so that orthodoxy is not seen as simply a way of thinking according to established dogmas.\nMoreover, Maimonides codifies his 13 principles of faith as a binding theological dogma, and according to Maimonides some laws of the Torah require the acceptance of certain basic beliefs, such as the first and second positive commandments in Maimonides' Sefer Hamitzvot, which mandate the belief in God and his indivisible unity, or the recitation of the Shema. Maimonides' codification of Jewish law even contains a section entitled \"Yesodei HaTorah\" which delineates the required beliefs of Judaism.\n\nAnd yet, there is a small group of Jews in the orthodox world who argue that the nature of Judaism is orthoprax, such as Jeffrey Radon, a teacher of Jewish studies who has an internet site Orthoprax Judaism devoted to Jewish studies in a democratic spirit, and Israel Drazin, a former army chaplain and rabbi who recently came out in support of the idea that the nature of Judaism is orthoprax. Radon argues that Maimonides codification of principles of belief as a binding theological dogma was not only an innovation but a distortion of the ancient Jewish tradition based upon the Bible and the Talmud (and that Maimonides was aware that his codification of a binding dogma was a distortion, and he codified such a dogma only for the unlearned Jewish masses to strengthen them as Christians and Muslims had codified such dogma) as there is no binding theological dogma in the Bible or in the Talmudic literature (and fundamental beliefs of the Bible or Talmudic literature do not have the status of binding dogma), and the commandments of the Torah as the basis of Jewish law are according to Jewish tradition commandments of doing and not doing (and not of believing or not believing).\n\nBritish Traditional Wicca is highly orthopraxic, with \"traditions\" (as denominations in Wicca are called) being precisely that—defined by what is traditionally done, rather than shared beliefs. Other Neopagans may or may not share this quality, as noted by James R. Lewis, who draws a distinction between \"Religious Neo-Pagans\" and \"God/dess Celebrants.\" Lewis states the majority of the Neopagan movement is strongly opposed to Religionist traditions that incorporate any form of orthopraxy or orthodoxy. In fact, many Neopagan organizations, when discussing orthopraxy, limit themselves solely to ritualism.\n\nReconstructionist religions make full use of orthopraxy, defining their practices as a lifestyle, and identifying correct action as living life in accord with specific ideals and principles, rather than focusing solely on ritual or promoting a single cosmology, metaphysical idea, or theological theory as absolute truth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854841", "title": "Pivot language", "text": "Pivot language\n\nA pivot language, sometimes also called a bridge language, is an artificial or natural language used as an intermediary language for translation between many different languages – to translate between any pair of languages A and B, one translates A to the pivot language P, then from P to B. Using a pivot language avoids the combinatorial explosion of having translators across every combination of the supported languages, as the number of combinations of language is linear (formula_1), rather than quadratic formula_2 – one need only know the language A and the pivot language P (and someone else the language B and the pivot P), rather than needing a different translator for every possible combination of A and B.\n\nThe disadvantage of a pivot language is that each step of retranslation introduces possible mistakes and ambiguities – using a pivot language involves two steps, rather than one. For example, when Hernán Cortés communicated with Mesoamerican Indians, he would speak Spanish to Gerónimo de Aguilar, who would speak Mayan to Malintzin, who would speak Nahuatl to the locals.\n\nEnglish, French, Russian, and Arabic are often used as pivot languages. Interlingua has been used as a pivot language in international conferences and has been proposed as a pivot language for the European Union. Esperanto was proposed as a pivot language in the Distributed Language Translation project and has been used in this way in the Majstro Tradukvortaro at the Esperanto website Majstro.com. The Universal Networking Language is an artificial language specifically designed for use as a pivot language.\n\nPivot coding is also a common method of translating data for computer systems. For example, the internet protocol, XML and high level languages are pivot codings of computer data which are then often rendered into internal binary formats for particular computer systems.\n\nUnicode was designed to be usable as a pivot coding between various major existing character encodings, though its widespread adoption as a coding in its own right has made this usage unimportant.\n\nCurrent statistical machine translation (SMT) systems use parallel corpora for source (s) and target (t) languages to achieve their good results, but good parallel corpora are not available for all languages. A pivot language (p) enables the bridge between two languages, to which existing parallel corpora are entirely or partially not yet at hand.\n\nPivot translation can be problematic because of the potential lack of fidelity of the information forwarded in the use of different corpora. From the use of two bilingual corpora (s-p & p-t) to set up the s-t bridge, linguistic data are inevitably lost. Rule-based machine translation (RBMT) helps the system rescue this information, so that the system does not rely entirely on statistics but also on structural linguistic information.\n\nThree basic techniques are used to employ pivot language in MT: (1) \"triangulation\", which focuses on phrase paralleling between source and pivot (s-p) and between pivot and target (p-t); (2) \"transfer\", which translates the whole sentence of the source language to a pivot language and then to the target language; and (3) \"synthesis\", which builds a corpus of its own for system training.\n\nThe triangulation method (also called \"phrase table multiplication\") calculates the probability of both translation correspondences and lexical weight in s-p and p-t, to try to induce a new s-t phrase table. The transfer method (also called \"sentence translation strategy\") simply carries a straightforward translation of s into p and then another translation of p into t without using probabilistic tests (as in triangulation). The synthetic method uses an existing corpus of s and tries to build an own synthetic corpus out of it that is used by the system to train itself. Then a bilingual s-p corpus is synthesized to enable a p-t translation.\n\nA direct comparison between triangulation and transfer methods for SMT systems has shown that triangulation achieves much better results than transfer.\n\nAll three pivot language techniques enhance the performance of SMT systems. However, the \"synthetic\" technique doesn't work well with RBMT, and systems' performances are lower than expected. Hybrid SMT/RBMT systems achieve better translation quality than strict-SMT systems that rely on bad parallel corpora.\n\nThe key role of RBMT systems is that they help fill the gap left in the translation process of s-p → p-t, in the sense that these parallels are included in the SMT model for s-t.\n\n"}
{"id": "16060451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16060451", "title": "Proverbial phrase", "text": "Proverbial phrase\n\nA proverbial phrase or a proverbial expression is type of a conventional saying similar to proverbs and transmitted by oral tradition. The difference is that a proverb is a fixed expression, while a proverbial phrase permits alterations to fit the grammar of the context.\n\nAnother similar construction is an idiomatic phrase. Sometimes it is difficult to draw a distinction between idiomatic phrase and proverbial expression. In both of them the meaning does not immediately follow from the phrase. The difference is that an idiomatic phrase involves figurative language in its components, while in a proverbial phrase the figurative meaning is the extension of its literal meaning. Some experts classify proverbs and proverbial phrases as types of idioms.\n\nProverbial phrase: The straw that broke the camel's back.\n\n"}
{"id": "17504079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17504079", "title": "Reply", "text": "Reply\n\nA reply is a statement or acknowledgment made in response to an interrogative question, request or comment. Replies are communicated in a variety of ways, the most common being spoken or written, and act as a way of conveying relevant information and continuing a conversational exchange.\n\nA simple reply can take the form of a single word, such as \"yes\" or \"no\", or can be expressed via body language, such as nodding the head, winking, shaking the head, et cetera.\n\n"}
{"id": "297699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297699", "title": "Rite", "text": "Rite\n\nA rite is an established, ceremonial, usually religious, act. Rites in this sense fall into three major categories:\n\nWithin the Catholic Church, \"rite\" often refers to what is also called a sacrament and respective liturgies based on liturgical languages and traditional local customs as well as the ceremonies associated with the sacraments. In Christian Catholicism, for example, the sacrament of Anointing of the Sick/Last Rites is one of the sacramental rites because they are administered to someone who is or was dying. The other are Penance and Eucharist (administered as Viaticum in the case of a dying person). Since the Second Vatican Council, anointing of the sick is administered to those who are seriously ill but not necessarily in immediate danger of death. Another example is the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults. The term \"rite\" became widely used after the Second Vatican Council. While \"rite\" is often associated when receiving a \"sacrament,\" it is technically incorrect to say that one received a \"rite\" because the sacrament is what is received while a rite is performed. The ritual consists of the prayers and actions that the minister of the sacrament performs when administering a sacrament. Therefore, it is incorrect to say that one has received \"the last rites\" as that person has really received \"the last sacraments\" by a minister following a ritual that has performed the \"sacramental rite.\"\n\nWithin both Catholicism and Orthodoxy, the term \"rite\" also refers to a body of liturgical tradition usually emanating from a specific center. Examples include the Roman Rite, the Byzantine Rite, and the Sarum Rite. Such rites may include various sub-rites. For example, the Byzantine Rite has Greek, Russian, and other ethnically-based variants.\n\nIn addition, the same term is applied to an autonomous particular Church within the Catholic Church associated with a particular liturgical tradition. Of these, the largest is the Latin Rite or Western Church. There are also several Eastern Catholic Churches which are the same catholic Church with distinct rites.\n\nWithin many Protestant Christian denominations, the word rite is used for important ceremonies that are not considered sacraments or ordinances. The 39 Articles of the Anglican Communion and the Articles of Religion of the Methodist Church state \"there are two Sacraments ordained of Christ our Lord in the Gospel, that is to say, Baptism and the Supper of the Lord\". As such, in the Anglican and Methodist traditions, the following are considered rites: \"confirmation, reconciliation (confessions of sins), matrimony, holy orders and anointing of the sick\". Similarly the \"rites of the Moravian Church are Confirmation, Marriage, and Ordination\". In the Lutheran tradition, Holy Baptism, Holy Eucharist, and Confession & Absolution are considered Lutheran sacraments, while Confirmation, Anointing of the Sick, Holy Matrimony, and Holy Orders are rites.\n\nIn North America, Freemasons have the option of joining the Scottish Rite or the York Rite, two appendant bodies that offer additional degrees to those who have taken the basic three.\n\n"}
{"id": "7349764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7349764", "title": "Rock's Backpages", "text": "Rock's Backpages\n\nRock's Backpages is an online archive of music journalism, sourced from freelance contributions to the music and mainstream press from the 1950s to the present day. The articles are full text and searchable, and all are reproduced with the permission of the copyright holders. The database was founded in 2000 by British music journalist Barney Hoskyns. As of November 2018 its database contains over 37,000 articles, including interviews, features and reviews, which covered popular music from blues and soul up to the present date. Rock's Backpages also features over 600 audio interviews with musicians from Jimi Hendrix and Johnny Cash to Kate Bush and Kurt Cobain.\n\nThe articles are sourced from magazines including \"Creem\", \"Rolling Stone\", \"New Musical Express\", \"Melody Maker\", \"Crawdaddy!\" and \"Mojo\". The database contains contributions from over 700 journalists, primarily from the US and UK, including journalists such as Dave Marsh, Nick Kent, Charles Shaar Murray, Nick Tosches, Mick Farren, Vivien Goldman, Al Aronowitz and Ian MacDonald.\n\nThe library requires subscription and is popular with both consumers and institutional subscribers including academic institutions and media organisations.\n\n"}
{"id": "46893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46893", "title": "Sansei", "text": "Sansei\n\nThe character and uniqueness of the \"sansei\" is recognized in its social history.\n\nAlthough the earliest organized group of Japanese emigrants settled in Mexico in 1897, the four largest populations of Japanese and descendants of Japanese immigrants live in Brazil, the United States, Canada and Peru.\n\nBrazil is home to the largest Japanese population outside Japan, numbering an estimate of more than 1.5 million (including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity), more than that of the 1.2 million in the United States. The \"Sansei\" Japanese Brazilians are an important part of that ethnic minority in that South American nation.\n\nThe majority of American \"Sansei\" were born during the Baby Boom after the end of World War II; but older \"Sansei\" who were living in the western United States during WWII were forcibly interned with their parents (\"Nisei\") and grandparents (\"Issei\") after Executive Order 9066 was promulgated to exclude everyone of Japanese descent from large parts of the Western states. The \" Sansei\" were forceful activists in the redress movement, which resulted in an official apology to the internees. In some senses, the \"Sansei\" seem to feel they are caught in a dilemma between their \"quiet\" Nisei parents and their other identity model of \"verbal\" Americans.\n\nIn the United States, a representative \"Sansei\" is General Eric Shinseki (born November 28, 1942), the 34th Chief of Staff of the United States Army (1999–2003) and former United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs. He is the first Asian American in U.S. history to be a four-star general, and the first to lead one of the four U.S. military services.\n\nWithin Japanese-Canadian communities across Canada, three distinct subgroups developed, each with different sociocultural referents, generational identity, and wartime experiences.\n\nAmong the approximately 80,000 Peruvians of Japanese descent, the \"Sansei\" Japanese Peruvians comprise the largest number.\n\nJapanese-Americans and Japanese-Canadians have special names for each of their generations in North America. These are formed by combining one of the Japanese numbers corresponding to the generation with the Japanese word for generation (\"sei\" 世). The Japanese-American and Japanese-Canadian communities have themselves distinguished their members with terms like \"Issei\", \"Nisei\" and \"Sansei\" which describe the first, second and third generation of immigrants. The fourth generation is called \"Yonsei\" (四世) and the fifth is called \"Gosei\" (五世). The \"Issei\", \"Nisei\" and \"Sansei\" generations reflect distinctly different attitudes to authority, gender, non-Japanese involvement, religious belief and practice and other matters. The age when individuals faced the wartime evacuation and internment is the single, most significant factor which explains these variations in their experiences, attitudes and behaviour patterns. \nThe term \"Nikkei\" (日系) was coined by a multinational group of sociologists and encompasses all of the world's Japanese immigrants across generations. The collective memory of the \"Issei\" and older \"Nisei\" was an image of Meiji Japan from 1870 through 1911, which contrasted sharply with the Japan that newer immigrants had more recently left. These differing attitudes, social values and associations with Japan were often incompatible with each other. In this context, the significant differences in post-war experiences and opportunities did nothing to mitigate the gaps which separated generational perspectives.\n\nIn North America since the redress victory in 1988, a significant evolutionary change has occurred. The \"Sansei\", their parents, their grandparents, and their children are changing the way they look at themselves and their pattern of accommodation to the non-Japanese majority.\n\nThere are currently just over one hundred thousand British Japanese, mostly in London; but unlike other \"Nikkei\" communities elsewhere in the world, these Britons do not conventionally parse their communities in generational terms as \"Issei\", \"Nisei\" or \"Sansei\".\n\nThe third generation of immigrants, born in the United States or Canada to parents born in the United States or Canada, is called \"Sansei\" (三世). Children born to the \"Nisei\" were generally born after 1945. They speak English as their first language and are completely acculturized in the contexts of Canadian or American society. They tend to identify with Canadian or American values, norms and expectations. Few speak Japanese and most tend to express their identity as Canadian or American rather than Japanese. Among the \"Sansei\" there is an overwhelming percentage of marriages to persons of non-Japanese ancestry.\n\nThe \"kanreki\" (還暦), a traditional, pre-modern Japanese rite of passage to old age at 60, was sometimes celebrated by the \"Issei\" and is now being celebrated by increasing numbers of \"Nisei\" and a few \"Sansei\". Rituals are enactments of shared meanings, norms, and values and this Japanese rite of passage highlights a collective response among the Nisei to the conventional dilemmas of growing older.\n\nSome responded to internment with lawsuits and political action; and for others, poetry became an unplanned consequence:\n\nThe \"sansei\" became known as the \"activist generation\" because of their large hand in the redress movement and individuals that have become a part of the American mainstream political landscape.\n\nThe numbers of \"sansei\" who have earned some degree of public recognition has continued to increase over time; but the quiet lives of those whose names are known only to family and friends are no less important in understanding the broader narrative of the \"Nikkei.\" Although the names highlighted here are over-represented by \"sansei\" from North America, the Latin American member countries of the Pan American Nikkei Association (PANA) include Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, in addition to the English-speaking United States and Canada.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52831478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52831478", "title": "Scene and sequel", "text": "Scene and sequel\n\nScene and sequel are two types of written passages used by authors to advance the plot of a story. \"Scenes\" propel a story forward as the character attempts to achieve a goal. \"Sequels\" provide an opportunity for the character to react to the scene, analyze the new situation, and decide upon the next course of action.\n\nThe concept of a scene in written fiction has evolved over many years. Dwight V. Swain, in \"Techniques of the Selling Writer\" (1965) defined a \"scene\" as a unit of conflict, an account of an effort to attain a goal despite opposition. According to Swain, the functions of a scene are to provide interest and to move the story forward. The structure of a scene, as described by Swain, is (1) goal, (2) conflict, (3) disaster.\n\nIn \"The Art of Fiction\" (1983), John Gardner described a scene as having an unbroken flow of action without a lapse of time or leap from one setting to another. Over the years, other authors have attempted to improve on the definition of \"scene\", and to explain its use and structure.\n\nIn addition to defining a scene, Swain described a \"sequel\" as a unit of transition that links two scenes, adding that a sequel functions to translate disaster into goal, telescope reality, and control tempo. Swain also described the structure of a sequel as (1) reaction, (2) dilemma, and (3) decision. Other authors have attempted to improve on the definition of a \"sequel\" and to explain its use and structure.\n\nRather than viewing scenes and sequels as distinct types of passages, some authors express the concept as two types of scenes: proactive and reactive.\n\nSwain defined, described, and explained scene and sequel as if they were separate entities, but then he explained that they must complement each other, linking together smoothly into a story. He went on to observe that\n\n\nThe \"structural units of fiction writing\" comprise all fiction.\n\nPassages of writing may be classified into four groups: (1) scenes, (2) sequels, (3) passages that are \"neither\" scenes nor sequels, and (4) passages that include elements of \"both\" scenes and sequels. Examples of passages that are neither scenes nor sequels include \"fragments\" of scenes or sequels and passages of narration, description, or exposition. An example of a passage that includes elements of both scenes and sequels is the \"problem-solving passage\", common in mystery and detective stories.\n\nScenes may be classified by their position within the story (such as an opening scene or a climax scene). A scene may be classified by the fiction-writing mode that dominates its presentation (as in an action scene or a dialogue scene). Some scenes have specialized roles (such as flashback scenes and flashforward scenes).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1303713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1303713", "title": "Self-insertion", "text": "Self-insertion\n\nSelf-insertion is a literary device in which a fictional character, who represents the real author of a work of fiction, appears as an idealized character within that fiction, either overtly or in disguise.\n\nIn art, the equivalent is the inserted self-portrait, where the artist includes a self-portrait in a painting of a narrative subject. This has been a common artistic device since at least the European Renaissance.\n\nThis literary device should not be confused with a first-person narrator, an author surrogate, or a character somewhat based on the author, whether the author included it intentionally or not. Many characters have been described as \"unintentional\" self-insertions, implying that their author is unconsciously using them as an author surrogate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12749679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12749679", "title": "Serial (literature)", "text": "Serial (literature)\n\nIn literature, a serial is a printing format by which a single larger work, often a work of narrative fiction, is published in smaller, sequential \"installments\". The installments are also known as \"numbers\", \"parts\" or \"fascicles\", and may be released either as separate publications or within sequential issues of a periodical publication, such as a magazine or newspaper.\n\nThe growth of moveable type in the 17th century prompted episodic and often disconnected narratives such as \"L'Astrée\" and \"Le Grand Cyrus\". At that time, books remained a premium item, so to reduce the price and expand the market, publishers produced large works in lower-cost installments called fascicles.\n\nSerialized fiction surged in popularity during Britain's Victorian era, due to a combination of the rise of literacy, technological advances in printing, and improved economics of distribution. Most Victorian novels first appeared as installments in monthly or weekly periodicals. The wild success of Charles Dickens's \"The Pickwick Papers\", first published in 1836, is widely considered to have established the viability and appeal of the serialized format within periodical literature. During that era, the line between \"quality\" and \"commercial\" literature was not distinct. Other famous writers who wrote serial literature for popular magazines were Wilkie Collins, inventor of the detective novel with \"The Moonstone\" and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who created the Sherlock Holmes stories originally for serialization in \"The Strand\" magazine.\n\nWhile American periodicals first syndicated British writers, over time they drew from a growing base of domestic authors. The rise of the periodicals like \"Harper's\" and the \"Atlantic Monthly\" grew in symbiotic tandem with American literary talent. The magazines nurtured and provided an economic sustainability for writers, while the writers helped grow the periodicals' circulation base. During the late 19th century, those that were considered the best American writers first published their work in serial form and then only later in a completed volume format. As a piece in \"Scribner's Monthly\" explained in 1878, \"Now it is the second or third rate novelist who cannot get publication in a magazine, and is obliged to publish in a volume, and it is in the magazine that the best novelist always appears first.\" Among the American writers that wrote in serial form were Henry James and Herman Melville. A large part of the appeal for writers at the time was the broad audiences that serialization could reach, which would then grow their following for published works. One of the first significant American works to be released in serial format is \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\", by Harriet Beecher Stowe, which was published over a 40-week period by \"The National Era\", an abolitionist periodical, starting with the June 5, 1851 issue.\n\nSerialization was so standard in American literature that authors from that era often built installment structure into their creative process. James, for example, often had his works divided into multi-part segments of similar length. The consumption of fiction during that time was different than in the 20th century. Instead of being read in a single volume, a novel would often be consumed by readers in installments over a period as long as a year, with the authors and periodicals often responding to audience reaction.\n\nIn France, Alexandre Dumas and Eugène Sue were masters of the serialized genre. \"The Three Musketeers\" and \"The Count of Monte Cristo\" each appeared as a \"feuilleton\". \"The Count of Monte Cristo\" was stretched out to 139 installments. Eugène Sue's serial novel \"Le Juif errant\" increased circulation of \"Le Constitutionnel\" from 3,600 to 25,000. Production in book form soon followed and serialization was one of the main reasons that nineteenth-century novels were so long. Authors and publishers kept the story going if it was successful since authors were paid by line and by episode. Gustave Flaubert's \"Madame Bovary\" was serialized in \"La Revue de Paris\" in 1856.\n\nSome writers were prolific. Alexandre Dumas wrote at an incredible pace, oftentimes writing with his partner twelve to fourteen hours a day, working on several novels for serialized publication at once. However, not every writer could keep up with the serial writing pace. Wilkie Collins, for instance, was never more than a week before publication. The difference in writing pace and output in large part determined the author's success, as audience appetite created demand for further installments.\n\nIn the German-speaking countries, the serialized novel was widely popularized by the weekly family magazine \"Die Gartenlaube\", which reached a circulation of 382,000 by 1875. In Russia, \"The Russian Messenger\" serialized Leo Tolstoy's \"Anna Karenina\" from 1873 to 1877 and Fyodor Dostoevsky's \"The Brothers Karamazov\" from 1879 to 1880. In Poland, Bolesław Prus wrote several serialized novels: \"The Outpost\" (1885–86), \"The Doll\" (1887–89), \"The New Woman\" (1890–93), and his sole historical novel, \"Pharaoh\" (the latter, exceptionally, written entire over a year's time in 1894–95 and serialized only after completion, in 1895–96).\n\nIn addition, works in late Qing dynasty China had been serialized. \"The Nine-tailed Turtle\" was serialized from 1906 to 1910. \"Bizarre Happenings Eyewitnessed over Two Decades\" was serialized in \"Xin Xiaoshuo\" (T: 新小說, S: 新小说, P: \"Xīn Xiǎoshuō\"; W: \"Hsin Hsiao-shuo\"; \"New Fiction\"), a magazine by Liang Qichao. The first half of \"Officialdom Unmasked\" appeared in installments of \"Shanghai Shijie Fanhua Bao\", serialized there from April 1903 to June 1905.\n\nWith the rise of broadcast—both radio and television series—in the first half of the 20th century, printed periodical fiction began a slow decline as newspapers and magazines shifted their focus from entertainment to information and news. However, some serialization of novels in periodicals continued, with mixed success.\n\nThe first several books in the \"Tales of the City\" series by Armistead Maupin appeared from 1978 as regular installments in San Francisco newspapers. Similar serial novels ran in other city newspapers, such as \"The Serial\" (1976; Marin County), \"Tangled Lives\" (Boston), \"Bagtime\" (Chicago), and \"Federal Triangle\" (Washington, D.C.). Starting in 1984, Tom Wolfe's \"The Bonfire of the Vanities\", about contemporary New York City, ran in 27 parts in \"Rolling Stone\", partially inspired by the model of Dickens. The magazine paid $200,000 for his work, but Wolfe heavily revised the work before publication as a standalone novel. Alexander McCall Smith, author of \"The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency\" series, experimented in 2004 with publishing his novel \"44 Scotland Street\" in instalments every weekday in \"The Scotsman\". Michael Chabon serialized \"Gentlemen of the Road\" in \"The New York Times Magazine\" in 2007.\n\nThe emergence of the World Wide Web prompted some authors to revise a serial format. Stephen King experimented with \"The Plant\" (2000), and Michel Faber allowed \"The Guardian\" to serialise his novel \"The Crimson Petal and the White\". In 2005, Orson Scott Card serialized his out-of-print novel \"Hot Sleep\" in the first issue of his online magazine, \"InterGalactic Medicine Show\". In 2008 McCall Smith wrote a serialized online novel \"Corduroy Mansions\", with the audio edition read by Andrew Sachs made available at the same pace as the daily publication. In 2011, pseudonymous author Wildbow published \"Worm\", which remains one of the most popular web serials of all time.\n\nThe rise of fan fiction on the internet also follows a serial fiction style of publication, as seen on websites such as FanFiction.Net and Archive of Our Own (AO3).\n\nMany aspiring authors also used the web to publish free-to-read works in serialized format independently as well as web-based communities such as LiveJournal, Fictionpress.com, fictionhub, and Wattpad. Many of these books receive as many readers as successful novels; some have received the same number of readers as New York Times bestsellers.\n\nIn addition, the prevalence of mobile devices made the serial format even more popular with the likes of JukePop Serials, and Serial Box, with iOS and Android apps that focuses entirely on curating and promoting serialized novels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11808895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11808895", "title": "South Park and Philosophy: Bigger, Longer, and More Penetrating", "text": "South Park and Philosophy: Bigger, Longer, and More Penetrating\n\nSouth Park and Philosophy: Bigger, Longer, and More Penetrating is a non-fiction book analyzing the philosophy and popular culture effects of \"South Park\", published by Open Court. The book is edited by Richard Hanley.\n\nIn an interview about the book, Richard Hanley explained why he chose the topic of \"South Park\" for philosophical analysis: \"\"South Park\" is like the \"Simpsons\", but with a lot less restrictions, and almost every episode pushes the envelope.\" In addition to editing the work, Hanley also wrote fourteen out of the twenty-two essays in the book.\n\nThe title is an allusion to the film \"\". Both titles are also double entendres that can also refer to a penis.\n\nThe book includes an article about the character Kenny, by Southern Illinois University philosophy professor Dr. Randall Auxier, entitled: \"Killing Kenny: Our Daily Dose of Death\". Professor Auxier also gave a talk on his contribution to the work, at Green Mountain College. \"South Park and Philosophy: Bigger, Longer, and More Penetrating\" also addresses issues of applied ethics, such as stem-cell research, euthanasia, drugs in sports, religion, blasphemy, human evolution, environment, and gay marriage. The book is organized into five sections by topic, which include \"Religion and Other Disabilities\", \"Politics and Other Sacred Cows\", \"Morality and Other Urges\", \"Science, Logic and Other Really, Really Clever Stuff\" and \"Humor and Other Insertable Devices\".\n\nJerry Rhodes noted in an interview published in the University of Delaware's \"UDaily\" that Hanley's work celebrates the ability of \"South Park\" to confront issues that make most viewers uncomfortable. Victor Greto wrote in \"The News Journal\", that though some of the humor in the book \"falls flat\", most readers will laugh out loud, but also squirm a bit. Greto went on to note the book's proclivity towards certain racial epithets and language, as well as a critique of religion. Religions analyzed in the work include Scientology and the Xenu mythology, as presented in the \"South Park\" episode, Trapped in the Closet, which Hanley discusses in comparison to elements of Christianity and the virgin birth.\n"}
{"id": "54545388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54545388", "title": "Stratified reproduction", "text": "Stratified reproduction\n\nStratified reproduction is a widely used social scientific concept, created by Shellee Colen, that describes imbalances in the ability of people of different races, ethnicities, nationalities, classes, and genders to reproduce and nurture their children. Researchers use the concept to describe the \"power relations by which some categories of people are empowered to nurture and reproduce, while others are disempowered,\" as Rayna Rapp and Frye D. Ginsburg defined the term in 1995.\n\nGlobally, women are confined to different societal standards on reproduction. The ability to choose whether women want to become pregnant is not available to all women. Contraception and abortions can be illegal or difficult to obtain depending on location or socioeconomic status. Women’s experience of child birth has varied from required minimum number of children a mother must birth and honors for overachieving the set minimums to a restricted the number of children per household. In a broader sense, stratified reproduction asserts that certain categories of people are encouraged and coerced to reproduced while others are systematically discouraged to do so. The capacity to control one's reproductive choices is unequally distributed among race, sexual orientation, gender, class and socioeconomic status. Stratified reproduction also extends beyond the aspect of reproduction to the extent of conception, contraception, prenatal medical care, childcare, and the mother’s role in their child’s life.\n\nSince the emergence of the term stratified reproduction, researchers have applied its concepts to analyze the different effects of varying social factors on reproduction and childcare. Rayna Rapp and Frye D. Ginsburg pioneered the application of stratified reproduction to different societies to emphasize the variation to which women experienced reproduction and childcare. In Rapp and Ginsburg’s book, \"Conceiving\" \"the New World Order: The Global politics of Reproduction\", they discuss several societies that limited women’s choice on reproduction and childcare due to socioeconomic factors. They touch on Shellee Colen’s research on West Indian nannies in New York and how they are unable to participate in their own child’s childcare, because they must immigrate to America to find work to support their family. They also include Gail Kligman’s research on abortion bans in Romania under Ceausescu’s rule. State policy required the Romanian women to birth at least four children in hopes of increasing the population for a more efficient socialist country. They also discuss China’s limit on the maximum number of children per household, and low-income African American women’s struggle to obtain proper contraceptives and abortions. Rapp and Ginsburg concluded that “global and local socioeconomic relations that form the context for stratified reproduction, whereby ‘some categories of people are empowered to nurture and reproduce, while others are disempowered’”, and that cultural ideologies and state policies reinforce the stratified reproduction implanted by socioeconomic factors.\n\nThe scope of use of the stratified reproduction framework is not limited to women’s access to contraceptives or lack thereof. Researchers are applying stratified reproduction to the health of the mothers and children. Infertility has also been linked to the effects of stratified reproduction. Scarce financial resources deters mothers from being able to reach effective medical services to help prevent infertility.\n\nInfertility is just one aspect of stratified reproduction. Although it is estimated that 186 million people worldwide are affected by infertility, technology can be able to assist those who are infertile. In-Vitro-Fertilization (IVF) is one assisted reproductive technique (ART) that is used. IVF was developed over 30 years ago to help women with blocked or damaged fallopian tubes. IVF has helped many couples achieve their dreams of having a child. However, IVF is extremely expensive and/or inaccessible to many globally. In Central and Southern Africa \"two-thirds of infertile women have diagnoses of tubal blockage attributable to sterilizing RTIs [Reproductive Tract Infections]\" which is exactly what IVF was developed for. The high costs and inaccessibility keep infertility as a major aspect of stratified reproduction. According to a study done by Marcia C. Inhorn and Pasquale Patrizio, regions such as South Asia, sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East and North Africa, Central and Eastern Europe and Central Asia have high infertility rates. While infertility is a global phenomenon, other issues within those regions play a role in their high infertility rates.\n\nSecondary infertility, being unable to conceive after a previous pregnancy, is the most common form of infertility in women. Typically secondary infertility comes from RTIs. In countries where abortions are illegal, women will choose to have unsafe abortions. These unsafe abortions can lead to RTIs and secondary infertility if left untreated. Studies show that in places where laws are lifting the ban on abortions, secondary infertility rates are decreasing.\n\nEthnicity and race also play a role in infertility. Recently, the stories of Latinas' struggle for reproductive rights have been coming out. These stories provided evidence that the US was funding forced sterilization of Latinas and other ethnic groups. In their article, Elena R. Gutiérrez and Liza Fuentes study two communities, Puerto Rican women in Puerto Rico and New York and Mexican-origin women in Los Angeles. Once Puerto Rico became a US colony in 1898, people began to talk about Puerto Rico being overpopulated. To deal with this a large portion, over 34% of mothers aged 20–49, were sterilized. Not all women chose to be sterilized. Many of these women were used for contraceptive testing without their knowledge. Mexican-origin women were another community that experiences forced sterilization. They were non consensual sterilizations. These sterilizations came from the idea that Latinas are over-populating the US.\n\nIn his article, Leo Chavez discusses Latina fertility in the United States. Their ethnic identity drove a new set of advertisements, anti-immigration advertisements. These advertisements suggest that the Latina communities leave. That their fertility was not wanted in the US, a country where the population growth rate was near zero. Puerto Ricans such as those discussed in the article by Gutiérrez and Fuentes were apart of this larger Latina community that was being targeted. In Leo Chavez's article, he collects data to discuss fertility rates in Latinas. He uses this data to show that while Latinas are having more children, they are not started at a younger age as the US would like to believe.\n\nMore recently, there has been a closer look into how the system of stratified reproduction impacts the LGBTQ+ community. Stratified reproduction within the reproductive field of medicine feeds into a political economy that does not include a right to health, but a right to purchase health care if one can afford it and is deemed worthy of these biomedicines. States such as Arizona and Mississippi have recently seen legislative attempts to allow health care services to deny care to LGBTQ people and these stratifications of access to care also denies LGBTQ people the same possibilities for family planning and formation. \n"}
{"id": "39189535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39189535", "title": "Terministic screen", "text": "Terministic screen\n\nTerministic screen is a term in the theory and criticism of rhetoric. It involves the acknowledgment of a language system that determines an individual's perception and symbolic action in the world.\n\nKenneth Burke develops the terministic screen in his book of essays called \"Language as Symbolic Action\" in 1966. He defines the concept as \"a screen composed of terms through which humans perceive the world, and that direct attention away from some interpretations and toward others\". Burke offers the metaphor to explain why people interpret messages differently, based on the construction of symbols, meanings, and, therefore, reality. Words convey a particular meaning, conjuring images and ideas that induce support toward beliefs or opinions. Receivers interpret the intended message through a metaphorical screen of their own vocabulary and perspective to the world. Certain terms may grab attention and lead to a particular conclusion. \"Language reflects, selects, and deflects as a way of shaping the symbol systems that allow us to cope with the world\". Every word chosen says something about the society we live in. The language we choose to use will be a representation of our reality, our world, our culture, and our beliefs, even without intention.\n\nBurke describes two different types of terministic screens: scientistic and dramatistic. Scientistic begins with a definition of a term; it describes the term as what it is or what it is not, putting the term in black and white. When defining, the essential function is either attitudinal or hortatory. In other words, the focus is on expressions or commands. When terms are treated as hortatory, they are developed. Burke comments on why he uses developed rather than another word. \"I say 'developed'; I do not say 'originating'. The ultimate origins of language seem to me as mysterious as the origins of the universe itself. One must view it, I feel, simply as the 'given' \". The dramatistic approach concerns action: thou shalt or thou shalt not. This screen directs the audience toward action based on interpretation of a term. Via terministic screens, the audience will be able to associate with the term or dissociate from it.\n\n\"Social constructionism is a metaphor that attempts to capture the way Burke viewed the nature of the world and the function of language therein.\" Symbols, terms, and language build our view of life. Social constructionism allows us to look at Burke's theory in terms we recognize and are comfortable with. \n\nWhen a person says gender, most people, based on their individual beliefs, normally think of male or female. However, some could think of intersex individuals. If someone says they think of male, female, and intersex, more would be reflected about the person based on their terminology. Still others would recognize gender as different from biological sex, and say they think of man, woman, and other genders. Another example occurs within the abortion controversy. A pro-choice advocate would most likely use the word \"fetus\" but pro-life advocates would use the word \"baby\", because the term stirs more realistic and relatable images and has a bearing on the legal status. Using the word \"baby\" versus \"fetus\" defines reality differently (scientistic) and guides people to act in a certain way (dramatistic) solely based on term selection that may be unconscious.\n\nWords are absolute for thought and action. According to Burke, individuals create terministic screens consciously and unconsciously, as they perceive the world and share perspectives. Burke contends these screens set up a network of beliefs through which all ideas will be interpreted. Communication scholar Paul Stob contends that the language we use is thus not just a direct reflection of our intelligence, but also of perception and culture. David Blakesley posits that the terministic screen enables the further understanding of rhetorical perspectives. In each of these ways, the terministic screen allows for concepts to be interpreted in different ways by different people and contribute to the complexity of meaning.\n\n"}
{"id": "55008561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55008561", "title": "The NeuroGenderings Network", "text": "The NeuroGenderings Network\n\nThe NeuroGenderings Network is an international group of researchers in neuroscience and gender studies. Members of the network study how the complexities of social norms, varied life experiences, details of laboratory conditions and biology all interact to affect the results of neuroscientific research. Working under the label of \"neurofeminism\", they aim to critically analyze how the field of neuroscience operates, and to build an understanding of brain and gender that goes beyond gender essentialism while still treating the brain as fundamentally material. Its founding was part of a period of increased interest and activity in interdisciplinary research connecting neuroscience and the social sciences.\n\nThe group, comprising critical gender, feminist, and queer scholars, formed to tackle \"neurosexism\" as defined by Cordelia Fine in her 2010 book \"Delusions of Gender\" \"uncritical biases in [neuroscientific] research and public perception, and their societal impacts on an individual, structural, and symbolic level.\"\n\nBy contrast they practice \"neurofeminism\" to critically evaluate heteronormative assumptions of contemporary brain research and examine the impact and cultural significance of neuroscientific research on society's views about gender. The network advocate greater emphasis to be placed on neuroplasticity rather than biological determinism.\n\nIn March 2010, the first conference – NeuroGenderings: Critical Studies of the Sexed Brain – was held in Uppsala, Sweden. Organisers Anelis Kaiser and Isabelle Dussauge described its long terms goals \"to elaborate a new conceptual approach of the relation between gender and the brain, one that could help to head gender theorists and neuroscientists to an innovative interdisciplinary place, far away from social and biological determinisms but still engaging with the materiality of the brain.\" The NeuroGenderings Network was established at this event, with the group's first results published in a special issue of the journal \"Neuroethics\".\n\nFurther conferences have since been held on a biennial basis: NeuroCultures — NeuroGenderings II, September 2012 at the University of Vienna's physics department; NeuroGenderings III – The First International Dissensus Conference on Brain and Gender, May 2014 in Lausanne, Switzerland; and NeuroGenderings IV in March 2016, at Barnard College, New York City.\n\nThe members of the NeuroGenderings Network are:\n\nNon-network member, Simon Baron-Cohen, conducted a test on newborns – on average a day-and-a-half old – to see if they were more interested a human face (social object) or a mobile (physical-mechanical object). Baron-Cohen concluded that the results, based on the eye-gaze of the babies, \"showed that the male infants showed a stronger interest in the physical-mechanical mobile while the female infants showed a stronger interest in the face\" and the \"research clearly demonstrates that sex differences are in part biological in origin.\"\n\nNetwork member, Cordelia Fine, criticized the experiment as being flawed for a number of reasons including: the expectations of the experimenter (graduate student, Jennifer Connellan), for example, unconsciously moving her head more / smiling more for a female baby. In a review of Fine's book Baron-Cohen \"we included a panel of independent judges coding the videotapes of just the eye-region of the baby’s face, from which it is virtually impossible to judge the sex of the baby.\" In response Fine argued, \"clearly, if the behaviour of the experimenter-cum-stimulus has already inadvertently influenced the babies’ eye gaze behaviour, the introduction of sex-blind judges is to close the stable door after the horse has bolted,\" and fellow network member Gina Rippon added, \"the potential for misuse of our [neuroscientists] research should make us doubly careful of how (and why) we do research into these kinds of arenas, and how we report our findings. [...] Whether we like it or not, science and politics do mix.\"\n\nIn an fMRI study into the gender differences when processing fear, Schienle \"et al.\" (who are not part of The NeuroGenderings Network) began with an hypothesis that women would show a greater emotional response than men. In fact, the results showed the opposite. The researchers' explanation for the unexpected response pattern was that it \"may reflect greater attention from males to cues of aggression in their environment.\"\n\nNetwork member Robyn Bluhm criticized the initial hypothesis, that women would show a greater emotional response than men, as stereotyping. She also criticized the researchers' explanation for the unexpected results, as they discounted the possibility that men may be more sensitive to fear than women.\n\nAn article by Tracey Shors found \"sex differences in emotional and cognitive responses in rats\" and she advised that her findings \"be used to better understand and promote mental health in humans\" as \"a greater appreciation of our [sex] differences can only enhance our ability to treat our common afflictions.\"\n\nBy comparison, the research carried out by network member Daphna Joel \"et al.\" found that \"between 55% and 70% of people had a “mosaic” of gender characteristics, compared to less than one per cent who had only “masculine” or only “feminine” characteristics.\"\n\n\n\n\n\nBelow is a list of works which cause the network concern due to their \"neurodeterminist notions of a ‘sexed brain’ [which] are being transported into public discourse without reflecting the biases in empirical work.\"\n"}
{"id": "9052813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9052813", "title": "Thirty-Six Immortals of Poetry", "text": "Thirty-Six Immortals of Poetry\n\nThe are a group of Japanese poets of the Asuka, Nara, and Heian periods selected by Fujiwara no Kintō as exemplars of Japanese poetic ability. The eldest surviving collection of the 36 poets' works is \"Nishi Honganji Sanjū-rokunin Kashu\" (\"Nishi Honganji 36 poets collection\") of 1113. Similar groups of Japanese poets include the Kamakura period \"Nyōbō Sanjūrokkasen\" (女房三十六歌仙), composed by court ladies exclusively, and the , or Thirty-Six Heian-era Immortals of Poetry, selected by Fujiwara no Norikane 藤原範兼 (1107–1165). This list superseded an older group called the Six Immortals of Poetry.\n\nSets of portraits (essentially imaginary) of the group were popular in Japanese painting and later woodblock prints, and often hung in temples.\n\n\n, composed in the Kamakura period, refers to thirty-six female immortals of poetry:\n\n\nThere are at least two groups of Japanese poets called :\nThe term usually refers to the second:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51765595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51765595", "title": "Tick-box culture", "text": "Tick-box culture\n\nTick-box culture is described as bureaucratic and external impositions on professional working conditions, which can be found in many organizations around the world. In social work, tick-box culture means there is too much emphasis on following rules instead of actually helping children. Tick-box culture is also studied as a contributing factor in a number of fields, such as education, criminal justice and medicine. Other synonymous terms include culture of performativity.\n\nIn the US criminal justice system, some performance measures appear to have more influence on outcomes than others, and police targets have led to the criminalization of greater numbers of children, while goals for reduction youth in detention remain unmet. In England, probation officers reportedly spend 75% of their time on red tape, and the tick-box culture was blamed for the growth in bureaucracy. In Europe, crime prevention is thought to have shifted away from reducing opportunities for money laundering towards an emphasis on the demonstration of compliance with systems and procedures (tick-box culture) with the expectation that they will prevent money laundering from occurring.\n\nIn England, in an effort to reduce tick box inspections, school inspections were greatly reduced and greater emphasis placed on professional judgement. In 2015, Theresa May stated that she wanted to stop the \"tick box culture\" of policing in England.\n\nTick-box culture in medicine is seen as a system increasingly engineered to medical technicians rather than to professionals. In Scotland, a study found that clinical audit are perceived by practitioners as time-consuming and a managerially driven exercise with no associated professional rewards. For example, a hospital in England was investigated over the death of young woman who was being monitored by hospital staff, the tick-box culture was blamed in part for the woman's death.\n\nEnglish commentators blamed tick-box culture for the outcome of several incidents in England.\n\n"}
{"id": "994299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=994299", "title": "Trans-cultural diffusion", "text": "Trans-cultural diffusion\n\nIn cultural anthropology and cultural geography, cultural diffusion, as conceptualized by Leo Frobenius in his 1897/98 publication \"Der westafrikanische Kulturkreis\", is the spread of cultural items—such as ideas, styles, religions, technologies, languages—between individuals, whether within a single culture or from one culture to another. It is distinct from the diffusion of innovations within a specific culture. Examples of diffusion include the spread of the war chariot and iron smelting in ancient times, and the use of automobiles and Western business suits in the 20th century.\n\nFive major types of cultural diffusion have been defined:\n\nInter-cultural diffusion can happen in many ways. Migrating populations will carry their culture with them. Ideas can be carried by trans-cultural visitors, such as merchants, explorers, soldiers, diplomats, slaves, and hired artisans. Technology diffusion has often occurred by one society luring skilled scientists or workers by payments or other inducement. Trans-cultural marriages between two neighboring or interspersed cultures have also contributed. Among literate societies, diffusion can occur through letters, books, and, in modern times, through electronic media.\n\nThere are three categories of diffusion mechanisms:\n\nDirect diffusion was common in ancient times, when small groups of humans lived in adjoining settlements. Indirect diffusion is common in today's world because of the mass media and invention of the Internet. Also of interest is the work of American historian and critic Daniel J. Boorstin in his book \"The Discoverers\", in which he provides an historical perspective on the role of explorers in the diffusion of innovations between civilizations.\n\nThe many models that have been proposed for inter-cultural diffusion are:\n\nA concept that has often been mentioned in this regard, which may be framed in the evolutionary diffusionism model, is that of \"an idea whose time has come\" — whereby a new cultural item appears almost simultaneously and independently in several widely separated places, after certain prerequisite items have diffused across the respective communities. This concept was invoked with regard to the independent development of calculus by Newton and Leibnitz, and the inventions of the airplane and of the electronic computer.\n\nHyperdiffusionists deny that parallel evolution or independent invention took place to any great extent throughout history; they claim that all major inventions and all cultures can be traced back to a single culture.\n\nEarly theories of hyperdiffusionism can be traced to ideas about South America being the origin of mankind. Antonio de León Pinelo, a Spaniard who settled in Bolivia, claimed in his book \"Paraíso en el Nuevo Mundo\" that the Garden of Eden and the creation of man had occurred in present-day Bolivia and that the rest of the world was populated by migrations from there. Similar ideas were also held by Emeterio Villamil de Rada; in his book \"La Lengua de Adán\" he attempted to prove that Aymara was the original language of mankind and that humanity had originated in Sorata in the Bolivian Andes. The first scientific defence of humanity originating in South America came from the Argentine paleontologist Florentino Ameghino in 1880, who published his research in \"La antigüedad del hombre en el Plata\".\n\nThe work of Grafton Elliot Smith fomented a revival of hyperdiffusionism in 1911; he asserted that copper–producing knowledge spread from Egypt to the rest of the world along with megalithic culture. Smith claimed that all major inventions had been made by the ancient Egyptians and were carried to the rest of the world by migrants and voyagers. His views became known as \"Egyptocentric-Hyperdiffusionism\". William James Perry elaborated on Smith's hypothesis by using ethnographic data. Another hyperdiffusionist was Lord Raglan; in his book \"How Came Civilization\" (1939) he wrote that instead of Egypt all culture and civilization had come from Mesopotamia. Hyperdiffusionism after this did not entirely disappear, but it was generally abandoned by mainstream academia.\n\nDiffusion theory has been advanced as an explanation for the \"European miracle\", the adoption of technological innovation in medieval Europe which by the 17th century culminated in European technological achievement surpassing the Islamic world and China. \nSuch technological import to medieval Europe include gunpowder, clock mechanisms, shipbuilding, paper and the windmill, however, in each of these cases Europeans not only adopted the technologies, but improved the manufacturing scale, inherent technology, and applications to a point clearly surpassing the evolution of the original invention in its country of origin.\n\nHistorians have questioned recently whether Europe really owes the development of such inventions as gunpowder, the compass, the windmill or printing to the Chinese or other cultures.\n\nHowever historian Peter Frankopan argues that influences, particularly trade, through the middle east & central Asia to China through the silk roads have been overlooked in traditional histories of the \"rise of the west\". He argues that the renaissance was funded with trade with the east (due to the demise of Byzantium at the hands of Venice and the 4th Crusade), and that the trade allowed ideas and technology to be shared with Europe. But the constant warfare and rivalry in Europe meant there was extreme evolutionary pressure for developing these ideas for military and economic advantage, and a desperate need to use them in expansion.\n\nWhile the concept of diffusion is well accepted in general, conjectures about the existence or the extent of diffusion in some specific contexts have been hotly disputed. An example of such disputes is the proposal by Thor Heyerdahl that similarities between the culture of Polynesia and the pre-Columbian civilizations of the Andes are due to diffusion from the latter to the former—a theory that currently has few supporters among professional anthropologists.\nHeyerdahl's theory of Polynesian origins has not gained acceptance among anthropologists.\n\nMajor contributors to inter-cultural diffusion research and theory include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30666", "title": "Trivium", "text": "Trivium\n\nThe trivium is the lower division of the seven liberal arts and comprises grammar, dialectic, and rhetoric.\n\nThe trivium is implicit in \"De nuptiis Philologiae et Mercurii\" (\"On the Marriage of Philology and Mercury\") by Martianus Capella, but the term was not used until the Carolingian Renaissance, when it was coined in imitation of the earlier quadrivium. Grammar, logic, and rhetoric were essential to a classical education, as explained in Plato's dialogues. The three subjects together were denoted by the word \"trivium\" during the Middle Ages, but the tradition of first learning those three subjects was established in ancient Greece. Contemporary iterations have taken various forms, including those found in certain British and American universities (some being part of the Classical education movement) and at the independent Oundle School in the United Kingdom.\n\nEtymologically, the Latin word trivium means \"the place where three roads meet\" (tri + via); hence, the subjects of the trivium are the foundation for the quadrivium, the upper division of the medieval education in the liberal arts, which comprised arithmetic (number), geometry (number in space), music (number in time), and astronomy (number in space and time). Educationally, the trivium and the quadrivium imparted to the student the seven liberal arts of classical antiquity.\n\nGrammar teaches the mechanics of language to the student. This is the step where the student \"comes to terms,\" defining the objects and information perceived by the five senses. Hence, the Law of Identity: \"a tree is a tree, and not a cat\".\n\nLogic (also dialectic) is the \"mechanics\" of thought and of analysis, the process of identifying fallacious arguments and statements and so systematically removing contradictions, thereby producing factual knowledge that can be trusted.\n\nRhetoric is the application of language in order to instruct and to persuade the listener and the reader. It is the knowledge (grammar) now understood (logic) and being transmitted outwards as wisdom (rhetoric).\n\nSister Miriam Joseph, in \"The Trivium: The Liberal Arts of Logic, Grammar, and Rhetoric\" (2002), described the trivium as follows:\n\nGrammar is the art of inventing symbols and combining them to express thought; logic is the art of thinking; and rhetoric is the art of communicating thought from one mind to another, the adaptation of language to circumstance.\n\nGrammar is concerned with the thing as-it-is-symbolized. Logic is concerned with the thing as-it-is-known. Rhetoric is concerned with the thing as-it-is-communicated.\n\nJohn Ayto wrote in the \"Dictionary of Word Origins\" (1990) that study of the trivium (grammar, logic, and rhetoric) was requisite preparation for study of the quadrivium (arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy). For the medieval student, the trivium was the curricular beginning of the acquisition of the seven liberal arts; as such, it was the principal undergraduate course of study. The word \"trivial\" arose from the contrast between the simpler trivium and the more difficult quadrivium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11029356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11029356", "title": "Valentine Phantom", "text": "Valentine Phantom\n\nThe Valentine Phantom, often referred to as the Valentine Bandit in media reports, refers to an unidentified individual or group who each Valentine's Day secretly decorate the downtown area of a city in the United States with a series of red hearts printed on sheets of letter-sized paper.\n\nThe reports began in Portland, Maine in 1985, and the perpetrators remain unknown. Speculation about the individual or group which decorates before dawn each February 14 is popular in conversation, and local media, and over the past ten years has emerged as an example of vernacular culture.\n\nThe earliest known occurrence of this phenomenon was 1976 in Portland, Maine. Every year since, red hearts have appeared throughout the city on Valentine's Day morning.\nBeginning in the early 2000s, red hearts drawn on white sheets of paper have been attached to the doors of businesses along the Pearl Street business district in Boulder, Colorado each Valentine's Day, according to reports in the \"Daily Camera\" newspaper. In Boulder, the mysterious Valentine's messenger has been dubbed the \"kissing bandit.\" \n\nIn 2002, the city of Montpelier, Vermont became a part of the yearly tradition, with the added twist of each heart including a poem signed \"The Valentine Phantom\".\n\nOn Valentine's Day 2010, pink hearts appeared up and down St. Johnsbury, Vermont's Railroad & Main Street, even finding their way to the local police and fire department buildings.\n\nOn Valentine's Day 2012, this phenomenon spread to Bangor, Maine when Bangorians woke up to a flurry of red and white hearts throughout downtown Bangor and the tradition continues into 2013 with the addition of cute messages and candy.\n\nOn Valentine's Day 2017, the bandit allowed a \"Bangor Daily News\" reporter to accompany them on their travels, in return for anonymity. The bandit, after tagging a Planned Parenthood office in Portland, stated that they are normally apolitical but felt \"we could be a bit more progressive this year\". A Planned Parenthood spokesperson stated that a liaison for the bandit contacted them the prior week to request permission to post a heart banner.\n\nMontpelier's incarnation of the phenomenon began in 2002 near the corner of Main Street and State Street. The windows of shops were covered in 8.5\" x 11\" color copies of red hearts. They appeared before dawn, and for the most part were welcome and not seen as a nuisance. In subsequent years the center remained the intersection of Main and State streets, but grew outward to include Langdon Street, Elm Street, and lower State Street near the State House and the Pavilion. This raised speculation that the Valentine Phantom might be a team. \n\nIn 2006, for the first time, the \"bandit\" applied banners with large red hearts around the base of the columns on the portico of the Vermont State House. They were photographed, reproduced on web blogs and on the website of the Friends of the Vermont State House. These same banners were again displayed on the statehouse in 2007. On Valentine's Day 2008, they appeared on the chimney stack of Montpelier High School and on the tower of College Hall at the Vermont College of Fine Arts. In 2009, they were hung over the entrance of the Kellogg-Hubbard Library and from the landslide cliff on Elm Street. In 2010, two heart banners were hung from the Langdon Street Bridge.\n\nOn Valentine's Day 2007, the phenomenon became larger, and coincided with a dumping of heavy snow. The \"Times Argus\" reported, \"Despite the snow, however, the Valentine bandit visited the Statehouse and other buildings in Montpelier on Wednesday to put up large red paper hearts. Other state buildings, stores and restaurants were also visited during the night, with business windows throughout downtown Montpelier covered in the red paper hearts – a mystery that has become a Valentine’s Day tradition in the state’s capital city.\" For the first time, sculptural hearts painted red were planted on the public lawn in front of the State House. A blizzard brought a fresh coat of snow setting off the bright red heart sculptures. The Vermont State House Sergeant at Arms, Francis Brooks, allowed the valentine banners and sculptures to remain through the day.\n\nDuring the winter of 2008, the slate roof on the steeple of the Methodist church on Main Street in Montpelier was replaced by Southgate Steeple Jacks. The new slate roof features several red hearts around the base of the steeple. Jay Southgate designed the new roof for the church and was quoted in the Montpelier Bridge saying that the use of the hearts was inspired by Montpelier's Valentine Phantom. Coincidentally, February 14, 2008 was the first sunny, calm day in several weeks, allowing the Southgate crew to resume their work on the roof — that's the day they began to place the red slate of the hearts on the steeple.\n\nOn September 1, 2009, rainbow hearts mimicking the Valentine Bandit appeared around Montpelier to celebrate the legalization of same-sex marriage in Vermont. \n\nOn the morning of February 14, 2015, the residents of Montpelier awoke to find that the tradition had been broken; no hearts appeared throughout the city. In response, a group of students from the local high school hung hearts that afternoon, and the Valentine Phantom has struck again each year since.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4552987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4552987", "title": "Worldbuilding", "text": "Worldbuilding\n\nWorldbuilding is the process of constructing an imaginary world, sometimes associated with a whole fictional universe. The resulting world may be called a constructed world. Developing an imaginary setting with coherent qualities such as a history, geography, and ecology is a key task for many science fiction or fantasy writers. Worldbuilding often involves the creation of maps, a backstory, and people for the world. Constructed worlds can enrich the backstory and history of fictional works, and it is not uncommon for authors to revise their constructed worlds while completing its associated work. Constructed worlds can be created for personal amusement and mental exercise, or for specific creative endeavors such as novels, video games, or role-playing games.\n\nThe term \"world-building\" was first used in the \"Edinburgh Review\" in December 1820 and appeared in A.S. Eddington's \"Space Time and Gravitation: An Outline of the General Relativity Theory\" (1920) to describe the thinking out of hypothetical worlds with different physical laws. The term has been used in science fiction and fantasy criticism since appearing in R.A. Lupoff’s \"Edgar Rice Burroughs: Master of Adventure\" (1965).\n\nThe creation of literary fictional worlds was first examined by fantasy authors such as George MacDonald, J. R. R. Tolkien, Dorothy L. Sayers, and C. S. Lewis. Tolkien addressed the issue in his essay \"On Fairy Stories\", where he stated that the \"Secondary World\" or \"Sub-Creation\" (the constructed world) is substantially different from the art of play-writing: \"Very little about trees as trees can be got into a play.\" Constructed worlds shift away from storytelling, narrative, characters and figures, and may explore \"trees as trees\" or aspects of the world in-and-of-themselves. Later analysis of fantasy worlds in the 1960s contextualized them in the medium or the narrative of the works, offering an analysis of the stories in the world, but not the world itself. Media franchises are similar to constructed worlds but do not necessarily rely on them; for example a media franchise such as \"Star Wars\" has a constructed world, while The Beatles, as a franchise, does not. In the 2000s, world-building in film has increased in popularity. When before, writers sought to create a character that could sustain multiple stories, now they create a world that can sustain multiple characters and stories.\n\nWorldbuilding can be designed from the top down or the bottom up, or by a combination of these approaches. The official world-building guidelines for \"Dungeons and Dragons\" refer to these terms as \"outside-in\" and \"inside-out\", respectively. In the top-down approach, the designer first creates a general overview of the world, determining broad characteristics such as the world's inhabitants, technology level, major geographic features, climate, and history. From there, he or she develops the rest of the world in increasing detail. This approach might involve creation of the world's basics, followed by levels such as continents, civilizations, nations, cities, and towns. A world constructed from the top down tends to be well-integrated, with individual components fitting together appropriately. It can, however, require considerable work before enough detail is completed for the setting to be useful, such as in the setting of a story.\n\nWith the bottom-up approach, the designer focuses on a small part of the world needed for his or her purposes. This location is given considerable detail, such as local geography, culture, social structure, government, politics, commerce, and history. Prominent local individuals may be described, including their relationships to each other. The surrounding areas are then described in a lower level of detail, with description growing more general with increasing distance from the initial location. The designer can subsequently enhance the description of other areas in the world. This approach provides for almost immediate applicability of the setting, with details pertinent to a certain story or situation. The approach can yield a world plagued with inconsistencies, however. By combining the top-down and bottom-up approaches, a designer can enjoy the benefits of both. This is very hard to accomplish, however, because the need to start from both sides creates twice as much work, which may delay the desired product.\n\nDespite requiring considerable work to develop enough detail for a setting to be useful, not every aspect of a setting can be explored, and instead an approach called inferred world building is often used. Inferred world building is when the author provides enough detail about the various parts of a setting that readers can extrapolate on what is written to come to their own conclusions regarding specific details that weren't provided. This is especially useful for roleplaying game settings, as individual games may require certain details to be created on a case-by-case basis for the RPG's story to function.\n\nFrom a game-design perspective, the goal of worldbuilding is to create the context for a story. Consistency is an important element, since the world provides a foundation for the action of a story. However, J. R. R. Tolkien described the goal of worldbuilding as creating immersion, or \"enchantment\" as he put it, and descriptions of the world can be wholly disconnected from the story and narrative.\n\nAn uninhabited world can be useful for certain purposes, especially in science fiction, but the majority of constructed worlds have one or more sentient species. These species can have constructed cultures and constructed languages. Designers in hard science fiction may design flora and fauna towards the end of the worldbuilding process, thus creating lifeforms with environmental adaptations to scientifically novel situations.\n\nPerhaps the most basic consideration of worldbuilding is to what degree a fictional world will be based on real-world physics compared to magic. While magic is a more common element of fantasy settings, science fiction worlds can contain magic or technological equivalents of it. For example, the Biotics in the science fiction video game series \"Mass Effect\" have abilities, described scientifically in-game, which mirror those of mages in fantasy games. In the science fiction novel \"Midnight at the Well of Souls\", magic exists, but is explained scientifically.\n\nSome fictional worlds modify the real-world laws of physics; faster-than-light travel is a common factor in much science fiction. Worldbuilding may combine physics and magic, such as in the \"Dark Tower\" series and the \"Star Wars\" franchise.\n\nConstructed worlds often have cosmologies, both in the scientific and metaphysical senses of the word. Design of science fiction worlds, especially those with spacefaring societies, usually entails creation of a star system and planets. If the designer wishes to apply real-life principles of astronomy, he or she may develop detailed astronomical measures for the orbit of the world, and to define the physical characteristics of the other bodies in the same system; this establishes chronological parameters, such as the length of a day and the durations of seasons. Some systems are intentionally bizarre. For Larry Niven's novels \"The Integral Trees\" and \"The Smoke Ring\", Niven designed a \"freefall\" environment, a gas torus ring of habitable pressure, temperature, and composition, around a neutron star.\n\nFantasy worlds can also involve unique cosmologies. In \"Dungeons and Dragons\", the physical world is referred to as the Prime Material Plane, but other planes of existence devoted to moral or elemental concepts are available for play, such as the Spelljammer setting, which provides an entirely novel fantasy astrophysical system. Some fantasy worlds feature religions. The \"Elder Scrolls\" series, for example, contains a variety of religions practiced by its world's various races. The world of the 2000 video game \"Summoner\" has a well-developed cosmology, including a creation myth.\n\nMap construction is often one of the earliest tasks of worldbuilding. Maps can lay out a world's basic terrain features and significant civilizations present. A clear, concise map that displays the locations of key points in the story can be a helpful tool for developers and audiences alike. Finished creative products, such as books, may contain published versions of development maps; many editions of \"The Lord of the Rings\", for example, include maps of Middle-earth. Cartography of fictional worlds is sometimes called \"geofiction\".\n\nThe physical geography of a fictional world is important in designing weather patterns and biomes such as deserts, wetlands, mountains, and forests. These physical features also affect the growth and interaction of the various societies, such as the establishment of trade routes and locations of important cities. Desire for control of natural resources in a fictional world may lead to war among its people. Geography can also define ecosystems for each biome. Often, Earth-like ecology is assumed, but designers can vary drastically from this trend. For example, Isaac Asimov's short story \"The Talking Stone\" features a life form based on silicon, rather than carbon.\n\nSome software programs can create random terrain using fractal algorithms. Sophisticated programs can apply geologic effects such as tectonic plate movement and erosion; the resulting world can be rendered in great detail, providing a degree of realism to the result.\n\nConstructed cultures, or concultures, are a typical element of worldbuilding. Worldbuilders sometimes employ past human civilizations as a model for fictional societies. The 1990 video game \"\", for example, takes place in a world full of tribes based on civilizations in early Mesoamerica and Africa. This method can make a fictional world more accessible for an audience. \"Simon Provencher\" has stated as a 'Golden Rule' of Worldbuilding that \"... unless specified otherwise, everything inside your world is assumed to behave exactly as it would in the real world.\" Another example is Steven S. Long, a representative of the Champions role-playing game, who stated that \"Everything that happened in the real world has also unfolded in the exact same way in the Champions Universe.\" This means any past wars, elections, and technological advancements in our world occurred the same way in the Champions Universe unless explained otherwise. Creating a cohesive alien culture can be a distinct challenge. Some designers have also looked to human civilizations for inspiration in doing so, such as \"Star Trek\"'s Romulans, whose society resembles that of Ancient Rome. The fictional world's history can explain past and present relationships between different societies, which can introduce a story's action. A past war, for example, functions as a key plot point in the \"Shannara\" and \"Belgariad\" series.\n\nExamples of constructed worlds include Terry Pratchett's Discworld, the pseudo-Earth Hyborian Age in the Conan series, Arrakis in the \"Dune\" series, the continent of Tamriel in the Elder Scrolls series of games, Ursula K. Le Guin's Earthsea and Gethen, the Subcontinent of Hayao Miyazaki's \"Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind\", and Arda, the location of J. R. R. Tolkien's Middle-earth, in \"The Lord of the Rings\".\n\nConstructed worlds are not always limited to one type of story. Lawrence Watt-Evans and Steven Brust created Ethshar and Dragaera, respectively, for role-playing games before using them as settings for novels. M. A. R. Barker originally designed Tékumel well before the advent of role-playing games, but many gamers, including Barker himself, have used it as a setting for such games.\n\nA shared universe is a fictional universe that can be used by different authors. Examples of shared universes include the \"Star Wars\" expanded universe and campaign setting developed specifically for role-playing games. One of the oldest of these is Oerth, developed for the Dungeons and Dragons Greyhawk setting. Forgotten Realms is another such D&D setting, originally a homebrew campaign world by Ed Greenwood.\n"}
