{"id": "54594603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54594603", "title": "Angelfish software", "text": "Angelfish software\n\nAngelfish Software is an on-premises, self-hosted web analytics application which allows organizations to monitor how users interact with websites and web-based applications. Angelfish can use web server logs or JavaScript page tags to create reports.\n\nFirst released in 2013, Angelfish Software was created in response to Google's cancellation of Urchin and the lack of options that existed for on-premises web analytics software.\nAngelfish is a popular solution for tracking Intranet and SharePoint environments, and has significant interest from organizations that are required to protect website visitor data due to regulations, or cannot use Google Analytics due to data privacy concerns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1762176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1762176", "title": "Applicant tracking system", "text": "Applicant tracking system\n\nAn applicant tracking system (ATS) is a software application that enables the electronic handling of recruitment needs. An ATS can be implemented or accessed online on an enterprise or small business level, depending on the needs of the company and there is also free and open source ATS software available. An ATS is very similar to customer relationship management (CRM) systems, but are designed for recruitment tracking purposes. In many cases they filter applications automatically based on given criteria such as keywords, skills, former employers, years of experience and schools attended. This has caused many to adapt resume optimization techniques similar to those used in search engine optimization when creating and formatting their résumé.\n\nA dedicated ATS is not uncommon for recruitment specific needs. On the enterprise level it may be offered as a module or functional addition to a human resources suite or Human Resource Information System (HRIS). The ATS is expanding into small and medium enterprises through open source or software as a service offerings (SaaS).\n\nThe principal function of an ATS is to provide a central location and database for a company's recruitment efforts. ATSs are built to better assist management of resumes and applicant information. Data is either collected from internal applications via the ATS front-end, located on the company website or is extracted from applicants on job boards. The majority of job and resume boards (LinkedIn.com, Monster.com, Hotjobs, CareerBuilder, Indeed.com) have partnerships with ATS software providers to provide parsing support and ease of data migration from one system to another. Newer applicant tracking systems (often referred to as next generation) are platforms as a service whereby the main piece of software has integration points that allow providers of other recruiting technology to plug in seamlessly. The ability of these next generation ATS solutions allows jobs to be posted where the candidate is and not just on job boards. This ability is being referred to as Omnichannel Talent Acquisition.\n\nRecent enhancements include use of artificial intelligence (AI) tools and natural language processing to facilitate intelligent guided semantic search capabilities offered through cloud based platforms that allow companies to score and sort resumes with better alignment to the job requirements and descriptions.\n\nWith the advent of ATS, resume optimization techniques and online tools are now used by applicants to increase their chances of landing an interview call.\n\nFunctionality of an ATS is not limited to data mining and collection; ATS applications in the recruitment industry include the ability to automate the recruitment process via a defined workflow.\n\nAnother benefit of an applicant tracking system is analyzing and coordinating recruitment efforts - managing the conceptual structure known as human capital. A corporate career site or company specific job board module may be offered, allowing companies to provide opportunities to internal candidates prior to external recruitment efforts. Candidates may be identified via pre-existing data or through information garnered through other means. This data is typically stored for search and retrieval processes. Some systems have expanded offerings that include off-site encrypted resume and data storage, which are often legally required by equal opportunity employment laws.\n\nApplicant tracking systems may also be referred to as talent acquisition and management products (TAMP) and are often provided via an application service provider or software as a service (SaaS) model. The level of service and cost can vary greatly across providers. In the UK and Ireland, Applicant Tracking Systems which are specifically for Agency Recruiters are often referred to as Recruitment Software and this is a term used mainly in the recruitment agency industry (representative bodies include the REC in the UK and the NRF in Ireland). Although proprietary systems dominate the ATS space, there are open-source alternatives.\n\nAs the data held within recruitment software is predominantly personal data, it is often tightly controlled by data protection legislation, preventing the data from being held offshore, which frequently places a legal restriction on the use of SaaS offerings.\n"}
{"id": "22697384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22697384", "title": "Business sector", "text": "Business sector\n\nIn economics, the business sector or corporate sector - sometimes popularly called simply \"business\" - is \"the part of the economy made up by companies\". It is a subset of the domestic economy,\nexcluding the economic activities of general government, of private households, and of non-profit organizations serving individuals. An alternative analysis of economies, the three-sector theory, subdivides them into: \n\n\nIn the United States the business sector accounted for about 78 percent of the value of gross domestic product (GDP) . Kuwait and Tuvalu each had business sectors accounting for less than 40% of GDP .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1624953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1624953", "title": "Cabotage", "text": "Cabotage\n\nCabotage () is the transport of goods or passengers between two places in the same country by a transport operator from another country. It originally applied to shipping along coastal routes, port to port, but now applies to aviation, railways, and road transport as well.\n\nCabotage rights are the right of a company from one country to trade in another country. In aviation, it is the right to operate within the domestic borders of another country. Most countries do not permit aviation cabotage, and there are strict sanctions against it, for reasons of economic protectionism, national security, or public safety. One notable exception is the European Union, whose Member States all grant cabotage rights to each other.\n\nCabotage originally meant simply coasting trade, from the French \"caboter\", to travel by the coast. Its ultimate origin is uncertain. The air transport meaning is attested in 1933.\n\nCabotage laws apply to merchant ships in most countries that have a coastline so as to protect the domestic shipping industry from foreign competition, preserve domestically owned shipping infrastructure for national security purposes, and ensure safety in congested territorial waters.\n\nFor the history of cabotage in UK law, see Navigation Acts.\n\nIn the United States, the Merchant Marine Act of 1920 (Jones Act) requires that all goods transported by water between U.S. ports be carried on U.S.-flag ships, constructed in the United States, owned by U.S. citizens, and crewed by U.S. citizens and U.S. permanent residents. The Passenger Vessel Services Act of 1886 states that no foreign vessels shall transport passengers between ports or places in the United States, either directly or by way of a foreign port.\n\nIndonesia implemented a cabotage policy in 2005 after previously allowing foreign-owned vessels to operate relatively freely within the country.\n\nIn the Philippines, the Tariff and Customs Code of the Philippines (Republic Act No. 1937) which is also known as the Cabotage Law restricts coastwise trade or the transport of passengers and goods within the country, to vessels with Philippine registry which has to secure a coastwise license from the Maritime Industry Authority. After the passage of Foreign Ships Co-Loading Act or the Republic Act No. 10668 in 2015, foreign vessels with cargo intended to be exported out the country may dock in multiple ports in the country before transiting to a foreign port.\n\nIn the EU, rights to cabotage in newly-admitted Member States (in particular, Greece, Spain and Portugal) were restricted; but this introductory provision was abandoned after criticism in the light of the Paros ferry disaster.\n\nThe Hague–Visby Rules, a convention which imposes duties on maritime carriers, apply only to \"carriage of goods by sea between ports in two different states\", and thus do not apply to cabotage shipping. However, section 1(3) of the UK Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1971 declares that the Rules \"shall have effect ... where the port of shipment is a port in the United Kingdom, whether or not the carriage is between ports in two different States ...\".\n\nCabotage rights remain rare in passenger aviation. The Chicago Convention prohibits member states from granting cabotage on an exclusive basis, which has limited the availability of cabotage as a bargaining chip in bilateral aviation agreement negotiations. Cabotage is not granted under most open skies agreements.\n\nCarriers licensed under EU law are permitted to engage in cabotage in any EU member state, with some limitations. Ryanair, easyJet, Vueling, Wizz Air, and Aer Lingus have bases and operate domestic services outside their home countries.\n\nThe Closer Economic Relations agreement allows Australian air carriers to fly domestically and internationally from New Zealand and vice versa. An Australian carrier, Jetstar (a Qantas subsidiary), flies domestic routes within New Zealand. Air New Zealand offers one international destination from Australia outside New Zealand, flying between Sydney, Australia and Rarotonga of the Cook Islands. Previously, Qantas Jetconnect, Pacific Blue (a Virgin Australia subsidiary) and Ansett New Zealand were Australian-owned airlines based in New Zealand that operated domestic New Zealand services.\n\nAustralia also permits foreign-owned airlines incorporated under Australian law (such as Tiger Airways Australia and the domestic arm of Virgin Australia) to operate on domestic routes, although it prohibits such airlines from operating international routes as Australian flag carriers.\n\nChile has the most liberal cabotage rules in the world, enacted in 1979, which allow foreign airlines to operate domestic flights, conditional upon reciprocal treatment for Chilean carriers in the foreign airline's country. This unusual regime is partly due to Chile's geographical need for air service, and partly to incentivize liberalization in other countries amid the international expansion of its flag carrier LATAM Chile, which now has major operations in many other Latin American countries. Like Australia, Chile allows foreign companies to set up Chilean subsidiaries to offer domestic flights in Chile, regardless of reciprocity.\n\nBefore 1991, Lufthansa was prohibited from flying to West Berlin, so Pan Am, British Airways, and Air France operated the routes between West Germany and West Berlin. For a short time in the late 1980s, Trans World Airlines also flew between then-West Germany and West Berlin. During this time, Pan Am flew to Tegel, in Berlin, from Munich-Riem Airport (now closed) and Frankfurt. Air France flew from Düsseldorf. British Airways flew from Münster-Osnabrück, Hannover, and some other cities.\n\nIn 2003–2004, the United States Department of Transportation authorized Polynesian Airlines to provide temporary cabotage service in American Samoa after the existing US flag carrier ceased operations, one of very few instances where the US has granted cabotage rights in an emergency.\n\nIn October 2007, the United Kingdom granted Singapore carriers the right to fly domestic UK routes as part of an open skies agreement, which also allows British carriers to fly to any city from Singapore.\n\nReciprocal cabotage rights exist by treaty between New Zealand and Brunei and between the People's Republic of China and Albania.\n\nThe \"modified sixth freedom\" refers to the right to carry passengers between two points in country A through a hub in country B; for instance, a Boston-Toronto-Seattle itinerary. Such services are currently considered to constitute cabotage and are not permitted. In 2002, the United States fined Asiana Airlines for selling tickets from the mainland US to Guam and Saipan via Seoul.\n\nCertain airlines operate services within a foreign country without the right to carry local traffic. For instance, Qantas operates service between New York and Los Angeles solely for use by international connecting passengers. Such services are not generally considered to be cabotage.\n\n"}
{"id": "153852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153852", "title": "Chief information officer", "text": "Chief information officer\n\nChief information officer (CIO), chief digital information officer (CDIO) or information technology (IT) director, is a job title commonly given to the most senior executive in an enterprise who works for the traditional information technology and computer systems that support enterprise goals.\n\nTypically, the CIO reports directly to the chief executive officer but may also report to the chief operating officer or chief financial officer. In military organizations, they report to the commanding officer. The Chief Information Officer role was first defined in 1981 by William R. Synnott, former Senior Vice President of the Bank of Boston, and William H. Gruber, former professor at the MIT Sloan School of Management.\n\nCIOs or CDIOs form a key part of any business that utilizes technology and data. In recent times, it has been identified that an understanding of just business or just IT is not sufficient. CIOs manage IT resources and plan \"ICT including policy and practice development, planning, budgeting, resourcing and training”. In addition to this, CIOs are becoming increasingly important in calculating how to increase profits via the use of ICT frameworks, as well as the vital role of reducing expenditure and limiting damage by setting up controls and planning for possible disasters. \"Computer Weekly\" magazine highlights that “53% of IT leaders report a shortage of people with high-level personal skills” in the workplace. Most organisations can't expect to fill demand for skilled resources and 57% of CIOs don't have the right learning and support mechanisms in place to enable current staff to meet the skill shortage. CIOs are needed to decrease the gulf between roles carried out by both IT professionals and non-IT professionals in businesses in order to set up effective and working relationships.\n\nThe Chief Information Officer of an organization is responsible for a number of roles. First and most importantly, the CIO must fulfill the role of business leader. As a CIO must make executive decisions regarding things such as the purchase of IT equipment from suppliers or the creation of new systems, they are therefore responsible for leading and directing the workforce of their specific organization. In addition, the CIO is ‘required to have strong organizational skills’. This is particularly relevant for a Chief Information Officer of an organization who must balance roles in order to gain a competitive advantage and keep the best interests of the organization's employees. CIOs also have the responsibility of recruiting, so it is important that they take on the best employees to complete the jobs the company needs fulfilling.\n\nIn addition, CIOs are directly required to map out both the ICT strategy and ICT policy of an organization. The ICT strategy covers future proofing, procurement, and the external and internal standards laid out by an organization. Similarly, the CIO must write up the ICT policy, detailing how ICT is utilized and applied. Both are needed for the protection of the organization in the short and long term and the process of strategizing for the future. Paul Burfitt, former CIO of AstraZeneca, also outlines the CIO's role of IT governance, which he refers to as the “clarifying” of “accountability and the role of committees”.\n\nIn recent years the CIO and their close cousin has become more closely involved in customer facing products. With the rising awareness in organisations that their customers are expecting digital services as part of their relationship with an organisation, CIOs have been tasked with product oriented responsibilities. Clear examples of this are seen at facilities management company MITIE where former CIO of energy firm Centrica Davi Cooper is the CTIO and has an agenda to create online services for their customers.\n\nAs the CIO has a large number of responsibilities such as provision of finance, recruitment of professionals and development of policy and strategy, the risks are consequently vast. The CIO of U.S company Target was forced into resignation in 2014 after the theft of 40 million credit card details and 70 million customer details by hackers. CIOs carry out a large number of roles and therefore the chance of failure is very high. In this way, any CIO must be knowledgeable about the industry so they can adapt and reduce the chance of error.\n\nWith the introduction of legislation such as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) CIOs have now become increasingly focused on how their role is regulated and can lead to financial and reputation damage to a business. However, regulations such as GDPR have also been advantageous to CIOs enabling them to have the budget and authority in the organisation to make significant changes to the way information is managed. Sabah Khan-Carter of Rupert Murdoch's News Corp described GDPR as \"a really big opportunity for most organisations\".\n\nInformation technology and its systems have become so important that the CIO has come to be viewed in many organizations as a key contributor in formulating strategic goals for an organization. The prominence of the CIO position has greatly risen as information, and the information technology that drives it, has become an increasingly important part of the modern organization. Many CIOs are adding additional c-level titles to reflect the growing importance of technology in successfully running companies; this trend is referred to as the CIO-plus. The CIO may be a member of the executive committee of an organization, and/or may often be required to engage at board level depending on the nature of the organization and its operating structure and governance environment. No specific qualifications are intrinsic to the CIO position, though the typical candidate may have expertise in a number of technological fields - computer science, software engineering, or information systems. However, in healthcare there is a rising demand for CIOs to be qualified. The benefit of this is that they will then be seen as peers to their clinical peers and able to command greater respect and opportunity in the organisation.\n\nDespite the strategic nature of the role, a 2017 survey, conducted by Logicalis, of 890 CIOs across 23 countries found that 62% of CIOs spend 60% or more of their time on day to day IT activities.\n\nIn 2012, Gartner Executive Programs conducted a global CIO survey and received responses from 2,053 CIOs from 41 countries and 36 industries. Gartner reported that survey results indicated that the top ten technology priorities for CIOs for 2013 were analytics and business intelligence, mobile technologies, cloud computing, collaboration technologies, legacy modernization, IT management, customer relationship management, virtualization, security, and enterprise resource planning.\n\n\"CIO\" magazine's \"State of the CIO 2008\" survey asked 558 IT leaders whom they report to. The results were: CEO (41%), CFO (23%), COO (16%), Corporate CIO (7%) and Other (13%).\n\nTypically, a CIO is involved with driving the analysis and re-engineering of existing business processes, identifying and developing the capability to use new tools, reshaping the enterprise's physical infrastructure and network access, and with identifying and exploiting the enterprise's knowledge resources. Many CIOs head the enterprise's efforts to integrate the Internet into both its long-term strategy and its immediate business plans. CIOs are often tasked with either driving or heading up crucial IT projects that are essential to the strategic and operational objectives of an organization. A good example of this would be the implementation of an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system, which typically has wide-ranging implications for most organizations.\n\nAnother way that the CIO role is changing is an increased focus on service management. As SaaS, IaaS, BPO and other more flexible value delivery techniques are brought into organizations the CIO usually functions as a 3rd party manager for the organization. In essence, a CIO in the modern organization is required to possess business skills and the ability to relate to the organization as a whole, as opposed to being a technological expert with limited functional business expertise. The CIO position is as much about anticipating trends in the market place with regard to technology as it is about ensuring that the business navigates these trends through expert guidance and proper strategic IT planning that is aligned to the corporate strategy of the organization.\n\nThe roles of Chief Information Officer, Chief Digital Officer and Chief Technology Officer are commonly blurred. Tom Silver, the North American senior vice president for Dice, states that CTOs are concerned with technology itself, often customer-facing, whereas CIOs are much more concerned with its applications in the business and how this can be managed.\n\nMore specifically, CIOs manage a business's IT systems and functions, creates and delivers strategies and policies, and places great emphasis on internal customers. In contrast to this, CTOs place emphasis on the external customers to the organization and focus on how different technology can make the company more profitable.\n\nThe traditional definition of CTOs focused on using technology as an external competitive advantage now includes CDOs who use the power of modern technologies, online design and big data to digitalise a business.\n\nIt is not uncommon for CIOs to be recognised and awarded annually, particularly in the technology space. These awards are commonly dictated by the significance of their contribution to the industry and generally occur in local markets only. Awards are generally judged by industry peers, or senior qualified executives such as the chief executive officer, chief operating officer or chief financial officer. Generally awards recognise substantial impact to the local technology market.\n\nIn Australia, the top 50 CIOs are recognised annually under the CIO50 banner. In the United States of America, United Kingdom and New Zealand CIOs are recognised under the CIO100 banner.\n\n\n\nCIO Applications provides knowledge network for CIOs to discuss their innovative enterprise solution and allows IT Vendors to learn about trending technologies, news and solutions that can help to grow their business."}
{"id": "16942788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16942788", "title": "Cognos ReportNet", "text": "Cognos ReportNet\n\nCognos ReportNet (CRN) is a web-based software product for creating and managing ad hoc and custom-made reports. ReportNet is developed by the Ottawa-based company Cognos (formerly Cognos Incorporated), an IBM company. The web-based reporting tool was launched in September 2003. Since IBM's acquisition of Cognos, ReportNet has been renamed \"IBM Cognos ReportNet\" like all other Cognos products.\n\nReportNet uses web services standards such as XML and Simple Object Access Protocol and also supports dynamic HTML and Java. ReportNet is compatible with multiple databases including Oracle, SAP, Teradata, Microsoft SQL server, DB2 and Sybase. The product provides interface in over 10 languages, has Web Services architecture to meet the needs of multi-national, diversified enterprises and helps reduce total cost of ownership. Multiple versions of Cognos ReportNet have since been released by the company. Cognos ReportNet was awarded the Software and Information Industry Association (SIIA) 2005 Codie awards for the \"Best Business Intelligence or Knowledge Management Solution\" category. CRN's capabilities have been further used in IBM Cognos 8 BI (2005), the latest reporting tool. CRN comes with its own software development kit (SDK).\n\nEarly adopters of Cognos ReportNet for their corporate reporting needs included Bear Stearns, BMW and Alfred Publishing. Around this same time of launch, Cognos competitor Business Objects released version 6.1 of its enterprise reporting tool. Cognos ReportNet has been successful since its launch, raising revenues in 2004 from licensing fees. Subsequently, other major corporations like McDonald's adopted Cognos ReportNet.\n\nCognos rival Business Objects announced in 2005 that BusinessObjects XI significantly outperformed Cognos ReportNet in benchmark tests conducted by VeriTest, an independent software testing firm. The tests performed showed Cognos ReportNet performed poorly when processing styled reports, complex business reports and combination of both. The tests reported a massive 21 times higher report throughput for BusinessObjects XI than Cognos ReportNet at capacity loads. Cognos soon dismissed the claims by stating Business Objects dictated the environment and testing criteria and Cognos did not provide the software to participate in benchmark test. Cognos later performed their own test to demonstrate Cognos ReportNet capabilities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12084741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12084741", "title": "Collateral Billing number", "text": "Collateral Billing number\n\nA Collateral Billing number (CBN) is a number that sometimes can be given in place of a purchase order or a credit card number to ensure a products return. For example, you receive a defective product and call the manufacturer, they in turn send you a replacement unit after collecting a purchase order, credit card or collateral billing number from you to charge the cost of the unit to in the event that you do not return the original unit.\n"}
{"id": "22887461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22887461", "title": "CommunicAsia", "text": "CommunicAsia\n\nCommunicAsia is an information and communications technology (ICT) exhibition and conference held in Singapore. The annual event has taken place since 1979 and is usually held in June. The show customarily runs concurrently with the BroadcastAsia and EnterpriseIT exhibitions and conferences, all of which are operated by Singapore Exhibition Services.\n\nThe CommunicAsia Exhibition is amongst the largest platforms organised for the ICT industry in the Asia-Pacific region. It draws global industry brands to showcase key and emerging technologies. Past exhibitors include LG, Yahoo!, Huawei, Skype, Research in Motion (Blackberry) and Samsung. Attendance is restricted to trade professionals but admission is free.\n\nThe CommunicAsia Summit features roundtable discussions, forums and presentations on a broad range of industry specific subjects. The summit draws participation from top experts and managers from the telecommunications, service provider and satellite sectors as well as senior government functionaries and regulators.\n\nFrom 1979 – 1999 the show was a biennial event. It was held at the World Trade Centre, Singapore, from 1979 up until it moved to Suntec for the 1996 and 1998 shows. In 1999 CommunicAsia was held at Singapore Expo, where it continued to be hosted up until 2010.\n\nCommunicAsia 2009 ran from 16 – 19 June 2009 and the tradeshow featured 1,923 exhibiting companies from 60 countries and regions. The event attracted a total of 54,354 visitors from 100 countries spanning Asia-Pacific, Europe, US and the Middle-East.\n\nSignificant announcements at the event included the launch of two new smartphones by Huawei - the Android-powered U8230 and the C8000, running the Windows Mobile operating system. LG also unveiled its Crystal GD900, the world’s first transparent phone, while Samsung introduced its next era of smartphones in a worldwide launch. Garmin and ASUS also announced a first ever collaboration, the Garmin-ASUS nuvifones G60 and M20, smartphones with location-based capabilities.\n\nThe CommunicAsia 2009 Summit attracted 700 delegates and covered topics such as Mobile Services and Business Models, Network Enablers and Architectures, Satellite Communications Forum, Green Telecoms, Mobile Marketing and Advertising, Mobile TV and Entertainment, IPTV and Next Generation Broadband.\n\nHeld from 15 – 18 June at the Singapore Expo, CommunicAsia 2010 attracted over 55,000 industry visitors, conference speakers and delegates. 55% of visitors came from overseas, mostly from Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand. \n\nCommunicAsia 2010 witnessed the launch of the Alcatel One Touch Net mobile by Yahoo! and Skype announcing the availability of its interface on three Sony Ericsson Symbian-based smartphones. Other announcements made at the event included the unveiling by Samsung of the Wave and Wave Pro and NTTDOCOMO’s F-04B, a separable phone that allows users to talk and view their phone at the same time. \n\nIt is estimated that deals worth over of $US3.6 billion were signed at the tradeshow.\n\nThe CommunicAsia Summit drew 650 participants and discussed topics including Mobile Value Added Services, Network Security, Getting in on the Cloud, Converged Device Management, Mobile Marketing & Profitability and New Revenue Opportunities. The keynote address was delivered by Josh Silverman, CEO of Skype.\n\nThe 2011 exhibition and conference was held from 21– 24 June at Marina Bay Sands and closed with strong results.\n\nCommunicAsia2012 was once again held at Marina Bay Sands from 19–22 June 2012. \n\nOver 200 debut exhibitors such as AMOS-Spacecom, Calix Networks, Integrasco, Mentum, NovelSat, SLA Mobile and Yokogawa Engineering Asia, shared their expertise and launch their latest products and solutions at the show.\n\nEnterpriseIT, held in conjunction with CommunicAsia, showcased exhibitors comprising international IT systems providers and companies offering enterprise solutions ranging from cloud computing, data centre services, security and M2M software to mobility solutions and video conferencing.\n\nThe show featured notable product launches from the likes of Huawei, Panasonic, Blackmagic Design, among others.\n\nThe event saw Asia's largest satellite representation in a technology trade event, and also offered conferences and meetings with over 350 experts. The show closed with healthy visitor figures on 22 June 2012.\n\nCommunicAsia2013 was held from 18–21 June 2013 at Marina Bay Sands for the third time.\n\nCommunicAsia 2014 will be held from 17-20 June 2014 at Marina Bay Sands.\n\nCommunicAsia 2017 was held from 23-25 May 2017 at Marina Bay Sands.\n\n"}
{"id": "37492250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37492250", "title": "Completed staff work", "text": "Completed staff work\n\nCompleted staff work is a principle of management which states that subordinates are responsible for submitting written recommendations to superiors in such a manner that the superior need do nothing further in the process than review the submitted document and indicate approval or disapproval.\n\nIn Completed Staff Work, the subordinate is responsible for identifying the problem or issue requiring decision by some higher authority. In written form such as a memorandum, the subordinate documents the research done, the facts gathered, and analysis made of alternative courses of action. The memo concludes with a specific recommendation for action by the superior.\n\nThe earliest description of the concept of Completed Staff Work appears in U.S. Army publications, although some sources indicate its origin to be a decade earlier from the Canadian Army. Since its early military origin, it has subsequently found favor in police management texts in the U.S.\n\nJames Webb, Director of the Bureau of the Budget (1946-1949), attributes the Doctrine of Completed Staff Work to President Harry S. Truman. \nHowever, a memo written and circulated by Briagadier General George A. Rehm, executive officer for the G-3, Operations section, attributes the policy to General MacArthur's headquarters in the Southwest Pacific Areas during World War 2.\n\n"}
{"id": "3183084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3183084", "title": "Consularization", "text": "Consularization\n\nIn international law, consularization is the act of authenticating any legal document by the consul office, by the consul signing and affixing a red ribbon to the document. International trade shipments often require consular invoices and other documents that may need to be consularized include travel documents (such as a parental consent letter for persons under 18 traveling without a parent), letters of credit, and powers of attorney.\n\nA consular invoice is a document, often in triplicate, submitted to the consul or embassy of a country to which goods are to be exported before the goods are sent abroad. The completed documents then travel with the goods and enable the customs officials in the destination country to verify the quantity, value and nature of the goods on arrival. A fee may be charged by the consulate for the checking and approval of the documents.\n\nAt the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade round in 1952, it was proposed that consularization of commercial invoices be abolished. In 2005, the United States and Uganda submitted a proposal to the World Trade Organization to abolish consularization.\n\nAlternative terms include \"konsularfaktura\" (German), \"facture consulaire\" (French), \"factura consular\" (Spanish), \"fattura consolare\" (Italian) and \"fatura consular\" (Portuguese Br.).\n"}
{"id": "36862865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36862865", "title": "Contractor management", "text": "Contractor management\n\nContractor management is the managing of outsourced work performed for an individual company. Contractor management implements a system that manages contractors' health and safety information, insurance information, training programs and specific documents that pertain to the contractor and the owner client. Most modern contracts require the effective use of contract management software to aid administration between multiple parties.\n\nRisk increases with the loss of control from outsourcing work. Keeping work in-house gives an Owner Client complete control over the production or services provided including quality, durability, and consistency. Outsourcing the work reduces the amount of control held over these aspects. While contracts and agreements can be set in place to control the end product, the Owner Client cannot have complete assurance that their requirements are being met.\n\nWith the continuing outsourcing of production, companies struggle to standardize their contractor management processes. Requirements and regulations from the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration and other governing bodies are constantly changing. Companies need to have full visibility into the quality of work their hired contractors have performed in the past and are performing now, and this often proves difficult.\n\nThere are tools which may measure the contractor's level of performance. For example, many large refineries have integrated their gate access control system to a contractor management software. This provides real-time access to the performance of the contractor workforce within the refinery.\n\nEffective contractor management relies first on a standardized prequalification form (PQF). A quality prequalification form will also allow for customized functionality, as needed. The prequalification form ensures that the necessary steps are in place for a contractor to work safely and sustainably, prior to establishing an agreement, or allowing a vendor to come on-site. \n\nA pre-qualification form (or an explanation of the requirements) is provided before bidding or quoting to assure and include the requirements in workplans and budgets.\n\nSpecifically, the prequalification form will allow the organization to track the most importance aspect of contractor management –\ncontractor prequalification across these essential dynamics:\n\nA thorough prequalification form with each of these components is used to verify incidence rates and ensures that the contractor’s insurance certification is in line with company requirements.\n\nThe prequalification form is then reviewed for OSHA logs and Experience Modification Ratings (EMR) to unearth any inconsistencies and to verify the contractor license status. Finally, references are contacted to provide actual work history and experience to further certify that the contractor is prequalified for performing work at that location.\n\nOnce the prequalification form has been filled out, the contractor must be monitored for compliance, this is a significant part of contractor management. An audit is conducted based on the services that are performed by the contractor and the risk associated with that service.\n\nFor contractors involved in a higher risk trade (e.g. electricians, lockout-tagout and confined space workers ) the audit is an essential part of reviewing the contractor’s safety program. Many of these high risk workers are involved in potentially life-threatening situations and must demonstrate their ability to protect employees and their clients from harmful situations.\n\nIn order to determine that the contractor possesses an adequate understanding of both the work to be performed and the safety standards that must be followed, the following questions are asked:\n\n\nThese questions are then used as indicators to determine the contractor’s level of performance. The audit ensures that the contractor has prepared for, and is enforcing, safety guidelines in their everyday practices. Essentially, the audit provides a third-party confirmation that the information supplied in the prequalification form is both accurate and up-to-date.\n\nA database can be used to record and access the vendor data within a contractor management program. The database needs to be updated regularly, to ensure that all stakeholders are kept informed of any changes, particularly if the contractor management program is being used to eliminate subpar performers. The use of an online contractor management database facilitates the sharing of contractor data in a secure format with all necessary users, using 24-7/365 availability.\n\nThe purpose of a contractor management program is to better centralize, qualify and monitor a contingent workforce. As a result of implementing a contractor management program, an organization can expect to experience some, or all, of the following advantages:\n\n\nThese advantages are both immediate and long-standing. A comprehensive web-based contractor management program from a reputable firm can provide a reliable basis for prequalifying contractors, vendors and other suppliers of goods and services.\n\nThere are two major considerations when managing contractors. First is deciding on the criteria for evaluation and second is developing an effective management process to evaluate these criteria. There are a number of criteria on which a contractor’s safety can be evaluated, such as historical and future trend information.\n\n"}
{"id": "2619630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2619630", "title": "Country risk", "text": "Country risk\n\nCountry risk refers to the risk of investing or lending in a country, arising from possible changes in the business environment that may adversely affect operating profits or the value of assets in the country. For example, financial factors such as currency controls, devaluation or regulatory changes, or stability factors such as mass riots, civil war and other potential events contribute to companies' operational risks. This term is also sometimes referred to as political risk; however, country risk is a more general term that generally refers only to risks affecting all companies operating within or involved with a particular country. \n\nPolitical risk analysis providers and credit rating agencies use different methodologies to assess and rate countries' comparative risk exposure. Credit rating agencies tend to use quantitative econometric models and focus on financial analysis, whereas political risk providers tend to use qualitative methods, focusing on political analysis. However, there is no consensus on methodology in assessing credit and political risks.\n\nThe least-risky countries for investment. Ratings are further broken down into components including political risk, economic risk. Euromoney's quarterly country risk index \"Country risk survey\" monitors the political and economic stability of 185 sovereign countries. Results focus foremost on economics, specifically sovereign default risk and/or payment default risk for exporters (a.k.a. \"trade credit\" risk).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49548848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49548848", "title": "Course of dealing", "text": "Course of dealing\n\nThe term course of dealing is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code as follows:\nA \"course of dealing\" is a sequence of conduct concerning previous transactions between the parties to a particular transaction that is fairly to be regarded as establishing a common basis of understanding for interpreting their expressions and other conduct.\nUCC § 1-303(b). \"Course of dealing,\" as defined in subsection (b), is restricted, literally, to a sequence of conduct between the parties previous to the agreement. A sequence of conduct after or under the agreement, however, is a \"course of performance.\"\n\nEven though, according to the parol evidence rule, words and terms in a writing intended to be the final expression of the agreement of the parties may not be contradicted by extrinsic evidence of a prior or contemporaneous agreement, extrinsic evidence in the form of course of dealing nonetheless may be used to explain or supplement the writing. An integration clause in a contract, stating that the parties intend the writing to be a complete and exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement does not suffice to negate the importance of course of dealing, \"because these are such an integral part of the contract that they are not normally disclaimed by general language in the merger clause.\"\n\nUnder the common law, extrinsic evidence such as course of dealing could be considered only the written contract was ambiguous. By contrast, \"Under the UCC, the lack of facial ambiguity in the contract language is basically irrelevant to whether extrinsic evidence ought to be considered by the court as an initial matter.\"\n\nEvidence of course of dealing will be disallowed, however, if it is \"carefully negated\" in the parties' contract by \"specific and unequivocal\" language.\n\nAlthough the term is usually used in US contract law, where the parties' course of dealing helps the court to understand the intention of the contracting parties, it is also used elsewhere in the law. In US patent law the term is used to help interpret the meaning of words used in patent claims by examining the prosecution history of a patent to determine what meaning the applicant and patent examiner understood claim words to have. It has been observed in the Federal Circuit:\n\nThe prosecution history often proves useful in determining a patent's scope, for it reveals the course of dealing with the Patent Office, which may show a particular meaning attached to the terms, or a position taken by the applicant to ensure that the patent would issue.\n"}
{"id": "1744532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1744532", "title": "Creative director", "text": "Creative director\n\nA creative director is a position often found within the graphic design, film, music, video game, fashion, advertising, media, or entertainment industries, but may be useful in other creative organizations such as web development and software development firms as well.\n\nA creative director is a vital role in all of the arts and entertainment industries. In another sense, they can be seen as another element in any product development process. The creative director may also assume the roles of an art director, copywriter, or lead designer. The responsibilities of a creative director include leading the communication design, interactive design, and concept forward in any work assigned. For example, this responsibility is often seen in industries related to advertisement. The creative director is known to guide a team of employees with skills and experience related to graphic design, fine arts, motion graphics, and other creative industry fields. Some example works can include visual layout, brainstorming, and copywriting. To assume the role of a creative director, one must already have an existing set of skills and expertise in many areas. Often, these types of artists start up from the very beginning in fields that can relate to motion graphics, advertisement in television, and/or book (or magazine) publishing.\n\nIn the advertising industry, a creative director is determined to develop various marketing schemes and strategies for a company or client that he or she is hired by. Assuming one is hired by a company that is fairly well known and established, there would be some type of creative department or management that the director would work with. The creative director would also serve as the project manager that works directly with employers, and in most circumstances, they would be responsible for designing concepts for advertisements and other promotional needs for their client(s). Some examples of their duties involve copywriting and laying out chronological advertisement plans which explain the ongoing process of a project. It is important for an advertisement creative director to meet their goals at specific deadline with maximum efficiency as possible. To do so, they must be able to guide the creative department effectively from start to finish. Educational requirements of this position involve a blending of skills in business and journalism. To even be considered as a creative director, one would need to have a couple of years of experience in advertising (as little as five to as many as ten years).\n\nAdvertising creative directors are usually promoted from copy writing or art directing positions. Familiarity with film-making techniques is also common. Creative directors rise to become executive creative directors or chief creative officers, a position with executive responsibility for the entire creative department, and some progress to chairman of a firm.\n\nCreative directors usually possess a communication design or fine arts & animation degree. Copywriters may have degrees in journalism, language arts, or media innovation, or may develop more emphasis on advertising copy writing while pursuing a communication design degree.\n\nWith the increased team sizes and more specialised disciplines in the games industry, certain game designers are titled as 'creative director', 'executive designer', or 'game director'. A creative director in a video game company is usually responsible for product development across a number of titles and is generally regarded as the prime design authority across the company's product range. Some examples are Peter Molyneux, Sam Lake, Neil Druckmann, or Shigeru Miyamoto whose influence extends across more than one project.\n\nThe creative director has an important responsibility in this industry. The director must devise ideas to lead a video game project forward and many responsibilities involve working with various individuals or teams spread out within the entire project/video game production. This can include cross-functional collaboration with the various disciplines involved in games development. Academically speaking, a creative director is usually degree educated but there are some circumstances where a high school education strongly focusing on aspects such as art, graphics, computer science, and math can be acceptable and provide some valuable insight to students who hope to aspire in this field of work. Some skills that a creative director working in the video game industry may have include proficiency in computer programming and graphic development (illustrations, fine art) and have excellent interpersonal and writing skills (since they deal with many other clients and management leaders). The exact skills a game director possesses will depend on their background in the industry. Creative director, or game director, is not usually an entry level position, but in a smaller studio it can be. This is more common in start up companies for instance though normally one would have to earn that role by showing their skills and development over a period of years. The entertainment industry is not always a meritocracy, however, and sometimes people just luck into or inherit such positions. Creative directors have often done their share of lower level startup positions such as internships or assisting other directors in art related work fields. It is all about advancing through the career chain, and once one has earned the position a creative director, they may be eligible to work for larger and more popular game developing companies depending on how successful they have been with past collaborative projects.\n\nThe creative director in the film industry is referred to as the production designer. A production designer carries a large responsibility of designing the look of a movie. The job is similar to a creative director's role in the video game industry in that he or she manages a team of employees and has to consistently develop new ideas and methods of working. It is vital that designers in this field are able to produce expressive/creative ideas and translate them into something cinematic. Usually a certain sum of funds is distributed among different departments in the production of a film (in this case, the art department). Creative directors must decide on how to distribute and use the funds in the most efficient and effective way to ensure maximum quality in the films art department. An example can include the structuring of scenes and sets once a film begins to undergo the shooting process. During this process, it is important for creative directors to understand what props and effects should be used and how they should be used among various sets and scenes of the film. Some important qualifications that one should have include being able to manage teams, having expertise in design (specifically in theatre, interior sets and art design), being open minded to new ideas and methods in regards to organizing film sets, and having an understanding of coordinating among different departments in order to move a project towards success. A creative director in the film industry usually starts out in lower ranks of the chain, such as an assistant to other art directors and/or as a draughtsman.\n\nCreative directors in the field of music can be broken down into various key roles that make up the whole (it may be said that one can be known as a 'music director'). It is in this artistic field where the individual, the director, must master tasks that are relatable to one another. An orchestral conductor is a prime example (but not exclusive) of this role and how one would direct music and harmonize symphonies as well as guide/direct other musician’s in an ensemble. The three roles in this sense can consist of: the active musician, the musical art director, and the instructor that teaches and informs music for society. The main requirements one would need to have is an extensive background and knowledge of music (being able to master one or more instrument), understanding the principles and theories behind music composition, developing an understanding and connection with musicians that the director would be working with to communicate music in a harmonic and creative sense, and most importantly being able to develop leadership skills among other musicians.\n\nCreative director is the highest creative position in a fashion house. The creative director does not design clothes, but instead formulates and impresses upon the designers an overarching concept or concepts for a certain collection and the label as a whole. \nA fashion creative director's main role is to establish what designs should be created, what will appeal to the target market, and how the concepts will be applied and distributed in collaboration with fashion designers who are responsible for creating the clothing and fabrics.\n\n"}
{"id": "674483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=674483", "title": "Creative industries", "text": "Creative industries\n\nThe creative industries refers to a range of economic activities which are concerned with the generation or exploitation of knowledge and information. They may variously also be referred to as the cultural industries (especially in Europe or the creative economy , and most recently they have been denominated as the Orange Economy in Latin America and the Caribbean (Buitrago & Duque 2013).\n\nHowkins' creative economy comprises advertising, architecture, art, crafts, design, fashion, film, music, performing arts, publishing, R&D, software, toys and games, TV and radio, and video games . Some scholars consider that education industry, including public and private services, is forming a part of creative industry. There remain, therefore, different definitions of the sector .\n\nThe creative industries have been seen to become increasingly important to economic well-being, proponents suggesting that \"human creativity is the ultimate economic resource\" , and that \"the industries of the twenty-first century will depend increasingly on the generation of knowledge through creativity and innovation\" .\n\nVarious commentators have provided varying suggestions on what activities to include in the concept of \"creative industries\" , and the name itself has become a contested issue – with significant differences and overlap between the terms \"creative industries\", \"cultural industries\" and \"creative economy\" .\n\nLash and Urry suggest that each of the creative industries has an \"irreducible core\" concerned with \"the exchange of finance for rights in intellectual property\", . This echoes the UK Government Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) definition which describes the creative industries as:\n\n\nTo this list John Howkins would add toys and games, also including the much broader area of research and development in science and technology . It has also been argued that gastronomy belongs in such a list.\n\nThe various fields of engineering do not appear on this list, that emerged from the DCMS reports. This was due, probably, to the fact that engineers occupy relevant positions in \"non-cultural\" corporations, performing activities of project, management, operation, maintenance, risk analysis and supervision, among others. However, historically and presently, several tasks of engineers can be regarded as highly creative, inventive and innovative. The contribution of engineering is represented by new products, processes and services.\n\nHesmondhalgh reduces the list to what he terms \"the core cultural industries\" of advertising and marketing, broadcasting, film, internet and music industries, print and electronic publishing, and video and computer games. His definition only includes those industries that create \"texts\"' or \"cultural artefacts\" and which engage in some form of industrial reproduction .\n\nThe DCMS list has proven influential, and many other nations have formally adopted it. It has also been criticised. It has been argued that the division into sectors obscures a divide between lifestyle business, non-profits, and larger businesses, and between those who receive state subsidies (e.g., film) and those who do not (e.g., computer games). The inclusion of the antiques trade often comes into question, since it does not generally involve production (except of reproductions and fakes). The inclusion of all computer services has also been questioned .\n\nSome areas, such as Hong Kong, have preferred to shape their policy around a tighter focus on copyright ownership in the value chain. They adopt the WIPO's classifications, which divide up the creative industries according to who owns the copyrights at various stages during the production and distribution of creative content.\n\nThe Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has denominated them for Latin America and the Caribbean as the Orange Economy which is defined as the \"group of linked activities through which ideas are transformed into cultural goods and services whose value is determined by intellectual property.\"\n\nOthers have suggested a distinction between those industries that are open to mass production and distribution (film and video; videogames; broadcasting; publishing), and those that are primarily craft-based and are meant to be consumed in a particular place and moment (visual arts; performing arts; cultural heritage).\n\nThe DCMS classifies enterprises and occupations as creative according to what the enterprise primarily produces, and what the worker primarily does. Thus, a company which produces records would be classified as belonging to the music industrial sector, and a worker who plays piano would be classified as a musician.\n\nThe primary purpose of this is to quantify – for example it can be used to count the number of firms, and the number of workers, creatively employed in any given location, and hence to identify places with particularly high concentrations of creative activities.\n\nIt leads to some complications which are not immediately obvious. For example, a security guard working for a music company would be classified as a creative employee, although not as creatively occupied.\n\nThe total number of creative employees is then calculated as the sum of:\n\n\nAccording to Caves (2000), creative industries are characterized by seven economic properties:\n\n\nThe properties described by Caves have been criticized for being too rigid (Towse, 2000). Not all creative workers are purely driven by 'art for art's sake'. The 'ars longa' property also holds for certain noncreative products (i.e., licensed products). The 'time flies' property also holds for large construction projects. Creative industries are therefore not unique, but they score generally higher on these properties relative to non-creative industries.\n\nThere is often a question about the boundaries between creative industries and the similar term of cultural industries. Cultural industries are best described as an adjunct-sector of the creative industries. Cultural industries include industries that focus on cultural tourism and heritage, museums and libraries, sports and outdoor activities, and a variety of 'way of life' activities that arguably range from local pet shows to a host of hobbyist concerns. Thus cultural industries are more concerned about delivering other kinds of value—including cultural wealth and social wealth—rather than primarily providing monetary value. (See also cultural institutions studies.)\n\nSome authors, such as the American economist Richard Florida, argue for a wider focus on the products of knowledge workers, and judge the 'creative class' (his own term) to include nearly all those offering professional knowledge-based services.\n\nFlorida's focus leads him to pay particular attention to the nature of the creative workforce. In a study of why particular US cities such as San Francisco seem to attract creative producers, Florida argues that a high proportion of workers from the 'creative class' provide a key input to creative production, which enterprises seek out. He seeks to quantitatively establish the importance of diversity and multiculturalism in the cities concerned, for example the existence of a significant public gay community, ethnic and religious variety, and tolerance. \n\nGlobally, Creative Industries excluding software and general scientific research and development are said to have accounted for around 4% of the world's economic output in 1999, which is the last year for which comprehensive figures are currently available. Estimates of the output corresponding to scientific Research and Development suggest that an additional 4-9% might be attributable to the sector if its definition is extended to include such activities, though the figures vary significantly between different countries.\n\nTaking the UK as an example, in the context of other sectors, the creative industries make a far more significant contribution to output than hospitality or utilities and deliver four times the output due to agriculture, fisheries and forestry. In terms of employment and depending on the definition of activities included, the sector is a major employer of between 4-6% of the UK's working population, though this is still significantly less than employment due to traditional areas of work such as retail and manufacturing.\n\nWithin the creative industries sector and again taking the UK as an example, the three largest sub-sectors are design, publishing, and television and radio. Together these account for around 75% of revenues and 50% of employment.\n\nThe complex supply chains in the creative industries sometimes make it challenging to calculate accurate figures for the gross value added by each sub-sector. This is particularly the case for the service-focused sub-sectors such as advertising, whereas it is more straightforward in product-focused sub-sectors such as crafts. Not surprisingly, perhaps, competition in product-focused areas tends to be more intense with a tendency to drive the production end of the supply chain to become a commodity business.\n\nThere may be a tendency for publicly funded creative industries development services to inaccurately estimate the number of creative businesses during the mapping process. There is also imprecision in nearly all tax code systems that determine a person's profession, since many creative people operate simultaneously in multiple roles and jobs. Both these factors mean that official statistics relating to the Creative Industries should be treated with caution.\n\nThe creative industries in Europe make a significant contribution to the EU economy, creating about 3% of EU GDP – corresponding to an annual market value of €500 billion – and employing about 6 million people. In addition, the sector plays a crucial role in fostering innovation, in particular for devices and networks. The EU records the second highest TV viewing figures globally, producing more films than any other region in the world. In that respect, the newly proposed 'Creative Europe' programme (July 2011) will help preserve cultural heritage while increasing the circulation of creative works inside and outside the EU. The programme will play a consequential role in stimulating cross border co-operation, promoting peer learning and making these sectors more professional. The Commission will then propose a financial instrument run by the European Investment Bank to provide debt and equity finance for cultural and creative industries. The role of the non-state actors within the governance regarding Medias will not be neglected anymore. Therefore, building a new approach extolling the crucial importance of a European level playing field industry may boost the adoption of policies aimed at developing a conducive environment, enabling European companies as well as citizens to use their imagination and creativity – both sources of innovation -, and therefore of competitiveness and sustainability. It supposes to tailor the regulatory and institutional frameworks in supporting private-public collaboration, in particular in the Medias sector. The EU therefore plans to develop clusters, financing instruments as well as foresight activities to support this sector. The European Commission wishes to assist European creators and audiovisual enterprises to develop new markets through the use of digital technology, and asks how policy-making can best help achieve this. A more entrepreneurial culture will have to take hold with a more positive attitude towards risk-taking, and a capacity to innovate anticipating future trends. Creativity plays an important role in human resource management as artists and creative professionals can think laterally. Moreover, new jobs requiring new skills created in the post-crisis economy should be supported by labour mobility to ensure that people are employed wherever their skills are needed.\n\nIn the introduction to a 2013 special issue of \"Work and Occupations\" on artists in the US workforce, the guest editors argue that by examining the work lives of artists, one can identify characteristics and actions that help both individual workers and policy makers adapt to changing economic conditions. Elizabeth Lingo and Steven Tepper cite multiple sources to suggest artists' skill sets allow them to \"work beyond existing markets and create entirely new opportunities for themselves and others\". Specifically, Lingo and Tepper suggest artistic workers are \"catalysts of change and innovation\" because they \"face special challenges managing ambiguity, developing and sustaining a relative identity, and forming community in the context of an individually based enterprise economy\" (2013). Because of these adaptive skills, the suggestion is that \"studying how artists cope with uncertainty and the factors that influence their success should be relevant for understanding these broader social and economic trends facing today's (and tomorrow's) workforce.\"\n\nThis view of artist-as-change-agent changes the questions researchers ask of creative economies. Old research questions would focus on topics like \"skills, work practices, contracts, wage differentials, employment incentives, formal credentials, employment pipelines, and labor flows of differentiated occupational categories\". Examples of new questions include:\n\nAs some first world countries struggle to compete in traditional markets such as manufacturing, many now see the creative industry as a key component in a new knowledge economy, capable perhaps of delivering urban regeneration, often through initiatives linked to exploitation of cultural heritage that leads to increased tourism. It is often argued that, in future, the ideas and imagination of countries like the United Kingdom will be their greatest asset; in support of this argument, a number of universities in the UK have started to offer creative entrepreneurship as a specific area for study and research. Indeed, UK government figures reveal that the UK's creative industries account for over a million jobs and brought in £112.5 billion to the UK economy (DCMS \"Creative Industries Mapping Document\" 2001), although the data sets underlying these figures are open to question.\n\nIn recent years, creative industries have become 'increasingly attractive to governments outside the developed world'. In 2005, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) XI High Level Panel on Creative Industries and Development commissioned several studies to identify challenges and opportunities facing the growth and development of creative industries in developing industries. As Cunningham \"et al.\" (2009) put it, 'the harnessing of creativity brings with it the potential of new wealth creation, the cultivation of local talent and the generation of creative capital, the development of new export markets, significant multiplier effects throughout the broader economy, the utilisation of information communication technologies and enhanced competitiveness in an increasingly global economy'. A key driver of interest in creative industries and development is the acknowledgement that the value of creative production resides in ideas and individual creativity, and developing countries have rich cultural traditions and pools of creative talent which lay a basic foundation for creative enterprises. Reflecting the growing interest in the potential of creative industries in developing countries, in October 2011 a Ministry of Tourism and Creative Economy was created within the Indonesian government with well-known economist Dr Mari Pangestu appointed as the first minister to hold the position.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44355968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44355968", "title": "Critical process parameters", "text": "Critical process parameters\n\nCritical process parameters (CPP) in pharmaceutical manufacturing are key variables affecting the production process. CPPs are attributes that are monitored to detect deviations in standardized production operations and product output quality or changes in Critical Quality Attributes. Those attributes with a higher impact on CQAs should be prioritized and held in a stricter state of control. The manufacturer should conduct test to set acceptable range limits of the determined CPPs and define acceptable process variable variability. Operational conditions within this range are considered acceptable operational standards. Any deviation from the acceptable range will be indicative of issues within the process and the subsequent production of substandard products. Data relating to CPP should be recorded, stored, and analyzed by the manufacturer. CPP variables and ranges should be reevaluated after careful analysis of historical CPP data. Identifying CPPs is done in stage one of Process Validation: Process design are an essential part of a manufacturing control strategy.\n\nOne method of defining CPPs is to look at the effect of certain production processes on critical quality attributes. Those production parameters which have a measurable effect on those quality attributes that have been identified as critical can be considered CPPs and must always be in a state of control.\n"}
{"id": "43574082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43574082", "title": "Daigou", "text": "Daigou\n\nDaigou (Chinese: 代购 dàigòu (); also 海外代购 hǎiwài dàigòu), Overseas personal shopper\nis a channel of commerce in which a person outside of China purchases commodities (mainly luxury goods but also groceries) for a customer in mainland China, \nsince prices for luxury goods can be 30 to 40 percent higher in China than abroad. \nThe phrase means \"buying on behalf of\". \n\"Daigou\" sales across sectors total $15 billion annually. \nIn 2014 the value of the \"daigou\" business just in luxury goods increased from CN¥55 billion to CN¥75 billion yuan (USD $8.8 billion to $12 billion).\n\n\"Daigou\" purchases are often from luxury brand boutiques in major fashion cities like Paris, London, New York City, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul. Some \"daigou\" operators use Weibo and WeChat to communicate with their clients. \nThe large demand for \"daigou\" service is due to concern over unsafe products, especially food safety problems, \nand China's high import tariffs on luxury goods. \nSome \"daigou\" service providers intentionally sell counterfeit made-in-China products that have been altered to appear purchased abroad. \nA 2015 survey of Chinese online luxury shoppers found that 35% have used \"daigou\" to purchase luxury goods online, while only 7% used the website of the brand they are buying, or think they are buying.\nApproximately 80% of Chinese luxury purchases are made abroad.\nAsian-American sales associates at Macy's Herald Square sued Macy's for racial discrimination in September 2017, alleging that store managers instructed sales associates not to sell more than one unit to any single Asian customer, and that they were fired when they spoke up about the alleged discrimination.\n\nThe daigou business is thriving in Australia and the government has also shown its support to recognize the job-creating potential of this grey industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24093035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24093035", "title": "Decision-making software", "text": "Decision-making software\n\nDecision-making software (DM software) is a term for computer applications that help individuals and organisations make choices and take decisions, typically by ranking, prioritizing or choosing from a number of options.\n\nAn early example of DM software was described in 1973. Before the advent of the World Wide Web, most DM software was spreadsheet-based, with the first web-based DM software appearing in the mid-1990s. Nowadays, many DM software products (mostly web-based) are available – e.g. see the comparison table below.\n\nMost DM software focuses on ranking, prioritizing or choosing from among alternatives characterized on multiple criteria or attributes. Thus most DM software is based on decision analysis, usually multi-criteria decision-making, and so is often referred to as \"decision analysis\" or \"multi-criteria decision-making\" software – commonly shortened to \"decision-making software\". Some decision support systems include a DM software component.\n\nDM software can assist decision-makers “at various stages of the decision-making process, including problem exploration and formulation, identification of decision alternatives and solution constraints, structuring of preferences, and tradeoff judgements.”\n\nThe purpose of DM software is to support the analysis involved at these various stages of the decision-making process, not to replace it. DM software \"should be used to support the process, not as the driving or dominating force.\" \n\nDM software frees users \"from the technical implementation details [of the decision-making method employed], allowing them to focus on the fundamental value judgements\". Nonetheless, DM software should not be employed blindly. \"Before using a software, it is necessary to have a sound knowledge of the adopted methodology and of the decision problem at hand.\"\n\nAs mentioned earlier, most DM software is based on multi-criteria decision making (MCDM). MCDM involves evaluating and combining alternatives' characteristics on two or more criteria or attributes in order to rank, prioritize or choose from among the alternatives.\n\nDM software employs a variety of MCDM methods; popular examples include:\n\nThere are significant differences between these methods and, accordingly, the DM software implementing them. Such differences include:\n\nIn the process of helping decision-makers to rank, prioritize or choose from among alternatives, DM software products often include a variety of features and tools; common examples include:\n\nDM software includes the following notable examples.\n\n"}
{"id": "630371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=630371", "title": "Departmentalization", "text": "Departmentalization\n\nDepartmentalization (or departmentalisation) refers to the process of grouping activities into departments. Division of labour creates specialists who need coordination. This coordination is facilitated by grouping specialists together in departments.\n\n\nOwing to the complexity of tasks and the competitive environment in which organisations operate, they often use a combination of the above-mentioned methods in departmentalization.\n\nAs March and Simon (1958) noted when tracing a first approach to departmentalization back to Aristotle (Politics, Book IV, Chap. 15), the problem of distributing work, authority and responsibility throughout an organization is hardly new. In modern times, Gulick and Urwick (1937) were the first to introduce a theory of different departmentalization strategies, which were referred to as \"departmentalization by purpose\" and \"departmentalization by process\".\n\n”First [organization by major process] ... by bringing together in a single office a large amount of each kind of work (technologically measured), makes it possible in the most effective divisions of work and specialization. Second, it makes possible also the economies of the maximum use of labor saving machinery and mass production.\n... there is danger that an organization erected on the basis of purpose will fail to make use of the most up-to-date technical devices and specialists because ... there may not be enough work of a given technical sort to permit efficient subdivision.\nIs there any advantage in placing specialized services like private secretaries or filing in [process departments]? In a very small organization, yes; in a large organization, no. In a small organization, where there is not a full-time job on some days for a secretary, it is better to have a central secretarial pool than to have a private secretary for each man. In a large organization, the reverse is true.” (Gulick & Urwick, 1937)\nStudying the above characterizations of the two forms of departmentalization we note that purpose decentralization is concerned with building work around specific products, customers, or geographic locations, while process departmentalization encompasses the efficiency of ”production”. March and Simon (1958) described the basic difference between the two ways of departmentalization as following:\n\n”Process departmentalization generally takes greater advantage of the potentialities for economy of specialization than does purpose departmentalization: purpose departmentalization leads to greater self-containment and lower coordination costs than process departmentalization.”\n\nWhen taking a closer look at the three ways of departmentalization by purpose–product, customer, and location–we note that there are some specific advantages related to it.\n\nFirst, self-containment tends to improve the ability for internal coordination within the unit. At the same time, the need for developing and maintaining extensive external coordination mechanisms is reduced.\n\nSecond, a clearer focus on the purpose itself–serving a specific customer or market–is enabled. On the other hand, the sense of independence may result in a drift-off from the achievement of the overall objectives of the organization. Therefore, several authors have emphasized the need for establishing control systems that serve the purpose of allowing decentralized decisions, while still aligning all sub-units to the overall goals of the organization (Drucker 1954, Koontz & O’Donnell, 1964).\n\nDepartmentalization by process, on the other hand, seeks to benefit from the advantages that are found in high specialization, and tends to be very efficient in some instances. A high degree of specialization leads to the development of proficiency and professional competence, as well as it enables, and implies, the development of centralized control functions.\n\nOn the other hand, the problem of aligning individual and organizational goals remains. In addition, in this case, we would also need to consider departmental goals. Also, the high level of specialization is a barrier for the flexible reallocation of resources within the organization, i.e. people can not perform other tasks than those they are working with in their functional occupation. The most common way of process departmentalization is the division of the firm into business functions, such as purchasing, manufacturing, sales, accounting, etc.\n\nLooking at the circumstances encompassing the use of either of the departmentalization strategies, we find that departmentalization by process generally is advantageous in cases of stable environments, while departmentalization by purpose, featuring self-containment and certain amounts of independence, appears to be the appropriate strategy for handling changing or unpredictable circumstances. Alfred Chandler (in: March and Simon, 1958) identified a correlation between the application of purpose departmentalization and the use of a diversification strategy:\n”The dominant centralized structure had one basic weakness. A very few men were still entrusted with a great number of complex decisions. ... As long as an enterprise belonged in an industry whose market, sources of raw materials, and production processes remained relatively unchanged, few entrepreneurial decisions have to be reached. In that situation, such a weakness was not critical, but where technology, market, and sources of supplies were changed rapidly, the defect of such a structure became more obvious.”\n\n"}
{"id": "29206447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29206447", "title": "Diagnostic Enterprise Method", "text": "Diagnostic Enterprise Method\n\nThe diagnostic enterprise method is a management theory whose methods were created based on Frederick Winslow Taylor's principles to develop new ways in which companies can change their internal structure without outside help. Some of the techniques bring the managers the advantage to find opportunity areas in the company to correct them without affecting the enterprise development. This methods can be applied without big costs in money, time and training. This method can be applied to almost any enterprise.\n\nFrederick Winslow Taylor is considered the father of scientific management. Taylor evolved from a simple floor worker to be the boss in a former company. He considered that the management techniques would determine the best way to divide the tasks inside an enterprise. The methods developed by Taylor began with experiments counting the time it takes for a machine to produce an object. He thought that this method could be applied to every worker in the enterprise. This method came when the economy and the efficiency of the enterprise was below the standards.\n\nTaylor established four principles to increase efficiency at the workplace. Although these principles were established a long time ago they are still used to resolve efficiency problems. The First principle is to analyze the way in which every worker does the task given. With all the information united, build a new improved plan of activities. This principle is based in the study of time-cost and time of delivery. The second principle consists in making a new method and give it as a written rule to be a standard for working. If the method is written down and given to the workers they can learn it and apply it in their work area. The third principle is that according to needs, chose the best workers that have the abilities and that can be trained to follow the standard rules. When a worker has the knowledge he can do his tasks better and achieve the goals asked. Fourth principle is to create a common goal between the workers and make a pay system to reward the ones above the common goal. With this principle the employees would work with more efficiency and do it with auto satisfaction. From these principles we deduce that every place in the enterprise costs money, so it is necessary to complete the labor analysis technique.\nAlthough the Frederick Taylor's original technique is still used, other methods' variations have been developed from it. These methods are also effective. Each one has a different process, but the main goal is to get the objectives. By knowing the different types of methods, people can use it as a strategic plan that will give an extra value against the competition.\n\nThe labor analysis came from the prior techniques of Frederick Taylor.The main difference is that this technique is focus on how a job position is developed in order to work with precise instructions. This diagnostic implies the actions to direct and correct the enterprise that is guided. As managers, they should identify and understand their workers to improve their abilities inside the enterprise. For a better knowledge of the problem the worker should know the main reason of his position and how to develop it in the company. The manager should establish each role of the company. In this way the relationship between the workers is promoted. The elements of the labor analysis are: First is the definition of position. In this step is named the actual position where is located in the enterprise. Who are the immediate bosses? Is another boss in the area? Are there any external people working? Second step is the general description that consists in five words describe the work done in the position. Third step is specific description. In this part the obligations and their daily activities are described. Sometimes the eventual and periodical activities need to be specified. The fourth step are objectives. The main objectives need to be quantified. An objective should follow the next conditions: An infinitive verb plus a percentage of main goals, with a specific date and the operations costs.\n\nThis method was developed by the Harvard Business School were is used in the Management Business Academy course based on the Frederick Taylor principles. The case presented is longer than the MIT method, but also presents the important facts of the problem like the Short Facts Method that is more simple. It is considered a classic method because it is the most used by enterprises. The enterprises use this method by creating their own case with the information of their company so every employee can understand the problems that the company has so everyone can help to find the solutions. That is why enterprises need to create the conditions needed for automotivation in order to have better results from their employees. The Harvard Business School students use this case in order to understand the problems that they can find outside the school in their real job, so they read and analyze different cases to be prepared in the business world. Each student need to take the initiative to search for more information that can be helpful to do the analysis. It has been proven that this method help the students to learn with automotivation.\n\nThe Harvard Case Method consist in four steps in which is apply the information the case present. The first step is fact analysis where the employees and managers that are analyzing the case writes the facts presented on the case without opinions. The second step is problem diagostic in which is described the problems that are presented on the case starting with the most important to solve. The third step is analysis of possible solutions where the possibility of each solution is seen as the way that can if it really can help to solve the problem. Finally, the fourth step consists in choosing one of the options presented on the step three that best solves the case. This method promote the search of answers inside the person not on the external facts. The main reason is that there is no solution or correct answers so there is an opportunity to learn from others.With the exposure of possible solutions in group you can learn with and from all the group, that is why it is effective, because the social learning effect.\nThis method is mostly applied by managers and supervisors based on Frederick Taylor method. The short facts method begins with a case no longer than four paragraphs in which a simple problem is described. Later on, the case is analyzed by the group of employees and managers of the enterprise. Then after finding the main facts, the group starts a discussion to find the possible solutions. At the end with a brainstorm they choose the best solution that can be apply to their own company. The main reason to use this method is because with the case based on the company all the employees and managers can have more ideas to find a solution to the problem that is reflected on the case and the employees can learn more about how to change their own company.\n\nThe MIT method is influenced by the Harvard Method but improved for the engineers to apply it in the enterprise is also another option for engineers to diagnose their enterprise without needing a business advisor. The engineers who might be on the group need an individual reading and research about the case given after the group session. Also for the session, they need to already do an analysis and a possible solution to compare it with the group. On each session the engineers will be guided by an instructor. All the engineers ask questions to the instructor to have more information about the case solution. At the end before the session is over the instructor tell the group what solution was near the correct answer and finally he gives the correct solution. In some cases the group decides what is the best solution according to all the proposals given in the session. Even though this method need more preparation, it is a good opportunity to improve the engineers' individual abilities.\n\nThe strategic analysis method is based on the elements or subsystems. This technique is based on prior methods of Frederick Taylor. These subsystems are related to the entire enterprise plan, so if one is changed in modification all the enterprise. This method is divided in four steps. First step is the mission determination in which the managers decide what they want as an enterprise, to be accomplished, what is the main purpose of the company. In this step is also include the principles that will guide the enterprise. The second step is environmental assessment. It is divided in external, determining threats and opportunities, and internal, determining strengths and weaknesses. The third step is objective setting where you create specific goals to the enterprise that can be measurable, achievable, time specific and documented. Finally the fourth step is strategy setting is when the managers create a strategy plan based on the steps before that creates the balance in the company.\n\nThe above methods are primarily used in the United States. However, these methods are also applied in other countries such as Mexico and India. These countries were chosen because they are good examples of developed countries with high expectations in the future. In the case of México, there can be found more influences of the United States because they use the Harvard Case Method. What it is really interesting is that even though they applied the same method the improving impact is bigger in México than in the United States. While in India being the youngest country in the world brings a good opportunity to understand their business and how to enter from other parts of the world.\n\nFor Mexico, the method used to diagnostic an enterprise is the case method. This method allows each person in the group to give ideas and possible solutions to the problem established. In Mexico people tend to be afraid of business and they need everyone’s opinion before they feel secure and close a business. But each participant gives his conclusions according to the knowledge he has and the experiences. In this method teamwork is very important. Everyone should collaborate in the conclusion and bring new ideas, even if they are out of this world. For PYMES, the government has created a web page in which the owners can search for useful information about small businesses.\n\nIndia is a developing country has been growing in the business part. India exports increased from $13,586 million US dollars in August 2009, to $16,644 million US dollars in August 2010. Small and medium enterprises (SME) had become one of the strongest points in the economy. The SME is an alternative for the entrepreneur people that have the management abilities and an entrepreneur vision. People following these ideas are creating small enterprises that satisfy a necessity between the consumers and that they are capable of filling. When this enterprises have problems they could use the same method showed here to diagnose the problem and solve it.\n\nBy using cases and using the management skills we could develop more skills for helping enterprises. For example, in India, two graduate students began their SME with an IT program in 1998. They started as consultants and then developed their IT enterprise as a web product company. Their strategy was to build a global internet business that could allow people to buy services rather than physical products. By this time the internet was not as common as it is right not. It was monopolized by BSNL, but they were not stopped by the government because soon after it broke down. Without any assessment or business diagnostic enterprise method they would not continue in the market.\n"}
{"id": "10141539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10141539", "title": "Diamond model", "text": "Diamond model\n\nStrategic analysis typically focuses on two views of organization: the industry-view and the resource-based view (RBV). These views analyse the organisation without taking into consideration relationship between the organizations strategic choice (i.e. Porter generic strategies) and institutional frameworks.\" The National Diamond\"' is a tool for analyzing the organization's task environment. The National Diamond highlights that strategic choices should not only be a function of industry structure and a firm's resources, it should also be a function of the constraints of the institutional framework. Institutional analysis (such as the National Diamond) becomes increasingly important as firms enter new operating environments and operate within new institutional frameworks.\n\nMichael Porter's National Diamond framework resulted from a study of patterns of comparative advantage among industrialized nations. It works to integrate much of Porter's previous work in his competitive five forces theory, his value chain framework as well as his theory of competitive advantage into a consolidated framework that looks at the sources of competitive advantage sourcable from the national context. It can be used both to analyze a firm's ability to function in a national market, as well as analyse a national market's ability to compete in an international market.\n\nIt recognizes four pillars of research (factor conditions, demand conditions, related and supporting industries, firm structure, strategy and rivalry) that one must undertake in analysing the viability of a nation competing in a particular international market, but it also can be used as a comparative analysis tool in recognising which country a particular firm is suited to expanding into.\n\nTwo of the aforementioned pillars focus on the (national) macroeconomics environment to determine if the demand is present along with the factors needed for production (i.e. both extreme ends of the value chain). Another pillar focuses on the specific relationships supporting industries have with the particular firm/nation/industry being studied. The last pillar it looks at the firm's strategic response (microeconomics) i.e. its strategy, taking into account the industry structure and rivalry (see five forces). In this way it tries to highlight areas of competitive advantage as well as competitive weakness, by looking at a companies/nations suitability to the particular conditions of a particular market.\n\nThe six different components of the framework are:\nFactor endowment can be categorized into two forms:\n\nFor example, in analyzing Hollywood's preeminence in film production, Porter has pointed out the local concentration of skilled labor, including the different schools of film (UCLA & USC) in the area. Also, resource constraints may encourage development of substitute capabilities; Japan's relative lack of raw materials has spurred miniaturization and zero-defect manufacturing.\n\nFor many firms, the presence of related and supporting industries is of critical importance to the growth of that particular industry. A critical concept here is that national competitive strengths tend to be associated with \"clusters\" of industries. For example, Silicon Valley in the USA and Silicon Glen in the UK are techno clusters of high-technology industries which includes individual computer software and semi-conductor firms. In Germany, a similar cluster exists around chemicals, synthetic dyes, textiles and textile machinery.\n\nDemand conditions in the domestic market provide the primary driver of growth, innovation and quality improvement. The premise is that a strong domestic market stimulates the firm from being a startup to a slightly expanded and bigger organization. As an illustration, we can take the case of Germany which has some of the world's premier automobile companies like Mercedes, BMW, Porsche. German auto companies have dominated the world when it comes to the high-performance segment of the world automobile industry. However, their position in the market of cheaper, mass-produced autos is much weaker. This can be linked to a domestic market which has traditionally demanded a high level of engineering performance. Also, the transport infrastructure of Germany, with its Autobahns does tend to favor high-performance automobiles.\n\nNational performance in particular sectors is inevitably related to the strategies and the structure of the firms in that sector. Competition plays a big role in driving innovation and the subsequent upgradation of competitive advantage. Since domestic competition is more direct and impacts earlier than steps taken by foreign competitors, the stimulus provided by them is higher in terms of innovation and efficiency. As an example, the Japanese automobile industry with 8 major competitors (Honda, Toyota, Suzuki, Isuzu, Nissan, Mazda, Mitsubishi, and Subaru) provide intense competition in the domestic market, as well as the foreign markets in which they compete.\n\nThe role of government in Porter's Diamond Model is \"acting as a catalyst and challenger; it is to encourage - or even push - companies to raise their aspirations and move to higher levels of competitive performance …\" . They must encourage companies to raise their performance, stimulate early demand for advanced products, focus on specialized factor creation and to stimulate local rivalry by limiting direct cooperation and enforcing anti-trust regulations.\n\nThe role of chance basically denotes the idea that it may occur that many times a product or an enterprise may get an opportunity to maximize its benefits out of sheer luck. Thus chance if received plays a key role in determining the fate of the product as well.\n\nCriticism on Porter's national diamond model revolve around a number of assumptions that underlie it. As described by Davies and Ellis: \nPorter generalized from the North American, European and Japanese experiences; for countries developing in the presence of these now developed regions of the world, the model may need to be re-examined.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29869732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29869732", "title": "Director (business)", "text": "Director (business)\n\nA director is a person from a group of managers who leads or supervises a particular area of a company. Companies that use this term often have many directors spread throughout different business functions or roles (e.g. director of human resources). The director usually reports directly to a vice president or to the CEO directly in order to let them know the progress of the organization. Large organizations also sometimes have assistant directors or deputy directors. \"Director\" commonly refers to the lowest level of executive in an organization, but many large companies use the title of \"associate director\" more frequently. Some companies also have regional directors and area directors. Regional directors are present in companies that are organized by location and have their departments under that. They are responsible for the operations for their particular country. Though directors are the first stage in the executive team, area directors are seen as higher up, based on their area of control.\n\nCorporate titles (commonly known as business titles) are titles given to individuals within a business depending on the role they have and which also portray the duties and responsibilities within that specific role. The larger the business, the more titles that are present, such as CEO, COO and executive directors.\n\nThose that have higher roles within a company such as the elite positions are often referred to as \"chief\" and those that have lower roles within the company are employees that simply carry out day-to-day tasks. There are many titles within a company such as executive director, managing director, company director and chairman.\n\nThe corporate structure consists of four key areas:\n\nDepending upon the size of an organization or a company, the number of directors can vary. Start-up companies can have a single director, which is the minimum for a private limited company according to the law. However, as organizations and businesses expand, the number of directors can increase because more tasks and responsibilities become present. For example, if the company expands and has more than one department, such as finance, sales, marketing, production and IT, then the business may form a board of directors, with each director overseeing a department and maintaining full responsibility within that department.\n\nA board of directors ensures that a clearly outlined structure is in place which will help the business to work much more efficiently.\n\nLarger businesses and organizations will form a clear board structure as the following:\n\nChairman - This particular role within the company is often a non executive role that also has the task of overseeing the entire business or organization.\n\nManaging Director - A managing director is employed by the business, often by the chairman. Other roles include running the business and producing salaries. The managing director manages the board of directors and oversees the performance of the business, thus reporting back to the chairman.\n\nExecutive Directors - A group of executive directors who each play a significant role within the company. They maintain full responsibility over their respective departments such as Finance, Marketing and Sales. Each director manages their department ensuring that tasks and objectives are being met. Executive directors also sit on the board.\n\nNon-executive directors - These advise the business by proposing different forms of strategy and also decide remuneration of the executive directors.\n\nHaving a clear structure within the business has a positive impact on the employees and it also helps to organize the business. By having a team of executive directors, employees can report to their executive directors if a problem or an issue occurs.\n\nA managing director oversees the performance of the company as a whole and then has the duty to report back to the chairman or board of directors. The chairman or board of directors may set daily and weekly targets, which should be met by the employees that are working within their respective departments. The managing director also has the role to report their progress so the board can evaluate it to see if targets have been achieved.\n\n\nAn executive director within a company or an organization is usually from the board of directors and oversees a specific department within the organization such as Marketing, Finance, Production and IT. The Executive Director must ensure that all employees within his/her department are achieving the objectives which have been set and must also make daily decisions within the department.\n\n\nA company director is one of the employees within a group of managers who maintains a prolific role within an organization and usually has the higher role within an organization. This is mainly because they decide on how to control the business and also make the final and key decisions.\n\nThe company director(s) is mainly responsible for: \n\nA finance director oversees and maintains full responsibility of the business's finance department. He/she is also responsible in ensuring that the chief executive and the board receive the flow of the financial information. Other responsibilities include producing annual accounts, maintaining control of complete transactions, setting out financial targets and budgets for the business and also managing the companies policies. The finance director must also report to the managing director.\n\n"}
{"id": "54450987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54450987", "title": "Disagree and commit", "text": "Disagree and commit\n\nDisagree and commit is a management principle which states that individuals are allowed to disagree while a decision is being made, but that once a decision has been made, everybody must commit to it. The principle can also be understood as a statement about \"when\" it is useful to have conflict and disagreement, with the principle saying disagreement is useful in early states of decision-making while harmful after a decision has been made. Disagree and commit is a method of avoiding the consensus trap, in which the lack of consensus leads to inaction.\n\nScott McNealy used the phrase as early as sometime between 1983 and 1991, as part of the line \"Agree and commit, disagree and commit, or get out of the way\".\n\nThe concept has also been attributed to Andrew Grove at Intel.\n\nAmazon added \"Have a Backbone; Disagree and Commit\" as one of its leadership principles sometime in 2010–2011. Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos mentioned the term in his \"2016 Letter to Shareholders\".\n\n\nNoted difficulties of applying \"disagree and commit\" are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2448327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2448327", "title": "Distribution deal", "text": "Distribution deal\n\nA distribution deal (aka distribution contract or distribution agreement) is a legal agreement between one party and another, to handle distribution of a product.\n\nThere are various forms of distribution deals. There are exclusive and non-exclusive distribution agreements. In an exclusive distribution agreement, there is only one distributor or distribution agent. The distributor is excluded from having any other distributors. Thus the product supplier is limited to the performance of that distributor. If the distributor does not sell product, then no project will be sold. Thus the law implies some degree of effort into these distribution agreements. Thus regardless what the distribution agreement says, the law will find it is breached if the distributor does not actually try to distribute the products. Likewise distribution agreements should have explicit terms on point. This problem arises when distributors distribute several products and/or have other businesses. \n\nIn a non-exclusive distribution agreement, the supplier may use other distributors, mitigating the above concern. However, at the other end of the spectrum, the supplier may have several distributors, and this may amount to a glut of them in the market, such that distributors have difficulty due to fierce competition on price and terms.\n\nDistribution agreements are frequently broken up in terms of countries, such that a set of supply companies in one market/country, possibly supply companies in related fields like sports equipment, share a distribution agent in another market/country. This keeps costs down, allowing the distributor to use economies of scale.\n\nAnother issue that arises is when either the quality of the supplier or distributor substantially deteriorate. If the counterpart supplier/distributor is excessively tied to them, they may suffer as the supplier/distributor's quality/service deteriorates. All of this should be considered when entering distribution deals.\n\n"}
{"id": "15124552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15124552", "title": "Duvet day", "text": "Duvet day\n\nA duvet day is a formal allowance of time off given by some employers, most commonly in the United Kingdom and United States. It differs from holiday allowance in that no prior notice is needed. Employees receive an allocation of days where if they do not want to go to work for any reason they can use a duvet day. The name is a reference to the item of bedding.\n\nDuvet days were originally given to employees by UK company August One Communications in 1997, and the idea has grown in popularity as some companies aim to address the changing work-life climate where people work longer hours. It can be stipulated formally in a contract of employment and is considered part of the remunerations package along with holiday allowance. The term has also since become used by people to reference taking a day off work for no normally accepted reason (such as mild sickness, grievance or holiday) even if they have no official duvet day entitlement with their employer.\n\nIn the Indian subcontinent, this is historically called a casual leave. Employees usually are sanctioned a fixed number of days off (usually 12 per year for government and 8-12 for private employees). These days can be taken with or without planning. Since these leave days could not be accumulated or carried over into the next year, they would expire at the year end. This created a tendency to utilize all the left over casual leave in November and December. The Indian casual leave has been around for more than 50 years.\n"}
{"id": "733886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=733886", "title": "Emotional labor", "text": "Emotional labor\n\nEmotional labor is the process of managing feelings and expressions to fulfill the emotional requirements of a job. More specifically, workers are expected to regulate their emotions during interactions with customers, co-workers and superiors. This includes analysis and decision making in terms of the expression of emotion, whether actually felt or not, as well as its opposite: the suppression of emotions that are felt but not expressed.\n\nRoles that have been identified as requiring emotional labor include but are not limited to Mother/Wife, those involved in public administration (especially the palace intrigues of a ruling body, these being an eternal literary theme), guarded professions of secrecy (such as espionage, national security, military intelligence, psychiatry, clerisy, and law), flight attendant, daycare worker, nursing home worker, nurse, doctor, store clerk, call center worker, teacher, librarian, social worker; most roles in a hotel, motel, tavern, bar, pub, and restaurant; and jobs in the media, such as television and radio. As particular economies move from a manufacturing- to a service-based economy, more workers in a variety of occupational fields are expected to manage their emotions according to employer demands when compared to sixty years ago.\n\nThe sociologist Arlie Hochschild provides the first definition of emotional labor, which is a form of emotion regulation that creates a publicly visible facial and bodily display within the workplace. The related term emotion work (also called \"emotion management\") refers to \"these same acts done in a private context\", such as within the private sphere of one's home or interactions with family and friends. Hochschild identified three emotion regulation strategies: cognitive, bodily, and expressive. Within cognitive emotion work, one attempts to change images, ideas, or thoughts in hopes of changing the feelings associated with them. For example, one may associate a family picture with feeling happy and think about said picture whenever attempting to feel happy. Within bodily emotion work, one attempts to change physical symptoms in order to create a desired emotion. For example, one may attempt deep breathing in order to reduce anger. Within expressive emotion work, one attempts to change expressive gestures to change inner feelings. For example, one may attempt to smile when trying to feel happy. One becomes aware of emotion work most often when one's feelings do not fit the situation. For instance, when one does not feel sad at a funeral, one becomes acutely aware of the feelings appropriate for that situation.\n\nWhile emotion work happens within the private sphere, emotional labor is emotion management within the workplace according to employer expectations. According to Hochschild (1983), the emotion management by employers creates a situation in which this emotion management can be exchanged in the marketplace. According to Hochschild (1983), jobs involving emotional labor are defined as those that:\n\n\nHochschild (1983) argues that within this commodification process, service workers are estranged from their own feelings in the workplace.\n\n\nOriginal description of this emotion management process, researchers have focused on surface acting and deep acting as the primary strategies that employees use to regulate their emotions. Surface acting involves a \"faking\" process through which outward expressions are altered, yet internal feelings are left intact (2013). Conversely, deep acting is an effortful process through which employees change their internal feelings to align with organizational expectations, producing more natural and genuine emotional displays (Grandey et al., 2013) (3). Although the underlying regulatory processes involved in each approach differ, the objective of both, is typically to show positive emotions, which are presumed to impact the feelings of customers and bottom-line outcomes (e.g., sales, positive recommendations, and repeat business; Pugh, 2001; Tsai, 2001). However, as previously mentioned, research generally has found surface acting to be more consistently problematic for employee well-being than deep acting (Grandey, 2003; Hülsheger & Schewe, 2011).\n\nIn the past, emotional labor demands and display rules were viewed as a characteristic of particular occupations, such as restaurant workers, cashiers, hospital workers, bill collectors, counselors, secretaries, and nurses. However, display rules have been conceptualized not only as role requirements of particular occupational groups, but also as interpersonal job demands, which are shared by many kinds of occupations.\n\nIn 1991, Sutton did an in-depth qualitative study into bill collectors at a collection agency. He found that unlike the other jobs described here where employees need to act cheerful and concerned, bill collectors are selected and socialized to show irritation to most debtors. Specifically, the collection agency hired agents who seemed to be easily aroused. The newly hired agents were then trained on when and how to show varying emotions to different types of debtors. As they worked at the collection agency, they were closely monitored by their supervisors to make sure that they frequently conveyed urgency to debtors.\n\nBill collectors' emotional labor consists of not letting angry and hostile debtors make them angry and to not feel guilty about pressuring friendly debtors for money. They coped with angry debtors by publicly showing their anger or making jokes when they got off the phone. They minimized the guilt they felt by staying emotionally detached from the debtors.\n\nIn her 1991 study of waitresses in Philadelphia, Paules examines how these workers assert control and protect their self identity during interactions with customers. In restaurant work, Paules argues, workers' subordination to customers is reinforced through \"cultural symbols that originate from deeply rooted assumptions about service work.\" Because the waitresses were not strictly regulated by their employers, waitresses' interactions with customers were controlled by the waitresses themselves. Although they are stigmatized by the stereotypes and assumptions of servitude surrounding restaurant work, the waitresses studied were not negatively affected by their interactions with customers. To the contrary, they viewed their ability to manage their emotions as a valuable skill that could be used to gain control over customers. Thus, the Philadelphia waitresses took advantage of the lack of employer-regulated emotional labor in order to avoid the potentially negative consequences of emotional labor.\n\nThough Paules highlights the positive consequences of emotional labor for a specific population of waitresses, other scholars have also found negative consequences of emotional labor within the waitressing industry. Through eighteen months of participant observation research, Bayard De Volo (2003) found that casino waitresses are highly monitored and monetarily bribed to perform emotional labor in the workplace. Specifically, Bayard De Volo (2003) argues that through a sexualized environment and a generous tipping system, both casino owners and customers control waitresses' behavior and appearance for their own benefit and pleasure. Even though the waitresses have their own forms of individual and collective resistance mechanisms, intense and consistent monitoring of their actions by casino management makes it difficult to change the power dynamics of the casino workplace.\n\nBy using participant observation and interviews, Leidner (1993) examines how employers in fast food restaurants regulate workers' interactions with customers. According to Leidner (1993), employers attempt to regulate workers' interactions with customers only under certain conditions. Specifically, when employers attempt to regulate worker-customer interactions, employers believe that \"the quality of the interaction is important to the success of the enterprise\", that workers are \"unable or unwilling to conduct the interactions appropriately on their own\", and that the \"tasks themselves are not too complex or context-dependent.\" According to Leidner (1993), regulating employee interactions with customers involves standardizing workers' personal interactions with customers. At the McDonald's fast food restaurants in Leidner's (1993) study, these interactions are strictly scripted, and workers' compliance with the scripts and regulations are closely monitored.\n\nAlong with examining employers' attempts to regulate employee-customer interactions, Leidner (1993) examines how fast-food workers' respond to these regulations. According to Leidner (1993), meeting employers' expectations requires workers to engage in some form of emotional labor. For example, McDonald's workers are expected to greet customers with a smile and friendly attitude independent of their own mood or temperament at the time. Leidner (1993) suggests that rigid compliance with these expectations is at least potentially damaging to workers' sense of self and identity. However, Leidner (1993) did not see the negative consequences of emotional labor in the workers she studied. Instead, McDonald's workers attempted to individualize their responses to customers in small ways. Specifically, they used humor or exaggeration to demonstrate their rebellion against the strict regulation of their employee-customer interactions.\n\nAccording to Larson and Yao (2005), empathy should characterize physicians' interactions with their patients because, despite advancement in medical technology, the interpersonal relationship between physicians and patients remains essential to quality healthcare. Larson and Yao (2005) argue that physicians consider empathy a form of emotional labor. Specifically, according to Larson and Yao (2005), physicians engage in emotional labor through deep acting by feeling sincere empathy before, during, and after interactions with patients. On the other hand, Larson and Yao (2005) argue that physicians engage in surface acting when they fake empathic behaviors toward the patient. Although Larson and Yao (2005) argue that deep acting is preferred, physicians may rely on surface acting when sincere empathy for patients is impossible. Overall, Larson and Yao (2005) argue that physicians are more effective and enjoy more professional satisfaction when they engage in empathy through deep acting due to emotional labor.\n\nAccording to Martin (1999), police work involves substantial amounts of emotional labor by officers, who must control their own facial and bodily displays of emotion in the presence of other officers and citizens. Although policing is often viewed as stereotypically masculine work that focuses on fighting crime, policing also requires officers to maintain order and provide a variety of interpersonal services. For example, police must have a commanding presence that allows them to act decisively and maintain control in unpredictable situations while having the ability to actively listen and talk to citizens. According to Martin (1999), a police officer who displays too much anger, sympathy, or other emotion while dealing with danger on the job will be viewed by other officers as someone unable to withstand the pressures of police work, due to the sexist views of many police officers. While being able to balance this self-management of emotions in front of other officers, police must also assertively restore order and use effective interpersonal skills to gain citizen trust and compliance. Ultimately, the ability of police officers to effectively engage in emotional labor affects how other officers and citizens view them.\n\nMany scholars argue that the amount of emotional work required between all levels of government is greatest on the local level. It is at the level of cities and counties that the responsibility lies for day to day emergency preparedness, firefighters, law enforcement, public education, public health, and family and children's services. Citizens in a community expect the same level of satisfaction from their government, as they receive in a customer service-oriented job. This takes a considerate amount of work for both employees and employers in the field of public administration. There are two comparisons that represent emotional labor within public administration, \"Rational Work versus Emotion Work\", and \"Emotional Labor versus Emotional Intelligence.\"\n\nWhen public administrators perform emotional labor, many scholars argue administrators are dealing with significantly more sensitive situations than employees in the service industry. The reason for this is because they are on the front lines of the government, and are expected to by citizens to serve them quickly and efficiently. When confronted by a citizen or a co-worker public administrators use emotional sensing to size up the emotional state of the citizen in need. Workers then take stock of their own emotional state in order to make sure that the emotion they are expressing is appropriate to their roles. Simultaneously, they have to determine how to act in order to elicit the desired response from the citizen as well as from co-workers. Public Administrators perform emotional labor through five different strategies: Psychological First Aid, Compartments and Closets, Crazy Calm, Humor, and Common Sense.\n\nAccording to Mary Guy, Public administration does not only focus on the business side of administration but also on the personal side as well. It is not just about collecting the water bill or land ordinances to construct a new property, it is also about the quality of life and sense of community that is allotted to individuals by their city officials. Rational work is the ability to think cognitively and analytically, while emotional work means to think more practically and with more reason.\n\nKnowing how to suppress and manage one's own feelings is known as emotional intelligence, the ability to control one's emotions and to be able to do this at a high level guarantees one's own ability to serve those in need. Emotional intelligence is performed while performing emotional labor, and without one the other can not be there.\n\nMacdonald and Sirianni (1996) use the term \"emotional proletariat\" to describe service jobs in which \"workers exercise emotional labor wherein they are required to display friendliness and deference to customers.\" Because of deference, these occupations tend to be stereotyped as female jobs, independent of the actual number of women working the job. According to Macdonald and Sirianni (1996), because deference is a characteristic demanded of all those in disadvantaged structural positions, especially women, when deference is made a job requirement, women are likely to be overrepresented in these jobs. Macdonald and Sirianni (1996) claim that \"[i]n no other area of wage labor are the personal characteristics of the workers so strongly associated with the nature of the work.\" Thus, according to Macdonald and Sirianna (1996), although all workers employed within the service economy may have a difficult time maintaining their dignity and self-identity due to the demands of emotional labor, such an issue may be especially problematic for women workers.\n\nEmotional labor also affects women by perpetuating occupational segregation and the gender wage gap. Job segregation, which is the systematic tendency for men and women to work in different occupations, is often cited as the reason why women lack equal pay when compared to men. According to Guy and Newman (2004), occupational segregation and ultimately the gender wage gap can at least be partially attributed to emotional labor. Specifically, work-related tasks that require emotional work thought to be natural for women, such as caring and empathizing are requirements of many female-dominated occupations. However, according to Guy and Newman (2004), these feminized work tasks are not a part of formal job descriptions and performance evaluations: \"Excluded from job descriptions and performance evaluations, the work is invisible and uncompensated. Public service relies heavily on such skills, yet civil service systems, which are designed on the assumptions of a bygone era, fail to acknowledge and compensate emotional labor.\" According to Guy and Newman (2004), women working in positions that require emotion labour in addition to regular work are not compensated for this additional labour because of the sexist notion that the additional labour is to be expected of them by the fact of being a woman. This suggests that Guy and Newman believe a man conducting emotional labour would be compensated more than a woman would, however, if women are inproportionately hired for positions requiring emotional work, that does not immediately explain a wage gap comparable to men.\n\nPositive affective display in service interactions, such as smiling and conveying friendliness, are positively associated with customer positive feelings, and important outcomes, such as intention to return, intention to recommend a store to others, and perception of overall service quality. There is evidence that emotional labor may lead to employees' emotional exhaustion and burnout over time, and may also reduce employees' job satisfaction. That is, higher degree of using emotion regulation on the job is related to higher levels of employees' emotional exhaustion, and lower levels of employees' job satisfaction.\n\nThere is empirical evidence that higher levels of emotional labor demands are not uniformly rewarded with higher wages. Rather, the reward is dependent on the level of general cognitive demands required by the job. That is, occupations with high cognitive demands evidence wage returns with increasing emotional labor demands; whereas occupations low in cognitive demands evidence a wage \"penalty\" with increasing emotional labor demands.\n\nCoping occurs in response to psychological stress—usually triggered by changes—in an effort to maintain mental health and emotional well-being. Life stressors are often described as negative events (loss of a job). However, positive changes in life (a new job) can also constitute life stressors, thus requiring the use of coping skills to adapt. Coping strategies are the behaviors, thoughts, and emotions that you use to adjust to the changes that occur in your life. The use of coping skills will help a person better themselves in the work place and perform to the best of their ability to achieve success. There are many ways to cope and adapt to changes. Some ways include: sharing emotions with peers, having a healthy social life outside of work, being humorous, and adjusting expectations of self and work. These coping skills will help turn negative emotion to positive and allow for more focus on the public in contrast to oneself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26393818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26393818", "title": "European Parliament of Enterprises", "text": "European Parliament of Enterprises\n\nThe European Parliament of Enterprises (EPE) is an event for European corporations, organized by Eurochambres, the Association of European Chambers of Commerce and Industry, once every two years. The first edition of the event was launched on 14 October 2008 on the occasion of Eurochambres' fiftieth anniversary.\n\nThe concept of the European Parliament of Enterprises originated from the consideration, that there is a democratic gap between the European institutions and the main actors of economic growth, entrepreneurs and that, consequently, European legislators do not sufficiently take into account entrepreneurs' concerns. \nOn the other hand, businesses are largely unfamiliar with the role and functioning of the European Union and the significance that the institutions’ decisions can have on their activities and results.\n\n751 entrepreneurs, or Members of the European Parliament of Enterprises (MEPEs), gather in the symbolic location of the Hemicycle of the European Parliament. The composition of the EPE reflects the number of Members of the European Parliament per member state.\n\nThe EPE aims to bring businesses and institutions face-to-face for one day so as to enhance mutual understanding. The EPE represents a unique opportunity for businesses to have a direct debate with high European representatives and to provide them with a direct bottom-up feedback on EU policy related issues.\n\nDuring the EPE, Members of the European Parliament of Enterprises exercise their voting rights on major EU business-related issues.\nThe results of the votes are presented by Eurochambres to the relevant political interlocutors from all of the EU institutions as \"the voice of European businesses”.\nThe \"European Parliament of Enterprises” is organised with the active cooperation of Eurochambres' members, the national associations of Chambers of Commerce & Industry.\n\nOn one of the resolution adopted by the EPE related to the European patent system - Europolitics (25/03/2009) .\nFrench Presidency of the Council of the EU (14/10/2008) - The first European Parliament of Enterprises .\n\n"}
{"id": "13467968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13467968", "title": "Facilitating payment", "text": "Facilitating payment\n\nA facilitating payment is a certain type of payment to foreign officials that is not considered to be bribery according to legislations of some states as well as in the international anti-bribery conventions, e.g., coming from the OECD.\n\nFor legal purposes, it is distinguished from bribery, however the distinction is often blurred. Determining whether a payment is a facilitating one may be difficult and depend on the circumstances. The value of the payment is not immediately relevant, however the greater the value, the higher are chances that it will be a red flag for law enforcement. Small unofficial payments are customary and even legal in some countries, nevertheless they may present a risk of liability according to the laws of the host country. There also exists a slippery slope danger of evolving into dubious payments.\n\nWhile being legal, facilitating payments are still considered to be questionable from the point of view of business ethics. The following arguments have been made:\n\nMany companies therefore restrict or severely limit making facilitating payments in their policies, however this practice is not yet widespread. For example, , in Australia, among the S&P ASX 100 only 24 companies control facilitating payments and only 15 are reported to prohibit them.\n\nOECD defines a payment to be a facilitating one if it is paid to government employees to speed up an administrative process where the outcome is already pre-determined.\n\n, the Australian law has discrepancies as to the definition of the facilitating payment.\n\nThe Criminal Code defines a facilitating payment to be a payment which is \n\nThe Income Tax Assessment Act as amended in 1999 permit companies claim facilitation payments as deductions (before 1999 bribes were also valid deductions), but its definition does not refer to the size of the payment.\n\nMany Australian states override the federal legislation and define facilitating payments as illegal.\n\nIn Russia this phrase (in English) means payment to a bureaucrat when he does off-job extra work for a private entity by helping deal with his ministry. It is generally unclear whether it has a part of corruption in it. It was generally considered legal, until economy minister Ulyukaev received 8 years jail for it. After this case, Russian bureaucrats are reported to heavily refrain from this practice.\n\n, subsequent to the Bribery Act, the United Kingdom does not recognize the legality of facilitating payments and does not draw any distinction from bribes. However the OECD notes that the UK is unlikely to prosecute for minor facilitating payments in the areas where it is a common practice. The Ministry of Justice guidance, however, confirms that prosecutors will exercise discretion in determining whether to prosecute. In addition, informal guidance received from the SFO indicate that where it is considering action, it will be guided by the following six principles:\n\nWithin the United States federal legislation, a facilitating payment or \"grease payment\", as defined by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) of 1977 and clarified in its 1988 amendments, is a payment to a foreign official, political party or party official for \"routine governmental action\", such as processing papers, issuing permits, and other actions of an official, in order to expedite performance of duties of non-discretionary nature, i.e., which they are already bound to perform. The payment is not intended to influence the outcome of the official's action, only its timing. Facilitation payments are one of the few exceptions from anti-bribery prohibitions of the law.\n\nPrior to the 1988 amendments, the exclusion of \"grease payments\" was via the definition of the \"foreign official\", which did not include persons without discretionary (decision-making) duties, e.g., ones with clerical functions. The major drawback of this approach is that often it is difficult to properly identify the scope of duties of a foreign official. The 1988 amendment eliminated this drawback by placing the emphasis on the purpose of the payment rather than on the duties of the recipient. At the same time the scope of the \"routine governmental actions\" in question was made sufficiently narrow and supplied with detailed examples.\n"}
{"id": "4749743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4749743", "title": "Foreign ownership", "text": "Foreign ownership\n\nForeign ownership or control of a business or natural resource in a country by individuals who are not citizens of that country or by companies whose headquarters outside that country.\n\nIn general, foreign ownership occurs when multinational corporations, which do business in more than one country, inject long-term investments in a foreign country, usually in the form of foreign direct investment or acquisition.\n\nIf a multinational corporation acquires at least half of a company, the multinational corporation becomes a holding company, and the company receiving the foreign investment becomes a subsidiary. Also, foreign ownership can occur when a domestic property is acquired by a foreign individual. An example is an Indian businessman buying a house in Hong Kong.\n\nAccording to the US Department of Defense, the following factors relating to a company, the foreign interest, and the government of the foreign interest are reviewed in the aggregate in determining whether a company is under foreign ownership, control, or Influence:\n\n\n\nThe House of Representatives of Indonesia passed the plantation bill to set stricter rules on foreign ownership in the plantation sector to prioritise smaller local plantation firms. There is no specific percentage value on the limit on foreign ownership, but a 30% foreign ownership ceiling had been demanded by the House's Commission IV.\n\nPlantation business groups as well as the Ministry of Agriculture had previously voiced criticism of the bill, expressing concern that it would negatively impact plantation firms and growers, as foreign investment might be reduced.\n\nEven though the bill was passed to limit foreign ownership, the law encourages cooperation research and development between domestic and foreign businesses, universities and individuals.\n\nA reduction in foreign ownership limit may reduce foreign investment, but it can help boost revenue for domestic firms and economic development.\n\nAs part of financial reforms, Qatar's emir has issued a law, allowing foreign investors to obtain up to 49% of listed Qatari companies for expansion in the stock market and to stimulate development in the financial industry.\n\nPrior to the law, ceilings on listed Qatari firms restricted foreign ownership to 25%.\n\nThe reform aims to help attract more foreign investment in the long run. However, according to a wealth manager in the Gulf, \"It's a step in the right direction, but it will have to be backed up by good performance from companies in order to attract foreign investment. Also, there should be limited impact from the law in the short term due to liquidity issues and limited numbers of shares available.\"\n\nThe Russian Duma has passed a law, reducing the foreign ownership ceiling for print publications and radio and television outlets from 50% to 20%; it was passed by with a vote of 430-2. The legislation forbids foreign governments, organisations, companies and individuals from founding or holding more than a 20% stake in Russian media businesses.\n\nAccording to Vadim Dengin, one of the bill's authors, \" the tighter limit on foreign ownership would help protect Russia from western influence.\" However, publishers and editors of independent media companies in Russia argued that the new law would further reduce diversity of opinion.\n\n"}
{"id": "25067975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25067975", "title": "GLAM (industry sector)", "text": "GLAM (industry sector)\n\nGLAM is an acronym for \"galleries, libraries, archives, and museums\", and refers to cultural institutions that have access to knowledge as their mission.\n\nVarious versions of the acronym exist, such as LAM, which leaves out galleries, which may be seen as a subset of museums, and may be confused with commercial galleries where art is bought and sold. GLAMR is another variant which includes Records. More generally, GLAMs are institutions in the public interest, collecting cultural heritage materials.\n\nThe term LAM has been in use at least since the 1990s. It emerged as these institutions saw their missions overlapping, creating the need for a wider industry sector grouping. This became apparent as they placed their collections online—artworks, books, documents, and artifacts all effectively becoming \"information resources.\"\n\nProponents of greater collaboration argue that the present convergence is actually a return to traditional unity. These institutions share epistemological links dating from the “Museum” of Alexandria and continuing through the cabinets of curiosities gathered in early modern Europe. Over time as collections expanded, they became more specialized and their housing was separated according to the form of information and kinds of users. Furthermore, during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries distinct professional societies and educational programs developed for each kind of institution.\n\nAs collecting institutions, GLAMs preserve and make accessible primary sources valuable for researchers. \n\n"}
{"id": "4199619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4199619", "title": "Industrial production index", "text": "Industrial production index\n\nThe Industrial Production Index (IPI) is an economic indicator published by the Federal Reserve Board of the United States that measures the real production output of manufacturing, mining, and utilities. Production indexes are computed mainly as fisher indexes with the weights based on annual estimates of value added. Since Fisher indexes only preserve growth information, the value in the base year (currently 2012) is arbitrarily set at 100. This index, along with other industrial indexes and construction, accounts for the bulk of the variation in national output over the duration of the business cycle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "252173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=252173", "title": "Industrial relations", "text": "Industrial relations\n\nIndustrial relations or employment relations is the multidisciplinary academic field that studies the employment relationship; that is, the complex interrelations between employers and employees, labor/trade unions, employer organizations and the state. \n\nThe newer name, \"employment relations\" is increasingly taking precedence because \"industrial relations\" is often seen to have relatively narrow connotations. Nevertheless, industrial relations has frequently been concerned with employment relationships in the broadest sense, including \"non-industrial\" employment relationships. This is sometimes seen as paralleling a trend in the separate but related disciple of human resource management.\n\nWhile some scholars regard or treat industrial/employment relations as synonymous with employee relations and labour relations, this is controversial, because of the narrower focus of employee/labour relations, i.e. on employees or labour, from the perspective of employers, managers and/or officials. In addition, employee relations is often perceived as dealing only with non-unionized workers, whereas labour relations is seen as dealing with , i.e unionized workers. Some academics, universities and other institutions regard human resource management as synonymous with one or more of the above disciplines, although this too is controversial.\n\nIndustrial relations examines various employment situations, not just ones with a unionized workforce. However, according to Bruce E. Kaufman, \"To a large degree, most scholars regard trade unionism, collective bargaining and labour–management relations, and the national labour policy and labour law within which they are embedded, as the core subjects of the field.\"\n\nInitiated in the United States at end of the 19th century, it took off as a field in conjunction with the New Deal. However, it is generally regarded as a separate field of study only in English-speaking countries, having no direct equivalent in continental Europe. In recent times, industrial relations has been in decline as a field, in correlation with the decline in importance of trade unions and also with the increasing preference of business schools for the human resource management paradigm.\n\nIndustrial relations has three faces: science building, problem solving, and ethical. In the science building phase, industrial relations is part of the social sciences, and it seeks to understand the employment relationship and its institutions through high-quality, rigorous research. In this vein, industrial relations scholarship intersects with scholarship in labour economics, industrial sociology, labour and social history, human resource management, political science, law, and other areas.\n\nIndustrial relations scholarship assumes that labour markets are not perfectly competitive and thus, in contrast to mainstream economic theory, employers typically have greater bargaining power than employees. Industrial relations scholarship also assumes that there are at least some inherent conflicts of interest between employers and employees (for example, higher wages versus higher profits) and thus, in contrast to scholarship in human resource management and organizational behaviour, conflict is seen as a natural part of the employment relationship. Industrial relations scholars therefore frequently study the diverse institutional arrangements that characterize and shape the employment relationship—from norms and power structures on the shop floor, to employee voice mechanisms in the workplace, to collective bargaining arrangements at company, regional, or national level, to various levels of public policy and labour law regimes, to varieties of capitalism (such as corporatism, social democracy, and neoliberalism).\n\nWhen labour markets are seen as imperfect, and when the employment relationship includes conflicts of interest, then one cannot rely on markets or managers to always serve workers' interests, and in extreme cases to prevent worker exploitation. Industrial relations scholars and practitioners, therefore, support institutional interventions to improve the workings of the employment relationship and to protect workers' rights. The nature of these institutional interventions, however, differ between two camps within industrial relations. The pluralist camp sees the employment relationship as a mixture of shared interests and conflicts of interests that are largely limited to the employment relationship. In the workplace, pluralists, therefore, champion grievance procedures, employee voice mechanisms such as works councils and trade unions, collective bargaining, and labour–management partnerships. In the policy arena, pluralists advocate for minimum wage laws, occupational health and safety standards, international labour standards, and other employment and labour laws and public policies. These institutional interventions are all seen as methods for balancing the employment relationship to generate not only economic efficiency but also employee equity and voice. In contrast, the Marxist-inspired critical camp sees employer–employee conflicts of interest as sharply antagonistic and deeply embedded in the socio-political-economic system. From this perspective, the pursuit of a balanced employment relationship gives too much weight to employers' interests, and instead deep-seated structural reforms are needed to change the sharply antagonistic employment relationship that is inherent within capitalism. Militant trade unions are thus frequently supported.\n\nIndustrial relations has its roots in the industrial revolution which created the modern employment relationship by spawning free labour markets and large-scale industrial organizations with thousands of wage workers. As society wrestled with these massive economic and social changes, labour problems arose. Low wages, long working hours, monotonous and dangerous work, and abusive supervisory practices led to high employee turnover, violent strikes, and the threat of social instability. Intellectually, industrial relations was formed at the end of the 19th century as a middle ground between classical economics and Marxism, with Sidney Webb and Beatrice Webb's \"Industrial Democracy\" (1897) being a key intellectual work. Industrial relations thus rejected the classical econ.\n\nInstitutionally, industrial relations was founded by John R. Commons when he created the first academic industrial relations program at the University of Wisconsin in 1920. Another scholarly pioneer in industrial relations and labour research was Robert F. Hoxie. Early financial support for the field came from John D. Rockefeller Jr. who supported progressive labour–management relations in the aftermath of the bloody strike at a Rockefeller-owned coal mine in Colorado. In Britain, another progressive industrialist, Montague Burton, endowed chairs in industrial relations at the universities of Leeds, Cardiff, and Cambridge in 1929–1930.\n\nBeginning in the early 1930s there was a rapid increase in membership of trade unions in the United States, and with that came frequent and sometimes violent labour–management conflict. During the Second World War these were suppressed by the arbitration powers of the National War Labor Board.\n\nHowever, as the Second World War drew to a close and in anticipation of a renewal of labour–management conflict after the war, there was a wave of creations of new academic institutes and degree programs that sought to analyse such conflicts and the role of collective bargaining. The most known of these was the Cornell University School of Industrial and Labor Relations, founded in 1945. But counting various forms, there were over seventy-five others. These included the Yale Labor and Management Center, directed by E. Wight Bakke, which began in 1945. An influential industrial relations scholar in the 1940s and 1950s was Neil W. Chamberlain at Yale and Columbia universities. \n\nIn the 1950s, industrial relations was formalized as a distinct academic discipline with the emergence in the UK of the so-called \"Oxford school\", including , Hugh Clegg, and Alan Fox, Lord William McCarthy, Sir George Bain (all of whom taught at Nuffield College, Oxford), as well as Otto Kahn-Freund (Brasenose College, Oxford).\n\nIndustrial relations was formed with a strong problem-solving orientation that rejected both the classical economists' \"laissez-faire\" solutions to labour problems and the Marxist solution of class revolution. It is this approach that underlies the New Deal legislation in the United States, such as the National Labor Relations Act and the Fair Labor Standards Act.\n\nBy the early 21st century, the academic field of industrial relations was often described as being in crisis. In academia, its traditional positions are threatened on one side by the dominance of mainstream economics and organizational behaviour, and on the other by postmodernism. \n\nIn policy-making circles, the industrial relations emphasis on institutional intervention is trumped by a neoliberal emphasis on the \"laissez-faire\" promotion of free markets. In practice, trade unions are declining and fewer companies have industrial relations functions. The number of academic programs in industrial relations is therefore shrinking, while fields such as human resource management and organizational behaviour grow. The importance of this work, however, is stronger than ever, and the lessons of industrial relations remain vital. The challenge for industrial relations is to re-establish these connections with the broader academic, policy, and business worlds.\n\nIndustrial relations scholars such as Alan Fox have described three major theoretical perspectives or frameworks, that contrast in their understanding and analysis of workplace relations. The three views are generally known as unitarism, pluralism, and the radical or critical school. Each offers a particular perception of workplace relations and will, therefore, interpret such events as workplace conflict, the role of unions and job regulation differently. The perspective of the critical school is sometimes referred to as the \"conflict model\", although this is somewhat ambiguous, as pluralism also tends to see conflict as inherent in workplaces. Radical theories are strongly identified with Marxist theories, although they are not limited to these.\n\nIn pluralism, the organization is perceived as being made up of divergent sub-groups, each with its own legitimate interests and loyalties and with their own set of objectives and leaders. In particular, the two predominant sub-groups in the pluralist perspective are the management and trade unions. The pluralist perspective also supports that conflict is inherent in dealing with industrial relations since different sub-groups have different opinions in the day-to-day operations.\n\nConsequently, the role of management would lean less towards enforcing and controlling and more toward persuasion and coordination. Trade unions are deemed as legitimate representatives of employees, conflict is dealt by collective bargaining and is viewed not necessarily as a bad thing and, if managed, could, in fact, be channeled towards evolution and positive change. It is the opposite of the unitary approach, there are different the group within the environment. Hence, the interest of employers and employee are divergent. The employers want to maximize profit and employees want to enjoy social benefits in the form of increased wages, conducive environment. Therefore, conflict is inevitable and the need for the trade union to protect the interest of both parties. Also, there is dual authority/loyalty in this approach. Therefore, employees are loyal to the management as well as their labour leaders.\n\nIn unitarism, the organization is perceived as an integrated and harmonious whole with the idea of \"one happy family\" in which management and other members of the staff all share a common purpose by emphasizing mutual co-operation. Furthermore, unitarism has a paternalistic approach: it demands loyalty of all employees and is managerial in its emphasis and application. Consequently, trade unions are deemed as unnecessary since the loyalty between employees and organizations are considered mutually exclusive, and there cannot be two sides of industry. Conflict is perceived as the result of poor management.\n\nThis view of industrial relations looks at the nature of the capitalist society, where there is a fundamental division of interest between capital and labour, and sees workplace relations against this background. This perspective sees inequalities of power and economic wealth as having their roots in the nature of the capitalist economic system. Conflict is therefore seen as a natural outcome of capitalism, thus it is inevitable and trade unions are a natural response of workers to their exploitation by capital. Whilst there may be periods of acquiescence, the Marxist view would be that institutions of joint regulation would enhance rather than limit management's position as they presume the continuation of capitalism rather than challenge it.\n"}
{"id": "40412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40412", "title": "License", "text": "License\n\nA license (American English) or licence (British English) is an official permission or permit to do, use, or own something (as well as the document of that permission or permit).\n\nA license can be granted by a party to another party as an element of an agreement between those parties. A shorthand definition of a license is \"an authorization to use licensed material\".\n\nIn particular, a license may be issued by authorities, to allow an activity that would otherwise be forbidden. It may require paying a fee or proving a capability. The requirement may also serve to keep the authorities informed on a type of activity, and to give them the opportunity to set conditions and limitations.\n\nA licensor may grant a license under intellectual property laws to authorize a use (such as copying software or using a (patented) invention) to a licensee, sparing the licensee from a claim of infringement brought by the licensor. A license under intellectual property commonly has several components beyond the grant itself, including a term, territory, renewal provisions, and other limitations deemed vital to the licensor.\n\nTerm: many licenses are valid for a particular length of time. This protects the licensor should the value of the license increase, or market conditions change. It also preserves enforceability by ensuring that no license extends beyond the term of the agreement.\n\nTerritory: a license may stipulate what territory the rights pertain to. For example, a license with a territory limited to \"North America\" (Mexico/United States/Canada) would not permit a licensee any protection from actions for use in Japan.\n\nA shorthand definition of license is \"a promise by the licensor not to sue the licensee\". That means without a license any use or exploitation of intellectual property by a third party would amount to copying or infringement. Such copying would be improper and could, by using the legal system, be stopped if the intellectual property owner wanted to do so.\n\nIntellectual property licensing plays a major role in business, academia and broadcasting. Business practices such as franchising, technology transfer, publication and character merchandising entirely depend on the licensing of intellectual property. Land licensing (proprietary licensing) and IP licensing form sub-branches of law born out of the interplay of general laws of contract and specific principles and statutory laws relating to these respective assets.\n\nMass distributed software is used by individuals on personal computers under license from the developer of that software. Such license is typically included in a more extensive end-user license agreement (EULA) entered into upon the installation of that software on a computer.\nTypically, a license is associated with a unique code, that when approved grants the end user access to the software in question.\n\nUnder a typical end-user license agreement, the user may install the software on a limited number of computers.\n\nThe enforceability of end-user license agreements is sometimes questioned.\n\nA licensor may grant permission to a licensee to conduct activities which would otherwise be within the licensor's patented exclusive rights. Under U.S. patent law, those activities are to make, use, sell, offer for sale, or import a patented product, or to perform a patented process. The term of a patent license may be a \"fixed\" (i.e., specified) term, such as 5 years, or may be for the life of the patent (i.e., until the patent expires). A patent is by its nature limited in territorial scope; it only covers activity within the borders of the country issuing the patent. Accordingly, a patent license does not require a territory provision.\n\nThe consideration provided by the licensee in return for the patent license grant is called a patent royalty payment. In a \"paid-up\" license, the \"lump sum\" royalty payment is a specified monetary amount, typically due shortly after the effective date of the patent (e.g., within 15 business days of the effective date), and no further payments are required. Otherwise, the royalty payment is a \"running royalty,\" typically payable on an annual basis. The annual royalty may be a specified amount (e.g., one million dollars each year), or an amount proportional to the volume of licensed activity conducted by the licensee (e.g., one dollar per unit of licensed product sold by the licensee that year, or one percent of the net sales amount of the licensed products sold by the licensee that year).\n\nA Licensing agreement is an arrangement whereby a licensor grants the right to intangible property to another entity for a specified period, and in return, the licensor receives a royalty fee from the licensee. Intangible property includes patents, inventions, formulas, processes, designs, copyrights, and trademarks.\n\nAdvantages of a Licensing Agreement: \n\nDisadvantages of a Licensing Agreement\n\nA licensor may grant permission to a licensee to distribute products under a trademark. With such a license, the licensee may use the trademark without fear of a claim of trademark infringement by the licensor.\nThe assignment of a license often depends on specific contractual terms. The most common terms are, that a license is only applicable for a particular geographic region, just for a certain period of time or merely for a stage in the value chain.\nMoreover, there are different types of fees within the trademark and brand licensing. The first form demands a fee independent of sales and profits, the second type of license fee is dependent on the productivity of the licensee.\n\nWhen a licensor grants permission to a licensee to not only distribute, but manufacture a patented product, it is known as licensed production.\n\nA licensor may grant a permission to a licensee to copy and distribute copyrighted works such as \"art\" (e.g., Thomas Kinkade's painting \"Dawn in Los Gatos\") and characters (e.g., Mickey Mouse). With such license, a licensee need not fear a claim of copyright infringement brought by the copyright owner.\n\nArtistic license is, however, not related to the aforementioned license. It is a euphemism that denotes freedom of expression, the ability to make the subject appear more engaging or attractive, by fictionalising part of the subject.\n\nA licentiate is an academic degree that traditionally conferred the license to teach at a university or to practice a particular profession. The term survived despite the fact that nowadays a doctorate is typically needed in order to teach at a university. The term is also used for a person who holds a licentiate. In English, the degree has never been called a license. In French-speaking countries, the bachelor's degree is called a \"licence\".\n\nIn Sweden, Finland, and in some other European university systems, a 'licentiate' is a postgraduate degree between the master's degree and the doctorate. The licentiate is a popular choice in those countries where a full doctoral degree would take five or more years to achieve.\n\nA license to driving certain vehicles has been applied to many countries around the world. Being allowed to drive a certain vehicle requires a specific driving license, the type of license depending on the type of vehicle.\n\nIn the United Kingdom prisoners may be released prior to the completion of their full sentence \"on licence\". Basically, the licence is the prisoner's agreement to maintain certain conditions, such as periodic reporting in to a probation officer and maintaining fixed address, in exchange for his freedom. Parole and release on licence are the same procedure by another name.\n\nThe provision of licenses and the agencies that mandate them are often criticised by libertarians, like Milton Friedman, for creating an anticompetitive environment for occupations, which creates a barrier to entry for more qualified and skilled individuals who may not have the resources to obtain the necessary licences. According to Friedman, licenses and permits have become so burdensome due to legislation that favors the current establishment of wealthy occupants that they decrease the supply of such occupations, which raises prices for the average consumer. Libertarians and the anti-authoritarian left (anarcho-communists) view competing guilds and other voluntary communes as being more beneficial for disseminating the skills and education required to perform a specified career.\n\nIntellectual property-related:\n\nOther:\n"}
{"id": "795618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=795618", "title": "List of American advertising characters", "text": "List of American advertising characters\n\nThis is a list of notable nationally exposed mascots and characters created specifically for advertising purposes, listed alphabetically by the product they represent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1690376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1690376", "title": "List of legal entity types by country", "text": "List of legal entity types by country\n\nA business entity is an entity that is formed and administered as per corporate law in order to engage in business activities, charitable work, or other activities allowable. Most often, business entities are formed to sell a product or a service. There are many types of business entities defined in the legal systems of various countries. These include corporations, cooperatives, partnerships, sole traders, limited liability companies and other specifically permitted and labelled types of entities. The specific rules vary by country and by state or province. Some of these types are listed below, by country. For guidance, approximate equivalents in the company law of English-speaking countries are given in most cases, for example:\n\nHowever, the regulations governing particular types of entities, even those described as roughly equivalent, differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. When creating or restructuring a business, the legal responsibilities will depend on the type of business entity chosen.\n\n\n\n\n\nDutch, French or German names may be used.\n\n\n\n\nThere are three main types of business entity in Brunei, namely sole proprietorship, partnership and company.\n\nA private company contains the term \"Sendirian Berhad\" or \"Sdn. Bhd.\" as part of its name where as for a public company \"Berhad\" or \"Bhd.\" is used.\n\n\n\nIn Canada entities can be incorporated under either federal or provincial (or territorial) law. Unlimited liability corporations can be formed in Alberta \"AULC\" and Nova Scotia \"NSULC\".\n\nThe word or expression \"Limited\", \"Limitée\", \"Incorporated\", \"Incorporée\", \"Corporation\" or \"Société par actions de régime fédéral\" or the corresponding abbreviation \"Ltd.\", \"Ltée\", \"Inc.\", \"Corp.\" or \"S.A.R.F.\" forms part of the name of every entity incorporated under the Canada Business Corporations Act (R.S., 1985, c. C-44). ≈ Ltd. or Plc (UK)\n\nAs an exception, entities registered prior to 1985 may continue to be designated \"Société commerciale canadienne\" or by the abbreviation \"S.C.C.\"\n\nUnder the Canada Cooperatives Act (1998, c. 1), a co-operative must have the word \"cooperative\", \"co-operative\", \"coop\", \"co-op\", \"coopérative\", \"united\" or \"pool\", or another grammatical form of any of those words, as part of its name.\n\nUnlike in many other Western countries, Canadian businesses generally only have one form of incorporation available. The aforementioned AULC and NSULC are generally not used as operating business structures, but are instead used to create favorable tax positions for either Americans investing in Canada or vice versa.\n\nRather, Canadian businesses are generally formed under one of the following structures:\n\n\n\n\n\nTypes of legal person business entities:\n\n\nTypes of natural person business entities:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAn SE or SCE may be created by registration in any of the EU/EEA Member States, and is subject to the European Company Statute. It may relocate its registered office to any other EU/EEA Member State with minimal formalities.\n\n\nThe abbreviations are usually in Finnish, but Swedish names may also be used either as is or in combination with Finnish, e.g. \"Oy Yritys Ab\".\n\nIn the corporations of real estate law, the ownership or membership may be vested either in the real property or in a legal or natural person, depending on the corporation type. In many cases, the membership or ownership of such corporation is obligatory for a person or property that fulfils the legal requirements for membership or wishes to engage in certain activities.\n\nIn addition to native types, European Union types are implemented:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn Hungary, business entities are mainly regulated by the Companies Act of 2006, the Companies Registration Act of 2006 and the new Civil Code of 2013. All companies are required to indicate their type in their name.\n\n\n\n\nSituation in Ireland is similar to United Kingdom below, though without the class \"Community Interest Company\". There were two forms of Company Limited by Guarantee, but only the form \"without a share capital\" is now used. Irish names may also be used, such as \"cpt\" (cuideachta phoibli theoranta) for plc, and \"Teo\" (Teoranta) for Ltd.\n\n\n\nBusiness corporations are referred to as \"kaisha\" (会社) and are formed under the Companies Act of 2005. There are currently (2015) 4 types and each of them has legal personality:\nPartnerships are referred to as \"kumiai\" (組合). Each of these 4 types has no legal personality though other corporations, which include \"kumiai\" in their name, have:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNote: Any of these entities can be incorporated as a \"Capital Variable\" entity, in which case has to add the \" de C.V.\" sufix to its company name. Example: \"S.A. de C.V.\", \"S. de R.L. de C.V.\"\n\n\n\none of above mentioned form (Preduzetnik; O.D.; K.D.; A.D.; D.O.O.), as such it is registered in the Central Register of Companies. This form is a little bit specific and was created for companies that are domiciled registered in other countries and have its part in Montenegro.\n\n\n\n\n\nCompanies are registered on the Companies Register and with a regional Chamber of Commerce.\n\n\nThe Commercial Code establishes the following types of companies:\n\n\n\n\nThere are three main forms of business:\n\n(a) Sole Proprietorship\n(b) Partnership\n(c) Company\n\n\nIn a sole proprietorship, an individual on his/her own account carries out the business or profession. No formal procedure or formality is required for setting up a sole proprietary concern.\n\n\nA partnership is a business relationship entered into by a formal agreement between two or more persons or corporations carrying on a business in common. The capital for a partnership is provided by the partners who are liable for the total debts of the firms and who share the profits and losses of the business concern according to the terms of the partnership agreement.\n\nPartnerships (other than banking companies) are generally limited in size to twenty partners. The interest of a partner is transferable only with the prior consent of the other partner(s). However, a partner's right to a share of the partnership income may be received in trust for another person.\n\nFor taxation purposes, partnerships are classified into:\n\n(i) Registered Firms\n(ii) Unregistered Firms\n\nThe income of the registered firm is subject to Super Tax before distribution to the partners. Also the individual income of the partners is subject to income tax at the usual rates.\n\nFor unregistered firms, income tax is levied on the firm's income and the partners are not liable to pay tax on the shares of profit received from the unregistered firm(s).\n\n\nA company is a legal entity formed under the Companies Ordinance, 1984. It can have share capital or can be formed without share capital.\n\nA company having share capital may be formed as:\n\n(i) A company limited by shares.\n(ii) A company limited by guarantee.\n(iii) An unlimited company.\n\n\nThe liability of its members is limited to the extent of their shares in the paid-up capital of the company. These companies may further be classified as public limited and private limited companies.\n\n\n(i) Restricts the right to transfer its shares;\n(ii) Limits the number of its members to fifty; and;\n(iii) Prohibits any invitation to the public to subscribe for shares or debentures of the company.\n\nA private limited company is required to use the words \"(Private) Limited\" as the last words of its name.\n\n\nMeans a company having the liability of its members limited by memorandum to such amounts as the members may respectively undertake to contribute to the capital of the company in the event of its winding up. A company limited by guarantee is usually formed on a 'non profit basis'. Companies limited by guarantee use the words (Guarantee) Limited\" as the last words of their n\nUnlimited Company\n\nMeans a company having unlimited liability of its members\n\nhttps://www.secp.gov.pk\n\n\n\nOlder forms (now rarely used)\n\n\n\n\"Societăți comerciale\", abbreviated SC (Companies):\n\nlimited liability company \"societate cu raspundere limitata\" (SRL);\njoint stock company \"societate pe actiuni\" (SA);\n\n\n\n\nPrivate Limited Company, Sole Proprietorship and Partnership are the predominant types of business found in Singapore.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAccording to Code of Obligations (fifth book of Civil Code) (Act No: 6098)\n\nAccording to the Commercial Code (Act No: 6102)\n\nŞahıs şirketleri ≈ Partnerships (Unlike the partnerships in Anglo-American law, they also have legal personality like companies)\n\nSermaye şirketleri ≈ Companies\n\nAccording to the Capital Markets Act (Act No: 6362)\n\nAccording to the Cooperatives Act (Act No: 1136)\n\nOther entitites:\n\n\n\nCompany formation is regulated by the Ukrainian Civil Code and Commercial Code, Law of Commercial companies, Law of stock companies, law and order.\n\n\nIn the United States, the individual states incorporate most businesses. Very few special types are incorporated by the federal government.\n\nFor federal tax purposes, the Internal Revenue Service has separate entity classification rules. Under the tax rules, an entity may be classified as a corporation, a partnership, a Cooperative or a disregarded entity. A corporation may be taxed as either a C corporation or elect to be treated as a Subchapter S corporation. A disregarded entity has one owner (or a married couple as owner) that is not recognized for tax purposes as an entity separate from its owner. Types of disregarded entities include single-member LLCs; qualified sub-chapter S subsidiaries and qualified real estate investment trust subsidiaries. A disregarded entity's transparent tax status does not affect its status under state law. For example, for federal tax purposes, a sole-member LLC (SMLLC) is disregarded, so that all its assets and liabilities are treated as owned by its single member. But under state law, an SMLLC can contract in its own name and its owner is generally not personally liable for the debts and obligations of the entity. To be recognized as a Cooperative for tax purposes Cooperatives must follow certain rules under Sub Chapter T of the Internal Revenue Code.\n\nThe key word for a bank is \"national\". A bank chartered by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) must have the word \"national\" in its name. A bank chartered by a state cannot have \"national\" in its name.\n\nFor a savings bank (formerly called a savings and loan association) or credit union, the key word is \"federal\", and the same rules apply; a federally chartered savings bank or credit union must have the word \"federal\" in its name, while a state chartered savings bank or credit union cannot have \"federal\" in its name.\n\n\nMany federal governmental units are specially formed public corporations, while some private organizations have received a charter from Congress.\n\nThe following are the main business designations and types:\n\n\n\n\nRequired designations for corporations, by U.S. state, territory or commonwealth:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8107232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8107232", "title": "Onshore service", "text": "Onshore service\n\nIn New Zealand economics, onshore and offshore services are respectively services provided within New Zealand to foreigners and services provided outside New Zealand to New Zealanders.\n\nThe best example of an onshore service is tourism. For example, if an American resident were to travel to New Zealand, and play golf with his friends in Auckland, the provision of golfing facilities would be classified as an onshore service as the Auckland (New Zealand) golf club is providing the American tourist with a service.\n\nNew Zealand is heavily reliant on overseas providers for insurance services and for transport for goods via sea. For instance, if a New Zealand tourist flies Virgin Airlines from Ireland to London, this tourist has used a service, not provided by his own country, to travel from one place to another.\n\nEconomics Issues for New Zealand NCEA Level 2, Robin Sutton.\n"}
{"id": "298760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298760", "title": "Outline of commercial law", "text": "Outline of commercial law\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to commercial law:\n\nCommercial law – body of law that governs business and commercial transactions. It is often considered to be a branch of civil law and deals with issues of both private law and public law. It is also called business law.\n\nCommercial law can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5507724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5507724", "title": "Peopleware: Productive Projects and Teams", "text": "Peopleware: Productive Projects and Teams\n\nPeopleware: Productive Projects and Teams is a 1987 book on the social side of software development, specifically managing project teams. It was written by software consultants Tom DeMarco and Tim Lister, from their experience in the world of software development. This book was revised in 2013.\n\n\"Peopleware\" is a popular book about software organization management. The first chapter of the book claims, \"The major problems of our work are not so much \"technological\" as \"sociological\" in nature\". The book approaches sociological or 'political' problems such as group chemistry and team jelling, \"flow time\" and quiet in the work environment, and the high cost of turnover. Other topics include the conflicts between individual work perspective and corporate ideology, corporate entropy, \"teamicide\" and workspace theory.\n\nThe authors presented most subjects as principles backed up by some concrete story or other information. As an example, the chapter \"Spaghetti Dinner\" presents a fictional example of a manager inviting a new team over for dinner, then having them buy and prepare the meal as a group, in order to produce a first team success. Other chapters use real-life stories or cite various studies to illustrate the principles being presented.\n\nThe second edition kept the original content with only a few changes or corrections. The bulk of the new content was in a new section at the end. The new section's chapters revisited some of the concepts of the original chapters with changes and added new ones.\nThe eBook PDF version published by DorsetHouse was not searchable as each page appeared to be an image. The Kindle version is searchable.\nThe new content of the third edition is spread out through the book. There are new chapters, but the original content has also been updated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "954353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=954353", "title": "Proposal (business)", "text": "Proposal (business)\n\nA business proposal is a written offer from a seller to a prospective buyer.\nBusiness proposals are often a key step in the complex sales process—i.e., whenever a buyer considers more than price in a purchase.\n\nA proposal puts the buyer's requirements in a context that favors the seller's products and services, and educates the buyer about the capabilities of the seller in satisfying their needs.\n\nThere are three distinct categories of business proposals:\n\nSolicited proposals are written in response to published requirements, contained in a request for proposal (RFP), request for quotation (RFQ), invitation for bid (IFB), or a request for information (RFI).\n\nRequest for proposal (RFP)\n\nRFPs provide detailed specifications of what the customer wants to buy and sometimes include directions for preparing the proposal, as well as evaluation criteria the customer will use to evaluate offers. Customers issue RFPs when their needs cannot be met with generally available products or services. RFIs are issued to qualify the vendors who are interested in providing service/products for specific requirements. Based on the response to RFI, detailed RFP is issued to qualified vendors who the organization believes can provide desired services. Proposals in response to RFPs are seldom less than 10 pages and sometimes reach 1,000's of pages, without cost data.\nRequest for quotation (RFQ)\n\nCustomers issue RFQs when they want to buy large amounts of a commodity and price is not the only issue—for example, when availability or delivering or service are considerations. RFQs can be very detailed, so proposals written to RFQs can be lengthy but are generally much shorter than an RFP-proposal. RFQ proposals consist primarily of cost data, with brief narratives addressing customer issues, such as quality control.\nInvitation for bid (IFB)\n\nCustomers issue IFBs when they are buying some service, such as construction. The requirements are detailed, but the primary consideration is price. For example, a customer provides architectural blueprints for contractors to bid on. These proposals can be lengthy but most of the length comes from cost-estimating data and detailed schedules.\n\nRequest for information (RFI)\n\nSometimes before a customer issues an RFP or RFQ or IFB, the customer will issue a Request for Information (RFI). The purpose of the RFI is to gain \"marketing intelligence\" about what products, services, and vendors are available. RFIs are used to shape final RFPs, RFQs, and IFBs, so potential vendors take great care in responding to these requests, hoping to shape the eventual formal solicitation toward their products or services.\n\nInformally solicited proposals are typically the result of conversations held between a vendor and a prospective customer. The customer is interested enough in a product or service to ask for a proposal. Typically, the customer does not ask for competing proposals from other vendors. This type of proposal is known as a sole-source proposal. There are no formal requirements to respond. But they choose good quality of product.\"\n\nUnsolicited proposals are marketing brochures. They are always generic, with no direct connection between customer needs or specified requirements. Vendors use them to introduce a product or service to a prospective customer. They are often used as \"leave-behinds\" at the end of initial meetings with or customers or \"give-aways\" at trade shows or other public meetings. They are not designed to close a sale, just introduce the possibility of a sale.\n\n\n\nManaging proposals presents an enormous challenge for sales and marketing teams. Many established management methods are ill-suited to deal with the broader issues associated with the production and delivery of proposals. In these cases, organizations often rely on outsourcing by identifying a proposal manager to support their proposal development needs. \n\nProposal management is an inherently collaborative process. It often consists of the following basic roles and responsibilities:\n\nIncreasingly, the term proposal management is being used to suggest that engagement with the proposal process is important to more than just the sales team, and should also affect those working in marketing, legal, and sales.\n\nThere is also a trend towards using proposal management software that allows users to quickly and easily create proposals, collaborate with team members, track and analyze customer engagement.\n\nWriting a successful proposal can be made easier through the development of a proposal checklist that contains the necessary standardized information that is typically contained in 80% of all of your sales proposals. This makes it much easier for the proposal writer to build a shell and then research the roughly missing 20%. For example, the Company Name, Mission Statement, History, Qualifications should remain the same for most proposals leaving the Pricing section and specific Product and Service options specific to the customer to be customized for the current target customer. At times, the process can be tedious, but the steps are pretty basic. Besides solicited and unsolicited proposals, the others that exist include internal proposals and sole-source contracts.\n\nInternal proposals are ideas or projects that are presented to whomever holds the position of top management in a company. These types of proposals can be written by a particular individual, group, department, or division of a particular company. One example of this is when the manager of a product line writes a proposal suggesting that the company should robotize the production process. Some advantages to this includes easier communication, knowing the client's needs and making fast decisions. Some advantages to this may include competition from other companies and the loss of management champions.\n\nThese types of proposals are made when a private firm, government agency, or association negotiates to supply a service or product to a single company and when a company has excellent credibility and a track record of achievements. The standard format for this type of proposal consists of information about a specific product, including the price and delivery schedules. Some advantages to this include not having to have resources to win a contract and the firm or client knows what time the work will be coming.\n\nProposals are based on research, making it important for the researcher of the proposal to know about their client. The researcher must know the background of the idea that is being presented and show that he or she is well prepared to deal with a problem or situation their client has. The research for a company, institute, firm, etc. is done in advance, thereby increasing the chances of a well done proposal and the reader of the proposal will have a good idea of the outcome from the research that has been done. A general format for proposals includes the title page, abstract, scholarly statement of the problem and the method to solve it, the budget, and biographical information.\n\nAs small as it may seem, it is important that the title page be curt and definite. It would be a good idea to use key words for the purpose of indexing as long as it written in a relevant pattern.\n\nThis part of the proposal should state the situation, method, goal, scope, and the expected outcome. It usually consists of 200 words. Carl B. Palmer, Chief of Sponsored Research, Grants and Research Contracts, Office Space Science, and NASA says that the summary of an abstract has to be “short, lean, and all muscle.” He also points out that managers usually take a short glance at the abstract and will only concentrate on the proposal itself if a message comes through.\n\nIt is important to highlight the main idea that is being presented. First the writer of the proposal should state what the idea is and do something to make it unique. Next, the writer should explain what to do with the idea. Be sure to avoid phrases such as: “No one has thought of doing this before” or “This is entirely original.” Doing so, will make the writer seem dull and inattentive.\n\nThe writer of the proposal includes the grant and the total amounts of money it is going to be paid by it. It is stressed that the pay scale must be compatible with the company's scale. The money of researchers is part of a single person's company salary and because of this, a business is required to take away some of the duties of a researcher. The writer includes the estimated costs of disposable materials, equipment, and supplies. This part of the proposal would also consist of travel, publication costs, and direct costs.\n\nThis part of the proposal basically deals with proving to the client that the person writing and submitting the proposal is capable of doing the job. Everyone that contributed to the making of the proposal is mentioned, including their achievements.\nUsually, a proposal uses persuasion to get its audience to buy into their idea. One example is when a proposal tries to persuade one or more sponsors to invest in a project. Another example of using a proposal to persuade a client is when the company writing the proposal is asking for a grant. The categories that can involve grants include social services, health care, religions, philanthropy, economic development, government, and education. Persuasion can only work when these components are involved; sponsor values, applicant credibility, proposal logics, and proposal psychologics. Another way to make proposals persuasive is to connect the ideas of a project to the sponsor's values or problems of interest.\n\nSponsors or grantmakers main focuses include any specific dilemma, inequities or injustices. Their mission is to fill in the space between the categories of “what is” and “what ought to be.” One example is an organization trying to prevent child abuse called The Prevent Abuse Foundation. Their activities include giving support to families and children and teaching about the abuse and how to eliminate it. In addition to this, the foundation serves grass roots, community-based groups with technical and professional assistance, sharing the best program practices and evaluation techniques.\n\nAn applicant's job is to authorize organizational, individual, and project credibility. When an organization is proposing an idea to be presented by a project director, it is important for them to have credibility. Being persuasive is also one of the keys to success. An organization would try to convince its target of how different and unique it is from any other company. One example is a biology department at a university asking for money to do research in genetics. The department may go on to say that it has had 30 years of medical studies in biology and that their research inspects both hormonal and genetic elements that causes gene regulation.\n\nThis basically deals with the making of proposal elements that illustrates an identified gap, an improved situation, and resulting benefits to the intended population. Benefits serve as the good things that will happen by completing the objectives that are presented. The components must reflect a relationship between the sponsor values and the project that is being proposed. An exact description of the problem or need is required along with the purpose of the organization, funds and how to complete the objections. It also includes a timeline and a summarization of the intended audience.\n\nSponsors would usually provide money for both psychological and logical reasons. Proposal psychologics tend to the emotional needs of the sponsor. The components that can be found in a successful proposal include passion, ownership, energy, trust, and commitment. Sponsors use grants as investments. Sponsors need to feel that you are serious about helping them with their problems. One example can be a proposal to a federal agency and a private college that describes its long history of achievement by working with community partners, controlling national programs that helps the intended population, and institutionalizing project activities. The project partners have worked with grant related initiatives which includes a six-year joint teacher education program among the Midwestern Regional College and the College of Native Americans. The ideas the project director has for Native American middle school kids includes Achievement in Math, Math and Science Immersion and Kids Math Camp.\nAs long as a proposal expresses interest and concern for the values and ideal of the sponsor, there is a good chance for success.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22602354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22602354", "title": "Replicon (company)", "text": "Replicon (company)\n\nReplicon, Inc. is a software company providing cloud time tracking applications including timesheet and expense management software, using SaaS, for automating employee time tracking, project time tracking, expense tracking and resource scheduling.\n\nReplicon’s product suite includes TimeBill, TimeCost, TimeAttend, TimeOff and WebExpense. Replicon also offers a cloud-based time clock solution called \"CloudClock\".\n\n\n\nList of compliance standards that Replicon's software products adhere to :\n\nReplicon was co-founded in 1996 by Raj Narayanaswamy and Lakshmi Raj in Calgary, Canada. The company expanded its presence globally over the years and has set up major offices in Silicon Valley, India, UK & Australia. The founders reckoned that simple everyday processes like time sheet management and expense reports cause major problems and hence went about building web-based applications to relieve the stress on businesses and optimize workforce productivity. In 2013, the company announced the opening of its EMEA headquarters in London and APAC headquarters in Sydney.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43407349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43407349", "title": "Reshoring", "text": "Reshoring\n\nReshoring (also known as onshoring, inshoring and backshoring) is the act of reintroducing domestic manufacturing to a country. It is the reverse process of offshoring, where manufacturing is moved to another country where labor is cheaper. \n\nThe World Bank's 2019 World Development Report on the future of work considers the potential for automation to drive companies to reshore production, reducing the role of labor in the proess, and offers suggestions as to how governments can respond.\nFor the last twenty years, American companies have been \"offshoring\" manufacturing to low cost countries such as China, Malaysia and Vietnam. \nEven as recently as 2008 many companies were offshoring or nearshoring their manufacturing. In 2010, a group of manufacturers started the Reshoring Initiative, a movement focusing on bringing manufacturing jobs for American companies back to the country. The Reshoring Initiative reports that 140,000 American jobs were lost in 2003 due to offshoring. Eleven years later in 2014, the United States recovered 10,000 of those offshored positions; this marked the highest net gain in 20 years. America was deep into a recession and American citizens were pressuring companies to keep jobs in country. Reshoring efforts have become increasingly popular because of the positive impact on the domestic job market, as well as lowering the overall production cost for American manufacturing companies. The voice of America says that bringing manufacturing and jobs back to America is the right thing to do.\n\nIn response to the recession, President Obama launched the SelectUSA program in 2011,the first federal program to promote and facilitate U.S. investment in partnership with our states. This program and website helps companies connect with resources available on a Federal, State and local level. In January 2012, President Obama Issued a Call to Action to Invest in America at the White House \"Insourcing American Jobs\" Forum. At this forum, he met with representatives from companies such as Otis Elevator, DuPont, NOVO1, Master Lock and many more, all of which had recently brought jobs back or made significant investments in the United States. In 2013, during his State of the Union speech President Obama stated that he wanted America to be a magnet for new jobs and manufacturing. He asked that manufacturers like Ford Motor Company and Apple Inc. bring manufacturing back the U.S. He talked about the new Innovation Institutes that are working on innovation and technology such as 3D printing that will help companies with Lean Manufacturing. He talked about the innovation in renewable and clean energy and how our future is dependent on both. The cameras panned the crowd and focused on Tim Cook, CEO of Apple, and explained that Apple had made a commitment to bring some of its manufacturing back to Silicon Valley. Apple did open a US assembly operation to make the latest 21.5\" iMac for the US market and in May 2013 shipped its first products.\n\nCompanies such as ET Water Systems, GE Appliances and Caterpillar found that with the increase of labor costs in Japan and China, the cost of shipping and custom fees, it cost only about 10% more to manufacture in America. Advances in technology such as Digital Manufacturing and Automation have made bringing manufacturing back to the United States both cost effective and possible. Especially advances in 3D printing technologies bring manufacturers closer to their customers. Adidas, for example, plans producing highly customized shoes with 3D printers in the U.S. With this advanced technology companies are creating new innovative products for the U.S. market.\n\nNot all manufacturing should return to the U.S. The rise of the middle class in China, India and other countries has created markets for the products made in those countries. As the U.S. has a \"Made in U.S.A.\" program other countries support products made in their countries as well. Localization, the process of manufacturing products for the local market, is an approach to keeping some manufacturing offshore and bringing some of it back. Besides the cost savings of manufacturing closer to the market, the lead time for adapting to changes in the market is faster.\n\nThere have been several very successful stories of companies that have reshored including most of the companies mentioned above. In most cases hundreds if not thousands of jobs were created or reinstated. In the case of Starbucks, in 2012 it saved American Mug and Stein Company in East Liverpool, Ohio from bankruptcy. Initially only twelve people were put back to work but it was just the beginning for Starbucks. CEO Howard Schultz was compelled to take action; he teamed up with Opportunity Finance Network to found Create Jobs for USA. He seeded the foundation with an initial grant of $5 million. Later that year Starbucks announced that they are building another manufacturing facility in Georgia that will employ 140 people. Although they originally only hired twelve people Starbucks got months of positive press.\n\nThere have been some cases of reshoring that weren't successful. Otis Elevators’ reshoring effort did not go well. Otis says it failed to consider the consequences of the new location and tried to do too much at once, including a supply-chain software implementation. This is not an uncommon reshoring scenario. Bringing manufacturing back to the United States isn’t so simple, and there are a lot of considerations and analyses that companies must do to determine the costs and feasibility of reshoring. Some companies pursue reshoring with their own internal staff. But reshoring projects are complicated and involve engineering, marketing, production, finance, and procurement. In addition, there are real estate concerns, government incentives and training requirements that require outreach to the community. To help with these projects, companies often turn to consultants that specialize in Reshoring.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, companies have used the reintroduction of domestic call centres as a unique selling point. In 2014, the RSA Insurance Group completed a move of call centres back to Britain. The call centre industry in India has been hit by reshoring, as businesses including British Telecom, Santander UK and Aviva all announced they would move operations back to Britain in order to boost the economy and regain customer satisfaction.\n\n"}
{"id": "8967969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8967969", "title": "Rushmore Reviews", "text": "Rushmore Reviews\n\nThe Rushmore Reviews is a company based in Aberdeen, Scotland that collects, analyzes and publishes offset well data for participating Operators in the oil industry. The content of their extensive, global database is exclusively available to Review participants, who are then able to use the shared data to benchmark their own performance against others in the industry.\n\nThe Reviews began in 1993 when a group of oil operators, led by BP, outsourced the production of the data collection and analysis project they had been conducting since 1988 to the Rushmore Reviews. This was a joint venture between two independent companies, Rushmore Associates Ltd (founded by Peter and Helen Rushmore) and the Sigma Consultancy (founded by Tim Stapenhurst and wife Pat). They shared offices and provided data to participants through a web-based portal. The Sigma Consultancy was purchased from the Stapenhursts on 30 April 2010, by Peter and Helen Rushmore, leaving the Rushmores the sole owners of the Rushmore Reviews.\n\nParticipants meet annually in Aberdeen Scotland to discuss and agree any changes to the data being shared and the rules under which it is shared. The 2013 annual meetings, hosted by both Helen and Peter Rushmore, marked 25 years of the Reviews, and 20 years since the outsourcing to Rushmore Reviews.\n\nInitially in 1989 the Reviews consisted of twelve operators, who agreed a process for sharing offset drilling data for the first time. A standard set of metrics and definitions were employed by all twelve, and quality control was added to ensure the data was sufficiently reliable to be of real use to them. This became known as the Drilling Performance Review (DPR).\nUntil 1993 the DPR was managed by the Operators themselves. However this was not a core activity for them and it was agreed that the DPR would be outsourced to Rushmore Reviews, who worked to increase the scope of the Reviews, as requested by the existing participants. Eventually the DPR grew to hold data for more than 50,000 wells.\n\nThe participants meet annually in Aberdeen to consider the Reviews and discuss/agree upon any revisions they require for the following year, ensuring that the Reviews continue to evolve and grow. 1994 saw the establishment of the Completions Performance Review (CPR), now containing information and schematics on the completion of over 12,000 offset wells in over 60 countries. Following an increasing number of well abandonments, demand grew among participants for the Abandonment Performance Review (APR) which began in 2008. The APR contains data for over 300 permanently abandoned wells, mainly situated in Europe.\n\nIn 2011 the Interventions Performance Review (IPR) was initiated after new products and services available in the industry increased the productivity of interventions for some participants of other Reviews, yet there was no performance benchmarking available in this area.\n\nThe Shale Performance Review (SPR), starting in 2012 contains information on the drilling, completion and frac'ing of offset multi-stage frac’ed wells. The SPR dataset includes multiple reservoir types, such as shale, sandstone, carbonate, siltstone, limestone and others. Over 7000 wells drilled since 2011 are included, covering Canada, USA, Argentina, Australia, China, Colombia, Jordan, Indonesia, Poland and Sweden.\n\nIn an increasingly competitive industry, benchmarking has grown popular amongst oil and gas Operators, explaining why participation in the Rushmore Reviews has grown steadily. The dataset contains a large amount of offset well data encompassing drilling, completions, shale, interventions and abandonments. As of 2013, the Reviews contain data for over 50,000 wells, from conventional hydrocarbon to shale and coal seam gas wells. Over 100 countries feature in the Reviews, and the vast majority of Operating companies have made contributions.\n\nFrom 2012, Rushmore Reviews now hold a second set of annual meetings in Houston Texas for participants in the Shale Performance Review which continues to grow rapidly, with the notable addition of Chesapeake Energy to the Review in 2014; the second-largest natural gas producer in the United States.\n\nOn 5 February 2015, Denver based IHS acquired Rushmore Reviews.\n\nParticipants of the Reviews are provided with secure website access in order to view offset well data. The data is searchable and can be filtered by the user. The data may also be downloaded in Excel format. Additionally there are a range of analytical tools available to study the data. These include performance metrics (P10, P25, P50, P75, P90, Min, Mean, Max etc.) as well as the facility to draw a range of different chart types.\n\nAmongst the collection of tools, the Rushmore Drilling Index (RDI) and Rushmore Estimated Drilling Data (REDD), both designed and owned by the company, are particularly noteworthy. Designed as objective tools for well planning, they index the difficulty and indicate the amount of time a planned well is likely to take to drill to target depth.\n\nBelow, an illustration showing the global coverage of the Reviews in the darker colour.\n\n"}
{"id": "31850212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31850212", "title": "Small and Medium Enterprises Lending in Afghanistan", "text": "Small and Medium Enterprises Lending in Afghanistan\n\nSmall and Medium Enterprises in Afghanistan employ 10 to 500 employees, have sales up to US$1 million and paid-in capital of up to US$1 million. Lenders are banks, financing companies, some MFIs, local money exchange service providers (Hawala dealers), credit unions and societies. Most of these loans are disbursed against collateral of title deeds, land deeds, property and automobile deeds. Some small loans are secured by neighbors, personal guarantees and character.\n\nThe SME loans that are disbursed by these lenders range from US$2,000-250,000.\n\nThe majority of SMEs operate in cities such as Kabul, Mazar-e-Sharif, Herat, Kandahar, Ghazni, Jalalabad, Kunduz, Faizabad, Maimana, JawzJan and Taloqan.\n\nInterest rates are marked from 12% up to 24% depending on mutual deals, loan amounts and credit history. Most formal lenders charge 0.5% to 2.0% of the loan amount as an up-front processing fee.\n"}
{"id": "338047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338047", "title": "Spokesperson", "text": "Spokesperson\n\nA spokesman, spokeswoman or spokesperson is someone engaged or elected to speak on behalf of others.\n\nIn the present media-sensitive world, many organizations are increasingly likely to employ professionals who have received formal training in journalism, communications, public relations and public affairs in this role in order to ensure that public announcements are made in the most appropriate fashion and through the most appropriate channels to maximize the impact of favorable messages, and to minimize the impact of unfavorable messages. Celebrity spokesmen such as popular local and national sports stars (such as Michael Jordan or Bob Uecker) or television and film stars (such as Beyoncé or Michael J. Fox) are often chosen as spokespeople for commercial advertising. As of August 2017, Kayleigh McEnany and Michael Tyler (DNC spokesman) served as spokesmen of the RNC and DNC, respectively.\n\nUnlike an individual giving a personal testimonial, it is the job of a spokesperson to faithfully represent and advocate for the organization's positions, even when these conflict with his/her own opinion. As a result, spokespeople are generally selected from experienced, long-time employees or other people who are known to support the organization's goals.\n\nA corporation may be represented in public by its chief executive officer, chairman or president, chief financial officer, counsel or external legal advisor. In addition, on a day-to-day level and for more routine announcements, the job may be delegated to the corporate communications or investor relations departments (or equivalents), who will act as spokespeople.\n\nIn the particle physics community, large collaborations of physicists elect one (or two) spokespeople or leader(s) of the collaboration. The spokesperson in such cases is the lead scientist of the collaboration, not a public speaker. Each collaboration chooses the roles and responsibilities of the spokesperson for internal purposes, but typically spokespeople also have defined roles for liaising with the host laboratory and/or funding agencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1533342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1533342", "title": "TED (conference)", "text": "TED (conference)\n\nTED Conferences LLC (Technology, Entertainment, Design) is a media organization that posts talks online for free distribution under the slogan \"ideas worth spreading.\" TED was conceived by Richard Saul Wurman in February 1984 as a conference which has been held annually since 1990. TED's early emphasis was on technology and design, consistent with its Silicon Valley origins, but it has since broadened its repertoire to include talks on many scientific, cultural, and academic topics. It is owned by Chris Anderson, a British American businessman, through the Sapling foundation.\n\nThe main TED conference is held annually in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada at the Vancouver Convention Centre. Prior to 2014, the conference was held in Long Beach, California, United States. TED events are also held throughout North America and in Europe and Asia, offering live streaming of the talks. They address a wide range of topics within the research and practice of science and culture, often through storytelling. The speakers are given a maximum of 18 minutes to present their ideas in the most innovative and engaging ways they can. Past speakers include Bill Clinton, Sean M. Carroll, Elon Musk, Ray Dalio, Cédric Villani, Stephen Hawking, Jane Goodall, Al Gore, Temple Grandin, Gordon Brown, David Cameron, Billy Graham, Richard Dawkins, Bill Gates, Dolph Lundgren, Bono, Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, and many Nobel Prize winners. TED's current curator is the British former computer journalist and magazine publisher Chris Anderson.\nSince June 2006, TED Talks have been offered for free viewing online, under an Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives Creative Commons license, through TED.com. , over 2,600 TED Talks are freely available on the website. In June 2011, TED Talks' combined viewing figure stood at more than 500 million, and by November 2012, TED Talks had been watched over one billion times worldwide. TED Talks given by academics tend to be watched more online while art and design videos tend to be watched less than average.\n\nTED was conceived in 1984 by architect and graphic designer Richard Saul Wurman, who observed a convergence of the fields of technology, entertainment, and design (that is, \"TED\"). The first conference, organized by Harry Marks and Wurman in the same year, featured demos of the compact disc, co-developed by Philips and Sony and one of the first demonstrations of the Apple Macintosh computer. Presentations were given by famous mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot and influential members of the digerati community, like Nicholas Negroponte and Stewart Brand. The event was financially unsuccessful; it took six years before the second conference was organized.\n\nFrom 1990 onward, a growing community of \"TEDsters\" gathered annually at the event in California State University Monterey Bay, until 2009, when it was relocated to Long Beach, California due to a substantial increase in attendees. Initially, the speakers had been drawn from the fields of expertise behind the acronym TED, but during the nineties, the roster of presenters broadened to include scientists, philosophers, musicians, religious leaders, philanthropists, and many others.\n\nIn 2000, Wurman, looking for a successor at age 65, met with new-media entrepreneur and TED enthusiast Chris Anderson to discuss future happenings. Anderson's UK media company Future bought TED. In November 2001, Anderson's non-profit The Sapling Foundation (motto: \"fostering the spread of great ideas.\") acquired TED from Future for £6m. In February 2002, Anderson gave a TED Talk in which he explained his vision of the conference and his future role of curator. Wurman left after the 2002 conference.\n\nIn 2006, attendance cost was $4,400 per person and was by invitation only. The membership model was shifted in January 2007 to an annual membership fee of $6,000, which includes attendance of the conference, club mailings, networking tools, and conference DVDs. The 2018 conference was $10,000 per attendee.\n\nIn 2014, the conference was relocated to Vancouver.\n\nTED is currently funded by a combination of various revenue streams, including conference attendance fees, corporate sponsorships, foundation support, licensing fees, and book sales. Corporate sponsorships are diverse, provided by companies such as Google, GE, AOL, Goldman Sachs, and The Coca-Cola Company, among others. Sponsors do not participate in the creative direction of the event, nor are they allowed to present on the main stage, in the interests of independence.\n\nThe TED staff consists of about 180 people headquartered in New York City and Vancouver.\n\nThe TED Prize was introduced in 2005. Until 2010, it annually granted three individuals $100,000 and a \"wish to change the world\". Each winner unveils their wish at the main annual conference. Since 2010, in a changed selection process, a single winner is chosen to ensure that TED can maximize its efforts in achieving the winner's wish. In 2012, the prize was not awarded to an individual, but to a concept connected to the current global phenomenon of increasing urbanization. In 2013, the prize amount was increased to $1 million. TED Prize winners in previous years:\nTED Conference commissioned New York artist Tom Shannon to create a prize sculpture to be given to all TED Prize winners.\nThe sculpture consists of an diameter aluminum sphere magnetically levitated above a walnut disc.\n\nIn 2005, Chris Anderson hired June Cohen as Director of TED Media. In June 2006, after Cohen's idea of a TV show based on TED lectures was rejected by several networks, a selection of talks that had received the highest audience ratings was posted on the websites of TED, YouTube, and iTunes, under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0. Initially, only a handful of talks were posted, to test if there was an audience for them. In January of the next year, the number of TED Talks on the site had grown to 44, and they had been viewed more than three million times. On the basis of that success, the organization pumped hundreds of thousands of dollars into its video production operations and into the development of a website to showcase about 100 of the talks.\n\nIn April 2007, the new TED.com was launched, developed by design firm Method. In subsequent years, the website has won many prizes, among which seven Webby Awards, iTunes' \"Best Podcast of the Year\" (2006-2010), the Communication Arts Interactive Award for \"Information Design\" in 2007, the OMMA Award for \"video sharing\" in 2008, the Web Visionary Award for \"technical achievement\" in 2008, The One Show Interactive Bronze Award in 2008, the AIGA Annual Design Competition (2009), and a Peabody Award in 2012.\n\nAs of January 2018, over 2600 TED talks had been posted. Every week 5-7 new talks are published. In January 2009, the then number of videos had been viewed 50 million times. In June 2011, the number of views totaled 500 million, and on November 13, 2012, TED reached its billionth video view. Chris Anderson in an interview in March 2012:\nIt used to be 800 people getting together once a year; now it's about a million people a day watching TED Talks online. When we first put up a few of the talks as an experiment, we got such impassioned responses that we decided to flip the organization on its head and think of ourselves not so much as a conference but as \"ideas worth spreading,\" building a big website around it. The conference is still the engine, but the website is the amplifier that takes the ideas to the world.\n\nIn March 2012, Netflix announced a deal to stream an initial series of 16 two-hour shows, consisting of TED Talks covering similar subjects, from multiple speakers. The content was made available to subscribers in the US, Canada, Latin America, the UK, and Ireland. Hosted by Jami Floyd, \"TED Talks NYC\" debuted on NYC Life on March 21, 2012.\n\nIn 2005, under Anderson's supervision, a more internationally oriented sister conference was added, under the name TEDGlobal. It was held, in chronological order: in Oxford, UK (2005), in Arusha, Tanzania (2007, titled TEDAfrica), in Oxford again (2009 and 2010), and in Edinburgh, UK (2011, 2012, and 2013). In 2014, it was held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Additionally, there was TED India, in Mysore (2009) and TEDGlobal London in London (2015). TEDGlobal 2017 was held again in Arusha, Tanzania and it was curated and hosted by Emeka Okafor.\n\nTED's European director (and curator of TEDGlobal) is Swiss-born Bruno Giussani.\n\nTED Translators started as TED Open Translation Project in May 2009 and aims to \"[reach] out to the 4.5 billion people on the planet who don't speak English\", according to TED Curator Chris Anderson. The OTP utilizes crowd-based subtitling platforms to translate the text of TED and TED-Ed videos, as well as to caption and translate videos created in the TEDx program (with its technology partner dotSUB until May 2012, and then with open source translation tool Amara). At the time of the launch, 300 translations had been done by 200 volunteer transcribers in 40 languages. In May 2015, over 70,000 sets of subtitles in 107 languages had been completed by (an all-time total of) 38,173 volunteer translators.\n\nThe project contributed to a significant increase in international visitors to TED's website, with traffic from outside the US growing 350 percent, 600 percent growth in Asia, and more than 1000 percent in South America.\n\nMembers have several tools dedicated to knowledge management, such as the OTP Wiki OTPedia, Facebook groups, or video tutorials.\n\nTEDx are independent TED-like events, which can be organized by anyone who obtains a free license from TED, agreeing to follow certain principles. TEDx events are non-profit but may use an admission fee or commercial sponsorship to cover costs. Similarly, speakers are not paid. They must also relinquish the copyrights to their materials, which TED may edit and distribute under a Creative Commons license.\n\nA TEDx event is organized by volunteers from the local community, and just like TED events, it lacks any commercial, religious, or political agenda. Its goal is to spark conversation, connection, and community.\n\nAs of January 2014, the TEDxTalks library contained some 30,000 films and presentations from over 130 countries. As of October 2017, the TEDx archive surpassed 100,000 talks. In March 2013, eight TEDx events were organised every day; raised up from five in June 2012, the previous year, in 133 countries. TEDx presentations also include live performances, which are catalogued in the TEDx Music Project. In 2011, TED began a program called \"TEDx in a Box\" that allows people in developing countries to hold TEDx events. TEDx also expanded to include TEDxYouth events, TEDx corporate events, and TEDxWomen. TEDxYouth events are independent programs set up for students roughly between 7–12 grades. These events usually have people closer to the age of the students and sometimes show TED Talks. According to TEDxSanta Cruz, \"as of 2015, over 1,500 [TEDx events] have been scheduled all over the world\". TEDx events evolved over a period of time and events like TEDxBeaconStreet created TEDx Adventures for participants where participants sign up for free, hands-on experiences in their local communities, led by an expert.\n\nSince 2015, TEDxHyderabad is being conducted in India every year, with its 3rd edition conducted in September 2017. As of 2017, TED Talks airs as a television programme in Jamaica on CVM Television.\n\nTED Fellows were introduced in 2007, during the first TEDAfrica conference in Arusha, Tanzania, where 100 young people were selected from across the continent. Two years later, during TEDIndia, 99 Fellows were recruited, mainly from South Asia. In 2009, the Fellows program was initiated in its present form. For every TED or TEDGlobal conference, 20 Fellows are selected; a total of 40 new Fellows a year. Each year, 20 past Fellows are chosen to participate in the two-year Senior Fellows program (in which they will attend four more conferences).\n\nAcceptance as a Fellow is not based on academic credentials, but mainly on past and current actions, and plans for the future. Besides attending a conference free of charge, each Fellow takes part in a special program with mentoring by experts in the field of spreading ideas, and he or she can give a short talk on the \"TED Fellows\" stage. Some of these talks are subsequently published on TED.com. Senior Fellows have additional benefits and responsibilities.\n\nTED-Ed is a category of TED talks which are short animated lessons aimed at children. It creates explanatory animation videos on various concepts. TED-Ed lessons are created in collaboration with educators and animators. Current advisers for Ted-Ed lessons include Aaron Sams, Jackie Bezos, John Hunter, Jonathan Bergmann, Sir Ken Robinson, Melinda French Gates, and Salman Khan.\n\nTEDMED is an annual conference concerned with health and medicine. It is an independent event operating under license from the nonprofit TED conference.\n\nTEDMED was founded in 1998 by TED's founder Ricky Wurman. After years of inactivity, in 2008 Wurman sold TEDMED to entrepreneur Marc Hodosh, who recreated and relaunched it. The first event under Hodosh's ownership was held in San Diego in October 2009. In January 2010, TED.com began including videos of TEDMED talks on the TED website.\n\nThe second Hodosh-owned edition of TEDMED took place in October 2010, also in San Diego. It sold out for a second year and attracted notable healthcare leaders and Hollywood celebrities.\n\nIn 2011, Jay Walker and a group of executives and investors purchased TEDMED from Hodosh for $16 million with future additional payments of as much as $9 million. The conference was then moved to Washington, DC.\n\nTEDWomen is a three-day conference. Established in 2010, TEDWomen features speakers focused on women-oriented themes, including gender issues and reproductive health. There are over 130 TEDWomen Talks available to watch on the TED website. Past speakers include former president Jimmy Carter, Hillary Clinton, Sheryl Sandberg, Madeleine Albright, Nancy Pelosi and Halla Tómasdóttir, among others.\n\nTEDYouth talks are aimed at middle school and high school children and feature information from youth innovators.\n\n\nFrank Swain, a deaf journalist, refused to participate in a TEDx event without getting paid. He said that it is unacceptable that TED, which is a non-profit organization, charges attendees $6,000 but cannot afford to pay anything to their speakers.\n\nSpeakers at the independently-organized TEDx talks may not be paid; speakers at the official, yearly, TED Conference are compensated for their talks.\n\nSarah Lacy of \"BusinessWeek\" and \"TechCrunch\" wrote in 2010 that TED attendees complained of elitism from a \"hierarchy of parties throughout the LA-area with strict lists and security\" after the sessions. She gave TED credit for making talks free online or live streamed.\n\nDisagreements have also occurred between TED speakers and organizers. In her 2010 TED Talk, comedian Sarah Silverman referred to adopting a \"retarded\" child. TED organizer Chris Anderson objected via his Twitter account, leading to a Twitter skirmish between them.\n\nAlso in 2010, noted statistician Nassim Taleb called TED a \"monstrosity that turns scientists and thinkers into low-level entertainers, like circus performers.\" He claimed TED curators did not initially post his talk \"warning about the financial crisis\" on their site on purely cosmetic grounds.\n\nNick Hanauer spoke at TED University, challenging the popular belief that top income earners in America are the engines of job creation. TED was accused of censoring the talk by not posting it on the website. The \"National Journal\" reported Chris Anderson had reacted by saying the talk probably ranked as one of the most politically controversial talks they had ever run, and they needed to be careful about when they posted it. Anderson officially responded, indicating that TED only posts one talk every day, selected from many. \"Forbes\" staff writer Bruce Upbin described Hanauer's talk as \"shoddy and dumb\" while \"New York\" magazine condemned the conference's move.\n\nFollowing a TEDx talk by Rupert Sheldrake, TED issued a statement saying their scientific advisors believed that \"there is little evidence for some of Sheldrake's more radical claims\" made in the talk and recommended that it \"should not be distributed without being framed with caution\". The video of the talk was moved from the TEDx YouTube channel to the TED blog accompanied by the framing language called for by the advisors. The move and framing prompted accusations of censorship, to which TED responded by saying the accusations were \"simply not true\" and that Sheldrake's talk was \"up on our website\".\n\nTED has also been accused of censoring a presentation by Graham Hancock in which he discussed the effects of legal versus illegal drugs, by removing it from YouTube.\n\nAccording to Professor Benjamin Bratton at University of California, San Diego, TED Talks' efforts at fostering progress in socio-economics, science, philosophy, and technology have been ineffective. Chris Anderson responded that some critics have a misconception of TED's goals, and failed to recognise that TED aimed to instill excitement in the audience in the same way the speaker felt it. He stated that TED only wishes to bring news of the significance of certain topics to a large audience.\n\n"}
{"id": "46734304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46734304", "title": "Telstra Business Awards", "text": "Telstra Business Awards\n\nThe Telstra Business Awards is an Australian awards programme started in 1992. The Telstra Business Awards is an independent Awards programme designed to recognise and promote excellence, best practice and innovation in the business community.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Westpac Business Owner of the Year and Hudson Business Award National were presented in 2006 for the first and last times in the Telstra Business Awards to date. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Telstra Australian Private and Corporate Sector Award was presented in 2007 for the first and last time in the Telstra Business Awards to date. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Telstra Social Responsibility Award was inaugurated in 2008. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis was the last year in which the Telstra Australian Innovation Award was presented at the Telstra Business Awards. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Telstra Australian Start Up Award was inaugurated in 2012. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Telstra Australian Regional Business Award was not awarded in 2016, while the Telstra Australian Start Up Award became the 'New Business' Award, and the Telstra Australian Charity Award was inaugurated. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46792382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46792382", "title": "The HTML500", "text": "The HTML500\n\nThe HTML500 is a multi-city Canadian technology conference that teaches 500 attendees per event the basics of HTML and CSS programming. Its goal is to promote web development and web programming literacy among Canadian youth, and open the doors for those who may be interested in pursuing careers in technology. Its annual events are held in four Canadian cities: Vancouver, Toronto, London, and Calgary. Event sponsors include IBM, Telus (a Canadian telecom giant), the British Columbia Government's Innovation Council, and Microsoft.\n\nThe HTML500 is Canada's largest educational technology event, having taught thousands of Canadians how to code since its inception.\n\nThe HTML500 was founded in 2013 by Canadian entrepreneurs Khurram Virani and Jeremy Shaki. Virani and Shaki are the co-founders of Lighthouse Labs, the largest Canadian web developer Coding Bootcamp . Lighthouse Labs acts as the official sponsor and parent company of the conferences. In an interview with BetaKit, Shaki said of the educational initiative, \"It’s about more people in Canada understanding the value of digital literacy. It’s about trying to get our governments and other major Canadian institutions involved in the conversation.\"\n\nIn 2014, the event expanded to three additional Canadian cities: Calgary, Toronto, and London.\n\nThe second annual event in Vancouver had over 2500 applicants, of which the official 500 were selected through a lottery process. Over half of the attendees were women. Beginning with the second Vancouver event, the Vancouver Economic Commission began running a career fair in tandem with the day's activities to further provide career resources to aspiring web developers.\n\nThe multi-city events are routinely covered on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation television network.\n\nEach event is designed to host 500 attendees. In each city, 50 local technology companies are chosen to help participate by managing and providing teaching assistance at one of the event's 50 attendee roundtables. All the partners and local community members who participate in the event donate their time voluntarily, as the event is a not-for-profit, and there is no entry charge.\n\nEach event begins with a keynote speech plus an educational crash course taught by a notable member of the Canadian technology industry. Attendees are then provided with reference materials to assist them in the second phase of the schedule: building a website from scratch. By the end of the seven-hour schedule, it is the conference's goal to have removed the attendees' intimidation associated with programming, and to give them the confidence and resources needed to continue their web development learning if they choose to do so.\n\n"}
{"id": "30518856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30518856", "title": "Training simulation", "text": "Training simulation\n\nIn business, training simulation is a virtual medium through which various types of skills can be acquired. Training simulations can be used in a variety of genres; however they are most commonly used in corporate situations to improve business awareness and management skills. They are also common in academic environments as an integrated part of a business or management course.\n\nThe word simulation implies an imitation of a real-life process, usually via a computer or other technological device, in order to provide a lifelike experience. This has proven to be a reliable and successful method of training in thousands of industries worldwide. They can be used both to allow specialization in a certain area, and to educate individuals in the workings of the sectors as a whole, making training simulations versatile. Training simulations are not just games; their aim is to educate and inform in an exciting and memorable way, rather than purely to entertain.\n\nCompanies across the world regularly use simulations as a tool to teach employees. With the enormous range of simulation-based activities available, it is unsurprising that the specific aims of the sessions vary widely. Some simulations are focused on making decisions in a particular area of the business, such as personnel or product design, and these are called \"Functional Simulations\". Others give a general overview of a company and give experience of making executive management decisions, and are called \"Total Enterprise Simulations\". In recent years, however, this classification has become somewhat impractical, as increasing numbers of training simulations are involving both elements, and combining both an overall view of the industry with some decisions relating to specific sectors.\n\nTraining Simulations normally form part of a program designed to educate employees or students about the skills needed to operate a business, as well as persuade them to \"think outside the box\" and see the bigger picture. This can make for a better organized, more fluid system in which all employees understand their part in making the company successful.\nAlthough the most common use for training simulations is in a corporate setting, simulation games are increasingly being used to educate young people about the importance of business. From secondary school age all the way up to MBA students, anyone can benefit from the first-hand experience of running a company and making decisions that directly affect performance. This will allow the participants to gain an overall understanding of the business world, and give some insight into the type of skills that are necessary to succeed. It is also important to note that ‘beating the game’ should not be a primary aim for anyone taking part in a simulation; the focus should be directed towards everyone gaining some useful and relevant knowledge that they can take away and use in their daily lives. If the simulation does have a competitive element, it is to motivate and inspire, rather than encourage any malpractice. Some training activities are non-competitive to avoid this, however many noted experts in the field state that the rivalry between teams or individuals improves the learning experience and adds a sense of fun and drama into the simulation. This is particularly important when working with young people such as students, as they often require an extra boost to keep them entertained, especially when a simulation is run over an extended period.\n\nThe concept of training employees to have a wider perspective on their position within the workplace has been around for hundreds of years, but it is only relatively recently that the idea of creating a simulated environment for trainees to test their abilities and skills has been developed. The first commercially available training simulation was in 1956, and was called \"The Top Management Decision Game\", and was created by the American Management Association. Since then, the market has expanded hugely, with thousands of simulations available based upon hundreds of different industries. Initially simple with just a few choices to make, some simulations have become extremely complex with many different interlinking decisions. When training simulations were first used, they involved paper forms that were filled in by the participants and then compared by the organizer of the exercise. Nowadays, nearly all simulations are computer based, and involve multi-stage algorithms that calculate performance based on the decisions entered. Most simulations are based around a real industry, and hence they use real data to be as accurate as possible and to provide a realistic experience. However, some remain generic and do not model a particular industry, although these tend to be more useful for younger players or those with absolutely no business knowledge.\n\nMost corporations and academic courses that contain a training simulation integrate it into an existing or completely new training programme. This allows the participants to get the maximum value from the experience, as well as review the sessions in order to improve them for future use. The structure of a training session would normally be as follows:\n\n\nThis integrated training will allow everyone taking part in the simulation to get the maximum experience possible, as well as being entertaining, exciting and giving them a new perspective on the business world. Many companies that specialize in training simulations also offer to create a special integrated plan unique to the client, to make the process as streamlined and efficient as possible.\n\nSince training simulations are available based on such a wide range of different industries, and with thousands of different aims and objectives, it is difficult to outline a specific skill-set that will be improved by taking part in a training simulation. However, skills that good training simulations should build on include:\n\nIf every participant improves in these four key skill areas, the training programme will be a success, and any business should notice an improvement in efficiency and motivation, and students will be inspired and animated.\n\n"}
{"id": "58971694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58971694", "title": "Wells Print Shop", "text": "Wells Print Shop\n\nThe Wells Print Shop was located at 27 Cuna Street in St. Augustine, Florida. It operated as part of the Historic St. Augustine Preservation Board's 18th century museum village, San Agustín Antiguo, demonstrating the colonial printmaking process.<mapframe latitude=\"29.8949\" longitude=\"-81.3152\" zoom=\"15\" width=\"250\" height=\"200\" align=\"right\">\n</mapframe>\n\nWilliam Charles Wells was born in 1757 in Charleston, South Carolina, the son of a Tory printer, publisher, and bookseller. He was formally trained as a doctor, receiving a degree in medicine from the University of Edinburgh in 1780. When the British left Charleston in 1782, William and his brother John moved to St. Augustine where they established a print shop. In St. Augustine the Wells brothers are most well known for publishing the \"East Florida Gazette\", the first newspaper in Florida. After the 1783 Treaty of Paris returned Florida to the Spanish, William Wells went to England and practiced medicine for the rest of his life. He died in London in 1817.\n\nThe Wells brothers' publication began on February 1, 1783 and lasted a little over one year, with the last issue published on March 22, 1784. London's Public Record Office only contains three issues of the newspaper, those from March 1, May 3, and May 17, 1783. The St. Augustine Historical Society resurrected the name \"East Florida Gazette\" with its newsletter, which is indexed on the Historical Society Research Library's online catalog.\n\nThe Historic St. Augustine Preservation Board reconstructed the Wells Print Shop in 1968 on Cuna Street. The original Wells printing press owned by William and John was located on Treasury Lane. The all-wooden shop was constructed using board-and-batten building method, which the British settlers in St. Augustine preferred for its quick construction and ease of repair. The building is 220 square feet. \n\nInside the print shop was a replica of the type of printing press used towards the end of the 18th century. The press was operated daily to demonstrate the printing process to visitors, but the Preservation Board also used it to make reproductions of historic St. Augustine maps and replicas of the \"East Florida Gazette,\" which were sold as souvenirs. \n\nToday the site once occupied by the Wells Print Shop operates as a jewelry store.\n \n"}
