{"id": "4898130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4898130", "title": "Association for Business Communication", "text": "Association for Business Communication\n\nThe Association for Business Communication (ABC) is a learned society for the field of business communication. Its mission statement states: \"The Association for Business Communication (ABC) is an international organization committed to fostering excellence in business communication scholarship, research, education, and practice\". The organization is interdisciplinary, with members belonging to academic fields such as management, marketing, English, foreign languages, speech, communication, linguistics, and information systems. Additionally the organization brings together university academicians, business practitioners, and business consultants.\n\nABC is an international organization, divided into nine regional divisions (Europe, Asia and Pacific Rim, Caribbean and Central America, and five North American regions: Canada plus Eastern, Midwest, Southeast, Southwest, and Western United States), each with its own separate academic conferences. Each year, the association holds an International Conference in October or November. Midyear, regional conferences are held—one in the European region and one or two of the North American regions. The Asia and Pacific Rim region holds a conference every two years or more frequently.\n\nA board of directors and an executive committee lead the ABC. The board of directors is directly elected with a vice president elected from each of 9 regions and 12 directors at large, with staggered terms. The executive committee consists of a permanent position of executive director and four officers of the association. The members of the executive committee serve for four years in rotating capacity, beginning as second vice president in the first year, then first vice president the next, president the next, and past president the last year on the committee. The organization as a whole elects the second vice president position from among candidates on the board of directors.\n\nThe current executive director of the ABC is James M. Dubinsky (Virginia Tech). He took office in 2011.\n\nFor 2018-2019 the executive committee consists of President Lisa Gueldenzoph Snyder (North Carolina A & T University), First Vice President Marcel Robles (Eastern Kentucky University), Second Vice President Geert Jacobs (Ghent University), and immediate Past President Deborah Roebuck (Kennesaw State University).\n\nTwo peer-reviewed academic journals, \"International Journal of Business Communication\" and the \"Business and Professional Communication Quarterly\" are published by SAGE Publications on behalf of ABC.\n\nThe ABC has standing committees, as follow:\n\nThe ABC has ad hoc committees for interests that have not yet warranted a standing committee, but may in the future become so. Many of the standing committees began as ad hoc committees. In 2017, the ABC had these ad hoc committees:\n\nAdditionally, ABC members pursue a number of professional objectives through voluntary interest groups. A Special Interest Group may be convened by the First Vice President or by members’ current interest groups. In 2017, the ABC had the following Special Interest Groups:\n\nABC was founded in 1936, beginning with a modest membership of 72 members, all but one from the United States (the only exception being from Canada). The organization, based at the University of Illinois, was then named the “Association of College Teachers of Business Writers.” The next year, 1937, that name changed to the “American Business Writing Association.”\n\nBy the 1960s, the field had grown considerably and became heavily interested in areas well beyond business writing (such as oral presentations, negotiations, and nonverbal communication among others). In 1967, the Board of Directors voted to change the name of the organization to the “American Business Communication Association” to reflect this change.\n\nBy the late 1970s, as the membership of the organization grew to include more members from outside the Americas and as the focus of research expanded heavily into the fields of intercultural communication and cross-cultural business communication practice, the term “American” became increasingly inaccurate of both the membership and focus of the organization. In 1985, the Board of Directors voted to change the name to its current “Association for Business Communication.”\n\nIn 1990, ABC moved its headquarters from Illinois first to the University of North Texas (1990–1994) and then to Baruch College CUNY in New York City (from 1994–2007) and then to Stephen F. Austin State University in Nacogdoches, Texas (from 2007-2011). Presently, the ABC is headquartered at Stephen F. Austin State University in Nacogdoches, Texas.\n\n"}
{"id": "24580848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24580848", "title": "Aurora Fashions", "text": "Aurora Fashions\n\nAurora Fashions was a holding company of several retail fashion brands, formed in 2009 to purchase a number of businesses from the collapsed Mosaic Fashions. The company operates over 1250 stores in 38 countries, including franchises, under the Oasis, Warehouse and Coast brands.\n\nIn March 2011, the company announced plans to spin-off Karen Millen, which was completed in 2012. Karen Millen was separated from the group to be owned by Aurora's parent Kaupthing Bank.\n\nAurora announced further plans in March 2013 for a wider restructuring. As part of this, Coast was also separated from the rest of the group, under the ownership of Kaupthing, and it was planned that Oasis and Warehouse would be merged under a new single parent company, Fresh Channel. The two brands were eventually demerged as the Oasis and Warehouse Group, led by Liz Evans.\n"}
{"id": "31930856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31930856", "title": "Bull trap", "text": "Bull trap\n\nIn stock market trading, a Bull trap is an inaccurate signal that shows a decreasing trend in a stock or index has reversed and is now heading upwards, when in fact, the security will continue to decline.\n\nIt is seen as a trap because the bullish investor purchases the stock, thinking it will increase in value, but is trapped with a poor performing stock whose value is still falling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093407", "title": "Business activity monitoring", "text": "Business activity monitoring\n\nBusiness activity monitoring (BAM) is software that aids in monitoring of business activities, key performance indicators, business / operational exceptions and business risks, as those activities are implemented in computer systems.\n\nThe term was originally coined by analysts at Gartner, Inc. and refers to the aggregation, analysis, and presentation of real-time information about activities inside organizations and involving customers and partners. A business activity can either be a business process that is orchestrated by business process management (BPM) software, or a business process that is a series of activities spanning multiple systems and applications. BAM is an enterprise solution primarily intended to provide a real-time summary of business activities to operations managers and upper management.\n\nThe goals of business activity monitoring is to provide real time information about the status and results of various operations, processes, and transactions. The main benefits of BAM are to enable an enterprise to make better informed business decisions, quickly address problem areas, and re-position organizations to take full advantage of emerging opportunities.\n\nOne of the most visible features of BAM solutions is the presentation of information on dashboards containing the key performance indicators (KPIs) used to provide assurance and visibility of activity and performance. This information is used by technical and business operations to provide visibility, measurement, and assurance of key business activities. It is also exploited by event correlation to detect and warn of impending problems.\n\nAlthough BAM systems usually use a computer dashboard display to present data, BAM is distinct from the dashboards used by business intelligence (BI) insofar as events are processed in real-time or near real-time and pushed to the dashboard in BAM systems, whereas BI dashboards refresh at predetermined intervals by polling or querying databases. Depending on the refresh interval selected, BAM and BI dashboards can be similar or vary considerably.\n\nSome BAM solutions additionally provide trouble notification functions, which allows them to interact automatically with the issue tracking system. For example, whole groups of people can be sent e-mails, voice or text messages, according to the nature of the problem. Automated problem solving, where feasible, can correct and restart failed processes.\n\nIn nearly all BAM deployments extensive tailoring to specific enterprises is required. Many BAM solutions seek to reduce extensive customization and may offer templates that are written to solve common problems in specific sectors, for example banking, manufacturing, and stockbroking. Due to the high degree of system integration required for initial deployment, many enterprises use experts that specialize in BAM to implement solutions.\n\nBAM is now considered a critical component of Operational Intelligence (OI) solutions to deliver visibility into business operations. Multiple sources of data can be combined from different organizational silos to provide a common operating picture that uses current information. Wherever real-time insight has the greatest value, OI solutions can be applied to deliver the needed information.\n\nAll BAM solutions process events. While most of the first BAM solutions were closely linked to BPM solutions and therefore processed events emitted as the process was being orchestrated, this had the disadvantage of requiring enterprises to invest in BPM before being able to acquire and use BAM. The newer generation of BAM solutions are based on complex event processing (CEP) technology, and can process high volumes of underlying technical events to derive higher level business events, therefore reducing the dependency on BPM, and providing BAM to a wider audience of customers.\n\nA bank might be interested in minimizing the amount of money it borrows overnight from a central bank. Interbank transfers must be communicated and arranged through automation by a set time each business day. The failure of any vital communication could cost the bank large sums in interest charged by the central bank. A BAM solution would be programmed to become aware of each message and await confirmation. Failure to receive confirmation within a reasonable amount of time would be grounds for the BAM solution to raise an alarm that would set in motion manual intervention to investigate the cause of the delay and to push the problem toward resolution before it becomes costly.\n\nAnother example involves a mobile telecommunications company interested in detecting a situation whereby new customers are not set up promptly and correctly on their network and within the various CRM and billing solutions. Low-level technical events such as messages passing from one application to another over a middleware system, or transactions detected within a database logfile, are processed by a CEP engine. All events relating to an individual customer are correlated in order to detect an anomalous situation whereby an individual customer has not been promptly or correctly provisioned, or set up. An alert can be generated to notify technical operations or to notify business operations, and the failed provisioning step may be restarted automatically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39864", "title": "Business plan", "text": "Business plan\n\nA business plan is a formal written document containing business goals, the methods on how these goals can be attained, and the time frame that these goals need to be achieved. It also describes the nature of the business, includes background information on the organization, the organization's financial projections, and the strategies it intends to implement to achieve stated targets. In its entirety, this document serves as a road map that provides direction to the business.\n\nWritten business plans are often required to obtain a bank loan or other kind of financing.\n\nBusiness plans may be internally or externally focused. Externally-focused plans draft goals that are important to outside stakeholders, particularly financial stakeholders. These plans typically have detailed information about the organization or the team making effort to reach its goals. With for-profit entities, external stakeholders include investors and customers, for non-profits, external stakeholders refer to donors and clients, for government agencies, external stakeholders are the tax-payers, higher-level government agencies, and international lending bodies such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, various economic agencies of the United Nations, and development banks.\n\nInternally-focused business plans target intermediate goals required to reach the external goals. They may cover the development of a new product, a new service, a new IT system, a restructuring of finance, the refurbishing of a factory or a restructuring of the organization. An internally-focused business plan is often developed in conjunction with a balanced scorecard or a list of critical success factors. This allows success of the plan to be measured using non-financial measures. \n\nBusiness plans that identify and target internal goals, but provide only general guidance on how they will be met are called strategic plans.\n\nOperational plans describe the goals of an internal organization, working group or department. Project plans, sometimes known as project frameworks, describe the goals of a particular project. They may also address the project's place within the organization's larger strategic goals.\n\nBusiness plans are decision-making tools. The content and format of the business plan is determined by the goals and audience. For example, a business plan for a non-profit might discuss the fit between the business plan and the organization's mission. Banks are quite concerned about defaults, so a business plan for a bank loan will build a convincing case for the organization's ability to repay the loan. Venture capitalists are primarily concerned about initial investment, feasibility, and exit valuation. A business plan for a project requiring equity financing will need to explain why current resources, upcoming growth opportunities, and sustainable competitive advantage will lead to a high exit valuation.\n\nPreparing a business plan draws on a wide range of knowledge from many different business disciplines: finance, human resource management, intellectual property management, supply chain management, operations management, and marketing, among others. It can be helpful to view the business plan as a collection of sub-plans, one for each of the main business disciplines.\n\n\"... a good business plan can help to make a good business credible, understandable, and attractive to someone who is unfamiliar with the business. Writing a good business plan can’t guarantee success, but it can go a long way toward reducing the odds of failure.\" \n\nThe format of a business plan depends on its presentation context. It is common for businesses, especially start-ups, to have three or four formats for the same business plan.\n\nAn \"elevator pitch\" is a short summary of the plan's executive summary. This is often used as a teaser to awaken the interest of potential investors, customers, or strategic partners. It is called an elevator pitch as it is supposed to be content that can be explained to someone else quickly in an elevator. The elevator pitch should be between 30 and 60 seconds.\n\nA pitch deck is a slide show and oral presentation that is meant to trigger discussion and interest potential investors in reading the written presentation. The content of the presentation is usually limited to the executive summary and a few key graphs showing financial trends and key decision making benchmarks. If a new product is being proposed and time permits, a demonstration of the product may be included.\n\nA written presentation for external stakeholders is a detailed, well written, and pleasingly formatted plan targeted at external stakeholders.\n\nAn internal operational plan is a detailed plan describing planning details that are needed by management but may not be of interest to external stakeholders. Such plans have a somewhat higher degree of candor and informality than the version targeted at external stakeholders and others.\n\nTypical structure for a business plan for a start up venture \n\nTypical questions addressed by a business plan for a start up venture \n\nCost and revenue estimates are central to any business plan for deciding the viability of the planned venture. But costs are often underestimated and revenues overestimated resulting in later cost overruns, revenue shortfalls, and possibly non-viability. During the dot-com bubble 1997-2001 this was a problem for many technology start-ups. Reference class forecasting has been developed to reduce the risks of cost overruns and revenue shortfalls and thus generate more accurate business plans.\n\nAn externally targeted business plan should list all legal concerns and financial liabilities that might negatively affect investors. Depending on the amount of funds being raised and the audience to whom the plan is presented, failure to do this may have severe legal consequences.\n\nNon disclosure agreements (NDAs) with third parties, non-compete agreements, conflicts of interest, privacy concerns, and the protection of one's trade secrets may severely limit the audience to which one might show the business plan. Alternatively, they may require each party receiving the business plan to sign a contract accepting special clauses and conditions.\n\nThis situation is complicated by the fact that many venture capitalists will refuse to sign an NDA before looking at a business plan, lest it put them in the untenable position of looking at two independently developed look-alike business plans, both claiming originality. In such situations one may need to develop two versions of the business plan: a stripped down plan that can be used to develop a relationship and a detail plan that is only shown when investors have sufficient interest and trust to sign an NDA.\n\nTraditionally business plans have been highly confidential and quite limited in audience.\nThe business plan itself is generally regarded as secret.\n\nAn open business plan is a business plan with unlimited audience. The business plan is typically\nweb published and made available to all.\n\nIn the free software and open source business model, trade secrets, copyright and patents can no longer\nbe used as effective locking mechanisms to provide sustainable advantages to a particular business and therefore a secret business plan is less relevant in those models.\n\n\nFundraising is the primary purpose for many business plans, since they are related to the inherent probable success/failure of the company risk.\n\n\nThe business goals may be defined both for non-profit or for-profit organizations. For-profit business plans typically focus on financial goals, such as profit or creation of wealth. Non-profit, as well as government agency business plans tend to focus on the \"organizational mission\" which is the basis for their governmental status or their non-profit, tax-exempt status, respectively—although non-profits may also focus on optimizing revenue.\n\nThe primary difference between profit and non-profit organizations is that \"for-profit\" organizations look to maximize wealth versus non-profit organizations, which look to provide a greater good to society. In non-profit organizations, creative tensions may develop in the effort to balance mission with \"margin\" (or revenue).\n\nThe business plan is the subject of many satires. Satires are used both to express cynicism about business plans and as an educational tool to improve the quality of business plans. For example,\n"}
{"id": "1638840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1638840", "title": "Business process reengineering", "text": "Business process reengineering\n\nBusiness process re-engineering (BPR) is a business management strategy, originally pioneered in the early 1990s, focusing on the analysis and design of workflows and business processes within an organization. BPR aimed to help organizations fundamentally rethink how they do their work in order to dramatically improve customer service, cut operational costs, and become world-class competitors.\n\nBPR seeks to help companies radically restructure their organizations by focusing on the ground-up design of their business processes. According to early BPR proponent Thomas Davenport (1990), a business process is a set of logically related tasks performed to achieve a defined business outcome. Re-engineering emphasized a holistic focus on business objectives and how processes related to them, encouraging full-scale recreation of processes rather than iterative optimization of sub-processes.\n\nBusiness process reengineering is also known as business process redesign, business transformation, or business process change management.\n\nBusiness process reengineering (BPR) is the practice of rethinking and redesigning the way work is done to better support an organization's mission and reduce costs. Organizations reengineer two key areas of their businesses. First, they use modern technology to enhance data dissemination and decision-making processes. Then, they alter functional organizations to form functional teams. Reengineering starts with a high-level assessment of the organization's mission, strategic goals, and customer needs. Basic questions are asked, such as \"Does our mission need to be redefined? Are our strategic goals aligned with our mission? Who are our customers?\" An organization may find that it is operating on questionable assumptions, particularly in terms of the wants and needs of its customers. Only after the organization rethinks what it should be doing, does it go on to decide how best to do it.\n\nWithin the framework of this basic assessment of mission and goals, re-engineering focuses on the organization's business processes—the steps and procedures that govern how resources are used to create products and services that meet the needs of particular customers or markets. As a structured ordering of work steps across time and place, a business process can be decomposed into specific activities, measured, modeled, and improved. It can also be completely redesigned or eliminated altogether. Re-engineering identifies, analyzes, and re-designs an organization's core business processes with the aim of achieving dramatic improvements in critical performance measures, such as cost, quality, service, and speed.\n\nRe-engineering recognizes that an organization's business processes are usually fragmented into sub-processes and tasks that are carried out by several specialized functional areas within the organization. Often, no one is responsible for the overall performance of the entire process. Reengineering maintains that optimizing the performance of sub-processes can result in some benefits, but cannot yield dramatic improvements if the process itself is fundamentally inefficient and outmoded. For that reason, re-engineering focuses on re-designing the process as a whole in order to achieve the greatest possible benefits to the organization and their customers. This drive for realizing dramatic improvements by fundamentally re-thinking how the organization's work should be done distinguishes the re-engineering from process improvement efforts that focus on functional or incremental improvement.\n\nBusiness process reengineering (BPR) began as a private sector technique to help organizations fundamentally rethink how they do their work in order to dramatically improve customer service, cut operational costs, and become world-class competitors. A key stimulus for re-engineering has been the continuing development and deployment of sophisticated information systems and networks. Leading organizations are becoming bolder in using this technology to support innovative business processes, rather than refining current ways of doing work.\n\nIn 1990, Michael Hammer, a former professor of computer science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), published the article \"Reengineering Work: Don't Automate, Obliterate\" in the \"Harvard Business Review\", in which he claimed that the major challenge for managers is to obliterate forms of work that do not add value, rather than using technology for automating it. This statement implicitly accused managers of having focused on the wrong issues, namely that technology in general, and more specifically information technology, has been used primarily for automating existing processes rather than using it as an enabler for making non-value adding work obsolete.\n\nHammer's claim was simple: Most of the work being done does not add any value for customers, and this work should be removed, not accelerated through automation. Instead, companies should reconsider their inability to satisfy customer needs, and their insufficient cost structure. Even well-established management thinkers, such as Peter Drucker and Tom Peters, were accepting and advocating BPR as a new tool for (re-)achieving success in a dynamic world. During the following years, a fast-growing number of publications, books as well as journal articles, were dedicated to BPR, and many consulting firms embarked on this trend and developed BPR methods. However, the critics were fast to claim that BPR was a way to dehumanize the work place, increase managerial control, and to justify downsizing, i.e. major reductions of the work force, and a rebirth of Taylorism under a different label.\n\nDespite this critique, reengineering was adopted at an accelerating pace and by 1993, as many as 60% of the Fortune 500 companies claimed to either have initiated reengineering efforts, or to have plans to do so. This trend was fueled by the fast adoption of BPR by the consulting industry, but also by the study \"Made in America\", conducted by MIT, that showed how companies in many US industries had lagged behind their foreign counterparts in terms of competitiveness, time-to-market and productivity.\n\nWith the publication of critiques in 1995 and 1996 by some of the early BPR proponents, coupled with abuses and misuses of the concept by others, the reengineering fervor in the U.S. began to wane. Since then, considering business processes as a starting point for business analysis and redesign has become a widely accepted approach and is a standard part of the change methodology portfolio, but is typically performed in a less radical way than originally proposed.\n\nMore recently, the concept of Business Process Management (BPM) has gained major attention in the corporate world and can be considered a successor to the BPR wave of the 1990s, as it is evenly driven by a striving for process efficiency supported by information technology. Equivalently to the critique brought forward against BPR, BPM is now accused of focusing on technology and disregarding the people aspects of change.\n\nThe most notable definitions of reengineering are:\n\nBPR is different from other approaches to organization development (OD), especially the continuous improvement or TQM movement, by virtue of its aim for fundamental and radical change rather than iterative improvement. In order to achieve the major improvements BPR is seeking for, the change of structural organizational variables, and other ways of managing and performing work is often considered insufficient. For being able to reap the achievable benefits fully, the use of information technology (IT) is conceived as a major contributing factor. While IT traditionally has been used for supporting the existing business functions, i.e. it was used for increasing organizational efficiency, it now plays a role as enabler of new organizational forms, and patterns of collaboration within and between organizations.\n\nBPR derives its existence from different disciplines, and four major areas can be identified as being subjected to change in BPR – organization, technology, strategy, and people – where a process view is used as common framework for considering these dimensions.\n\nBusiness strategy is the primary driver of BPR initiatives and the other dimensions are governed by strategy's encompassing role. The organization dimension reflects the structural elements of the company, such as hierarchical levels, the composition of organizational units, and the distribution of work between them. Technology is concerned with the use of computer systems and other forms of communication technology in the business. In BPR, information technology is generally considered to act as enabler of new forms of organizing and collaborating, rather than supporting existing business functions. The people / human resources dimension deals with aspects such as education, training, motivation and reward systems. The concept of business processes – interrelated activities aiming at creating a value added output to a customer – is the basic underlying idea of BPR. These processes are characterized by a number of attributes: Process ownership, customer focus, value adding, and cross-functionality.\n\nInformation technology (IT) has historically played an important role in the reengineering concept. It is regarded by some as a major enabler for new forms of working and collaborating within an organization and across organizational borders.\n\nBPR literature identified several so called \"disruptive technologies\" that were supposed to challenge traditional wisdom about how work should be performed.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, especially workflow management systems were considered a significant contributor to improved process efficiency. Also, ERP (enterprise resource planning) vendors, such as SAP, JD Edwards, Oracle, PeopleSoft, positioned their solutions as vehicles for business process redesign and improvement.\n\nAlthough the labels and steps differ slightly, the early methodologies that were rooted in IT-centric BPR solutions share many of the same basic principles and elements. The following outline is one such model, based on the PRLC (Process Reengineering Life Cycle) approach developed by Guha. Simplified schematic outline of using a business process approach, exemplified for pharmaceutical R&D\n\nBenefiting from lessons learned from the early adopters, some BPR practitioners advocated a change in emphasis to a customer-centric, as opposed to an IT-centric, methodology. One such methodology, that also incorporated a Risk and Impact Assessment to account for the effect that BPR can have on jobs and operations, was described by Lon Roberts (1994). Roberts also stressed the use of change management tools to proactively address resistance to change—a factor linked to the demise of many reengineering initiatives that looked good on the drawing board.\n\nSome items to use on a process analysis checklist are: Reduce handoffs, Centralize data, Reduce delays, Free resources faster, Combine similar activities. Also within the management consulting industry, a significant number of methodological approaches have been developed.\n\nAn easy to follow seven step INSPIRE framework is developed by Bhudeb Chakravarti which can be followed by any Process Analyst to perform BPR. The seven steps of the framework are Initiate a new process reengineering project and prepare a business case for the same; Negotiate with senior management to get approval to start the process reengineering project; Select the key processes that need to be reengineered; Plan the process reengineering activities; Investigate the processes to analyze the problem areas; Redesign the selected processes to improve the performance and Ensure the successful implementation of redesigned processes through proper monitoring and evaluation.\n\nFactors that are important to BPR success include:\n\n\nThe aspects of a BPM effort that are modified include organizational structures, management systems, employee responsibilities and performance measurements, incentive systems, skills development, and the use of IT. BPR can potentially affect every aspect of how business is conducted today. Wholesale changes can cause results ranging from enviable success to complete failure.\n\nIf successful, a BPM initiative can result in improved quality, customer service, and competitiveness, as well as reductions in cost or cycle time. However, 50-70% of reengineering projects are either failures or do not achieve significant benefit.\n\nThere are many reasons for sub-optimal business processes which include:\n\n\nMany unsuccessful BPR attempts may have been due to the confusion surrounding BPR, and how it should be performed. Organizations were well aware that changes needed to be made, but did not know which areas to change or how to change them. As a result, process reengineering is a management concept that has been formed by trial and error or, in other words, practical experience. As more and more businesses reengineer their processes, knowledge of what caused the successes or failures is becoming apparent. To reap lasting benefits, companies must be willing to examine how strategy and reengineering complement each other by learning to quantify strategy in terms of cost, milestones, and timetables, by accepting ownership of the strategy throughout the organization, by assessing the organization’s current capabilities and process realistically, and by linking strategy to the budgeting process. Otherwise, BPR is only a short-term efficiency exercise.\n\nMajor changes to business processes have a direct effect on processes, technology, job roles, and workplace culture. Significant changes to even one of those areas require resources, money, and leadership. Changing them simultaneously is an extraordinary task. Like any large and complex undertaking, implementing reengineering requires the talents and energies of a broad spectrum of experts. Since BPR can involve multiple areas within the organization, it is important to get support from all affected departments. Through the involvement of selected department members, the organization can gain valuable input before a process is implemented; a step which promotes both the cooperation and the vital acceptance of the reengineered process by all segments of the organization.\n\nGetting enterprise wide commitment involves the following: top management sponsorship, bottom-up buy-in from process users, dedicated BPR team, and budget allocation for the total solution with measures to demonstrate value. Before any BPR project can be implemented successfully, there must be a commitment to the project by the management of the organization, and strong leadership must be provided. Reengineering efforts can by no means be exercised without a company-wide commitment to the goals. However, top management commitment is imperative for success. Top management must recognize the need for change, develop a complete understanding of what BPR is, and plan how to achieve it.\n\nLeadership has to be effective, strong, visible, and creative in thinking and understanding in order to provide a clear vision. Convincing every affected group within the organization of the need for BPR is a key step in successfully implementing a process. By informing all affected groups at every stage, and emphasizing the positive end results of the reengineering process, it is possible to minimize resistance to change and increase the odds for success. The ultimate success of BPR depends on the strong, consistent, and continuous involvement of all departmental levels within the organization.\n\nOnce organization-wide commitment has been secured from all departments involved in the reengineering effort and at different levels, the critical step of selecting a BPR team must be taken. This team will form the nucleus of the BPR effort, make key decisions and recommendations, and help communicate the details and benefits of the BPR program to the entire organization. The determinants of an effective BPR team may be summarized as follows: \n\nThe most effective BPR teams include active representatives from the following work groups: top management, business area responsible for the process being addressed, technology groups, finance, and members of all ultimate process users’ groups. Team members who are selected from each work group within the organization will affect the outcome of the reengineered process according to their desired requirements. The BPR team should be mixed in depth and knowledge. For example, it may include members with the following characteristics:\n\n\nMoreover, Covert (1997) recommends that in order to have an effective BPR team, it must be kept under ten players. If the organization fails to keep the team at a manageable size, the entire process will be much more difficult to execute efficiently and effectively. The efforts of the team must be focused on identifying breakthrough opportunities and designing new work steps or processes that will create quantum gains and competitive advantage.\n\nAnother important factor in the success of any BPR effort is performing a thorough business needs analysis. Too often, BPR teams jump directly into the technology without first assessing the current processes of the organization and determining what exactly needs reengineering. In this analysis phase, a series of sessions should be held with process owners and stakeholders, regarding the need and strategy for BPR. These sessions build a consensus as to the vision of the ideal business process. They help identify essential goals for BPR within each department and then collectively define objectives for how the project will affect each work group or department on individual basis and the business organization as a whole. The idea of these sessions is to conceptualize the ideal business process for the organization and build a business process model. Those items that seem unnecessary or unrealistic may be eliminated or modified later on in the diagnosing stage of the BPR project. It is important to acknowledge and evaluate all ideas in order to make all participants feel that they are a part of this important and crucial process. Results of these meetings will help formulate the basic plan for the project.\n\nThis plan includes the following: \nThe business needs analysis contributes tremendously to the re-engineering effort by helping the BPR team to prioritize and determine where it should focus its improvements efforts.\n\nThe business needs analysis also helps in relating the BPR project goals back to key business objectives and the overall strategic direction for the organization. This linkage should show the thread from the top to the bottom of the organization, so each person can easily connect the overall business direction with the re-engineering effort. This alignment must be demonstrated from the perspective of financial performance, customer service, associate value, and the vision for the organization. Developing a business vision and process objectives relies, on the one hand, on a clear understanding of organizational strengths, weaknesses, and market structure, and on the other, on awareness and knowledge about innovative activities undertaken by competitors and other organizations. \nBPR projects that are not in alignment with the organization’s strategic direction can be counterproductive. There is always a possibility that an organization may make significant investments in an area that is not a core competency for the company and later outsource this capability. Such reengineering initiatives are wasteful and steal resources from other strategic projects. Moreover, without strategic alignment, the organization’s key stakeholders and sponsors may find themselves unable to provide the level of support the organization needs in terms of resources, especially if there are other more critical projects to the future of the business, and are more aligned with the strategic direction.\n\nResearchers consider adequate IT infrastructure reassessment and composition as a vital factor in successful BPR implementation. Hammer (1990) prescribes the use of IT to challenge the assumptions inherent in the work process that have existed since long before the advent of modern computer and communications technology. Factors related to IT infrastructure have been increasingly considered by many researchers and practitioners as a vital component of successful BPR efforts. \n\nThese are vital factors that contribute to building an effective IT infrastructure for business processes. BPR must be accompanied by strategic planning which addresses leveraging IT as a competitive tool. An IT infrastructure is made up of physical assets, intellectual assets, shared services, and their linkages. The way in which the IT infrastructure components are composed and their linkages determines the extent to which information resources can be delivered. An effective IT infrastructure composition process follows a top-down approach, beginning with business strategy and IS strategy and passing through designs of data, systems, and computer architecture.\n\nLinkages between the IT infrastructure components, as well as descriptions of their contexts of interaction, are important for ensuring integrity and consistency among the IT infrastructure components. Furthermore, IT standards have a major role in reconciling various infrastructure components to provide shared IT services that are of a certain degree of effectiveness to support business process applications, as well as to guide the process of acquiring, managing, and utilizing IT assets. The IT infrastructure shared services and the human IT infrastructure components, in terms of their responsibilities and their needed expertise, are both vital to the process of the IT infrastructure composition. IT strategic alignment is approached through the process of integration between business and IT strategies, as well as between IT and organizational infrastructures.\n\nMost analysts view BPR and IT as irrevocably linked. Walmart, for example, would not have been able to reengineer the processes used to procure and distribute mass-market retail goods without IT. Ford was able to decrease its headcount in the procurement department by 75 percent by using IT in conjunction with BPR, in another well-known example. The IT infrastructure and BPR are interdependent in the sense that deciding the information requirements for the new business processes determines the IT infrastructure constituents, and a recognition of IT capabilities provides alternatives for BPR. Building a responsive IT infrastructure is highly dependent on an appropriate determination of business process information needs. This, in turn, is determined by the types of activities embedded in a business process, and their sequencing and reliance on other organizational processes.\n\nAl-Mashari and Zairi (2000) suggest that BPR involves changes in people behavior and culture, processes, and technology. As a result, there are many factors that prevent the effective implementation of BPR and hence restrict innovation and continuous improvement. Change management, which involves all human and social related changes and cultural adjustment techniques needed by management to facilitate the insertion of newly designed processes and structures into working practice and to deal effectively with resistance, is considered by many researchers to be a crucial component of any BPR effort.One of the most overlooked obstacles to successful BPR project implementation is resistance from those whom implementers believe will benefit the most. Most projects underestimate the cultural effect of major process and structural change and as a result, do not achieve the full potential of their change effort. Many people fail to understand that change is not an event, but rather a management technique.\n\nChange management is the discipline of managing change as a process, with due consideration that employees are people, not programmable machines. Change is implicitly driven by motivation which is fueled by the recognition of the need for change. An important step towards any successful reengineering effort is to convey an understanding of the necessity for change. It is a well-known fact that organizations do not change unless people change; the better change is managed, the less painful the transition is.\n\nOrganizational culture is a determining factor in successful BPR implementation. Organizational culture influences the organization’s ability to adapt to change. Culture in an organization is a self-reinforcing set of beliefs, attitudes, and behavior. Culture is one of the most resistant elements of organizational behavior and is extremely difficult to change. BPR must consider current culture in order to change these beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors effectively. Messages conveyed from management in an organization continually enforce current culture. Change is implicitly driven by motivation which is fueled by the recognition of the need for change.\n\nThe first step towards any successful transformation effort is to convey an understanding of the necessity for change. Management rewards system, stories of company origin and early successes of founders, physical symbols, and company icons constantly enforce the message of the current culture. Implementing BPR successfully is dependent on how thoroughly management conveys the new cultural messages to the organization. These messages provide people in the organization with a guideline to predict the outcome of acceptable behavior patterns. People should be the focus for any successful business change.\nBPR is not a recipe for successful business transformation if it focuses on only computer technology and process redesign. In fact, many BPR projects have failed because they did not recognize the importance of the human element in implementing BPR. Understanding the people in organizations, the current company culture, motivation, leadership, and past performance is essential to recognize, understand, and integrate into the vision and implementation of BPR. If the human element is given equal or greater emphasis in BPR, the odds of successful business transformation increase substantially.\n\nMany organizational change theorists hold a common view of organizations adjusting gradually and incrementally and responding locally to individual crises as they arise Common elements are: \n\nIn conclusion, successful BPR can potentially create substantial improvements in the way organizations do business and can actually produce fundamental improvements for business operations. However, in order to achieve that, there are some key success factors that must be taken into consideration when performing BPR.\n\nBPR success factors are a collection of lessons learned from reengineering projects and from these lessons common themes have emerged. In addition, the ultimate success of BPR depends on the people who do it and on how well they can be committed and motivated to be creative and to apply their detailed knowledge to the reengineering initiative. Organizations planning to undertake BPR must take into consideration the success factors of BPR in order to ensure that their reengineering related change efforts are comprehensive, well-implemented, and have minimum chance of failure. This has been very beneficial in all terms\n\nMany companies used reengineering as a pretext to downsizing, though this was not the intent of reengineering's proponents; consequently, reengineering earned a reputation for being synonymous with downsizing and layoffs.\n\nIn many circumstances, reengineering has not always lived up to its expectations. Some prominent reasons include:\n\nOthers have claimed that reengineering was a recycled buzzword for commonly-held ideas. Abrahamson (1996) argued that fashionable management terms tend to follow a lifecycle, which for Reengineering peaked between 1993 and 1996 (Ponzi and Koenig 2002). They argue that Reengineering was in fact nothing new (as e.g. when Henry Ford implemented the assembly line in 1908, he was in fact reengineering, radically changing the way of thinking in an organization).\n\nThe most frequent critique against BPR concerns the strict focus on efficiency and technology and the disregard of people in the organization that is subjected to a reengineering initiative. Very often, the label BPR was used for major workforce reductions. Thomas Davenport, an early BPR proponent, stated that:\n\n\"When I wrote about \"business process redesign\" in 1990, I explicitly said that using it for cost reduction alone was not a sensible goal. And consultants Michael Hammer and James Champy, the two names most closely associated with reengineering, have insisted all along that layoffs shouldn't be the point. But the fact is, once out of the bottle, the reengineering genie quickly turned ugly.\"\nHammer similarly admitted that:\n\n\"I wasn't smart enough about that. I was reflecting my engineering background and was insufficient appreciative of the human dimension. I've learned that's critical.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2254416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2254416", "title": "Business record", "text": "Business record\n\nA business record is a document (hard copy or digital) that records a business dealing. Business records include meeting minutes, memoranda, employment contracts, and .\n\nIt must be retrievable at a later date so that the business dealings can be accurately reviewed as required. Since business is dependent upon confidence and trust, not only must the record be accurate and easily retrieved, the processes surrounding its creation and retrieval must be perceived by customers and the business community to consistently deliver a full and accurate record with no gaps or additions.\n\nMost business records have specified retention periods based on legal requirements and / or internal company policies. This is important because in many countries (including the United States) many documents \"may\" be required by law to be disclosed to government regulatory agencies or to the general public. Likewise, they \"may\" be discoverable if the business is sued. Under the business records exception in the Federal Rules of Evidence, certain types of business records, particularly those made and kept with regularity, may be considered admissible in court despite containing hearsay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "185092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185092", "title": "Business rule", "text": "Business rule\n\nA business rule defines or constrains some aspect of business and always resolves to either true or false. Business rules are intended to assert business structure or to control or influence the behavior of the business. Business rules describe the operations, definitions and constraints that apply to an organization. Business rules can apply to people, processes, corporate behavior and computing systems in an organization, and are put in place to help the organization achieve its goals.\n\nFor example, a business rule might state that \"no credit check is to be performed on return customers\". Other examples of business rules include requiring a rental agent to disallow a rental tenant if their credit rating is too low, or requiring company agents to use a list of preferred suppliers and supply schedules.\n\nWhile a business rule may be informal or even unwritten, documenting the rules clearly and making sure that they don't conflict is a valuable activity. When carefully managed, rules can be used to help the organization to better achieve goals, remove obstacles to market growth, reduce costly mistakes, improve communication, comply with legal requirements, and increase customer loyalty.\n\nBusiness rules tell an organization \"what\" it can do in detail, while strategy tells it \"how\" to focus the business at a macro level to optimize results. Put differently, a strategy provides high-level direction about what an organization should do. Business rules provide detailed guidance about how a strategy can be translated to action.\n\nBusiness rules exist for an organization whether or not they are ever written down, talked about or even part of the organization's consciousness. However it is a fairly common practice for organizations to gather business rules. This may happen in one of two ways.\n\nOrganizations may choose to proactively describe their business practices, producing a database of rules. While this activity may be beneficial, it may be expensive and time-consuming. For example, they might hire a consultant to comb through the organization to document and consolidate the various standards and methods currently in practice.\n\nGathering business rules is also called rules harvesting or business rule mining. The business analyst or consultant can extract the rules from IT documentation (like use cases, specifications or system code). They may also organize workshops and interviews with subject matter experts (commonly abbreviated as SMEs). Software technologies designed to capture business rules through analysis of legacy source code or of actual user behavior can accelerate the rule gathering processing.\n\nMore commonly, business rules are discovered and documented informally during the initial stages of a project. In this case the collecting of the business rules is incidental. In addition, business projects, such as the launching of a new product or the re-engineering of a complex process, might lead to the definition of new business rules. This practice of incidental, or emergent, business rule gathering is vulnerable to the creation of inconsistent or even conflicting business rules within different organizational units, or within the same organizational unit over time. This inconsistency creates problems that can be difficult to find and fix.\n\nAllowing business rules to be documented during the course of business projects is less expensive and easier to accomplish than the first approach, but if the rules are not collected in a consistent manner, they are not valuable. In order to teach business people about the best ways to gather and document business rules, experts in business analysis have created the Business Rules Methodology. This methodology defines a process of capturing business rules in natural language, in a verifiable and understandable way. This process is not difficult to learn, can be performed in real-time, and empowers business stakeholders to manage their own business rules in a consistent manner.\n\nAccording to the white paper by the Business Rules Group, a statement of a business rule falls into one of four categories:\nThe most basic element of a business rule is the language used to express it. The very definition of a term is itself a business rule that describes how people think and talk about things. Thus, defining a term is establishing a category of business rule. Terms have traditionally been documented in a Glossary or as entities in a conceptual model.\n\nThe nature or operating structure of an organization can be described in terms of the facts that relate terms to each other. To say that a customer can place an order is NOT a business rule, but a \"fact\". Facts can be documented as natural language sentences or as relationships, attributes, and generalization structures in a graphical model.\n\nEvery enterprise constrains behavior in some way, and this is closely related to constraints on what data may or may not be updated. To prevent a record from being made is, in many cases, to prevent an action from taking place.\n\nBusiness rules (including laws of nature) define how knowledge in one form may be transformed into other knowledge, possibly in a different form.\n\nBusiness rules are gathered in these situations: \nThis lack of consistent approach is mostly due to the cost and effort required to maintain the list of rules.\n\nWhile newer software tools are able to combine business rule management and execution, it is important to realize that these two ideas are distinct, and each provides value that is different from the other. Software packages automate business rules using business logic. The term \"business rule\" is sometimes used interchangeably with \"business logic\"; however the latter connotes an engineering practice and the former an intrinsic business practice. There is value in outlining an organization's business rules regardless of whether this information is used to automate its operations.\n\nOne of the pitfalls in trying to fill the gap between rules management and execution is trying to give business rules the syntax of logic, and merely describing logical constructs in a natural language. Translation for engines is easier, but business users will no longer be able to write down the rules.\n\nBusiness rules can be expressed using modeling approaches such as Unified Modeling Language, Z notation, Business Process Execution Language, Business Process Modeling Notation, Decision Model and Notation or the Semantics of Business Vocabulary and Business Rules (SBVR).\n\nBusiness rules encoded in computer code in an operational program are known as business logic.\n\nSimilar to how Business Risks can be structured as:\n\nIf <condition(s)> Then <consequence(s)>\n\na Business Rule can be structured as:\n\nWhen <condition(s)> Then <imposition(s)> Otherwise <consequence(s)>\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57914778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57914778", "title": "Catalonia Trade &amp; Investment", "text": "Catalonia Trade &amp; Investment\n\nCatalonia Trade & Investment (Catalan: \"Agència per a la Competitivitat de l'Empresa, ACCIÓ\") is the Catalan Government’s agency that promotes foreign investment and business competitiveness. Headquartered in Barcelona, it currently operates globally through a network of 40 offices all over the world.\n\nCatalonia Trade & Investment’s mission is to promote innovation, internationalisation, trade and funding of Catalan companies and startups. It also provides support, insight and advice to international companies interested in investing in Catalonia and Barcelona.\n\nFounded in 2008 as a result of merging the public office Commercial Promotion Consortium of Catalonia (Catalan: Consorci de Promoció Comercial de Catalunya, COPCA) and the Innovation and Business Development Center (Catalan: Centre d'Innovació i Desenvolupament Empresarial, CIDEM).\n\nThe first foreign office of COPCA and CIDEM was established in Tokyo in 1988. During the same period the first American office in New York was established. In 1989 two offices were opened in Europe (London and Paris) and one in North Africa (Casablanca). In 1992 the first Middle East office in Dubai was opened.\n\nSince COPCA and CIDEM merged and became Catalonia Trade & Investment, the number of exterior offices has grown until the current 40. In fact, the latest offices were opened in 2017 in Amsterdam, Nairobi, Tehran and Zagreb-Belgrade. The agency covers 100 markets in the five continents.\n\nCatalonia Trade & Investment is part of the Catalan Ministry of Business and Knowledge. Its current CEO is Joan Romero, appointed in June 2017. The agency has several departments including Innovation, Internationalization, Investment and Finance, among others.\n\nList of departments:\n\nCatalonia Trade & Investment’s promotes business competitiveness of Catalan companies and supports international companies interested in investing in Catalonia & Barcelona. It is in charge of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46685455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46685455", "title": "Century Golden Resources Group", "text": "Century Golden Resources Group\n\nCentury Golden Resources Group is a Chinese privately held real estate development company.\n\nIt is headed by the Chinese billionaire Huang Rulun, and has over 20,000 employees. The company has invested in 20 five-star hotels and 10 shopping malls, with revenues in 2013 of nearly $5 billion.\n"}
{"id": "25968338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25968338", "title": "Channel check", "text": "Channel check\n\nIn financial analysis, a channel check is third-party research on a company's business based on collecting information from the distribution channels of the company. It may be conducted in order to value the company, to perform due diligence in various contexts, and the like. Industries where channel checks are more often conducted include retail, technology, commodities, etc.\n\nIt is a practice performed by third party researchers and financial analysts in order to collect information about a company’s business. The Channel Check process includes interviewing people within other organizations connected to the company’s supply and distribution channels. These interviews usually occur without the target company’s knowledge. For example, a channel check could include one or multiple conversations with a store manager to understand their targeted customer. Analysts generally look for top products, customer buying patterns and past performance.\n\nAnalysts could also contact one or several suppliers or vendors to obtain information about the targeted company. In these interviews analysts are looking for quantity of materials being demanded and prices. Suppliers could also help Analysts to see the “Bigger Picture” of a company’s production plans, new products and more. Suppliers may also give an indication of the raw material availability, finished product inventory levels, promotion plans to the Analysts.\n\nChannel checks can give insights complementary to balance sheet analysis, such as distributor and retailer attitudes towards a product and its competitors, seasonal and geographic variation, inventory levels (notably channel stuffing), and so on.\n\n"}
{"id": "24867541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24867541", "title": "Chef2chef", "text": "Chef2chef\n\nChef2Chef.net is a culinary website with recipes, columns, food-related forums and blogs, chef interviews, and online cooking classes. The site has an index and search tool that includes culinary schools in the U.S. and around the globe with information available by city, state, and country. Chef2Chef has a restaurant and food services employment job board for job seekers and employers and a Marketplace with equipment, services, and supplies for the chef consumer and food service organizations. The site also posts information about industry scholarships and grants, food-related festivals and events, and farmers markets across the U.S. and Canada.\n\nChef2Chef was co-founded in 1999 by David and Pamela Nelson and partners, Fred and Margie Roosli. QuinStreet, Inc., an online marketing company based in Foster City, CA acquired the site in October 2006.\n\nIn 2002, PC Magazine Website Rover editors rated Chef2Chef.net the Editor's Choice of their top eight culinary websites.\n\n"}
{"id": "6262995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6262995", "title": "Colocation (business)", "text": "Colocation (business)\n\nColocation (or co-location) is the act of placing multiple (sometimes related) entities within a single location.\n\n\nColocation is often used in the data sourcing industry to mean off-site data storage, usually in a data center. This is very important for businesses since the loss of data can be crucial for companies of any size, up to and including disciplinary action for employees or loss of their job. An unexpected loss in data can result from fires, earthquakes, floods, or any sort of natural disaster.\n\nData colocation technology began to take hold in the telecommunications industry. Colocation enables multiple customers to access network, server, and data storage space, connecting them to a variety of service providers.\n"}
{"id": "3617893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3617893", "title": "Comp card", "text": "Comp card\n\nA comp card (also called composite card, z card, zed card or sed card) is a marketing tool for actors and especially models. They serve as the latest and best of a model's portfolio and are used as a business card. A Z-CARD is also a folded leaflet format, typically used for marketing communications campaigns for example a loyalty programme or seasonal promotion.\n\nPeter Marlowe in London invented models composites in 1965, then printed on paper to A4 format. The format was changed in 1972 to A5 card format, for filing purposes, and a few other companies started publishing cards for the model industry under different trade names since Peter Marlowe had registered the trademark “Model Composite” in Europe and the USA. Amongst these was Sebastian Sed who traded under the name Sed Cards, which are sometimes mis-pronounced as Z (\"Zed\") or Set cards. The publishing house of Marlowe Press stopped trading in 1990 and the words \"models composites\" and \"comp cards\" became generic within the model industry. Comp card databases and creation tools have moved online in recent years.\n\nA comp card typically contains a minimum of two pages – a cover page with full size portrait and a second page with a selection of representative shots from the portfolio. It lists the model's basic stats – typically height, weight, three sizes (bust, waist, hips) for women, suit or chest size and waist and inseam sizes for men, plus shoe size, eye and hair color, nationality and contact information. It is printed on both sides of an 8.5\" x 5.5\" piece of card stock (12 pt stock) (US) or A5 on card weight (350/400 g/m stock in metric countries) which is between 300 and 450 µm thick depending on the card stock or quality chosen (Europe, Asia).\n\nComp cards have been around for many years as the essential marketing tool for a model and are likely to retain this standing because they are an inexpensive way to effectively and professionally showcase a model's ability. Composite cards are used on three major levels – they are used by models, agents and the agent's client\n\nCurrently, models have many different options of creating comp cards. They can ask their photographer or create their own on their computers using image editing or graphics software. In addition, with technology's increasingly strong influence in the digital market, many printing companies have looked to the internet to facilitate the ordering process. Comp card printing prices can vary depending on the number of pictures used on the card, the type of paper stock used, and the general printing quality. Different layout styles are available or can be created.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38386396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38386396", "title": "Construction Data Company", "text": "Construction Data Company\n\nConstruction Data Company, is a publisher of business information which caters to the commercial construction industry. They are also known as CDC News and CDC Publishing, and are the third largest provider of commercial SaaS construction reports in the United States, next to Dodge Report and Reed Construction Data. They supply construction data and project information for the commercial construction industry through numerous regional reports in 30 states.\n\nInformation products are targeted to general contractors, sub-contractors, suppliers and manufacturers reps and are available in print or online. CDC is headquartered in Vero Beach, Florida and owned by an investment group, ALTA, LLC. CDC's Lead Manager software has consistently achieved the highest ratings of customer satisfaction and product innovation in the industry. They have a partnership with eTakeoff.com which allows general contractors and sub-contractors whom subscribe to the service to download blueprints (or \"plans\") and spec books directly to a plotter through computer-aided design. Contractors also have access to a given project's architectural reprography.\n\nCDC operates three companies under its umbrella, each focusing on a different geographic location. BidTool.net covers the construction activity in Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin, and Colorado, while CDC covers most of the rest of the country, with the exception of the southeastern US, which is covered by its DataFax arm.\n\nThe company, founded in the late 1970s, offers both online reports in all markets and a paper report is maintained in a few select markets, such as New England. The company generates approximately $10M in annual revenue. CDC's president is L. William Black.\n\nIn 2016 Construction Data became a part of ConstructConnect which was the result of a merger with iSqFt, BidClerk, and Construction Market Data.\n\n"}
{"id": "21395468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21395468", "title": "Consumer relationship system", "text": "Consumer relationship system\n\nConsumer relationship systems (CRS) are specialized customer relationship management (CRM) software applications that are used to handle a company's dealings with its customers.\n\nCurrent consumer relationship systems integrate the software with telephone and call recording systems as well as with corporate systems for input and reporting. Customers can provide input from the company's website directly into the CRS. These systems are popular because they can deliver the 'voice of the consumer' that contributes to product quality improvement and that ultimately increases corporate profits.\n\nConsumer relationship systems that provide automated support as well as advanced systems may have artificial intelligence (AI) interfaces that can extract and analyse data collected, or handle basic questions and complaints.\n\nThe first CRS was developed in the 1980s. In 1981 Michael Wilke and Robert Thornton founded Wilke/Thornton, Inc in Columbus, Ohio, to develop new CRS software.\n\n"}
{"id": "20928609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20928609", "title": "Corder Drum Company", "text": "Corder Drum Company\n\nCorder Drum Company was a percussion instrument manufacturing company based in Huntsville, Alabama. The company was created in 1979 by Jim Corder, following his purchase of the dies, moulds and tooling apparatus of the Fibes Drum Company from its then-owner, the C.F. Martin Organization. Corder Drum manufactured a line of wood shell drums using Fibes-designed lugs, strainers and hoops until 1990, when Corder sold his company to Sammy Darwin, a radio programmer who renamed the operation Darwin Drums. Four years later, Darwin sold the company to Tommy Robertson, who brought back the Fibes Drum Company name for the product line.\n"}
{"id": "7485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7485", "title": "Corporation", "text": "Corporation\n\nA corporation is a company, a group of people or an organization authorized to act as a single entity (legally a person) and recognized as such in law. Early incorporated entities were established by charter (i.e. by an \"ad hoc\" act granted by a monarch or passed by a parliament or legislature). Most jurisdictions now allow the creation of new corporations through registration. Corporations enjoy limited liability for their investors, which can lead to losses being externalized from investors to the government or general public.\n\nCorporations come in many different types but are usually divided by the law of the jurisdiction where they are chartered into two kinds: by whether they can issue stock or not, or by whether they are formed to make a profit or not.\n\nWhere local law distinguishes corporations by the ability to issue stock, corporations allowed to do so are referred to as \"stock corporations\", ownership of the corporation is through stock, and owners of stock are referred to as \"stockholders\" or \"shareholders\". Corporations not allowed to issue stock are referred to as \"non-stock\" corporations; those who are considered the owners of a non-stock corporation are persons (or other entities) who have obtained membership in the corporation and are referred to as a \"member\" of the corporation.\n\nCorporations chartered in regions where they are distinguished by whether they are allowed to be for profit or not are referred to as \"for profit\" and \"not-for-profit\" corporations, respectively.\n\nThere is some overlap between stock/non-stock and for-profit/not-for-profit in that not-for-profit corporations are always non-stock as well. A for-profit corporation is almost always a stock corporation, but some for-profit corporations may choose to be non-stock. To simplify the explanation, whenever \"Stockholder\" or \"shareholder\" is used in the rest of this article to refer to a stock corporation, it is presumed to mean the same as \"member\" for a non-profit corporation or for a profit, non-stock corporation.\n\nRegistered corporations have legal personality and their shares are owned by shareholders whose liability is generally limited to their investment. Shareholders do not typically actively manage a corporation; shareholders instead elect or appoint a board of directors to control the corporation in a fiduciary capacity. In most circumstances, a shareholder may also serve as a director or officer of a corporation.\n\nIn American English, the word \"corporation\" is most often used to describe large business corporations. In British English and in the Commonwealth countries, the term \"company\" is more widely used to describe the same sort of entity while the word \"corporation\" encompasses all incorporated entities. In American English, the word \"company\" can include entities such as partnerships that would not be referred to as companies in British English as they are not a separate legal entity.\n\nLate in the 19th century, a new form of company having the limited liability protections of a corporation, and the more favorable tax treatment of either a sole proprietorship or partnership was developed. While not a corporation, this new type of entity became very attractive as an alternative for corporations not needing to issue stock. In Germany, the organization was referred to as \"Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung\" or \"GmbH\". In the last quarter of the 20th Century this new form of non-corporate organization became available in the United States and other countries, and was known as the \"limited liability company\" or \"LLC\". Since the GmbH and LLC forms of organization are technically not corporations (even though they have many of the same features), they will not be discussed in this article.\n\nThe word \"corporation\" derives from \"corpus\", the Latin word for body, or a \"body of people\". By the time of Justinian (reigned 527–565), Roman law recognized a range of corporate entities under the names \"universitas\", \"corpus\" or \"collegium\". These included the state itself (the \"Populus Romanus\"), municipalities, and such private associations as sponsors of a religious cult, burial clubs, political groups, and guilds of craftsmen or traders. Such bodies commonly had the right to own property and make contracts, to receive gifts and legacies, to sue and be sued, and, in general, to perform legal acts through representatives. Private associations were granted designated privileges and liberties by the emperor.\n\nEntities which carried on business and were the subjects of legal rights were found in ancient Rome, and the Maurya Empire in ancient India. In medieval Europe, churches became incorporated, as did local governments, such as the Pope and the City of London Corporation. The point was that the incorporation would survive longer than the lives of any particular member, existing in perpetuity. The alleged oldest commercial corporation in the world, the Stora Kopparberg mining community in Falun, Sweden, obtained a charter from King Magnus Eriksson in 1347.\n\nIn medieval times, traders would do business through common law constructs, such as partnerships. Whenever people acted together with a view to profit, the law deemed that a partnership arose. Early guilds and livery companies were also often involved in the regulation of competition between traders.\n\nThe progenitors of the modern corporation were the chartered companies, such as the Dutch East India Company (VOC) and the Hudson's Bay Company, which were created to lead the colonial ventures of European nations in the 17th century. Acting under a charter sanctioned by the Dutch government, the Dutch East India Company defeated Portuguese forces and established itself in the Moluccan Islands in order to profit from the European demand for spices. Investors in the VOC were issued paper certificates as proof of share ownership, and were able to trade their shares on the original Amsterdam Stock Exchange. Shareholders were also explicitly granted limited liability in the company's royal charter.\n\nIn England, the government created corporations under a royal charter or an Act of Parliament with the grant of a monopoly over a specified territory. The best-known example, established in 1600, was the East India Company of London. Queen Elizabeth I granted it the exclusive right to trade with all countries to the east of the Cape of Good Hope. Some corporations at this time would act on the government's behalf, bringing in revenue from its exploits abroad. Subsequently, the Company became increasingly integrated with English and later British military and colonial policy, just as most corporations were essentially dependent on the Royal Navy's ability to control trade routes.\n\nLabeled by both contemporaries and historians as \"the grandest society of merchants in the universe\", the English East India Company would come to symbolize the dazzlingly rich potential of the corporation, as well as new methods of business that could be both brutal and exploitative. On 31 December 1600, Queen Elizabeth I granted the company a 15-year monopoly on trade to and from the East Indies and Africa. By 1711, shareholders in the East India Company were earning a return on their investment of almost 150 per cent. Subsequent stock offerings demonstrated just how lucrative the Company had become. Its first stock offering in 1713–1716 raised £418,000, its second in 1717–1722 raised £1.6 million.\nA similar chartered company, the South Sea Company, was established in 1711 to trade in the Spanish South American colonies, but met with less success. The South Sea Company's monopoly rights were supposedly backed by the Treaty of Utrecht, signed in 1713 as a settlement following the War of the Spanish Succession, which gave Great Britain an \"asiento\" to trade in the region for thirty years. In fact the Spanish remained hostile and let only one ship a year enter. Unaware of the problems, investors in Britain, enticed by extravagant promises of profit from company promoters bought thousands of shares. By 1717, the South Sea Company was so wealthy (still having done no real business) that it assumed the public debt of the British government. This accelerated the inflation of the share price further, as did the Bubble Act 1720, which (possibly with the motive of protecting the South Sea Company from competition) prohibited the establishment of any companies without a Royal Charter. The share price rose so rapidly that people began buying shares merely in order to sell them at a higher price, which in turn led to higher share prices. This was the first speculative bubble the country had seen, but by the end of 1720, the bubble had \"burst\", and the share price sank from £1000 to under £100. As bankruptcies and recriminations ricocheted through government and high society, the mood against corporations and errant directors was bitter.\n\nIn the late 18th century, Stewart Kyd, the author of the first treatise on corporate law in English, defined a corporation as:\n\nDue to the late 18th century abandonment of mercantilist economic theory and the rise of classical liberalism and laissez-faire economic theory due to a revolution in economics led by Adam Smith and other economists, corporations transitioned from being government or guild affiliated entities to being public and private economic entities free of governmental directions.\n\nAdam Smith wrote in his 1776 work \"The Wealth of Nations\" that mass corporate activity could not match private entrepreneurship, because people in charge of others' money would not exercise as much care as they would with their own.\n\nThe British Bubble Act 1720's prohibition on establishing companies remained in force until its repeal in 1825. By this point, the Industrial Revolution had gathered pace, pressing for legal change to facilitate business activity. The repeal was the beginning of a gradual lifting on restrictions, though business ventures (such as those chronicled by Charles Dickens in \"Martin Chuzzlewit\") under primitive companies legislation were often scams. Without cohesive regulation, proverbial operations like the \"Anglo-Bengalee Disinterested Loan and Life Assurance Company\" were undercapitalised ventures promising no hope of success except for richly paid promoters.\n\nThe process of incorporation was possible only through a royal charter or a private act and was limited, owing to Parliament's jealous protection of the privileges and advantages thereby granted. As a result, many businesses came to be operated as unincorporated associations with possibly thousands of members. Any consequent litigation had to be carried out in the joint names of all the members and was almost impossibly cumbersome. Though Parliament would sometimes grant a private act to allow an individual to represent the whole in legal proceedings, this was a narrow and necessarily costly expedient, allowed only to established companies.\n\nThen, in 1843, William Gladstone became the chairman of a Parliamentary Committee on Joint Stock Companies, which led to the Joint Stock Companies Act 1844, regarded as the first modern piece of company law. The Act created the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies, empowered to register companies by a two-stage process. The first, provisional, stage cost £5 and did not confer corporate status, which arose after completing the second stage for another £5. For the first time in history, it was possible for ordinary people through a simple registration procedure to incorporate. The advantage of establishing a company as a separate legal person was mainly administrative, as a unified entity under which the rights and duties of all investors and managers could be channeled.\n\nHowever, there was still no limited liability and company members could still be held responsible for unlimited losses by the company. The next, crucial development, then, was the Limited Liability Act 1855, passed at the behest of the then Vice President of the Board of Trade, Mr. Robert Lowe. This allowed investors to limit their liability in the event of business failure to the amount they invested in the company – shareholders were still liable directly to creditors, but just for the unpaid portion of their shares. (The principle that shareholders are liable to the corporation had been introduced in the Joint Stock Companies Act 1844).\n\nThe 1855 Act allowed limited liability to companies of more than 25 members (shareholders). Insurance companies were excluded from the act, though it was standard practice for insurance contracts to exclude action against individual members. Limited liability for insurance companies was allowed by the Companies Act 1862.\n\nThis prompted the English periodical \"The Economist\" to write in 1855 that \"never, perhaps, was a change so vehemently and generally demanded, of which the importance was so much overrated. \" The major error of this judgment was recognised by the same magazine more than 70 years later, when it claimed that, \"[t]he economic historian of the future. . . may be inclined to assign to the nameless inventor of the principle of limited liability, as applied to trading corporations, a place of honour with Watt and Stephenson, and other pioneers of the Industrial Revolution. \"\n\nThese two features – a simple registration procedure and limited liability – were subsequently codified into the landmark 1856 Joint Stock Companies Act. This was subsequently consolidated with a number of other statutes in the Companies Act 1862, which remained in force for the rest of the century, up to and including the time of the decision in \"Salomon v A Salomon & Co Ltd\".\n\nThe legislation shortly gave way to a railway boom, and from then, the numbers of companies formed soared. In the later nineteenth century, depression took hold, and just as company numbers had boomed, many began to implode and fall into insolvency. Much strong academic, legislative and judicial opinion was opposed to the notion that businessmen could escape accountability for their role in the failing businesses.\n\nIn 1892, Germany introduced the Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung with a separate legal personality and limited liability even if all the shares of the company were held by only one person. This inspired other countries to introduce corporations of this kind.\n\nThe last significant development in the history of companies was the 1897 decision of the House of Lords in \"Salomon v. Salomon & Co.\" where the House of Lords confirmed the separate legal personality of the company, and that the liabilities of the company were separate and distinct from those of its owners.\n\nIn the United States, forming a corporation usually required an act of legislation until the late 19th century. Many private firms, such as Carnegie's steel company and Rockefeller's Standard Oil, avoided the corporate model for this reason (as a trust). State governments began to adopt more permissive corporate laws from the early 19th century, although these were all restrictive in design, often with the intention of preventing corporations for gaining too much wealth and power.\n\nNew Jersey was the first state to adopt an \"enabling\" corporate law, with the goal of attracting more business to the state, in 1896. In 1899, Delaware followed New Jersey's lead with the enactment of an enabling corporate statute, but Delaware only became the leading corporate state after the enabling provisions of the 1896 New Jersey corporate law were repealed in 1913.\n\nThe end of the 19th century saw the emergence of holding companies and corporate mergers creating larger corporations with dispersed shareholders. Countries began enacting anti-trust laws to prevent anti-competitive practices and corporations were granted more legal rights and protections.\nThe 20th century saw a proliferation of laws allowing for the creation of corporations by registration across the world, which helped to drive economic booms in many countries before and after World War I. Another major post World War I shift was toward the development of conglomerates, in which large corporations purchased smaller corporations to expand their industrial base.\n\nStarting in the 1980s, many countries with large state-owned corporations moved toward privatization, the selling of publicly owned (or 'nationalised') services and enterprises to corporations. Deregulation (reducing the regulation of corporate activity) often accompanied privatization as part of a laissez-faire policy.\n\nA corporation is, at least in theory, owned and controlled by its members. In a joint-stock company the members are known as shareholders and each of their shares in the ownership, control, and profits of the corporation is determined by the portion of shares in the company that they own. Thus a person who owns a quarter of the shares of a joint-stock company owns a quarter of the company, is entitled to a quarter of the profit (or at least a quarter of the profit given to shareholders as dividends) and has a quarter of the votes capable of being cast at general meetings.\n\nIn another kind of corporation, the legal document which established the corporation or which contains its current rules will determine who the corporation's members are. Who a member is depends on what kind of corporation is involved. In a worker cooperative, the members are people who work for the cooperative. In a credit union, the members are people who have accounts with the credit union.\n\nThe day-to-day activities of a corporation are typically controlled by individuals appointed by the members. In some cases, this will be a single individual but more commonly corporations are controlled by a committee or by committees. Broadly speaking, there are two kinds of committee structure.\n\nHistorically, corporations were created by a charter granted by government. Today, corporations are usually registered with the state, province, or national government and regulated by the laws enacted by that government. Registration is the main prerequisite to the corporation's assumption of limited liability. The law sometimes requires the corporation to designate its principal address, as well as a registered agent (a person or company designated to receive legal service of process). It may also be required to designate an agent or other legal representative of the corporation.\n\nGenerally, a corporation files articles of incorporation with the government, laying out the general nature of the corporation, the amount of stock it is authorized to issue, and the names and addresses of directors. Once the articles are approved, the corporation's directors meet to create bylaws that govern the internal functions of the corporation, such as meeting procedures and officer positions.\n\nThe law of the jurisdiction in which a corporation operates will regulate most of its internal activities, as well as its finances. If a corporation operates outside its home state, it is often required to register with other governments as a foreign corporation, and is almost always subject to laws of its host state pertaining to employment, crimes, contracts, civil actions, and the like.\n\nCorporations generally have a distinct name. Historically, some corporations were named after their membership: for instance, \"The President and Fellows of Harvard College\". Nowadays, corporations in most jurisdictions have a distinct name that does not need to make reference to their membership. In Canada, this possibility is taken to its logical extreme: many smaller Canadian corporations have no names at all, merely numbers based on a registration number (for example, \"12345678 Ontario Limited\"), which is assigned by the provincial or territorial government where the corporation incorporates.\n\nIn most countries, corporate names include a term or an abbreviation that denotes the corporate status of the entity (for example, \"Incorporated\" or \"Inc.\" in the United States) or the limited liability of its members (for example, \"Limited\" or \"Ltd.\"). These terms vary by jurisdiction and language. In some jurisdictions, they are mandatory, and in others they are not. Their use puts everybody on constructive notice that they are dealing with an entity whose liability is limited: one can only collect from whatever assets the entity still controls when one obtains a judgment against it.\n\nSome jurisdictions do not allow the use of the word \"company\" alone to denote corporate status, since the word \"company\" may refer to a partnership or some other form of collective ownership (in the United States it can be used by a sole proprietorship but this is not generally the case elsewhere).\n\nDespite not being individual human beings, corporations, as far as US law is concerned, are legal persons, and have many of the same rights and responsibilities as natural persons do. For example, a corporation can own property, and can sue or be sued. Corporations can exercise human rights against real individuals and the state, and they can themselves be responsible for human rights violations. Corporations can be \"dissolved\" either by statutory operation, order of court, or voluntary action on the part of shareholders. Insolvency may result in a form of corporate failure, when creditors force the liquidation and dissolution of the corporation under court order, but it most often results in a restructuring of corporate holdings. Corporations can even be convicted of criminal offenses, such as fraud and manslaughter. However, corporations are not considered living entities in the way that humans are.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4844867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4844867", "title": "Custom house", "text": "Custom house\n\nA custom house or customs house was a building housing the offices for the government officials who processed the paperwork associated with importing and exporting goods into and out of a country. Customs officials also collected customs duty on imported goods.\n\nThe custom house was typically located in a seaport or in a city on a major river, with access to the ocean. These cities acted as a port of entry into a country. The government stationed officials at such locations to collect taxes and regulate commerce.\n\nDue to advances in electronic information systems, the increased volume of international trade, and the introduction of air travel, the term \"custom house\" is now often an historical anachronism. There are many examples of buildings around the world that were formerly used as custom houses but have since been converted for other uses, such as museums or civic buildings.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, since 1386, the phrase \"custom house\" has been in use over the term \"customs house\". This was after a \"Custom House\" was erected at Wool Wharf in Tower Ward, to contain just the officials of the Great Custom on Wool and Woolfells. The singular form was used even though in later years the Custom House was the location of other Customs officials as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1760301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1760301", "title": "Data stream mining", "text": "Data stream mining\n\nData Stream Mining is the process of extracting knowledge structures from continuous, rapid data records. A data stream is an ordered sequence of instances that in many applications of data stream mining can be read only once or a small number of times using limited computing and storage capabilities.\n\nIn many data stream mining applications, the goal is to predict the class or value of new instances in the data stream given some knowledge about the class membership or values of previous instances in the data stream.\nMachine learning techniques can be used to learn this prediction task from labeled examples in an automated fashion.\nOften, concepts from the field of incremental learning are applied to cope with structural changes, on-line learning and real-time demands. \nIn many applications, especially operating within non-stationary environments, the distribution underlying the instances or the rules underlying their labeling may change over time, i.e. the goal of the prediction, the class to be predicted or the target value to be predicted, may change over time. This problem is referred to as concept drift.\n\nExamples of data streams include computer network traffic, phone conversations, ATM transactions, web searches, and sensor data.\nData stream mining can be considered a subfield of data mining, machine learning, and knowledge discovery.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17014742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17014742", "title": "Desktop outsourcing", "text": "Desktop outsourcing\n\nDesktop outsourcing is the process in which an organization contracts a third party to maintain and manage parts of its IT infrastructure. Contracts vary in depth and can range from Computer hard- and software maintenance to Desktop virtualisation, SaaS-implementations and Helpdesk operation. It is estimated, that 32% of U.S. and Canadian IT organisations make use of desktop outsourcing in 2014. Recent market reports suggest the adoption of BYOD policies to allow the end-user a free choice of devices in their working environment may increase this market share.\n\nJustification for desktop outsourcing could include shifting focus and energy to areas of core competency, reducing staffing costs, and the routine maintenance, upgrades, and repairs associated with managing multitudes of PC systems and servers. (Applegate et al. 2007). Managers may also seek desktop outsourcing as a method of simplifying organisational structures to cut costs associated with them. For smaller companies it might also be more viable financially to outsource their desktop at a set price per machine, rather than creating an entire internal IT department. Recent market growth can also be attributed to the decreasing price of hardware, making replacement more favourable than repairs. Possible risks when desktop outsourcing are ensuring continued support for old a unique systems the company depends on, specifically if any of the systems in question were internally developed. This may cause the contractor to be unable to fulfil their contractual obligations, as in the case of the US Navy outsourcing their IT systems to EDS in 2003.\n\nA 2012 TechNavio market report forecasts that the desktop outsourcing market will grow by 4.65% yearly, between 2012 and 2016. Atos, CSC, HP and IBM are considered the leading desktop outsourcing vendors for that time frame. A Gartner report from 2013, however, considers the desktop outsourcing market to be in decline, with growth only occurring on the Latin American and Asia/Pacific markets.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40991582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40991582", "title": "East forum Berlin", "text": "East forum Berlin\n\nEvery year, the east forum Berlin brings together opinion leaders from the political and business worlds in the East and the West to discuss challenges and opportunities faced by the economic area from Lisbon to Vladivostok and beyond. It was founded in 2013.\nThe overall aim of the east forum Berlin is to facilitate dialogue in order to overcome barriers for prosperity, to exchange know-how and intensify networks. In addition, this international event is an opportunity to present Berlin as a vibrant location of political and economic debate. \neast forum Berlin 2016 took place during Germany's OSCE Chairmanship in the middle of new deadlocks and new dynamics that characterise the transforming economic and political realities in the region from Europe to Asia. The two opposing trends are embedded in new division lines leading to an unfamiliar status quo of alienation. Secondly, they are surrounded by recently formed alliances consisting of as yet poorly known stakeholders, which create new spheres of influence. These dynamics offer potential for growth but also involve geopolitical and geo-economic challenges for all stakeholders in the region.\n\nThe east forum Berlin has been founded by Achim Oelgarth, Rainer Lindner as well as Ivonne Bollow and is organized by UniCredit, Metro Group, and the Committee on Eastern European Economic Relations () in cooperation with the Federal State of Berlin. Since 2016 and DIHK have joined as well. Media partners are eastonline and Ost-Ausschuss Informationen. Participation is by invitations only, which are extended to representatives from politics and business.\n\n"}
{"id": "16144050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16144050", "title": "Edge Technologies", "text": "Edge Technologies\n\nEdge Technologies, Inc. is an American software company, focusing on the integration of secure web applications. Edge provides software products and enterprise services to corporations and government agencies. Edge was founded in 1993 and is headquartered in Reston, Virginia. In 2017, the company was acquired by Lotus Innovations Fund.\n\nCompany Background\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6603087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6603087", "title": "Employee scheduling software", "text": "Employee scheduling software\n\nEmployee scheduling software automates the process of creating and maintaining a schedule. Automating the scheduling of employees increases productivity and makes many secretarial and manual scheduling positions obsolete. Such software will usually track vacation time, sick time, compensation time, and alert when there are conflicts. As scheduling data is accumulated over time, it may be extracted for payroll or to analyze past activity. Although employee scheduling software may or may not make optimization decisions, it does manage and coordinate the tasks. Today's employee scheduling software often includes mobile applications. Mobile scheduling further increased scheduling productivity and eliminated inefficient scheduling steps.\n\nA theoretical underpinning of an employee scheduling problem can be represented as the Nurse scheduling problem, which is NP-hard. The theoretical complexity of the problem is a significant factor in the development of various software solutions. This is because systems must take into account many different forms of schedules that could be worked, and allocate employees to the correct schedule. Ultimately, optimization of scheduling is to minimize costs, but also often requires a reciprocal approach from management instead of complete reliance on software.\n\nPrior to employee scheduling software companies would use physical mediums for tracking employee hours and work schedule. This then gave rise to data storage forms that later by the 80s were compatible with computer programs and software. These forms however never actually scheduled the employees, it just kept track of the employees work week, hours, and prior work schedules. This then gave way to the idea of employee scheduling software, which would be an all inclusive system that would store and track employee work history, along with actually scheduling the employee's work week.\n\nThe earliest form of automated employee scheduling and managing of employee hours was the Punch Card. The idea first created by Basile Bouchon developed the control of a loom by punched holes in paper tape in 1725. Herman Hollerith improved the design. IBM manufactured and marketed a variety of unit record machines for creating, sorting, and tabulating punched cards, even after expanding into electronic computers in the late 1950s. IBM developed punched card technology into a powerful tool for business data-processing and produced an extensive line of general purpose unit record machines.\n\nDuring the 1960s, the punched card was gradually replaced as the primary means for data storage by magnetic tape, as better, more capable computers became available. Mohawk Data Sciences introduced a magnetic tape encoder in 1965, a system marketed as a keypunch replacement which was somewhat successful, but punched cards were still commonly used for data entry and programming until the mid-1980s when the combination of lower cost magnetic disk storage, and affordable interactive terminals on less expensive minicomputers made punched cards obsolete for this role as well. However, their influence lives on through many standard conventions and file formats.\n\nIn the 2010s, the wide adoption of mobile devices and the rise of 3G, 4G, and 5G networks worldwide has made it possible to approach the task of scheduling differently. In the last decade, many software solutions have sprung up to make the lives of business owners and managers easier and less burdensome.\n\nThe first wave of solutions helped small business owners to schedule, manage, and communicate with their employees in a more streamlined way. The newer way of solutions go a step further, leveraging machine learning and are being built on even newer cloud technologies. The need for automation and intelligent rostering in workforce management will continue to grow as society's heads into a gig economy.\n\nAlgorithms are used within the employee scheduling software in order to determine not only who is working, but also the specific jobs and tasks required of the workers. The system still must be monitored, and any further issues with assigning of specifics is done manually. Within the context of roster problems and models, there are three main factors to work out the differences: the integration of days off scheduling with line of work construction and task assignment, roster construction, and demand type. These complexities thusly require that each and every workplace must optimize employee scheduling software based off their own unique set of rules, issues and needs. Additionally, it is difficult to determine optimal solution that minimize costs, meet employee preferences, distribute shifts equitably among employees and satisfy all the workplace constraints. In many organizations, the people involved in developing rosters need decisions support tools to help provide the right employees at the right time and the right cost while achieving a high level of employee satisfaction. Due to constant change within work environments, new models and algorithms must be created in order to allow for flexibility as needs and demands arise. For example, when a large number of new employees are hired, as in the total workforce is increased, the scheduling software likely will need to be updated in order to allow for such a change.\n\nAlthough employee scheduling software won't necessarily improve business practices by itself, it does automate typically tedious business administration. By providing management with large amounts of data, this software can assist management in making decisions and automatically create a work schedule that fits as many constraints as possible. Also, the software may be a part of an ERP package or other human resource management system.\n\nSome typical features include:\n\n\nAs the modern workplace becomes more complex, it is likely that rostering will need to be more flexible to cater to more individualistic preferences. Artificial intelligence also looks to play a bigger role in scheduling software, requiring less oversight by management to correct issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "7977203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7977203", "title": "Engineering economics", "text": "Engineering economics\n\n\"For the application of engineering economics in the practice of civil engineering please see this article.\"\n\nEngineering Economics, previously known as engineering economy, is a subset of economics concerned with the use and \"...application of economic principles\" in the analysis of engineering decisions. As a discipline, it is focused on the branch of economics known as microeconomics in that it studies the behavior of individuals and firms in making decisions regarding the allocation of limited resources. Thus, it focuses on the decision making process, its context and environment. It is pragmatic by nature, integrating economic theory with engineering practice. But, it is also a simplified application of microeconomic theory in that it avoids a number of microeconomic concepts such as price determination, competition and demand/supply. As a discipline though, it is closely related to others such as statistics, mathematics and cost accounting. It draws upon the logical framework of economics but adds to that the analytical power of mathematics and statistics. \n\nEngineers seek solutions to problems, and the economic viability of each potential solution is normally considered along with the technical aspects.\nFundamentally, engineering economics involves formulating, estimating, and evaluating the economic outcomes when alternatives to accomplish a defined purpose are available.\n\nIn some U.S. undergraduate civil engineering curricula, engineering economics is a required course. It is a topic on the Fundamentals of Engineering examination, and questions might also be asked on the Principles and Practice of Engineering examination; both are part of the Professional Engineering registration process.\n\nConsidering the time value of money is central to most engineering economic analyses. Cash flows are \"discounted\" using an interest rate, except in the most basic economic studies.\n\nFor each problem, there are usually many possible \"alternatives\". One option that must be considered in each analysis, and is often the \"choice\", is the \"do nothing alternative\". The \"opportunity cost\" of making one choice over another must also be considered. There are also non-economic factors to be considered, like color, style, public image, etc.; such factors are termed \"attributes\".\n\n\"Costs\" as well as \"revenues\" are considered, for each alternative, for an \"analysis period\" that is either a fixed number of years or the estimated life of the project. The \"salvage value\" is often forgotten, but is important, and is either the net cost or revenue for decommissioning the project.\n\nSome other topics that may be addressed in engineering economics are inflation, uncertainty, replacements, depreciation, resource depletion, taxes, tax credits, accounting, cost estimations, or capital financing. All these topics are primary skills and knowledge areas in the field of cost engineering.\n\nSince engineering is an important part of the manufacturing sector of the economy, engineering industrial economics is an important part of industrial or business economics. Major topics in engineering industrial economics are:\n\n\nSome examples of engineering economic problems range from value analysis to economic studies. Each of these is relevant in different situations, and most often used by engineers or project managers. For example, engineering economic analysis helps a company not only determine the difference between fixed and incremental costs of certain operations, but also calculates that cost, depending upon a number of variables. Further uses of engineering economics include:\n\n\nEach of the previous components of engineering economics is critical at certain junctures, depending on the situation, scale, and objective of the project at hand. Critical path economy, as an example, is necessary in most situations as it is the coordination and planning of material, labor, and capital movements in a specific project. The most critical of these \"paths\" are determined to be those that have affect upon the outcome both in time and cost. Therefore, the critical paths must be determined and closely monitored by engineers and managers alike. Engineering economics helps provide the Gantt charts and activity-event networks to ascertain the correct use of time and resources.\n\nProper value analysis finds its roots in the need for industrial engineers and managers to not only simplify and improve processes and systems, but also the logical simplification of the designs of those products and systems. Though not directly related to engineering economy, value analysis is nonetheless important, and allows engineers to properly manage new and existing systems/processes to make them more simple and save money and time. Further, value analysis helps combat common \"roadblock excuses\" that may trip up managers or engineers. Sayings such as \"The customer wants it this way\" are retorted by questions such as; has the customer been told of cheaper alternatives or methods? \"If the product is changed, machines will be idle for lack of work\" can be combated by; can management not find new and profitable uses for these machines? Questions like these are part of engineering economy, as they preface any real studies or analyses. \n\nLinear programming is the use of mathematical methods to find optimized solutions, whether they be minimized or maximized in nature. This method uses a series of lines to create a polygon then to determine the largest, or smallest, point on that shape. Manufacturing operations often use linear programming to help mitigate costs and maximize profits or production. \n\nConsidering the prevalence of capital to be lent for a certain period of time, with the understanding that it will be returned to the investor, money-time relationships analyze the costs associated with these types of actions. Capital itself must be divided into two different categories, \"equity capital\" and \"debt capital\". Equity capital is money already at the disposal of the business, and mainly derived from profit, and therefore is not of much concern, as it has no owners that demand its return with interest. Debt capital does indeed have owners, and they require that its usage be returned with \"profit\", otherwise known as interest. The interest to be paid by the business is going to be an expense, while the capital lenders will take interest as a profit, which may confuse the situation. To add to this, each will change the income tax position of the participants. \n\nInterest and Money - Time Relationships comes into play when the capital required to complete a project must be either borrowed or derived from reserves. To borrow brings about the question of interest and value created by the completion of the project. While taking capital from reserves also denies its usage on other projects that may yield more results. Interest in the simplest terms is defined by the multiplication of the principle, the units of time, and the interest rate. The complexity of interest calculations, however, becomes much higher as factors such as compounding interest or annuities come into play. \n\nThe fact that assets and material in the real world eventually wear down, and thence break, is a situation that must be accounted for. Depreciation itself is defined by the decreasing of value of any given asset, though some exceptions do exist. Valuation can be considered the basis for depreciation in a basic sense, as any decrease in \"value\" would be based on an \"original value\". The idea and existence of depreciation becomes especially relevant to engineering and project management is the fact that capital equipment and assets used in operations will slowly decrease in worth, which will also coincide with an increase in the likelihood of machine failure. Hence the recording and calculation of depreciation is important for two major reasons. \n\n\nBoth of these reasons, however, cannot make up for the \"fleeting\" nature of depreciation, which make direct analysis somewhat difficult. To further add to the issues associated with depreciation, it must be broken down into three separate types, each having intricate calculations and implications. \n\n\nCalculation of depreciation also comes in a number of forms; \"straight line, declining balance, sum-of-the-year's,\" and \"service output\". The first method being perhaps the easiest to calculate, while the remaining have varying levels of difficulty and utility. Most situations faced by managers in regards to depreciation can be solved using any of these formulas, however, company policy or preference of individual may affect the choice of model. \n\nCapital budgeting, in relation to engineering economics, is the proper usage and utilization of capital to achieve project objectives. It can be fully defined by the statement; \"... as the series of decisions by individuals and firms concerning how much and where resources will be obtained and expended to meet future objectives.\" This definition almost perfectly explains capital and its general relation to engineering, though some special cases may not lend themselves to such a concise explanation. The actual acquisition of that capital has many different routes, from equity to bonds to retained profits, each having unique strengths and weakness, especially when in relation to income taxation. Factors such as risk of capital loss, along with possible or expected returns must also be considered when capital budgeting is underway. For example, if a company has $20,000 to invest in a number of high, moderate, and low risk projects, the decision would depend upon how much risk the company is willing to take on, and if the returns offered by each category offset this perceived risk. Continuing with this example, if the high risk offered only 20% return, while the moderate offered 19% return, engineers and managers would most likely choose the moderate risk project, as its return is far more favorable for its category. The high risk project failed to offer proper returns to warrant its risk status. A more difficult decision may be between a moderate risk offering 15% while a low risk offering 11% return. The decision here would be much more subject to factors such as company policy, extra available capital, and possible investors. \"In general, the firm should estimate the project opportunities, including investment requirements and prospective rates of return for each, expected to be available for the coming period. Then the available capital should be tentatively allocated to the most favorable projects. The lowest prospective rate of return within the capital available then becomes the minimum acceptable rate of return for analyses of any projects during that period.\"\n\nBeing one of the most important and integral operations in the engineering economic field is the minimization of cost in systems and processes. Time, resources, labor, and capital must all be minimized when placed into any system, so that revenue, product, and profit can be maximized. Hence, the general equation;\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere \"C\" is total cost, \"a b\" and \"k\" are constants, and \"x\" is the variable number of units produced. \n\nThere are a great number of cost analysis formulas, each for particular situations and are warranted by the policies of the company in question, or the preferences of the engineer at hand. \n\nEconomic studies, which are much more common outside of engineering economics, are still used from time to time to determine feasibility and utility of certain projects. They do not, however, truly reflect the \"common notion\" of economic studies, which is fixated upon macroeconomics, something engineers have little interaction with. Therefore, the studies conducted in engineering economics are for specific companies and limited projects inside those companies. At most one may expect to find some feasibility studies done by private firms for the government or another business, but these again are in stark contrast to the overarching nature of true economic studies. Studies have a number of major steps that can be applied to almost every type of situation, those being as follows;\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2390801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2390801", "title": "Enrolled agent", "text": "Enrolled agent\n\nEnrolled agent (or EA) is a tax advisor who is a federally authorized tax practitioner empowered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Enrolled agents represent taxpayers before the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for tax issues including audits, collections and appeals.\n\nEnrolled agent status is the highest credential awarded by the IRS. The EA credential is recognized across all 50 U.S. states. Attorneys and certified public accountants (CPAs) are licensed on a state by state basis, and are also empowered by the Department of the Treasury to represent taxpayers before the IRS. According to the National Association of Enrolled Agents, there are approximately 53,000 practicing EAs in the United States.\n\nThe position of enrolled agent was created as a reaction to fraudulent war loss claims in the wake of the American Civil War with roots tracing back to the General Deficiency Act of July 7, 1884, or General Deficiency Appropriation Bill (H.R. 2735), also known as the \"Horse Act of 1884\", which was signed into law by President Chester A. Arthur on July 7, 1884. After the Civil War, many citizens faced difficulties in settling claims with the government for property confiscated for use in the war effort. As a result, Congress endowed enrolled agents with the power of advocacy to prepare claims against the government. From 1884 through the early 20th century, this statute remained largely unchanged.\n\nWhen the Revenue Act of 1913 was passed, signed into law by President Woodrow Wilson on October 3, 1913, the scope of the enrolled agent was expanded to include claims for monetary relief for citizens whose taxes had become inequitable. As income, estate, gift and other sources of tax collections became more complex, the role of the enrolled agent increased to include the preparation of the many tax forms that were required. As a result of this complexity, audits became more prevalent and the enrolled agent role evolved into taxpayer representation, promulgating a series of statutes which were combined into a single Treasury Department Circular in February 19, 1921, known as Circular 230, to address \"the laws and regulations governing the recognition of agents, attorneys, and other persons representing claimants before the Treasury Department and offices thereof.\"\n\nTo become an enrolled agent, an applicant must obtain a PTIN and achieve passing scores on all three parts of the Special Enrollment Examination, which covers many aspects of the Internal Revenue Code, or must have worked at the IRS for five consecutive years in a position which regularly engaged in applying and interpreting the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations relating to income, estate, gift, employment, or excise taxes. A background check, including a review of the applicant’s personal and business tax compliance, is conducted after an applicant files Form 23, \"Application for Enrollment to Practice Before the Internal Revenue Service\", within one year of completing all three parts of the examination.\n\nTo qualify for renewal as an enrolled agent, an individual must complete 72 hours of continuing professional education (CPE) every three years, including two hours of ethics or professional conduct in each of the three years. To prevent overloading of CPEs in any year of an enrollment cycle, the IRS requires a minimum of 16 hours of CPE every year. \n\nIndividuals must renew their PTIN between October 16 and December 31 of each year.\n\nIndividuals must file Form 8554, \"Application for Renewal of Enrollment to Practice Before the Internal Revenue Service\", within the applicable renewal period.\n\nRenewal periods are based on the last digit of an enrolled agent's Social Security number (SSN) or tax identification number:\nIndividuals admitted to practice at any time during an enrollment cycle, \"the three successive enrollment years preceding the effective date of renewal,\" must complete two hours of continuing professional education for each month of enrollment, including two hours of ethics or professional conduct in each year. If an individual receives initial enrollment between November 1 and April 1 of their applicable renewal period, they will not be required to renew until the expiration of the first full three-year enrollment cycle following their initial enrollment.\n\nAn individual who has not filed a timely application for renewal, who has not made a timely response to the notice of noncompliance, or who has not satisfied the requirements of eligibility for renewal, will be placed on a roster of inactive enrolled individuals. During this time, the individual will be ineligible to practice before the Internal Revenue Service and may not state or imply that they are eligible to represent taxpayers, use the term enrolled agent, or use the EA designation.\n\nThe right to practice before the Internal Revenue Service is regulated by Federal statute, and persons authorized to practice are known as \"Federally Authorized Tax Practitioners\", or \"FATPs\". The FATP status is granted to attorneys, certified public accountants, and enrolled agents, each having unlimited representation rights before the Internal Revenue Service. These practitioners may represent their clients on any matters including audits, collection actions, payment issues, tax refund matters, and appeals. FATP status is also granted with limited representation rights to enrolled actuaries, enrolled retirement plan agents, and registered tax return preparers.\n\nEnrolled agents, like other FATPs, are subject to a set of procedures and regulations described in Treasury Department Circular No. 230,\" Regulations Governing the Practice of Attorneys, Certified Public Accountants, Enrolled Agents, Enrolled Actuaries, and Appraisers before the Internal Revenue Service\".\n\nWhen practicing before the Internal Revenue Service, enrolled agents may not use the term \"certified\" in describing their professional designation. An enrolled agent admitted to practice before the Internal Revenue Service may not state or imply that an employer/employee relationship exists between the enrolled agent and the Internal Revenue Service.\n\nEnrolled agent status does not authorize the enrollee to practice before the United States Tax Court or in any other court.\n\nPractice in U.S. Tax Court is limited to members of the Bar of the Court. The Internal Revenue Code states, \"No qualified person shall be denied admission to practice before the Tax Court because of his failure to be a member of any profession or calling.\" Non-attorneys must pass a Tax Court exam for admission to the Bar of the Court. Attorneys are admitted to the Bar of the Tax Court without having to take the Tax Court examination. Practice in other federal courts is generally limited to persons licensed as attorneys.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36665832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36665832", "title": "European DataWarehouse", "text": "European DataWarehouse\n\nEuropean DataWarehouse GmbH is part of the ABS Loan Level Data initiative established by the European Central Bank that is engaged in providing Data Warehousing services and full disclosure for investors in Asset-Backed Securities (ABS). It provides an open platform for users to access Asset-Backed Security data.\n\nIt is the first centralised data repository in Europe for collecting, validating and making accessible to download point-by-point, institutionalised and asset class specific loan-level data (LLD) for Asset-Backed Securities (ABS) transactions. European DataWarehouse helps to facilitate risk assessment and improve transparency for European ABS deals.\n\nEuropean DataWarehouse was founded in January 2012 for the purpose of facilitating risk assessment and improving transparency in European Asset-Backed Security (ABS) deals.\n\nEuropean DataWarehouse's responsibilities include ensuring that ABS market data is openly accessible and that all transactions are recorded. A key aim of European DataWarehouse is to instil trust back into the ABS market, which has been a problem in recent times. The European Central Bank is set to make compliance with loan-level data disclosure compulsory before it will accept asset-backed securities as collateral for financing.\n\nED has three decision-making bodies and 17 shareholders:\n\nThe ED shareholders are:\nThe company received the Banking Technology Award for the Best Industry Infrastructure Initiative in 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31846623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31846623", "title": "Geo-enable", "text": "Geo-enable\n\nGeo-Enable is a neologism, a portmanteau of Geospatial or Geographic and Enablement. Associated words include Geo-Enablment and Geo-Enabling.\n\nAs a verb it is increasingly used in the fields of Geographic Information System (GIS), Web Development, Mobility, Information Management (IM) and IT. Similar to the terms 'Web-Enabled' or 'GPS-Enabled' - 'Geo-Enable' suggests the application of location or geospatial information as part of business processes or using 'location intelligence' to augment non-spatial information systems and/or Business Intelligence (BI).\n\nGeospatial Enablement can be thought of as the integrated use of Geographic Information, as opposed to using Geographic Information within a geographic and technology-centric environment of something such as a GPS or GIS.\n\nA definition given by GeoEnable Ltd is:\n\n'Geo-Enablement n.:\n1. Embedding and leveraging the power of location and geography within workflows and business processes.\n2. The act of deriving and utilising geography within non-spatial information.\n3. The state of being enabled using location information.' \n\nAnother definition by the US Government is:\n\n'To geo-enable is to apply geospatial capabilities to a business process in order to establish the authoritative spatial location of business data, and enable contextual spatial analysis.' \n\n"}
{"id": "25388574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25388574", "title": "Global Learning Opportunities in Business Education", "text": "Global Learning Opportunities in Business Education\n\nThe Global Learning Opportunities in Business Education (GLOBE) program is an undergraduate business program that sends 54 elite students to study at Copenhagen Business School (CBS) in Copenhagen, Denmark, the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) in Hong Kong, and the Kenan–Flagler Business School, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC) in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States. \n\nAt each respective university, eighteen students are selected based on their academic achievements, personalities, and previous life experiences. After being selected, the students spend a year and a half traveling the world, networking internationally, and gaining a new perspective on the business world. During the first year of the program, students study at CBS in the fall and CUHK in the spring. Following the semester in Hong Kong, students generally pursue competitive internships with companies throughout the world. The final semester is then spent at the University of North Carolina. Following completion of the program, students return to their respective universities, where they spend one final semester completing their degree.\n\nAs of September 2017, 10 batches of GLOBE students have graduated the program. Batch 11 is in the midst of its third and final semester while batch 12 is in its first.\n\nThe GLOBE program combines international business studies with real-life international experience, giving GLOBE Scholars unique perspectives in their future business endeavors. At CBS, only students majoring in International Business are eligible for program admission. At UNC, sophomores apply for the GLOBE program when applying to the Kenan-Flagler Business School. At CUHK, only students majoring in Global Business Studies, one of the most competitive undergraduate programs in Hong Kong, are eligible to apply. At each university, the GLOBE administration team selects students through a rigorous application and extensive interview process to maximize student and program compatibility.\n\nThe three universities at which GLOBE students study all receive top rankings on their respective continents. In 2012, CUHK was ranked fifth in Asia, CBS was ranked as the third-best international business school in the world after Harvard and London Business School, and the Kenan-Flagler Business School at UNC was ranked sixth-best business school in the USA.\n\nDuring the course of the program all the GLOBE students live and study together. Students also take the opportunity to travel extensively throughout Europe, Asia, and the United States.\n\nThe third batch (graduated December 9, 2009) visited Brussels, Berlin, Shanghai, Tokyo, the Research Triangle Park in North Carolina, and New York City on its study trips. The students visited companies such as Deutsche Bahn in Berlin, Toyota City in Japan, and Standard & Poor's in New York City.\nBatch eight (graduating December 14, 2014) has visited Brussels and Berlin, and 10 days are going to be spent in Indonesia visiting and solving local company issues. In the US, there will be a study trip to Research Triangle Park and a more extensive one in the late fall.\n\nAlthough still a young program, the GLOBE program has been featured in numerous major business publications around the world. The program was referenced in an article about students' perceptions of companies in the \"Financial Times\" and \"BusinessWeek\". The program has also been the focus of articles in business media such as the Danish newspaper \"Børsen\".\nBerlingske Business (Danish newspaper) ran a series of articles about the program in the fall, 2013. \n"}
{"id": "40009997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40009997", "title": "Guinot Mary Cohr", "text": "Guinot Mary Cohr\n\nGuinot Mary Cohr is a Paris-based company specializing in skin-care and beauty products. They are known in the tennis world for sponsoring an exhibition team-tennis event the week before the French Open from 2009 to 2012 known as the Masters Guinot-Mary Cohr.\n\nGuinot products are available through Chicago-based Skin1.\n"}
{"id": "43507478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43507478", "title": "Hybrid transactional/analytical processing (HTAP)", "text": "Hybrid transactional/analytical processing (HTAP)\n\nHybrid transaction/analytical processing (HTAP), a term created by Gartner Inc. – an information technology research and advisory company. As defined by Gartner: Hybrid transaction/analytical processing (HTAP) is an emerging application architecture that \"breaks the wall\" between transaction processing and analytics. It enables more informed and \"in business real time\" decision making. \n\nIn the 1960s, computer use in the business sector began with payroll transactions and later included tasks in areas such as accounting and billing. At that time, users entered data, and the system processed it at a later time. Further development of instantaneous data processing, or online transaction processing (OLTP), led to widespread OLTP use in government and business-sector information systems.\n\nOLAP covers the analytical processing involved in creating, synthesizing, and managing data. With greater data demands among businesses, OLAP also has evolved. To meet the needs of applications, both technologies are dependent on their own systems and distinct architectures. As a result of the complexity in the information architecture and infrastructure of both OLTP and OLAP systems, data analysis is delayed.\n\nThere are various interpretations of HTAP other than Gartner's original definition; an \"emerging architecture\". These interpretations suggest different advantages, one being a database functionality. Recent advances in research, hardware, OLTP and OLAP capabilities, in-memory technologies, scalable transactional management and products enable transactional processing and analytics, or HTAP, to operate on the same database.\n\nHowever, Gartner's most recent reports suggest broader advantages than a single unified database can offer. Traditional application architectures separated transactional and analytical systems. Digital business, and the need to respond to business moments, means that using \"after the fact\" analysis is no longer adequate. Business moments are transient opportunities that must be exploited in real time. If an organization is unable to recognize and/or respond quickly to a business moment by taking fast and well-informed decisions, then some other organization will, resulting in a missed opportunity (or a new business threat). HTAP allows advanced analytics to be run in real time on \"in flight\" transaction data, providing an architecture that empowers users to respond more effectively to business moments.\n\nThe main technical challenges for an HTAP database are how to be efficient both for operational (many small transactions with a high fraction of updates) and analytical workloads (large and complex queries traversing large number of rows) on the same database system and how to prevent the interference of the analytical queries over the operational workload.\n\nHTAP solves the issue of analytic latency in several ways, including eliminating the need for multiple copies of the same data and the requirement for data to be offloaded from operational databases to data warehouses via ETL processes.\n\nMost HTAP applications has been enabled by in-memory technologies that can process a high volume of transactions and offer features such as forecasting and simulations. New HTAP technologies bring scalable transactional processing and do not need to rely on keeping the whole database in-memory. HTAP has the potential to change the way organizations do business by offering immediate business decision-making capabilities based on live and sophisticated analytics of large volumes of data. Government and business leaders can be informed of real-time issues, outcomes, and trends that necessitate action, such as in the areas of public safety, risk management, and fraud detection.\n\nSome challenges for HTAP include limited industry experience and skills, as well as undefined best practices.\n\nHTAP functionality is offered by database companies, such as Alibaba DRDS, TiDB, Hubble, ArangoDB, Aerospike, Apache Ignite/GridGain In-Memory Data Fabric, IBM IBM_Db2 IDAA, InterSystems, Kdb+, Microsoft SQL Server, Neo4j, Oracle 12c In-Memory, SAP HANA, MemSQL, MongoDB, VoltDB, NuoDB, OrientDB, DataStax, eXtremeDB, Splice Machine, EsgynDB, Cloud Spanner, HarperDB and BlobCity.\n"}
{"id": "7117117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7117117", "title": "Inside director", "text": "Inside director\n\nAn inside director is a member of the board of directors of a corporation who is also a member of the corporation's management, almost always a corporate officer. For example, a chief executive officer who is also chairman of the board would be considered an inside director. A chief financial officer, executive vice president, or other corporate executive who is a member of the board is also an inside director. Inside directors commonly enjoy seats on boards because they own equity in the company.\n\nInside directors are differentiated from outside directors, who do not hold a management position in the corporation which the board governs.\n"}
{"id": "51136320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51136320", "title": "Intelligence engine", "text": "Intelligence engine\n\nAn intelligence engine is a type of enterprise information management that combines business rule management, predictive, and prescriptive analytics to form a unified information-access platform that provides real-time intelligence through search technologies, dashboards and/or existing business infrastructure. Intelligence Engines are process and/or business problem specific, resulting in industry and/or function-specific marketing trademarks associated with them. They can be differentiated from enterprise resource planning (ERP) software in that intelligence engines include organization-level business rules and proactive decision management functionality.\n\nThe first intelligence engine application appears to have been introduced in 2001 by Sonus Networks, Inc. in their patent US6961334 B1. Applied to the field of telecommunications systems, the intelligence engine was composed of a database queried by a data distributor layer, received by a telephony management layer and acted upon by a facility management command & control layer. This combined standalone business intelligence tools like a data warehouse, reporting and querying software and a decision support system.\n\nThe concept was reinforced in 2002 in patent application US20030236689 A1 which applied predictive quantitative models to data and used rules to correlate context data at different stages of the business process with business process outcomes to be presented to end users.\n\nLogRhythm Inc. advanced the concept in 2010 by adding event managers to the end of the intelligence engine's process to determine reporting, remediation and other outcomes.\n\nIn 2016, professional service company KPMG continued to advance the concept by commercializing intelligence engines with the introduction of Third Party Intelligence, which is differentiated from past intelligence engines in its increased use of embedded intellectual property, diversity of global data inputs and focus on predictive analytics to mitigate risk and yield cost savings.\n\nAs a system that combines human intelligence, data inputs, automated decision-making and unified information access, intelligence engines are an advancement in business intelligence tools because they: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "12185719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12185719", "title": "KXEN Inc.", "text": "KXEN Inc.\n\nKXEN was an American software company which existed from 1998 to 2013 when it was acquired by SAP AG.\n\nKXEN was founded in June 1998 by Roger Haddad and Michel Bera, based on an original idea from Léon Bottou using Vapnik–Chervonenkis theory on structural risk minimization. Erik Marcadé joined as chief technical officer in 1999. It was based in San Francisco, California with offices in Paris and London. On September 10, 2013 SAP AG announced plans to acquire KXEN. On October 1, 2013, a letter to KXEN customers announced the acquisition closed.\n\nKXEN primarily marketed predictive analytics software.\n\nInfiniteInsight is a predictive modeling suite developed by KXEN that assists analytic professionals, and business executives to extract information from data. Among other functions, InfiniteInsight is used for variable importance, classification, regression, segmentation, time series, product recommendation, as described and expressed by the Java Data Mining interface, and for social network analysis. InfiniteInsight allows prediction of a behavior or a value, the forecast of a time series or the understanding of a group of individuals with similar behavior. Advanced functions include behavioral modeling, exporting the model code into different target environments or building predictive models on top of SAS or SPSS data files. Competitors are SAS Enterprise Miner, IBM SPSS Modeler, and Statistica. Open source predictive tools like the R package or Weka are also competitors, since they provide similar features free of charge.\n\n"}
{"id": "13452317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13452317", "title": "Madoka (business process automation)", "text": "Madoka (business process automation)\n\nMadoka is a software system for supporting the automation of business processes. Initially a stock management system it progressed into an e-commerce system and then into a system for supporting the dynamic processing of various ordering tasks that can be automated.\n\n"}
{"id": "23227759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23227759", "title": "Marketing Innovation Forum Europe", "text": "Marketing Innovation Forum Europe\n\nThe Marketing & Innovation Forum Europe in an annual summit gathering the leading management and speakers within the fields of marketing, innovation and sales. The forum covers relevant themes and current challenges from the European business market.\n\nThe \"Marketing & Innovation Forum Europe\" is an annual European marketing, sales and innovation summit held in Frankfurt. The event is organized by leaders.we.love., an executive education and management content firm.\n\nThe Marketing & Innovation Forum Europe was officially launched in 2009. The yearly summit brings together over 500 attendees, consisting mostly of senior executives, from European countries to hear the debate and discussions of top marketing and sales leaders as well as renowned intellectuals about the current issues and challenges of the marketing, sales and innovation environment.\n\nPast speakers at the Marketing & Innovation Forum Europe include Kevin Roberts, Global CEO Saatchi & Saatchi, Hermann Simon, Chairman Simon-Kucher & Partners, Don Peppers, Peppers & Rogers Group, Mark Renshaw, Digital Practice Lead Leo Burnett and Carita Vallinkoski.\n\nMore than 75% of attendees to the Marketing & Innovation Forum Europe are at director level or above.\n\nFor the event in 2009 Kevin Roberts, Global CEO Saatchi & Saatchi, Hermann Simon, Chairman Simon-Kucher & Partners, Bernd M. Michael, President of the German marketing association, Don Peppers, Peppers & Rogers Group, Mark Renshaw, Digital Practice Lead Leo Burnett and Carita Vallinkoski are confirmed speakers.\n\nMore than 75% of attendees to the Marketing & Innovation Forum Europe are at director level or above.\n\nThe event is organized by leaders.we.love., an executive education and management content firm founded by Anders Indset and Daniel Kusebauch.\n\nThe 2014 Marketing & Innovation Forum Europe was held at Gesellschaftshaus Palmengarten in Frankfurt on February 11–12, 2014 and features the following speakers:\n\nThe 2013 Marketing & Innovation Forum Europe was held at Westin Grand in Munich on February 20–21, 2013 and features the following speakers:\n\nThe 2012 Marketing & Innovation Forum Europe was held at DOLCE MUNICH in Munich on February 7–08, 2012 and features the following speakers:\n\nThe 2011 Marketing & Innovation Forum Europe was held at Westin Grand in Munich on January 26–27, 2011 and featured the following speakers:\n\n\nThe Event is organized by leaders.we.love., a company delivering management content and executive education founded by Anders Indset and Daniel Kusebauch.\n\n"}
{"id": "23062020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23062020", "title": "Marketing information system", "text": "Marketing information system\n\nA marketing information system (MKIS) is a management information system (MIS) designed to support marketing decision making. Jobber (2007) defines it as a \"system in which marketing data is formally gathered, stored, analysed and distributed to managers in accordance with their informational needs on a regular basis.\" In addition, the online business dictionary defines Marketing Information System (MKIS) as \"a system that analyzes and assesses marketing information, gathered continuously from sources inside and outside an organization or a store.\" Furthermore, \"an overall Marketing Information System can be defined as a set structure of procedures and methods for the regular, planned collection, analysis and presentation of information for use in making marketing decisions.\" (Kotler, at al, 2006)\n\nReid and Bojanic(2010) claimed that, \" The term market research informs relatively narrowerly than Marketing Information System(MkIS) which is altered from the term management information systemization. Market research indicates that information is not collected for a specific reason or project; the major objective is a one-time use. \"\n\n\"A marketing information system, which continuously collects the initial, routine and systematic data, is not only used for one particular topic but is designed for monitoring the degree of the marketing success to ensure the achievable of the operation as well.\"\n\nDeveloping a MKIS system is becoming extremely important as the strength of economies rely on services and to better understand the specific needs of customers. Kotler, et al. (2006) defined it more broadly as \"people, equipment, and procedures to gather, sort, analyze, evaluate, and distribute needed, timely, and accurate information to marketing decision makers.\"\n\nInsofar as an economy focuses on services, marketing is important to \"monitor the marketing environment for changes in buyer behavior competition, technology, economic conditions, and government policies.\" In this sense, the role of marketing is becoming pivotal for an organization to \"adapt to changes in the market environment.\" (Harmon, 2003)\n\nAs an economy relies on the acquisition of knowledge, MkIS systems are necessary to be able to define and differentiate the value proposition that one organization provides with respect to another, as well as to define their competitive advantage. (Harmon, 2003)\n\nThe main benefit of MkIS systems is to integrate market-monitoring systems with strategy development and the strategic implementation of policies and processes that help capture and act on customer management applications with marketing decision support systems. This area constitute Marketing intelligence that supports the analysis and market based activities that support customer relations and customer service with real time information with real time applications that support market based approaches.\n\nShajahan and arya(2004) stated that, \"Demands for the MkIS can be expressed by three crucial developments. Firstly, when companies expand and diversify into new markets, both the companies and customer's point of view are needed to be handled by the marketing managers. Therefore, there would be greater need for marketing information. Secondly, when consumers obtain an increment in the level of their income, it causes a tendency for them to be more discriminating during the purchasing procedure. A full awareness of the points that drive a consumer prefer a brand and the points that distinguished his brand from that of the rivals should be obtained by the marketers. This awareness is possible only with the help of a well- designed effective MkIS. Thirdly, the development of the markets and the movement from price to non-price grounds of competition lead to an increase in the importance of adoption and implementation by the competitors and finding the response of the consumers towards them. Analyzing the needs for MkIS from a third person's angle, three more factors come to the forefront viz., the information explosion, increasing complexity in decision making and the technological developments. \" \n\nIn addition, \"Great demand of information gathering for marketing decisions results in the need of attention by themselves. Though marketing research information can be generated by studies, which are normally conducted in the market place whereas marketing information systems are designed to gather, integrate, process and distribute marketing information comprehensively from all sources, including that from marketing research. The contrasting characteristics of MkIS and MR are presented in Table 5.1 as shown below:\n\nTable 5.1 Showing contrasting characteristic of MR and MkIS\n\nThe business function of marketing is concerned more with the planning, promotion and sale of products in existing markets and the development of new products and new markets. Thus marketing performs a vital function in the operation of a business enterprise. Business firms who turned to computers have been able to perform vital marketing function effectively for organizations' growth in the face of global competition.\"\n\nAccording to Robert Jamon (2003), MkIS systems are decomposed on four components: (1) user interfaces, (2) application software, (3) databases, and (4) system support. The following is a description of each one of these components.\n\n1. User interfaces. The essential element of the MAkINAS is the managers who will use the system and the interface they need to effectively analyze and use marketing information. The design of the system will depend on what type of decision managers need to make.\n\n2. Application software. These are the programs that marketing decision makers use to collect, analyze, and manage data for the purpose of developing the information necessary for marketing decisions.\n\n3. Database marketing. A marketing database is a system in which marketing data files are organized and stored.\n\n4. System support. This component consists of system managers who manage and maintain the system assets including software and hardware network, monitor its activities and ensure compliance with organizational policies.\n\nAlong with these components, MkIS systems include Marketing Decision Support Systems (MDSS), which in turn rely on simple systems such as Microsoft Excel, SPSS, and on-line analytical tools that help collect data. Data compiled for analysis is stored and processed from a data warehouse, which is simply a data repository system that helps store and further process data collected internally and externally. (Harmon, 2003)\n\nFrom Pride and Ferrell (2010), \"Internal database is a part of the most marketing information systems. In addition, it's relatively convenient for access and retrieve of information. A databases allow marketers to tap into an abundance of information useful in making marketing decisions: internal sales reports, newspaper articles, company news releases, government economic reports, bibliographies, and more, often accessed through a computer system.\"\n\nIn with Birn(2004), \" internal data is a part of the data that is needed to be collect and handled by the marketing information system. Further more, managers regard this as a command to make effective operation.But getting the information that is really needed from a marketing information system depends on what the information is and how it is used. The following internal operating data are essential:\n\nSandhusen(2000) defined that, environmental scanning is a display of the nature of MIS processed. \" It gives assistance for the marketers to develop the strategies, policies, plans and to make programs and budgets through dealing with the ongoing information on trends.\"\n\nAccording to Philip Kotler, the four components that comprise the MkIS system are Internal Reports (Records) System, Marketing Research System, Marketing Intelligence System, and Marketing Decision Support System\n\n1.Internal Reports System: It records various data from different department of a company, which is regarded as a major source of information.\n\n2.Marketing Intelligence System: It is a main source used by managers for gaining daily information of the external environment, hence assists the managers to react to the changing rapidly.\n\n3.Marketing Research System: It is used to collect primary and secondary data, and displays the results in forms of reports.\n\n4.Marketing Decision Support System: Compared to the supply of the data by the three previous systems, it focuses more on processing the data.\n\nBhasin stated that,\"With an increasingly competitive and expanding market, the amount of information needed daily by an organization is profound. So they have to establish a Marketing Information system. There are several advantages of Marketing information systems\n\n\n\"Nevertheless, the collection of marketing information should obey a high-frequent manner due to the rapid change in the external market.\" The possible risks the business may face if they disobey the manner according to Bhasin are:\n\nMaintenance, complexity and setting up a MkIS are one of the major hindrances to Marketing information systems. Furthermore, wrong information being fed in MkIS can become cumbersome and appropriate filters need to be established.\n\nKotler and Philip have said that \"both primary and secondary researches offer loads of the data and information needed for the marketers, whereas the secondary data sources are relatively superior in quick provision of data at lower cost. Simultaneously, a firm cannot find all the data required by itself, but sometimes can be done with the help of secondary research. However, researchers must assess those data collected from both primary and secondary data sources to enable the accuracy, updates and fairness. Each primary data collection method – observational, survey, and experimental – has its own advantages and disadvantages. Similarly, each of the various research contact methods – mail, telephone, personal interview, and online – also has its own advantages and drawbacks.\" \n\nA RuMIS is necessary not only for corporate organizations engaged in marketing of agricultural goods and manufactured goods intended for sales in rural areas. RuMIS is required also by the agriculturists and farmers who have enormous decis!ion-making to do.\n"}
{"id": "14190268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14190268", "title": "Operational system", "text": "Operational system\n\nAn operational system is a term used in data warehousing to refer to a system that is used to process the day-to-day transactions of an organization. These systems are designed in a manner that processing of day-to-day transactions is performed efficiently and the integrity of the transactional data is preserved.\nSometimes operational systems are referred to as operational databases, transaction processing systems, or online transaction processing systems (OLTP). However, the use of the last two terms as synonyms may be confusing, because operational systems can be batch processing systems as well.\n\nAny enterprise must necessarily maintain a lot of data about its operation. \n\n"}
{"id": "43995424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43995424", "title": "Panaya", "text": "Panaya\n\nPanaya is an Israeli software company. The company is a subsidiary of Infosys. Panaya's products include Change impact analysis, automated code remediation, collaborative test management and test-execution, and ALM acceleration. Panaya’s service runs on the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud.\n\nPanaya was founded in 2006 as \"ChangeSoft Technologies\" by entrepreneur Yossi Cohen and is headquartered in Ra'anana, Israel.\n\nThe disruptive technology revolves around the impact analyses of code change, applied in code comparison of Enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems to help reduce the application life cycle cost. A first patent application was filed in 2008, followed by an extension in 2009, and a continuation in 2013.\n\nIn 2010, shares of Tamares Group, a private equity investment firm based in Vaduz, Liechtenstein, were acquired by Panaya as part of fundraising round.\n\nIn 2012, CGI Group, a Canadian multinational information technology (IT) consulting company, announced the launching of a new Panaya Practice.\n\nIn 2013 and 2014, Panaya laid off more than 25% of the company. In 2016, Panaya shut down their Israeli-based sales development and moved them to Boston and the United Kingdom and replaced their CEO.\n\nIn June 2014, Deloitte and Panaya announced an agreement to provide Oracle E-business Suite customers the ability to reduce the cost and risk of application change projects.\n\nIn February 2015, Infosys announced the acquisition of Panaya for a reported $200 million. Prior to the sale, Panaya was in crisis and was on the verge of shut down, after many waves of layoffs. In 2017, whistleblowers alleged that there were issues with the company’s acquisition by Infosys and that top executives of the company had personal interest in acquisition.\n\nGemini Partners and Benchmark Capital were the first investors to fund Panaya with $5 million in April 2006.\n\nIn August 2009, Panaya secured $5 million funding in a series B investment round led by Tamares Group with the participation of Benchmark Capital.\n\nIn June 2010, in a series C round, Battery Ventures, Benchmark and Tamares Group, invested a further $7 million. In September 2010, HPV, the venture capital fund of Hasso Plattner, co-founder of SAP AG, invested $6 million in exchange for company's stakes. Shares held by the Tamares Group, a private equity investment firm based in Vaduz, Liechtenstein, were acquired by HPV together with existing investors Benchmark Capital and Battery ventures.\n\nIn 2013, the existing investors, in a series D funding round led by Battery Ventures and joined by Benchmark Capital and HPV, injected an additional $16 million into Panaya. The company has raised $39 million to date.\n\nInfosys on 14 April, 2018 said it has started looking out for buyers of Skava and Panaya which were acquired during former CEO Vishal Sikka's tenure to build a so called software plus service model. The company has written off $90 Million in Panaya on a standalone basis, which is nearly half of the $200 million that it had paid to acquire the Israeli software firm in 2015.\n\n\n\nhttp://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/india-business/another-whistleblower-mail-alleges-issues-with-infosys-panaya-deal/articleshow/57244175.cms\n"}
{"id": "19029406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19029406", "title": "Process-centered design", "text": "Process-centered design\n\nProcess-centered design (PCD) is a design methodology, which proposes a business centric approach for designing user interfaces. Because of the multi-stage business analysis steps involved right from the beginning of the PCD life cycle, it is believed to achieve the highest levels of business-IT alignment that is possible through UI.\n\nThis method is aimed at enterprise applications where there is a business process involved. Unlike content oriented systems such as websites or portals, enterprise applications are built to enable a company's business processes. Enterprise applications often have a clear business goal and a set of specific objectives like- improve employee productivity, increase business performance by a certain percent, etc.\n\nAlthough there are proven UI design methodologies (like the most popular \"user-centered design\", which helps design highly Usable Interfaces), PCD differentiates itself by precisely catering to business process intensive software which has not been the case with other UI design methodologies.\n\nProcess-UI alignment is a component of PCD, which ensures tight alignment between the business process and the enterprise application being developed. UI design activities are affected by PCD. \n\nFor example: A call center software used by a customer support agent, if designed for high process-UI alignment will achieve tremendous agent productivity improvement and call center performance; which is not likely to be seen if it were designed only for user satisfaction, ease of use, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44504550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44504550", "title": "Pyramid Analytics", "text": "Pyramid Analytics\n\nPyramid Analytics is a data analytics software company headquartered in Amsterdam, Netherlands. The company offers a tier one, enterprise-grade analytics operating system that scales from single-user self-service analytics to thousand-user centralized deployments—covering simple data visualizations through to advanced machine learning capabilities. The agnostic “Analytics OS” features a universal client for any device and OS. It can be installed on most OS platforms—both on-premises or in the cloud—and it can operate against and with most popular data stacks.\n\nPyramid Analytics is a business intelligence software company that was founded in 2009 by Omri Kohl, Avi Perez, and Herbert Ochtman. The company has offices in Amsterdam, Tel Aviv, London, Boise, and Seattle.\n\nOn May 3, 2011, Pyramid Analytics was selected to join the Microsoft Bizspark One program.\n\nIn early 2013, Pyramid Analytics secured its round A of funding led by Sequoia Capital.\n\nIn 2014, Pyramid Analytics was recognized in Gartner Magic Quadrant for Business Intelligence and Analytics Platforms. Pyramid Analytics released Version 5 of BI Office. In September 2014, Microsoft and Pyramid Analytics partnered with Hospital Physical Partners (HPP) to leverage their BI to \"drive revenue and stay competitive.\"\n\nOn October 20, 2015 Pyramid Analytics secured $30 million for their round B of funding led by Viola Private Equity.\n\nIn 2016, Pyramid Analytics released BI Office Version 6.\n\nIn September 2017, Pyramid was featured as a Strong Performer on the “Forrester Wave: Enterprise BI Platforms with Majority On-Premises Deployments, Q3 2017”.\n\nIn October 2017, Pyramid Analytics released Pyramid 2018, the next generation of its BI platform. Pyramid 2018 can run on any HTML5-compliant browser. It includes a new graphically based end-user ETL and supports multiple AI engines and languages (R, Python, TensorFlow, Weka, MLIB, SAS runtime and others).\n\nPyramid Analytics’ software is used by companies, universities, and organizations, including the US Department of Veteran Affairs, Boise State University, Swiss Army, EMC, HP and Hallmark. They are also partnered with Thorogood, AAJ technologies, and Blackboard Analytics, among others.\n\nPyramid 2018 is a server-based, multi-user Analytics OS that supports self-service analytics workflows across six (6) modules.\n\n• Model – With the Model module, users can prep data, integrate machine learning, and build data models. The graphically based environment is designed so everyday users can fix, condition, and improve basic and blended datasets without IT help.\n\n• Discover – With the Discover module, users can interact with models and explore data.\n\n• Formulate – With the Formulate module, users can formulate and share custom expressions, lists, KPIs, parameters, scripts, and custom columns.\n\n• Illustrate – With the Illustrate module, users can create and share data-driven graphics, text, and infographics for presentations and publications.\n\n• Present – With the Present module, users can design presentations and analytic applications.\n\n• Publish – With the Publish module, users can create dynamic narrative reports and securely share them throughout their organization.\n\nPyramid 2018 is designed with centralized security and full scalability. It can be deployed in any scenario (on-premises, in the cloud, or across a hybrid environment) on any technology platform. It enables end users to conduct advanced analytics and data science without IT help in a governed environment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49181275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49181275", "title": "SKS process", "text": "SKS process\n\nThe SKS process is a framework of Stop/Keep-doing/Start that is used to collect or categorize feedback.\n\nYou can ask customers or colleagues:\n\nThis approach is also used in agile development, where it is known as Start/Stop/Continue.\n"}
{"id": "29722856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29722856", "title": "Social BI", "text": "Social BI\n\nSocial BI, or Social Business Intelligence, refers to the creation, publishing and sharing of custom business analytics reports and dashboards by end users of \"Cloud\" technologies.\n\nSocial or collaborative BI is the use of Enterprise 2.0 tools and practices with business intelligence outputs for the purpose of making collective decisions. First enabled by the rapid growth of social media networks in 2009, Social BI allows for the collaborative development of post user-generated analytics among business analysts and data mining professionals. This has removed previous barriers to self-service BI while still employing traditional analytics applications.\n\nSocial BI can also be interpreted as providing business intelligence based on social networks data. For example, a company selling consumer electronics goods needs to know how people are responding to their latest advertisements or promotions. The reports and visualizations made using social media represent what people are talking about in real time. Pulling data from different social media and preparing understandable reports will help company to decide upon further steps. These dashboards, visualizations, reports based on social media will be of help for companies to get efficient feedback and act accordingly.\n\nOn September 13, 2011, Dachis Group introduced the Social Business Index to provide some insights into how ‘social’ companies are, and how they stack up against similar corporations in their respective industries and their competitors, and provide some ‘social business’ benchmarks by company, subsidiary, geography, department and brand.\n"}
{"id": "21538073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21538073", "title": "Sourcing advisory", "text": "Sourcing advisory\n\nSourcing advisory is the use of third-party (external entity) advice during the sourcing process. As such, it may refer to advice sought during outsourcing, offshoring or global sourcing.\n\nGiven the strategic nature of the advisory and the prevalence of sourcing amongst global organizations, most management consulting firms today offer sourcing advisory services. In addition, there exist a host of specialized sourcing adivsory firms that focus on providing sourcing advisory and research inputs to the industry. Sourcing advisors can also be independent freelance consultants.\n\nIn recent years software tools to automate sourcing advisory emerged. Building on Software as a Service (SaaS), the trade mark \"Sourcing Advisory as a Service\" (SAaaS) is used in the market.\n\nThe range of services provided by sourcing advisory firms include:\n\n"}
{"id": "32724180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32724180", "title": "Stock Market Learning", "text": "Stock Market Learning\n\nStock Market Learning is an international competition run by the Savings Banks in Europe with the support of the European Savings Banks Group (ESBG) based in Brussels. It aims to provide pupils a better understanding of the stock market and of the economic and financial world by simulating transactions in stock exchanges. The competition was held for the first time in Germany in 1983, while the Savings Banks in Europe became actively involved in 1999. By 2010, over 1 million teams had taken part in the initiative.\n\nEach team is assigned an account with virtual capital that is to be used to buy and sell securities. The purpose is to increase initial assets by conducting individual investing strategies. While capital is virtual, trading is based on real stock prices at certain stock exchanges.\n\nThe list of tradable securities consists primarily of shares but also includes fixed-interests securities and investment funds. Since 2009, there is both a conventional and sustainability competition. The former takes into consideration the total performance of the account, whereas the latter is based on the sustainability account value, i.e. on the earnings gained from shares listed in a sustainability index.\n\nIn 2010, Stock Market Learning received the official UN Decade Project of Education for Sustainable Development award from the German Commission for UNESCO.\n\n"}
{"id": "227101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227101", "title": "Strategic planning", "text": "Strategic planning\n\nStrategic planning is an organization's process of defining its strategy, or direction, and making decisions on allocating its resources to pursue this strategy. It may also extend to control mechanisms for guiding the implementation of the strategy. Strategic planning became prominent in corporations during the 1960s and remains an important aspect of strategic management. It is executed by strategic planners or strategists, who involve many parties and research sources in their analysis of the organization and its relationship to the environment in which it competes.\n\nStrategy has many definitions, but generally involves setting goals, determining actions to achieve the goals, and mobilizing resources to execute the actions. A strategy describes how the ends (goals) will be achieved by the means (resources). The senior leadership of an organization is generally tasked with determining strategy. Strategy can be planned (intended) or can be observed as a pattern of activity (emergent) as the organization adapts to its environment or competes.\n\nStrategy includes processes of formulation and implementation; strategic planning helps coordinate both. However, strategic planning is analytical in nature (i.e., it involves \"finding the dots\"); strategy formation itself involves synthesis (i.e., \"connecting the dots\") via strategic thinking. As such, strategic planning occurs around the strategy formation activity.\n\nStrategic planning is a process and thus has inputs, activities, outputs and outcomes. This process, like all processes, has constraints. It may be formal or informal and is typically iterative, with feedback loops throughout the process. Some elements of the process may be continuous and others may be executed as discrete projects with a definitive start and end during a period. Strategic planning provides inputs for strategic thinking, which guides the actual strategy formation. The end result is the organization's strategy, including a diagnosis of the environment and competitive situation, a guiding policy on what the organization intends to accomplish, and key initiatives or action plans for achieving the guiding policy. \n\nMichael Porter wrote in 1980 that formulation of competitive strategy includes consideration of four key elements:\nThe first two elements relate to factors internal to the company (i.e., the internal environment), while the latter two relate to factors external to the company (i.e., the external environment). These elements are considered throughout the strategic planning process.\n\nData is gathered from a variety of sources, such as interviews with key executives, review of publicly available documents on the competition or market, primary research (e.g., visiting or observing competitor places of business or comparing prices), industry studies, etc. This may be part of a competitive intelligence program. Inputs are gathered to help support an understanding of the competitive environment and its opportunities and risks. Other inputs include an understanding of the values of key stakeholders, such as the board, shareholders, and senior management. These values may be captured in an organization's vision and mission statements.\n\nStrategic planning activities include meetings and other communication among the organization's leaders and personnel to develop a common understanding regarding the competitive environment and what the organization's response to that environment (its strategy) should be. A variety of strategic planning tools (described in the section below) may be completed as part of strategic planning activities.\n\nThe organization's leaders may have a series of questions they want answered in formulating the strategy and gathering inputs, such as: \n\nThe output of strategic planning includes documentation and communication describing the organization's strategy and how it should be implemented, sometimes referred to as the strategic plan. The strategy may include a diagnosis of the competitive situation, a guiding policy for achieving the organization's goals, and specific action plans to be implemented. A strategic plan may cover multiple years and be updated periodically.\n\nThe organization may use a variety of methods of measuring and monitoring progress towards the objectives and measures established, such as a balanced scorecard or strategy map. Companies may also plan their financial statements (i.e., balance sheets, income statements, and cash flows) for several years when developing their strategic plan, as part of the goal setting activity. The term operational budget is often used to describe the expected financial performance of an organization for the upcoming year. Capital budgets very often form the backbone of a strategic plan, especially as it increasingly relates to Information and Communications Technology (ICT).\n\nWhilst the planning process produces outputs, as described above, strategy implementation or execution of the strategic plan produces Outcomes. These outcomes will invariably differ from the strategic goals. How close they are to the strategic goals and vision will determine the success or failure of the strategic plan. There will also arise unintended Outcomes, which need to be attended to and understood for strategy development and execution to be a true learning process.\n\nA variety of analytical tools and techniques are used in strategic planning. These were developed by companies and management consulting firms to help provide a framework for strategic planning. Such tools include:\n\nSimply extending financial statement projections into the future without consideration of the competitive environment is a form of financial planning or budgeting, not strategic planning. In business, the term \"financial plan\" is often used to describe the expected financial performance of an organization for future periods. The term \"budget\" is used for a financial plan for the upcoming year. A \"forecast\" is typically a combination of actual performance year-to-date plus expected performance for the remainder of the year, so is generally compared against plan or budget and prior performance. The financial plans accompanying a strategic plan may include 3–5 years of projected performance.\n\nMcKinsey & Company developed a capability maturity model in the 1970s to describe the sophistication of planning processes, with strategic management ranked the highest. The four stages include:\nCategories 3 and 4 are strategic planning, while the first two categories are non-strategic or essentially financial planning. Each stage builds on the previous stages; that is, a stage 4 organization completes activities in all four categories.\n\nFor Michael C. Sekora, Project Socrates founder in the Reagan White House, during the cold war the economically challenged Soviet Union was able to keep on western military capabilities by using technology-based planning while the U.S. was slowed by finance-based planning, until the Reagan administration launched the Socrates Project, which should be revived to keep up with China as an emerging superpower.\n\nStrategic planning has been criticized for attempting to systematize strategic thinking and strategy formation, which Henry Mintzberg argues are inherently creative activities involving synthesis or \"connecting the dots\" which cannot be systematized. Mintzberg argues that strategic planning can help coordinate planning efforts and measure progress on strategic goals, but that it occurs \"around\" the strategy formation process rather than within it. Further, strategic planning functions remote from the \"front lines\" or contact with the competitive environment (i.e., in business, facing the customer where the effect of competition is most clearly evident) may not be effective at supporting strategy efforts.\n\n"}
{"id": "51199838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51199838", "title": "ThoughtSpot", "text": "ThoughtSpot\n\nThoughtSpot, Inc. is a technology company that produces business-intelligence analytics search software. The company is based in Palo Alto, California with additional offices in London and Seattle.\n\nThoughtSpot was founded in 2012, and as of May 2017, had raised over $306 million in funding and putting the company into unicorn territory with a valuation of over $1 billion. ThoughtSpot's clients include companies such as Bed Bath & Beyond and Hightail.\n\nThoughtSpot was founded in 2012 by a team of engineers who previously worked for Google, Oracle, Microsoft, Yahoo, and other Silicon Valley companies. The CEO and Co-founder, Ajeet Singh, previously co-founded the company Nutanix. In late 2012, ThoughtSpot raised $10.7 million in Series A funding led by Lightspeed Venture Partners. In 2014, the company raised $30 million in Series B funding led by Khosla Ventures.\n\nIn January 2016, the company opened an office in London in an effort to expand to the European market. In February 2016, ThoughtSpot announced that it had increased its revenue by 810 percent over the previous year. In May 2016, ThoughtSpot raised $50 million in Series C funding led by General Catalyst Partners. In October 2016, the company expanded its series C funding with an investment from Hewlett Packard Pathfinder. As part of the investment, ThoughtSpot will enter the Pathfinder program and begin selling its software on Hewlett-Packard infrastructure.\n\nIn May 2018, the company raised $145 million in funding to expand its AI based analytics platform. The company is now valued over $1 billion.\n\nThoughtSpot's allows for non-technical individuals to conduct a self-service data analysis search. ThoughtSpot's relational search engine can analyze information from any data source, including data warehouses, point of sale data and social media sites.\n\nIn 2015, ThoughtSpot released ThoughtSpot 3, which included DataRank, a machine learning algorithm that presents data suggestions to guide users as input is being typed, AutoJoins, which automatically graphs data sources and joins tables to calculate answers across previously siloed databases, and PopCharts a visualization engine that sorts through possible charts and graphs and presents users with the one best suited to their search.\n\nIn 2016, ThoughtSpot was named a \"Cool Vendor in Analytics\" by Gartner. In 2017, the company announced that it was included on Gartner Magic Quadrant for Business Intelligence and Analytics Platforms report. That same year, ThoughtSpot was included in \"Red Herring's\" Top 100 North American Companies list.\n"}
{"id": "2790824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2790824", "title": "Topple rate", "text": "Topple rate\n\nTopple rate is a name of a ratio of speed at which firms lose their leadership positions. It was believed that it was originally created by Jack Percival following losing his job. The Wall Street Journal article that appeared on September 9, 2007 attributes authorship to Patrick Viguerie, a McKinsey & Co. consultant.\n\nFor example, the minicomputer industry began, grew up, got big, profitable, smug, senile and died in 20 years from 1975 to 1995. Digital Equipment Corporation is a prime exemplar. In this case the topple rate of the minicomputer industry was 20 years.\n\nA high topple rate is especially frequently used as a saying in fields of technological business.\n\nThe Red Queen's race has incredible evolutionary similarities. To maintain a leadership position, an industry must change at the same or faster rate than competing industries.\n"}
{"id": "12017845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12017845", "title": "Visual business intelligence", "text": "Visual business intelligence\n\nVisual Business Intelligence (VBI) is knowledge based on the application of visual data to a business problem or opportunity.\n\nThe process of visual business intelligence starts with the collection of visual data which is analyzed to create unique information. This information becomes knowledge when it is applied to a business problem or opportunity. For example, visual data is collected from a retail store (the number of customers who enter an area of interest, the time they spend there and what direction they traveled). This data is analyzed and becomes information (the answer to a simple question such as how long are people waiting in line?). In turn it becomes knowledge (the application of the data to business such as reducing wait times and decreasing departures by opening additional cash registers between 11am and 2PM on weekends or when more than five people are waiting in line). The opportunity then exists to move further to forecast and even model physical customer behavior.\n\n“Businesses have only begun to tap the capabilities of visual business intelligence. I see a future where we wonder how anyone operated a business without some level of VBI as part of their day to day business decision making.”\n-Martin Renkis Smartvue Corporation\n"}
