{"id": "2511603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2511603", "title": "American-Born Confused Desi", "text": "American-Born Confused Desi\n\n\"American-Born Confused Desi\" (\"ABCD\") is a term used to refer to Indian Americans born or raised in the United States, in contrast to those who were born overseas and later settled in the USA.\n\n\"ABCD\" or \"American-Born Confused Desi\" has become a polarizing factor in the Indian and other South Asian diaspora in the US, with first-generation immigrant parents and young South Asians of second or later generations. Though the term was originally coined in reference to Indian-Americans, it has been adopted by the South Asian community at large. The term \"desi\" comes from the word \"des\" (homeland) in Hindi. The word has its origin in Sanskrit \"desh\". It's pronounced as \"desh\" in Bengali language (Bangla) too. \"Desi\" means \"of the homeland\" and denotes anything or anyone from South Asia. The term has been commonly known since at least the 1980s. The term \"confused\" is used to describe the psychological state of many second-generation South Asian Americans who struggle to balance values and traditions taught at home with attitudes and practices that are more conducive to the majority white culture.\n\nThe longer and lesser known form \"American Born Confused Desi, Emigrated From Gujarat, House In Jersey\" is also occasionally seen; playing on the alphabet theme, it has been expanded for K-Z variously as \"Kids Learning Medicine, Now Owning Property, Quite Reasonable Salary, Two Uncles Visiting, White Xenophobia, Yet Zestful\" or \"Keeping Lotsa Motels, Named Omkarnath Patel, Quickly Reaching Success Through Underhanded Vicious Ways, Xenophobic Yet Zestful\". The former version of the A—Z expansion was proposed by South Asian immigrants as a reaction to the latter version that derogated them.\n\n\"Confused Americanized Desi (CAD)\" is a related term, which refers to people of South Asian origin who are both born and living in the subcontinent but tend to follow western lifestyle and values.\nCoconuts is also a term used which basically refers to people who are \"white from the inside and brown from the outside\".\n\nAmong South Asian Americans, the term may be considered divisive, as first generation South Asian Americans use it to criticize the Americanization and lack of belonging to either Indian Asian or American culture they perceive in their second-generation peers or children. Writer Vijay Prashad describes the term as \"ponderous and overused\" and notes it as one of the mechanisms by which new immigrants attempt to make second-generation youth feel \"culturally inadequate and unfinished.\".\n\nThe term American-Born Confused Desi first appeared in the movie \"American Desi\" (2001).\"\" is a 2013 Malayalam language movie released in India.The film narrates the journey of two young American Malayalees to their motherland, Kerala, with the title based on the term \"American-Born Confused Desi\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11008756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11008756", "title": "Antillanité", "text": "Antillanité\n\nAntillanité is a literary and political movement developed in the 1960s that stresses the creation of a specific West Indian identity out of a multiplicity of ethnic and cultural elements.\n\nFrom the early 1960s, a new way of envisaging French West Indian identity began to be articulated by a number of Martinican thinkers, which, in contrast to Négritude's stress on the retention of African cultural forms in the Caribbean, dwelt rather on the creation, out of a multiplicity of constituent elements, of a specifically West Indian cultural configuration to which, in time, the name \"Antillanité\" came to be given.\n\nIt seems to have been René Ménil, a former collaborator of Aimé Césaire, one of the principal champions of the Négritude movement, who, in an article entitled \"Problèmes d'une culture antillaise\" first clearly formulated the idea of a West Indian specificity (\"spécificité antillaise\") that would enjoy such success in the years that followed. \n\nFrench West Indian culture, according to Ménil, is: \"neither African nor Chinese, nor Indian, nor even French, but ultimately West Indian. Our culture is West Indian since, in the course of history, it has brought together and combined in an original syncretism all these elements derived from the four corners of the earth, without being any one of those elements in particular.\"\n\nOriginally intended as a counter to the doctrine of Négritude, and its stress on an African rather than Caribbean identity, Antillanité was positively received by a number of prominent Martinican intellectuals, in particular the Groupe de Recherches de l'Institut Martiniquais d'Etudes headed by Édouard Glissant, which published the results of its discussions on Caribbean identity in the short-lived journal \"Acoma\" (1971–73).\n\nLike its predecessor, Négritude, Antillanité is, at its base, an assertion of the difference in the face of the encroachments of the same. The whole of Glissant's theoretical work may be seen as a sustained polemic, conducted in the name of \"le Divers,\" (the different) against the claims of the universal, to which a succession of derogatory epithets are attached in a more or less routine fashion.\n\nFor Glissant, \"the preoccupation with the universal is the alienated reverse side of the uniquely western pretension to exercise universal control\", and it therefore follows that proponents of Antillanité must adopt a \"firm opposition to any ideology of universal culture.\" Where Antillanité differs most markedly from Négritude is in its conception of the constitution of the different. For Négritude, the different was monolithic, being essentially African in character; however, in the view of Glissant, the different is, itself, diverse, complex, and heterogeneous, made up of a multiplicity of relations held in place by a complex process of attraction and repulsion. Thus, it could be said that while Négritude looked inwards, to African heritage, for its models and values Antillanité looked both inwards, and outwards, towards the Caribbean and Meso-America as a whole, in its quest for self-invention from which proponents conceived identity as an archipelago of signifiers, none of which enjoys primacy over the others and whose unity lies not in the fact of possessing a single source but, rather, in the complex amalgamation of these myriad forces which hold themselves in relation to each other. One of the major advances made by Antillanité is that it has, in large measure, shed the regressive, matrocentric orientation common to both assimilationism and Négritude.\n\nSuzanne Césaire\n\n"}
{"id": "26743020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26743020", "title": "Aptal Nisan", "text": "Aptal Nisan\n\nAptal Nisan is a Turkish wedding tradition dating back to the days of the Ottoman Empire. The tradition in its most basic form is a simple sleeping ceremony or ritual that takes place the night before a Turkish wedding. The ceremony consists of the groom tying a \"Nikah Kravat\" (colorful fabric or wound ribbons used in Muslim sacred ceremonies) to the left ankle of the father of the bride and subsequently around his own right ankle. (In some traditions the wrists are tied.) After tying the Nikah Kravat, it must be blessed by the oldest member of the groom's family. This individual must place his (or her) hand over the central knot of the Nikah Kravat and recite the Evlilik Dua Daima, a Muslim prayer meant to unite the two families. To cement the bond of the Evlilik Dua Daima, the bridegroom and father in law to be must stay bound until dawn on the day of the wedding.\n\nThe first mention of the Aptal Nisan comes from texts written in the 1670s about the Imperial Harem during the Köprülü era (1656–1703), a short time after the Abbasid victory at the Battle of Talas, which ensured Abbasid influence in Central Asia. At this time, many of the various Turkic tribes—including the Oghuz Turks, who were the ancestors of both the Seljuks and the Ottomans—gradually converted to Islam, and brought the religion with them to Anatolia beginning in the 17th century. It is presumed that the Aptal Nisan was one of the many traditions adopted during this period.\n\nIn Turkish tradition, the meaning of Aptal Nisan can vary depending upon region, but the basis of the ritual is for the groom to demonstrate his commitment to bind himself to the bride's family and for the marriage to receive luck and blessings. He and the father of the bride do so bound together in sleep, a time of great vulnerability. In the early days of this tradition, the father of the bride may have only met the groom a few times before if at all since most marriages were arranged. It was not unheard of for the groom to abandon a marriage the night before the ceremony, especially if the bridal dower was high or if he was not emotionally committed to the union. By physically tying himself to the father of the bride, the groom allayed the fears of the bride’s family regarding abandonment. However, because of the vulnerability of sleep, it was common for the bride’s uncles and brothers to sleep nearby to attend and watch over the father of the bride for his safety. However, as time has gone on and arranged marriages have all but disappeared in Turkish tradition, the abandonment portion of this tradition has become relatively unimportant. The main reason the Aptal Nisan has stayed an active part of the Turkish wedding tradition through modern times is for good luck in the marriage. To this day, it is held by the Turkish people that the Evlilik Dua Daima prayer will transfer wisdom to the groom from the father in law and will bless the marriage with happiness and fertility. As such, this is a very common practice in modern Turkish weddings.\n\nThe main regional differences in the Aptal Nisan center on the way in which the Nikah Kravat is tied. In the Anatolian peninsula, it is common to tie a longer Nikah Kravat with a triple layered knot and the tie is made to the ankles. In the Balkan region, the Nikah Kravat is much shorter and employs a simple single knot and is tied around the wrists.\n"}
{"id": "340336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340336", "title": "Artistic license", "text": "Artistic license\n\nArtistic license (also known as art license, historical license, dramatic license, poetic license, narrative license, licentia poetica, creative license, or simply license) is a colloquial term, sometimes a euphemism, used to denote the distortion of fact, alteration of the conventions of grammar or language, or rewording of pre-existing text made by an artist in the name of art.\n\nThe artistic license may also refer to the ability of an artist to apply smaller distortions, such as a poet ignoring some of the minor requirements of grammar for poetic effect. For example, Mark Antony's \"Friends, Romans, Countrymen, lend me your ears\" from Shakespeare's \"Julius Caesar\" would technically require the word \"and\" before \"countrymen\", but the conjunction \"and\" is omitted to preserve the rhythm of iambic pentameter (the resulting conjunction is called an asyndetic tricolon). Conversely, on the next line, the end of \"I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him\" has an extra syllable because omitting the word \"him\" would make the sentence unclear, but adding a syllable at the end would not disrupt the meter. Both of these are examples of artistic license. \n\nAnother example of artistic license is the way in which stylized images of an object (for instance in a painting or an animated movie) are different from their real life counterparts, but are still intended to be interpreted by the viewer as representing the same thing. This can mean the omission of details, or the simplification of shapes and color shades, even to the point that the image is nothing more than a pictogram. It can also mean the addition of non-existing details, or exaggeration of shapes and colours, as in fantasy art or a caricature.\n\nCertain stylizations have become fixed conventions in art; an agreement between artist and viewer that is understood and undebatable. A striking example is how in simple cartoon drawings' monochromatic white parts on a dark colored surface are immediately recognized by most viewers to represent the reflection of light on a smooth or wet surface.\n\nIn summary, artistic license is:\n\n\nArtistic license is often referred to as dramatic license when it involves the glamorization of real-world occupations for the sake of exciting television or cinematic experience. For example, \"CSI: Crime Scene Investigation\" and other police procedural programs typically omit completely the more mundane aspects of the occupation such as paperwork, reports, administrative duties and other daily \"business-oriented\" aspects which in reality often constitute the majority of police work. They will also present other duties with much more action, suspense or drama than would be experienced in reality. The same is also true for many military-oriented adventure stories which often show high-ranking characters being allowed to continuously enter dangerous situations when in reality, they would usually be restricted to command-oriented and administrative duties.\n\nArtistic license often provokes controversy by offending those who resent the reinterpretation of cherished beliefs or previous works. Artists often respond to these criticisms by pointing out that their work was not intended to be a verbatim portrayal of something previous and should be judged only on artistic merit. Artistic license is a generally accepted practice, particularly when the result is widely acclaimed. William Shakespeare's historical plays, for example, are gross distortions of historical fact but are nevertheless lauded as outstanding literary works.\n\nCritical voices are sometimes raised when artistic license is applied to cinematic and other depictions of real historical events. While slight manipulation for dramatic effect of chronology and character traits are generally accepted, some critics feel that depictions that present a significantly altered reality are irresponsible, particularly because many viewers and readers do not know the actual events and may thus take the dramatized depiction to be true to reality. Examples of films and television series criticized for excessive use of dramatic license include Disney's \"Pocahontas\", Oliver Stone's \"Alexander\", the HBO series \"Rome\", 20th Century Fox's \"The Greatest Showman\" and Showtime's \"The Tudors\". \n\nWriters adapting a work for another medium (e.g., a film screenplay from a book) often make significant changes, additions to, or omissions from the original plot in the book, on the grounds that these changes were necessary to make a good film. These changes are sometimes to the dismay of fans of the original work.\n"}
{"id": "1004372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1004372", "title": "Changing room", "text": "Changing room\n\nA changing room, locker room, dressing room (usually in a sports, theater or staff context) or changeroom (regional use) is a room or area designated for changing one's clothes. Changing rooms are provided in a semi-public situation to enable people to change clothes with varying degrees of privacy.\n\nSeparate changing rooms may be provided for men and women, or there may be a non-gender-specific open space with individual cubicles or stalls, as with unisex public toilets. Many changing rooms include toilets and showers. Sometimes a changing room exists as a small portion of a public toilet. For example, the men's and women's washrooms in Toronto's Dundas Square (which includes a waterplay area) each include a change area which is a blank counter space at the end of a row of sinks. In this case, the facility is primarily a washroom, and its use as a changing room is minimal, since only a small percentage of users change into bathing suits. Sometimes a person may change his or her clothes in a toilet cubicle of a washroom. \n\nLarger changing rooms are usually found at public beaches, or other bathing areas, where most of the space is for changing, and minimal washroom space is included. Beach-style changing rooms are often large open rooms with benches against the walls. Some do not have a roof, providing just the barrier necessary to prevent people outside from seeing in.\n\nVarious types of changing rooms exist.\n\n\nChanging stalls are small stalls where clothes can be changed in privacy. Clothes are usually stored in lockers. There are usually no separate areas for men and women. They are often combined with gender-separated communal showers. Most public pools have changing facilities of this kind alongside communal changing rooms.\n\nLocker rooms are thus named because they provide lockers for the storage of one's belongings. Alternatively, they may have a locker room attendant who will keep a person's belongings until one comes to retrieve them. Locker rooms are usually open spaces where people change together, but there are separate areas, or separate locker rooms, for men and women. Sometimes they are used in swimming complexes.\n\nLocking devices used in locker rooms have traditionally been key or coin lockers, or lockers that are secured with a combination lock. Newer locker rooms may be automated, with robotic machines to store clothes, with such features as a fingerprint scanner to enrol and for later retrieval. Locker rooms in some waterparks use a microchip equipped wristband. The same wristband that unlocks the lockers can be used to purchase food and drinks and other items in the waterpark.\n\nSome communal changing rooms are only supposed to be used by groups of persons, not individuals. In this case, there may be no lockers. Instead, the entire room is locked in order to protect belongings from theft.\n\nLocker rooms are also used in many middle schools and high schools. Most of them include showers for after Physical Education.\n\nFitting rooms, or \"dressing rooms\", are rooms where people try on clothes, such as in a department store. The rooms are usually individual rooms in which a person tries on clothes to determine fit before making a purchase. People do not always use the fitting rooms to change, as to change implies to remove one set of clothes and put on another. Sometimes a person chooses to try on clothes over their clothes (such as sweaters or coats), but would still like to do this in private. Thus fitting rooms may be used for changing, or just for fitting without changing.\n\nRetail establishments often post rules such as maximum number of items allowed in changing room, e.g. \"no more than 4 items allowed in changing room\".\n\nIt appears that the first store fitting rooms appeared with the spread of department stores. Émile Zola noted their existence in his novel \"Au Bonheur des Dames\" (1883), and that they were then forbidden to men. Some years later, when Henri Gervex, who painted Jeanne Paquin in 1906, that was no longer the case.\n\nIn any case, Buster Keaton worked in one in an American 1928 silent comedy \"The Cameraman\". Since then, they have continued to provide comic scenes in films, for example in the 1995 French film \"Les Trois Frères\".\n\nA green room is a room located backstage in a theatre or some such performance space where the actors (musicians, dancers etc.) wait before they go onstage. One theory of its naming is that it traditionally has green walls; as green is considered to have a calming effect and is meant to bring focus before the performance and calm nerves. Another is that performers in the green room are \"Green to go\", ready to go on stage. Green rooms are usually located backstage, but sometimes under the stage, or to the side, they can also be located anywhere where there is room to put a communal space. In exhibition halls and convention centers, Pipe and Drape \"rooms\" may be constructed as a Green rooms. Green rooms are usually not separated by gender, because performers often change in separate, usually gender segregated, dressing rooms and congregate in the Green Room, once largely or completely in costume to help each other focus and calm nerves of other performers. Green Rooms may be separated by performing group, or the main headliner may have their own Green Room, and the supporting acts share another. Green rooms are often also used on non-show days and during the install and strike of productions as a break room or meeting room, and may contain a fridge, microwave, coffee machine, or water fountain.\n\nIn larger Victorian houses it was common to have accessible from the bedroom a boudoir for the lady of the house and a dressing room for the gentleman (see also his Cabinet (room)).\n\nBefore the advent of modern plumbing, there existed a number of places for washing one's clothes and body. Cleansing stations were separated by gender, and combined the function of cleaning clothes with cleaning of the body. The closest modern equivalent would be a combination laundromat plus locker room with showers.\n\nDuring the nineteenth, and early part of the twentieth century, the increase of urbanization caused an increase in the spread of disease. Poor hygiene was determined to be the cause. Since many families did not have practical means to clean themselves or their clothes, public cleansing stations were established for their use.\n\nBecause of the privacy afforded by changing rooms, they create a problem in the trade off between security and privacy, where in it may be possible for crime to be perpetrated by people using the cover of privacy to sell drugs, or steal clothing from a department store. Some department stores have security cameras in the changing rooms.\n\nCommunal changing rooms pose less of a risk of theft than fitting rooms, because there is not total privacy. In particular, the perpetrator of a crime would not know whether or not other users might be undercover police or security guards. Many modern changing rooms often have labyrinth-style entrances that have no door, so that people outside cannot see in, but security can walk in at any time without the sound of an opening door alerting persons inside. Washrooms in which changing clothes is merely a secondary purpose often also have such labyrinth openings. Many washrooms have security cameras in the main area with a view of the sinks and the urinals from a viewing angle that would only show the back of a user. However, when a washroom is located near a fountain, wading pool, or the like, and is likely to be used for changing clothes, some believe that washroom surveillance cameras would be a violation of privacy.\n\nAnother security risk present is that of theft. Sometimes no method of securing items is provided, but even lockable lockers or baskets are usually designed for only minimal security allowing experienced thieves to steal the valuable items which people typically have with them before changing. Changing room operators frequently post signs waiving responsibility for stolen items, which discourage but do not eliminate claims for negligence.\n\n"}
{"id": "2910007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2910007", "title": "Character arc", "text": "Character arc\n\nA character arc is the transformation or inner journey of a character over the course of a story. If a story has a character arc, the character begins as one sort of person and gradually transforms into a different sort of person in response to changing developments in the story. Since the change is often substantive and leading from one personality trait to a diametrically opposite trait (for example, from greed to benevolence), the geometric term \"arc\" is often used to describe the sweeping change. In most stories, lead characters and protagonists are the characters most likely to experience character arcs, although it is possible for lesser characters to change as well. A driving element of the plots of many stories is that the main character seems initially unable to overcome opposing forces, possibly because they lack skills or knowledge or resources or friends. To overcome such obstacles, the protagonist must change, possibly by learning new skills, to arrive at a higher sense of self-awareness or capability. Protagonists can achieve such self-awareness by interacting with their environment, by enlisting the help of mentors, by changing their viewpoint, or by some other method.\n\nThroughout the trajectory of narratives with a tripartite structure, character arcs often unfold beside the narrative arc in the following way:\n\nDuring the first act, the character arc is established or re-established for at least one character, the main character (the protagonist), within the exposition (noument) of the environment including relationships to other characters. Later in the first act, a dynamic, on-screen incident, known as the inciting incident, or catalyst occurs that confronts the protagonist, whose attempts to deal with this incident lead to a second and more dramatic situation, known as the first turning point. After the first turning point, life will never be the same for the protagonist and raises a dramatic question that will be answered in the climax of the story. The dramatic question should be framed in terms of the protagonist's call to action, for example, Will X recover the diamond? Will Y get the girl? Will Z capture the killer?\n\nDuring the second act, also referred to as \"rising action\", the character arc develops as the protagonist attempts to resolve the problem initiated by the first turning point, only to discover ever-worsening situations, which often lead to the learning of new skills, the discovery of capabilities, and (sometimes late in the second act if at all) the raising of self-awareness.\n\nDuring the third act, including the climax, \"falling action\" and resolution (denouement), the narrative arc is completed although the character arc typically is not. During the climax, because the main tensions of the story are brought to their most intense point and the dramatic question is answered, a character arc reaches a place where the character gains a new sense of who they are becoming. As the plot and its subplots resolve, the character arc's emphasis shifts from the learning of any new skills or the discovery of dormant capabilities to the awakening of a higher level of self-awareness, which in turn changes who the character is becoming.\n\nSome examples include:\n\n\nSome examples include:\n\n\nLike a story arc, which often is composed of many narrative arcs, the character arc is not confined within the limits of one narrative. The character arc may extend over to the next story, a sequel, or another episode. In episodic TV series, the character arc functions as a narrative hook that writers often use to ensure viewers continue watching.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13775689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13775689", "title": "Cultural emphasis", "text": "Cultural emphasis\n\nCultural emphasis is an important aspect of a culture which is often reflected though language and, more specifically, vocabulary (Ottenheimer, 2006, p. 266). This means that the vocabulary people use in a culture indicates what is important to that group of people. If there are a lot of words to describe a certain topic in a specific culture, then there is a good chance that that topic is considered important to that culture.\n\nThe idea of cultural emphasis is rooted form the work of Franz Boas, who is considered to be one of the founders of American Anthropology (Ottenheimer, 2006, p. 15). Franz Boas developed and taught concepts such as cultural relativism and the \"cultural unconscious\", which allowed anthropologists who studied under him, like Edward Sapir and Ruth Benedict, to further study and develop ideas on language and culture (Hart, 2005, p. 179).\n\nOne way in which cultural emphasis is exemplified is a populace talks about the weather. For example, in a place where it is cold and it snows a lot, a large collection of words to describe the snow would be expected.\n\nIn a place where it is hot, a cornucopia of associated terms would be expected.\n\nA concentration of related terms for similar phenomena suggests the importance in distinguishing between them. Furthermore, if you are not from the area, or that culture, you might not have experienced or know the difference between, for example, a dry heat or a humid heat, when the difference may have huge implications for the outcome of a particular action.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5974844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5974844", "title": "Cultural icon", "text": "Cultural icon\n\nA cultural icon is an artifact that is identified by members of a culture as representative of that culture. The process of identification is subjective, and \"icons\" are judged by the extent to which they can be seen as an authentic proxy of that culture. When individuals perceive a cultural icon, they relate it to their general perceptions of the cultural identity represented. Cultural icons can also be identified as an authentic representation of the practices of one culture by another.\n\nIn the media, many items and persons of popular culture have been called \"iconic\" despite their lack of durability; and the term \"pop icon\" is often now used. Some commentators believe that the word is overused or misused.\n\nA web-based survey was set up in 2006 allowing the public to nominate their ideas for national icons of England and the results reflect the range of different types of icon associated with an English view of English culture. Some examples are:\n\n\nMatryoshka dolls are seen internationally as cultural icons of Russia. In the former Soviet Union, the hammer and sickle symbol and statues of Vladimir Lenin instead represented the country's most prominent cultural icons.\n\nThe values, norms and ideals represented by a cultural icon vary both among people who subscribe to it, and more widely among other people who may interpret cultural icons as symbolising quite different values. Thus an apple pie is a cultural icon of the United States, but its significance varies among Americans.\n\nNational icons can become targets for those opposing or criticising a regime, for example, crowds destroying statues of Lenin in Eastern Europe after the fall of communism or burning the American flag to protest US actions abroad.\n\nReligious icons can also become cultural icons in societies where religion and culture are deeply entwined, such as representations of the Madonna in societies with a strong Catholic tradition.\n\nDescribing something as \"iconic\" or as an \"icon\" has become very common in the popular media. This has drawn criticism from some: a writer in \"Liverpool Daily Post\" calls \"iconic\" \"a word that makes my flesh creep\", a word \"pressed into service to describe almost anything.\" The \"Christian Examiner\" nominates \"iconic\" in its list of overused words, finding over 18,000 \"iconic\" references in news stories alone, with another 30,000 for \"icon\", including its use for \"SpongeBob SquarePants\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8950930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8950930", "title": "Cultural memory", "text": "Cultural memory\n\nBecause memory is not just an individual, private experience but is also part of the collective domain, cultural memory has become a topic in both historiography (Pierre Nora, Richard Terdiman) and cultural studies (e.g., Susan Stewart). These emphasize cultural memory’s process (historiography) and its implications and objects (cultural studies), respectively. Two schools of thought have emerged, one articulates that the present shapes our understanding of the past. The other assumes that the past has an influence on our present behavior.\n\nCrucial in understanding cultural memory as a phenomenon is the distinction between memory and history. This distinction was put forward by Pierre Nora, who pinpointed a niche in-between history and memory.\n\nScholars disagree as to when to locate the moment representation 'took over'. Nora points to the formation of European nation states. For Richard Terdiman, the French revolution is the breaking point: the change of a political system, together with the emergence of industrialization and urbanization, made life more complex than ever before. This not only resulted in an increasing difficulty for people to understand the new society in which they were living, but also, as this break was so radical, people had trouble relating to the past \"before\" the revolution. In this situation, people no longer had an implicit understanding of their past. In order to understand the past, it had to be represented through history. As people realized that history was only one version of the past, they became more and more concerned with their own cultural heritage (in French called \"patrimoine\") which helped them shape a collective and national identity. In search for an identity to bind a country or people together, governments have constructed collective memories in the form of commemorations which should bring and keep together minority groups and individuals with conflicting agendas. What becomes clear is that the obsession with memory coincides with the fear of forgetting and the aim for authenticity.\n\nHowever, more recently questions have arisen whether there ever was a time in which 'pure', non-representational memory existed – as Nora in particular put forward. Scholars like Tony Bennett rightly point out that representation is a crucial precondition for human perception in general: pure, organic and objective memories can never be witnessed as such.\n\nIt is because of a sometimes too contracted conception of memory as just a temporal phenomenon, that the concept of cultural memory has often been exposed to misunderstanding. Nora pioneered connecting memory to physical, tangible locations, nowadays globally known and incorporated as \"lieux de mémoire\". He certifies these in his work as \"mises en abîme\"; entities that symbolize a more complex piece of our history. Although he concentrates on a spatial approach to remembrance, Nora already points out in his early historiographical theories that memory goes beyond just tangible and visual aspects, thereby making it flexible and in flux. This rather problematic notion, also characterized by Terdiman as the 'omnipresence' of memory, implies that for instance on a sensory level, a smell or a sound can become of cultural value, due to its commemorative effect.\n\nEither in visualized or abstracted form, one of the largest complications of memorializing our past is the inevitable fact that it is absent. Every memory we try to reproduce becomes – as Terdiman states – a 'present past'. It is this impractical desire for recalling what is gone forever that brings to surface a feeling of nostalgia, noticeable in many aspects of daily life but most specifically in cultural products.\n\nRecently, interest has developed in the area of 'embodied memory'. According to Paul Connerton the body can also be seen as a container, or carrier of memory, of two different types of social practice; inscribing and incorporating. The former includes all activities which are helpful for storing and retrieving information: photographing, writing, taping, etc. The latter implies skilled performances which are sent by means of physical activity, like a spoken word or a handshake. These performances are accomplished by the individual in an unconscious manner, and one might suggest that this memory carried in gestures and habits, is more authentic than 'indirect' memory via inscribing.\n\nThe first conceptions of embodied memory, in which the past is 'situated' in the body of the individual, derive from late nineteenth century thoughts of evolutionists like Jean Baptiste Lamarck and Ernst Haeckel. Lamarck’s law of inheritance of acquired characteristics and Haeckel's theory of ontogeny recapitulating phylogeny, suggested that the individual is a summation of the whole history that had preceded him or her. (However, neither of these concepts is accepted by current science.)\n\nMemory can, for instance, be contained in objects. Souvenirs and photographs inhabit an important place in the cultural memory discourse. Several authors stress the fact that the relationship between memory and objects has changed since the nineteenth century. Stewart, for example, claims that our culture has changed from a culture of production to a culture of consumption. Products, according to Terdiman, have lost 'the memory of their own process' now, in times of mass-production and commodification. At the same time, he claims, the connection between memories and objects has been institutionalized and exploited in the form of trade in souvenirs. These specific objects can refer to either a distant time (an antique) or a distant (exotic) place. Stewart explains how our souvenirs authenticate our experiences and how they are a survival sign of events that exist only through the invention of narrative.\n\nThis notion can easily be applied to another practice that has a specific relationship with memory: photography. Catherine Keenan explains how the act of taking a picture can underline the importance of remembering, both individually and collectively. Also she states that pictures cannot only stimulate or help memory, but can rather eclipse the actual memory – when we remember in terms of the photograph – or they can serve as a reminder of our propensity to forget. Others have argued that photographs can be incorporated in memory and therefore supplement it.\n\nEdward Chaney has coined the term 'Cultural Memorials' to describe both generic types, such as obelisks or sphinxes, and specific objects, such as the Obelisk of Domitian, Abu Simbel or 'The Young Memnon', which have meanings attributed to them that evolve over time. Readings of ancient Egyptian artefacts by Herodotus, Pliny, the Collector Earl of Arundel, 18th-century travellers, Napoleon, Shelley, William Bankes, Harriet Martineau, Florence Nightingale or Sigmund and Lucian Freud, reveal a range of interpretations variously concerned with reconstructing the intentions of their makers.\n\nAs a contrast to the sometimes generative nature of previously mentioned studies on cultural memory, an alternative 'school' with its origins in gender and postcolonial studies underscored the importance of the individual and particular memories of those unheard in most collective accounts: women, minorities, homosexuals, etc.\n\nExperience, whether it be lived or imagined, relates mutually to culture and memory. It is influenced by both factors, but determines these at the same time. Culture influences experience by offering mediated perceptions that affect it, as Frigga Haug states by opposing conventional theory on femininity to lived memory. In turn, as historians such as Neil Gregor have argued, experience affects culture, since individual experience becomes communicable and therefore collective. A memorial, for example, can represent a shared sense of loss.\n\nThe influence of memory is made obvious in the way the past is experienced in present conditions, for – according to Paul Connerton, for instance – it can never be eliminated from human practice. On the other hand, it is perception driven by a longing for authenticity that colors memory, which is made clear by a desire to experience the real (Susan Stewart). Experience, therefore, is substantial to the interpretation of culture as well as memory, and vice versa.\n\nTraumatic transmissions are articulated over time not only through social sites or institutions but also through cultural, political, and familial generations, a key social mechanism of continuity and renewal across human groups, cohorts, and communities. The intergenerational transmission of collective trauma is a well-established phenomenon in the scholarly literature on psychological, familial, sociocultural, and biological modes of transmission. Ordinary processes of remembering and transmission can be understood as cultural practices by which people recognize a lineage, a debt to their past, and through which \"they express moral continuity with that past.\" The intergenerational preservation, transformation, and transmutation of traumatic memory such as of genocide tragic historical legacy can be assimilated, redeemed, and transformed.\n\nRecent research and theorizing in cultural memory has emphasized the importance of considering the content of cultural identities in understanding the study of social relations and predicting cultural attitudes.\n\nThe Institute of Germanic & Romance Studies, School of Advanced Study, University of London, has developed its MA degree around the above-mentioned topics.\n\nThe MA in Cultural Memory has now been running for 10 years. This unique degree explores the many different ways in which culture is based on the construction, manipulation and transmission of memories, and the role played by memory in collective and individual identity formation.\n\nThe degree programme is supplemented by a Cultural Memory Seminar and by the new Centre for the Study of Cultural Memory.\n\nIn 2008, the first issue of quarterly journal \"Memory Studies\" concerning subjects of and relating to cultural memory was published by SAGE.\n\nJan Assmann in his book \"Das kulturelle Gedächtnis\", drew further upon Maurice Halbwachs's theory on collective memory. Other scholars like Andreas Huyssen have identified a general interest in memory and mnemonics since the early 1980s, illustrated by phenomena as diverse as memorials and retro-culture. Some might see cultural memory as becoming more democratic, due to liberalization and the rise of new media. Others see cultural memory as remaining concentrated in the hands of corporations and states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9216811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9216811", "title": "Cultural retention", "text": "Cultural retention\n\nCultural retention is the act of retaining the culture of a specific ethnic group of people, especially when there is reason to believe that the culture, through inaction, may be lost. Many African-American, European and Asian organizations have cultural retention programs in place.\n\n"}
{"id": "492996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=492996", "title": "Cultural turn", "text": "Cultural turn\n\nThe cultural turn is a movement beginning in the early 1970s among scholars in the humanities and social sciences to make culture the focus of contemporary debates; it also describes a shift in emphasis toward \"meaning\" and away from a positivist epistemology. The cultural turn is described in 2005 by Lynette Spillman and Mark D. Jacobs as \"one of the most influential trends in the humanities and social sciences in the last generation\". A prominent historiographer argues that the cultural turn involved a \"wide array of new theoretical impulses coming from fields formerly peripheral to the social sciences\", especially post-structuralism, cultural studies, literary criticism, and various forms of linguistic analysis, which emphasized \"the causal and socially constitutive role of cultural processes and systems of signification\".\n\nThe cultural turn in the late 20th century is interpreted as referring to either a substantive shift in society or an analytical shift in academia. The former argues that culture plays a more significant role in advanced societies, which fits with the notion of post-modernity as an historical era in which people \"emphasizes the importance of art and culture for education, moral growth, and social criticism and change\". The latter is movement within academia to place the concept of culture, and the related notions of \"meaning\", \"cognition\", \"affect\", and \"symbols\" at the center of methodological and theoretical focus. Some argue that the analytical shift is endogenous to the substantive shift.\n\nCulture can be defined as \"the social process whereby people communicate meanings, make sense of their world, construct their identities, and define their beliefs and values\". Or, for Georg Simmel, culture refers to \"the cultivation of individuals through the agency of external forms which have been objectified in the course of history\". Thus culture can be interpreted on a spectrum from purely individualistic solipsism to objective forms of social organization and interaction.\n\nOne of the earliest works in which the term \"cultural turn\" showed up was Jeffrey C. Alexander's chapter \"The New Theoretical Movement\" in Neil Smelser's \"Handbook of Sociology\" (1988). Alexander, rightly pointed out that the origins of the cultural turn should be traced in the debate of idealism and materialism i.e. Marx and Hegel. Prior to the labeling of the movement, in the 1970s, \"foundational works underlying and facilitating the turn to cultural forms of analysis\" emerged: Hayden White's \"\" (1973), Clifford Geertz's \"The Interpretation of Cultures: Selected Essays\" (1973), Michel Foucault's \"Discipline and Punish\" (1977), and Pierre Bourdieu's \"Outline of a Theory of Practice\" (1977).\n\nWhile the earlier twentieth century experienced a linguistic turn, mostly brought about by the thought of Ludwig Wittgenstein and Ferdinand de Saussure, the cultural turn of the late twentieth century absorbed those criticisms and built on them.\n\nThe cultural turn has helped cultural studies to gain more respect as an academic discipline. With the shift away from high arts the discipline has increased its perceived importance and influence on other disciplines.\n\nBritish historian Heather Jones argues that the historiography of the First World War has been reinvigorated by the cultural turn in recent years. Scholars have raised entirely new questions regarding military occupation, radicalizion of politics, race, and the male body.\n\nThe cultural turn as an historical era that breaks substantively with the past is only tangentially related to cultural turn as analytical shift. Proponents of the former argue that:\n\nAdvertising, amateur photography, yellow journalism and an assortment of other forms of media arose after the politically charged 1960s. Moreover, this media was multicultural, and attempted to target all races, ethnicities and age groups, as opposed to more exclusive media prior to the 1960s. This \"new media\" of a postmodern America brought about an expansion and differentiation of culture, which has only been rapidly expanded by the Internet and social media.\n\nIn recent years, there has been something of a resurgence in rural studies, which has become somewhat more mainstream than previously in the academic space of social science. Increasing numbers of people have taken on important dualistic questions of society/space, nature/culture structure/agency and self/other from the perspective of rural studies. However, it is the 'cultural turn' in wider social science which has lent both respectability and excitement to the nexus with rurality, particularly with new foci on landscape, otherness and the spatiality of nature. With a conceptual fascination with difference, and a methodological fascination with ethnography, cultural studies have provided a significant palimpsestual overlay onto existing landscapes of knowledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "6355878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6355878", "title": "Culture during the Cold War", "text": "Culture during the Cold War\n\nThe Cold War was reflected in culture through music, movies, books, television and other media, as well as sports and social beliefs and behavior. One major element of the Cold War was the threat of a nuclear war; another was espionage. Many works use the Cold War as a backdrop, or directly take part in fictional conflict between the United States and the Soviet Union. The period 1953–62 saw Cold War themes first enter the mainstream culture as a public preoccupation. For the historical context in America see United States in the 1950s.\n\nCloak and dagger stories became part of the popular culture of the Cold War in both East and West, with innumerable novels and movies that showed how polarized and dangerous the world was. Soviet audiences thrilled at spy stories showing how their KGB agents protected the motherland by foiling dirty work by America's nefarious CIA, Britain's devious MI-6, and Israel's devilish Mossad. After 1963, Hollywood increasingly depicted the CIA as clowns (as in the comedy TV series \"Get Smart\") or villains (as in Oliver Stone's \"JFK\" (1992).\n\n\nDuring the Cold War, films functioned as a means to influence and control public opinion internally. The United States and the Soviet Union invested heavily in propaganda designed to influence the hearts and minds of people around the world, especially using motion pictures. Cold War films produced by both sides attempted to address different facets of the superpower conflict and sought to influence both domestic and foreign opinion. The gap between American and Soviet film gave the Americans a distinct advantage over the Soviet Union; America was readily prepared to utilize their cinematic achievements as a way to effectively impact the public opinion in a way the Soviet Union could not. Cinema, Americans hoped, would help close the gap caused by Soviet development of nuclear weapons and advancements in space technology. The use of film as an effective form of widespread propaganda transformed cinema into another Cold War battlefront.\n\nThe Americans took advantage of their pre-existing cinematic advantage over the Soviet Union, using movies as another way to create the Communist enemy. In the early years of the Cold War (between 1948–53), seventy explicitly anti-communist films were released. American films incorporated a wide scale of Cold War themes and issues into all genres of film, which gave American motion pictures a particular lead over Soviet film. Despite the audiences' lack of zeal for Anti-Communist/Cold War related cinema, the films produced evidently did serve as successful propaganda in both America and the USSR. The films released during this time received a response from the Soviet Union, which subsequently released its own array of films to combat the depiction of the Communist threat.\n\nSeveral organizations played a key role in ensuring that Hollywood acted in the national best interest of the U.S. Catholic Legion of Decency and the Production Code Administration acted as two conservative groups that controlled a great deal of the national repertoire during the early stages of the Cold War. These groups filtered out politically subversive or morally questionable movies. More blatantly illustrating the shift from cinema as an art form to cinema as a form of strategic weapon, the Motion Picture Alliance for the Preservation of American Ideals ensured that filmmakers adequately expressed their patriotism. Beyond these cinema-specific efforts, the FBI played a surprisingly large role in the production of movies, instituting a triangular-shaped film strategy: FBI set up a surveillance operation in Hollywood, made efforts to pinpoint and blacklist Communists, secretly laundered intelligence through HUAC, and further helped in producing movies that \"fostered [the FBI] image as the protector of the American people.\" The FBI additionally endorsed films, including Oscar winner \"The Hoaxsters.\"\n\nIn the 1960s, Hollywood began using spy films to create the enemy through film. Previously, the influence of the Cold War could be seen in many, if not all, genres of American film. By the 1960s, spy films were effectively a \"weapon of confrontation between the two world systems.\" Both sides heightened paranoia and created a sense of constant unease in viewers through the increased production of spy films. Film depicted the enemy in a way that caused both sides to increase general suspicion of foreign and domestic threat.\n\nBetween 1946–54, the Soviet Union mimicked the US adoption of cinema as a weapon. The Central United Film Studios and the Committee on Cinema Affairs were committed to the Cold War battle. Under Stalin's rule, movies could only be made within strict confines. Cinema and government were, as it stood, inextricably linked. Many films were banned for being insufficiently patriotic. Nonetheless, the Soviet Union produced a plethora of movies with the aim to blatantly function as negative propaganda.\n\nIn the same fashion as the United States, the Soviets were eager to depict their enemy in the most unflattering light possible. Between 1946 and 1950, 45.6% of on-screen villains in Soviet films were either American or British. Films addressed non-Soviet themes that emerged in American film in an attempt to derail the criticism and paint the U.S. as the enemy. Attacks made by the United States against the U.S.S.R were simply used as material by Soviet filmmakers for their own attacks on the US. Soviet cinema during this time took its liberty with history: \"Did the Red Army engage in the mass rapes of German women and pillage German art treasures, factories, and forests? In Soviet cinema, the opposite was true [in \"The Meeting on the Elbe\"].\" This demonstrated the heightened paranoia of the Soviet Union.\n\nDespite efforts made to elevate the status of cinema, such as changing the Committee of Cinema Affairs to the Ministry of Cinematography, cinema did not seem to work as invigorating propaganda as was planned. Although the Anti-American films were notably popular with audiences, the Ministry did not feel the message had reached the general public, perhaps due to the fact that the majority of moviegoers seeing the films produced were, perhaps, the Soviets most likely to admire American culture.\n\nAfter Stalin's death, a Main Administration of Cinema Affairs replaced the Ministry, allowing the filmmakers more freedom due to the lack of direct government control. Many of the films released throughout the late 1950s and 1960s focused on spreading a positive image of Soviet life, intent to prove that Soviet life was indeed better than American life.\n\nRussian science fiction emerged from a prolonged period of censorship in 1957, opened up by de-Stalinization and real Soviet achievements in the space race, typified by Ivan Efremov's galactic epic, \"Andromeda\" (1957). Official Communist science fiction transposed the laws of historical materialism to the future, scorning Western nihilistic writings and predicting a peaceful transition to universal communism. Scientocratic visions of the future nevertheless implicitly critiqued the bureaucratically developed socialism of the present. Dissident science fiction writers emerged, such as the Strugatski brothers, Boris and Arkadi, with their \"social fantasies,\" problematizing the role of intervention in the historical process, or Stanislaw Lem's tongue-in-cheek exposures of man's cognitive limitations.\n\n\nIn addition to fears of a nuclear war between the United States and the Soviet Union, during the Cold War, there were also fears of a direct, large scale conventional conflict between the two superpowers.\n\n\n\n\nWendy's Hamburger Chain ran a television commercial showing a supposed \"Soviet Fashion Show\", which featured the same large, unattractive woman wearing the same dowdy outfit in a variety of situations, the only difference being the accessory she carried (for example, a flashlight for 'nightwear' or a beach ball for 'swimwear'). This was supposedly a lampoon on how the Soviet society is characterised with uniformity and standardisation, in contrast to the U.S. characterised with freedom of choice, as highlighted in the Wendy's commercial.\n\nApple Computer's \"1984\" ad, despite paying homage to George Orwell's novel of the same name, follows a more serious yet ambitious take on the freedom vs. totalitarianism theme evident between the US and Soviet societies at the time.\n\n\"Daisy\" was the most famous campaign commercial of the Cold War. Aired only once, on 7 September 1964, it was a factor in Lyndon B. Johnson's defeat of Barry Goldwater in the 1964 presidential election. The contents of the commercial were controversial, and their emotional impact was searing.\n\nThe commercial opens with a very young girl standing in a meadow with chirping birds, slowly counting the petals of a daisy as she picks them one by one. Her sweet innocence, along with mistakes in her counting, endear her to the viewer. When she reaches \"9\", an ominous-sounding male voice is suddenly heard intoning the countdown of a rocket launch. As the girl's eyes turn toward something she sees in the sky, the camera zooms in until one of her pupils fills the screen, blacking it out. The countdown reaches zero, and the blackness is instantly replaced by a simultaneous bright flash and thunderous sound which is then followed by footage of a nuclear explosion, an explosion similar in appearance to the near surface burst Trinity test of 1945, followed by another cut to footage of a billowing mushroom cloud.\n\nAs the fireball ascends, an edit cut is made, this time to a close-up section of incandescence in the mushroom cloud, over which a voiceover from Johnson is played, which states emphatically, \"These are the stakes! To make a world in which all of God's children can live, or to go into the dark. We must either love each other, or we must die.\" Another voiceover then says, \"Vote for President Johnson on November 3. The stakes are too high for you to stay home.\" (Two months later, Johnson won the election in an electoral landslide.)\n\nBear in the woods was a 1984 campaign advertisement endorsing Ronald Reagan for President. This campaign ad depicted a brown bear wandering through the woods (likely implying the Soviet Union) and suggested that Reagan was more capable of dealing with the Soviets than his opponent, in spite of the fact that the ad never explicitly mentioned the Soviet Union, the Cold War or Walter Mondale.\n\nThe 1984 \"We begin bombing in five minutes\" incident is an example of cold war dark humor. It was a personal microphone gaffe joke between Ronald Reagan, his White House staff and radio technicians that was accidentally leaked to the US populace. At the time, Reagan was well known before this incident for telling Soviet/Russian jokes in televised debates, many of which have now been uploaded to video hosting websites.\n\nThe joke was a parody of the opening line of that day's speech:\n\nFollowing his trip to Los Angeles in 1959 and being refused entry into Disneyland, on security grounds, a dejected Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev joked, \"...just now I was told that I could not go to Disneyland, I asked \"Why not?\" What is it, do you have rocket launching pads there?\n\nThe United States and the Soviet Union engaged in competition vis-à-vis the arts. Cultural competition played out in Moscow, New York, London, and Paris. The Soviets excelled at ballet and chess, the Americans at jazz and abstract expressionist paintings. The US funded its own ballet troupes, and both used ballet as political propaganda, using dance to reflect life style in the \"battle for the hearts and minds of men.\" The defection of a premier dancer became a major coup.\n\nFrom 1956 through the late 1970s, the U.S. State Department sent its finest jazz musicians to show off music that appealed to youth, to demonstrate racial harmony at home, and to undergird freedom as jazz was a democratic music form, free flowing and improvised. Jazz tours of the Soviet Union were organized in 1956, and lasted through the 1970s.\n\nChess was inexpensive enough—and the Russians always won until America unleashed Bobby Fischer. Vastly more expensive was the Space Race, as a proxy for scientific supremacy (with a technology with obvious military uses). As well when it came to sports the two countries both competed in the Olympics during the Cold War period which also created severe tension when the West boycotted the first Russian Olympics in 1980.\n\nMusicians of these decades, especially in Jazz and Folk Music, were influenced by the shadow of nuclear war. Probably the most famous, passionate and influential of all was Bob Dylan, notably in his songs Masters of War and A Hard Rain's a-Gonna Fall (written just before the Cuban Missile Crisis). In 1965 Barry McGuire's version of P. F. Sloan's apocalyptic Eve of Destruction was a number one hit in the United States and elsewhere.\n\nVan Cliburn was a pianist who was celebrated with a ticker tape parade after winning a musical competition in the Soviet Union.\n\nMany protest songs during the 1980s reflected general unease with escalating tensions between the Soviet Union and the United States brought on by Ronald Reagan's and Margaret Thatcher's hard line against the Soviets. For example, various musical artists wore military uniform-like costumes, as a reflection of the increased feeling of militarism seen in the 1980s. Songs symbolically showed the superpowers going to war, as in the Frankie Goes to Hollywood song \"Two Tribes\". This song's MTV music video featured caricatures of United States President Ronald Reagan and Soviet President Konstantin Chernenko in a wrestling match.\n\nOther songs expressed fear of World War III, as in the Sting song, \"Russians\", with lyrics such as \"I don't subscribe to his [Reagan's or Khrushchev's] point of view\" (that Reagan would protect Europe, or that Khrushchev would \"bury\" the West). Other examples include Sly Fox's \"Let's go all the way\", a song about \"going all the way\" to nuclear war; The Escape Club's \"Wild Wild West\" with its various references to the Cold War. The Genesis song \"Land of Confusion\" expressed a desire to make some sense out of the world, especially in relation to nuclear war.\n\nA number of punk rock bands from the 1980s attacked Cold War era politics, such as Reagan's and Thatcher's nuclear deterrence brinkmanship. A small sampling includes The Clash, Dead Kennedys, Government Issue, Fear, Suicidal Tendencies, Toxic Reasons, Reagan Youth, etc. Noted punk compilation \"P.E.A.C.E.\" included bands from around the world in an attempt to promote international peace. The Scars covered apocalyptic poem \"Your Attention Please\" by Peter Porter, a radio broadcast announcing nuclear war.\n\nProbably the most famous of the 1980s songs against increased confrontation between the Soviets and the Americans was Nena's \"99 Luftballons\", which described the events - ostensibly starting with the innocent release of 99 (red) toy balloons - that could lead to a nuclear war.\n\nImperiet – \"Coca Cola Cowboys\" – a Swedish rock song about how the world is divided by two super powers that both claim to represent justice.\n\nRoman Palester, a classical music composer had his works banned and censored in Poland and the Soviet Union, as a result of his work for Radio Free Europe, even though he was thought to be Poland's greatest living composer at the time.\n\n\nHistorians debate whether the spread of American-style consumerism to Western Europe (and Japan) was part of the Cold War. Steigerwald reviews the debate by looking at the book \"Trams or Tailfins? Public and Private Prosperity in Postwar West Germany and the United States\" (2012) by Jan L. Logemann:\n\nCold war tensions between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. were the backdrop of sports competitions, especially in hockey and in the Olympics of 1980 and 1984.\n\nPlayground equipment constructed during the Cold War was intended to foster children's curiosity and excitement about the Space Race. It was installed in both Communist and non-Communist countries throughout the Cold War.\n\n\nAnti-nuclear protests first emerged in the late 1950s and early 1960s. In the United Kingdom, the first Aldermaston March, organised by the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, took place in 1958. In 1961, at the height of the Cold War, about 50,000 women brought together by Women Strike for Peace marched in 60 cities in the United States to demonstrate against nuclear weapons. In 1964, Peace Marches in several Australian capital cities featured \"Ban the bomb\" placards.\n\nIn the early 1980s, the revival of the nuclear arms race triggered large protests about nuclear weapons. In October 1981 half a million people took to the streets in several cities in Italy, more than 250,000 people protested in Bonn, 250,000 demonstrated in London, and 100,000 marched in Brussels. The largest anti-nuclear protest was held on June 12, 1982, when one million people demonstrated in New York City against nuclear weapons. In October 1983, nearly 3 million people across western Europe protested nuclear missile deployments and demanded an end to the arms race; the largest crowd of almost one million people assembled in the Hague in the Netherlands. In Britain, 400,000 people participated in what was probably the largest demonstration in British history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "475460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=475460", "title": "Culture industry", "text": "Culture industry\n\nThe term culture industry () was coined by the critical theorists Theodor Adorno (1903–1969) and Max Horkheimer (1895–1973), and was presented as critical vocabulary in the chapter \"The Culture Industry: Enlightenment as Mass Deception\", of the book \"Dialectic of Enlightenment\" (1944), wherein they proposed that popular culture is akin to a factory producing standardized cultural goods—films, radio programmes, magazines, etc.—that are used to manipulate mass society into passivity. Consumption of the easy pleasures of popular culture, made available by the mass communications media, renders people docile and content, no matter how difficult their economic circumstances. The inherent danger of the culture industry is the cultivation of false psychological needs that can only be met and satisfied by the products of capitalism; thus Adorno and Horkheimer especially perceived mass-produced culture as dangerous to the more technically and intellectually difficult high arts. In contrast, true psychological needs are freedom, creativity, and genuine happiness, which refer to an earlier demarcation of human needs, established by Herbert Marcuse. (See \"Eros and Civilization\", 1955).\n\nMembers of The Frankfurt School were much influenced by the dialectical materialism and historical materialism of Karl Marx, as well as the revisitation of the dialectical idealism of Hegel; both events are studied not in isolation, but as part of the process of change. As a group later joined by Jürgen Habermas, they were responsible for the formulation of critical theory. In works such as \"Dialectic of Enlightenment\" and \"Negative Dialectics\", Adorno and Horkheimer theorized that the phenomenon of mass culture has a political implication, namely that all the many forms of popular culture are parts of a single \"culture industry\" whose purpose is to ensure the continued obedience of the \"masses\" to market interests.\n\nThe essay is concerned with the production of cultural content in capitalist societies. It critiques the supply-driven nature of cultural economies as well as the apparently inferior products of the system. Horkheimer and Adorno argue that mass-produced entertainment aims, by its very nature, to appeal to vast audiences and therefore both the intellectual stimulation of high art and the basic release of low art. The essay does not suggest that all products of this system are inherently inferior, simply that they have replaced other forms of entertainment without properly fulfilling the important roles played by the now defunct sources of culture.\n\nHorkheimer and Adorno make consistent comparisons between Fascist Germany and the American film industry. They highlight the presence of mass-produced culture, created and disseminated by exclusive institutions and consumed by a passive, homogenised audience in both systems. This illustrates the logic of domination in post-enlightenment modern society, by monopoly capitalism or the nation state. Horkheimer and Adorno draw attention to the problems associated with a system that 'integrates its consumers from above', arguing that in attempting to realise enlightenment values of reason and order, the holistic power of the individual is undermined.\n\nAdorno and Horkheimer's work was influenced by both the broader socio-political environment in which it was written and by other major theorists. Written in California in the early 1940s in an era which characterized them as two ethnically Jewish, German émigrés, The Culture Industry is influenced by European politics and the war by which the continent was consumed. Simultaneously, the American film industry was characterised by an unprecedented level of studio monopolisation, it was \"Hollywood at its most classical, American mass culture at its most Fordist\".\n\nHorkheimer and Adorno were influenced heavily by major developers of social, political and economic theory, most notably:\n\n\nAnything made by a person is a materialization of their labour and an expression of their intentions. There will also be a use value: the benefit to the consumer will be derived from its utility. The exchange value will reflect its utility and the conditions of the market: the prices paid by the television broadcaster or at the box office. Yet, the modern soap operas with their interchangeable plots and formulaic narrative conventions reflect standardized production techniques and the falling value of a mass-produced cultural product. Only rarely is a film released that makes a more positive impression on the general discourse and achieves a higher exchange value, e.g. \"Patton\" (1970), starring George C. Scott as the eponymous American general, was released at a time of considerable anti-war sentiment. The opening shot is of Patton in front of an American flag making an impassioned speech. This was a form of dialectic in which the audience could identify with the patriotism either sincerely (the thesis) or ironically (the antithesis) and so set the tone of the interpretation for the remainder of the film. However, the film is manipulating specific historical events, not only as entertainment, but also as a form of propaganda by demonstrating a link between success in strategic resource management situations and specified leadership qualities. Given that the subtext was instrumental and not \"value free\", ethical and philosophical considerations arise.\n\nNormally, only high art criticizes the world outside its boundaries, but access to this form of communication is limited to the elite classes where the risks of introducing social instability are slight. A film like \"Patton\" is popular art which intends controversy in a world of social order and unity which, according to Adorno, is regressing into a cultural blandness. To Hegel, order is good \"a priori\", i.e. it does not have to answer to those living under it. But, if order is disturbed? In \"Negative Dialectics\", Adorno believed this tended towards progress by stimulating the possibility of class conflict. Marx's theory of Historical Materialism was teleological, i.e. society follows through a dialectic of unfolding stages from ancient modes of production to feudalism to capitalism to a future communism. But Adorno felt that the culture industry would never permit a sufficient core of challenging material to emerge on to the market that might disturb the \"status quo\" and stimulate the final communist state to emerge.\n\nA central point of the \"Dialectic of Enlightenment\" is the topic of \"the Enlightenment as the deception of the masses\". The term \"culture industry\" is intended to refer to the commercial marketing of culture, the branch of industry that deals specifically with the production of culture that is in contrast to \"authentic culture\".\n\nHorkheimer and Adorno contend that industrially produced culture robs people of their imagination and takes over their thinking for them. The culture industry delivers the \"goods\" so that the people then only have left the task of consuming them. Through mass production, everything becomes homogenized and whatever diversity remains is constituted of small trivialities. Everything becomes compressed through a process of the imposition of schemas under the premise that what's best is to mirror physical reality as closely as possible. Psychological drives become stoked to the point where sublimation is no longer possible.\n\nMovies serve as an example. \"All films have become similar in their basic form. They are shaped to reflect facts of reality as closely as possible. Even fantasy films, which claim to not reflect such reality, don't really live up to what they claim to be. No matter how unusual they strive to be, the endings are usually easy to predict because of the existence of prior films which followed the same schemas. Also, for example, erotic depictions become so strong and so pronounced that a transformation to other forms is no longer possible.\"\nThe aims of the culture industry are—as in every industry—economic in nature. All endeavors become focused on economic success.\n\nAuthentic culture, however, is not goal-oriented, but is an end in itself. Authentic culture fosters the capacity of human imagination by presenting suggestions and possibilities, but in a different way than the culture industry does since it leaves room for independent thought. Authentic culture does not become channeled into regurgitating reality but goes levels beyond such. Authentic culture is unique and cannot be forced into any pre-formed schemas.\n\nAs for discovering the causes of the development of the culture industry, Horkheimer and Adorno contend that it arises from companies' pursuit of the maximization of profit, in the economic sense. However, this cannot be said to be culture, or what culture is supposed to be. It can only be described as being a form of commerce, just like any other kind of commerce.\n\nThe culture industry argument is often assumed to be fundamentally pessimistic in nature because its purveyors seem to condemn \"mass media\" and their consumers. \nHowever, for Adorno, the term \"culture industry\" does not refer to \"mass culture\", or the culture of the masses of people in terms of something being produced by the masses and conveying the representations of the masses. On the contrary, such involvement of the masses is only apparent, or a type of seeming democratic participation. Adorno contends that what is actually occurring is a type of \"defrauding of the masses\". Horkheimer and Adorno deliberately chose the term \"culture industry\" instead of \"mass culture\" or \"mass media\". \"The culture industry perpetually cheats its consumers of what it perpetually promises.\" The culture industry even encroaches upon the small distractions of leisure activity: \"Amusement has become an extension of labor under late capitalism.\" Horkheimer and Adorno, above all, in their critical analyses, delve into what they call \"the fraying of art\" and the \"de-artification of art\", and discuss how the arts are defused by the culture industry. Works of art have become commodified: Beethoven, Mozart and Wagner are only used in fragmentary forms when included in advertisement. According to Critical Theory, \"selling out\" is not the decisive factor involved, but rather it's the manner in which art is commodified and how art and culture are changed that is the crucial issue.\n\n\"Culture today is infecting everything with sameness.\" For Adorno and Horkheimer, subversion has become no longer possible.\n\nWiggershaus Rolf say that the products of mass culture would not be popular if people did not enjoy them, and that culture is self-determining in its administration. This would deny Adorno contemporary political significance, arguing that politics in a prosperous society is more concerned with action than with thought. He also notes that the young generation of critical theorists largely ignore Adorno's work which, in part, stems from Adorno's inability to draw practical conclusions from his theories. For instance, Wiggershaus states: \"The other side of Adorno's apparently paradoxical definition was ignored: that only rational objectivity was still possible for the modern work of art was only possible, in any significant sense, as a product of subjectivity\"\n\nAdorno is also accused of a lack of consistency in his claims to be implementing Marxism. Whereas he accepted the classical Marxist analysis of society showing how one class exercises domination over another, he deviated from Marx in his failure to use dialectic as a method to propose ways to change. Marx's theory depended on the willingness of the working class to overthrow the ruling class, but Adorno and Horkheimer postulated that the culture industry has undermined the revolutionary movement. \nAdorno's idea that the mass of the people are only objects of the culture industry is linked to his feeling that the time when the working class could be the tool of overthrowing capitalism is over. \nOther critics note that \"High culture\" too is not exempt from a role in the justification of capitalism. The establishment and reinforcement of elitism is seen by these critics as a key element in the role of such genres as opera and ballet.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "165264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165264", "title": "Culture theory", "text": "Culture theory\n\nCulture theory is the branch of comparative anthropology and semiotics (not to be confused with cultural sociology or cultural studies) that seeks to define the heuristic concept of culture in operational and/or scientific terms.\n\nIn the 19th century, \"culture\" was used by some to refer to a wide array of human activities, and by some others as a synonym for \"civilization\". In the 20th century, anthropologists began theorizing about culture as an object of scientific analysis. Some used it to distinguish human adaptive strategies from the largely instinctive adaptive strategies of animals, including the adaptive strategies of other primates and non-human hominids, whereas others used it to refer to symbolic representations and expressions of human experience, with no direct adaptive value. Both groups understood culture as being definitive of human nature.\n\nAccording to many theories that have gained wide acceptance among anthropologists, culture exhibits the way that humans interpret their biology and their environment. According to this point of view, culture becomes such an integral part of human existence that it \"is\" the human environment, and most cultural change can be attributed to human adaptation to historical events. Moreover, given that culture is seen as the primary adaptive mechanism of humans and takes place much faster than human biological evolution, most cultural change can be viewed as culture adapting to itself.\n\nAlthough most anthropologists try to define culture in such a way that it separates human beings from other animals, many human traits are similar to those of other animals, particularly the traits of other primates. For example, chimpanzees have big brains, but human brains are bigger. Similarly, bonobos exhibit complex sexual behaviour, but human beings exhibit much more complex sexual behaviours. As such, anthropologists often debate whether human behaviour is different from animal behaviour in degree rather than in kind; they must also find ways to distinguish cultural behaviour from sociological behaviour and psychological behavior.\n\nAcceleration and amplification of these various aspects of culture change have been explored by complexity economist, W. Brian Arthur. In his book, \"The Nature of Technology\", Arthur attempts to articulate a theory of change that considers that existing technologies (or material culture) are combined in unique ways that lead to novel new technologies. Behind that novel combination is a purposeful effort arising in human motivation. This articulation would suggest that we are just beginning to understand what might be required for a more robust theory of culture and culture change, one that brings coherence across many disciplines and reflects an integrating elegance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45527641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45527641", "title": "Destruction of cultural heritage by ISIL", "text": "Destruction of cultural heritage by ISIL\n\nDeliberate destruction and theft of cultural heritage has been conducted by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant since 2014 in Iraq, Syria, and to a lesser extent in Libya. The destruction targets various places of worship under ISIL control and ancient historical artifacts. In Iraq, between the fall of Mosul in June 2014 and February 2015, ISIL had plundered and destroyed at least 28 historical religious buildings. Valuable items from some buildings were looted in order to smuggle and sell them to finance ISIS activities.\n\nISIL uses a unit called the \"Kata'ib Taswiyya\" (settlement battalions) to select targets for demolition. UNESCO Director-General Irina Bokova branded the ISIS activities in this respect as \"a form of cultural cleansing\" and launched the Unite4Heritage campaign to protect heritage sites threatened by extremists.\n\nISIL justifies the destruction of cultural heritage sites with its extreme following of Salafism which, according to its followers, places \"great importance on establishing tawhid (monotheism)\", and \"eliminating shirk (polytheism).\" While it is often assumed that the group's actions are mindless acts of vandalism, there is an ideological underpinning to the destruction. ISIL views its actions in sites like Palmyra and Nimrud as being in accordance with Sunni Islamic tradition.\n\nBeyond the ideological aspects of the destruction, there are other, more practical, reasons behind ISIL's destruction of historic sites. Grabbing the world's attention is easily done through the destruction of such sites, given the extensive media coverage and international condemnation that comes afterwards. Destroying historic ruins also allows ISIL to wipe the slate clean and to start afresh, leaving no traces of any previous culture or civilization, while also providing an ideal platform for the group to establish its own identity and leave its mark on history. Despite the images showing extreme destruction, ISIL has also been making use of the looted antiquities to finance their activities. Despite the UN's ban on the trade of artifacts looted from Syria since 2011, the group has been smuggling these artifacts out of the Middle East and on to the underground antique markets of Europe and North America.\n\nIn 2014, media reported destruction of multiple, chiefly Shiite, mosques and shrines throughout Iraq by ISIL. Among them were Al-Qubba Husseiniya Mosque in Mosul, Jawad Husseiniya Mosque and Saad bin Aqeel Husseiniya Shrine in Tal Afar, Sunni Ahmed al-Rifai Shrine and tomb in Mahlabiya District and the so-called Tomb of the Girl (Qabr al-Bint) in Mosul. The Tomb of the Girl, reputed to honour a girl who died of a broken heart, was actually believed to be the tomb of medieval scholar Ali ibn al-Athir.\n\nIn June 2014, ISIL bulldozed the shrine of Fathi al-Ka'en.\n\nOn 24 September 2014, the Al-Arba'een Mosque in Tikrit, containing forty tombs from the Umar era, was blown up. On 26 February 2015 ISIL blew up the 12th century Khudr Mosque in central Mosul.\n\nIn Mosul, ISIL also targeted several tombs with shrines built over them. In July 2014, ISIL destroyed one of the tombs of prophet Daniel (located in Mosul) by planted explosives. On 24 July 2014, the tomb and mosque of the prophet Jonah was destroyed with explosives. On 27 July, ISIL destroyed the tomb of Prophet Jirjis (George).\n\nOn 25 July 2014, the 13th-century shrine of Imam Awn al-Din in Mosul, one of the few structures to have survived the 13th-century Mongol invasion, was destroyed by ISIL. The destruction was mostly carried out with explosive devices, but in some cases bulldozers were used.\n\nIn March 2015, ISIL reportedly bulldozed to the ground the Hamou al-Qadu Mosque in Mosul, dating back to 1880. In the same year ISIL ordered the removal of all decorative elements and frescoes from mosques in Mosul, even those containing Quranic verses that mention Allah. They were regarded by ISIL as \"an erroneous form of creativity, contradicting the basics of sharia.\" At least one imam in Mosul opposing that order was shot to death.\n\nISIL also destroyed Sufi shrines near Tripoli, Libya, in March 2015. The shrines were destroyed by sledgehammers and bulldozers.\n\nIn June 2015, it was announced that ISIL had blown up the ancient tombs of Mohammed bin Ali and Nizar Abu Bahaaeddine, located close to the ruins of Palmyra.\n\nIn 2016, ISIL destroyed the Minaret of Anah located in Al Anbar Province, which dates back to the Abbasid era. The minaret was only rebuilt in 2013 after the destruction by the unknown prepetrator in 2006.\n\nIn 2017, ISIL destroyed the Great Mosque of al-Nuri and its leaning minaret. This was the mosque where ISIL leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi declared the establishment of the Islamic State caliphate three years prior.\n\nIn June 2014, it was reported that ISIL elements had been instructed to destroy all churches in Mosul. Since then, most churches within the city have been destroyed. \n\nISIL also blew up or demolished a number of other churches elsewhere in Iraq or in Syria. The Armenian Genocide Memorial Church in Deir ez-Zor, Syria was blown up by ISIL militants on 21 September 2014.\n\nOn 24 September 2014 ISIL militants destroyed with improvised explosive devices the 7th-century Green Church (also known as St Ahoadamah Church) belonging to the Assyrian Church of the East in Tikrit.\n\nThe Mar Behnam Monastery in Khidr Ilyas near Bakhdida, Iraq was destroyed by ISIL in March 2015.\n\n, ISIL destroyed the Assyrian Christian Virgin Mary Church on Easter Sunday in the Syrian town of Tel Nasri. \"As the 'joint forces' of Kurdish People's Protection Units and local Assyrian fighters attempted to enter the town\", ISIL set off the explosives destroying what remained of the church. ISIL had controlled the church since 7 March 2015.\n\nOn 21 August 2015, the historic Monastery of St. Elian near Al-Qaryatayn in the Homs Governorate was destroyed by ISIL.\n\nIn May 2014, ISIL members smashed a 3,000-year-old neo-Assyrian statue from Tel Ajaja. Later reports indicated that over 40% of the artifacts at Tel Ajaja (Saddikanni) were looted by ISIS.\n\nParts of the Tal Afar Citadel were blown up by ISIL in December 2014, causing extensive damage.\n\nIn January 2015, ISIL reportedly destroyed large parts of the Nineveh Wall in al-Tahrir neighborhood of Mosul. Further parts of the walls, including the Mashka and Adad Gate, were blown up in April 2016.\n\nIn the Syrian city of Raqqa, ISIL publicly ordered the bulldozing of a colossal ancient Assyrian gateway lion sculpture from the 8th century BC. Another lion statue was also destroyed. Both statues originated from the Arslan Tash archaeological site. The destruction was published in the ISIL magazine, \"Dabiq\". Among the lost statues are those of Mulla Uthman al-Mawsili, of a woman carrying an urn, and of Abu Tammam.\n\nOn 26 February 2015, ISIL released a video showing the destruction of various ancient artifacts in the Mosul Museum. The affected artefacts originate from the Assyrian era and from the ancient city of Hatra. The video in particular shows the defacement of a granite lamassu statue from the right side of the Nergal Gate by a jackhammer. The statue remained buried until 1941 when heavy rains eroded the soil around the gate and exposed two statues on both sides. Several other defaced items in the museum were claimed to be copies, but this was later rebutted by Iraq's Minister of Culture, Adel Sharshab who said: \"Mosul Museum had many ancient artifacts, big and small. None of them were transported to the National Museum of Iraq in Baghdad. Thus, all artifacts destroyed in Mosul are original except for four pieces that were made of gypsum\".\n\nOn 5 March 2015, ISIL reportedly started the demolition of Nimrud, an Assyrian city from the 13th century BC. The local palace was bulldozed, while lamassu statues at the gates of the palace of Ashurnasirpal II were smashed. A video showing the destruction of Nimrud was released in April 2015.\n\nOn 7 March 2015, Kurdish sources reported that ISIL had begun the bulldozing of Hatra, which has been under threat of demolition after ISIL had occupied the adjacent area. The next day ISIL sacked Dur-Sharrukin, according to a Kurdish official from Mosul, Saeed Mamuzini.\n\nThe Iraqi Tourism and Antiquities Ministry launched the related investigation on the same day. On 8 April 2015, the Iraqi Ministry of Tourism reported that ISIL destroyed the remnants of the 12th-century Bash Tapia Castle in Mosul. As of early July 2015, 20% of Iraq's 10,000 archaeological sites has been under ISIL control.\n\nIn 2015 the face of the Winged Bull of Nineveh was damaged.\n\nFollowing the capture of Palmyra in Syria, ISIL was reported as not intending to demolish the city's World Heritage Site (while still intending to destroy any statues deemed 'polytheistic'). On 27 May 2015, ISIL released a 87-second video showing parts of the apparently undamaged ancient colonnades, the Temple of Bel and the Roman theatre. On 27 June 2015, however, ISIL demolished the ancient Lion of Al-lāt statue in Palmyra. Several other statues from Palmyra reportedly confiscated from a smuggler were also destroyed by ISIL. On 23 August 2015, it was reported that ISIL had blown up the 1st-century Temple of Baalshamin. On 30 August 2015, ISIL demolished the Temple of Bel with explosives. Satellite imagery of the site taken shortly after showed almost nothing remained.\n\nAccording to the report issued on September 3, 2015 by ASOR Syrian Heritage initiative, ISIL also destroyed seven ancient tower tombs in Palmyra since the end of June over two phases. The last phase of destruction occurred between August 27 and September 2, 2015, including the destruction of the 2nd-century AD Tower of Elahbel, called \"the most prominent example of Palmyra's distinct funerary monuments\". Earlier, the ancient tombs of Iamliku and Atenaten were also destroyed. The Monumental Arch was also blown up in October.\n\nWhen Palmyra was recaptured by Syrian government forces in March 2016, retreating ISIL fighters blew up parts of the 13th-century Palmyra Castle, causing extensive damage.\n\nISIL has also looted and demolished the Parthian/Roman city of Dura-Europos in east of Syria. Nicknamed \"the Pompeii of the desert\", the city was of particular archaeological significance.\n\nHatra (Arabic: الحضر al-Ḥaḍr) was an ancient city in the Ninawa Governorate and al-Jazira region of Iraq. A large fortified city and capital of the first Arab Kingdom, Hatra withstood invasions by the Romans in A.D. 116 and 198 thanks to its high, thick walls reinforced by towers. However about 240 ce, the city fell to Shāpūr I (reigned c. 240–272), the ruler of the Persian Sāsānian dynasty, and was destroyed. The remains of the city, especially the temples where Hellenistic and Roman architecture blend with Eastern decorative features, attest to the greatness of its civilization. The city lies 290 km (180 mi) northwest of Baghdad and 110 km (68 mi) southwest of Mosul.\nOn 7 March 2015, various sources including Iraqi officials reported that the militant group Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) had begun demolishing the ruins of Hatra. Video released by ISIL the next month showed destruction of the monuments. The ancient city was recaptured by the Popular Mobilization Forces on 26 April 2017.\n\nISIL has burned or stolen collections of books and papers from various locations, including the Central Library of Mosul (which they rigged with explosives and burned down), the library at the University of Mosul, a Sunni Muslim library, a 265-year-old Latin Church and Monastery of the Dominican Fathers, and the Mosul Museum Library. Some destroyed or stolen works date back to 5000 BC and include \"Iraq newspapers dating to the early 20th century, maps and books from the Ottoman Empire, and book collections contributed by about 100 of Mosul’s establishment families.\" The stated goal is to destroy all non-Islamic books.\n\nOn 22 September 2014, the United States Secretary of State John Kerry announced that the Department of State had partnered with the American Schools of Orient Research Cultural Heritage Initiatives to \"comprehensively document the condition of, and threats to, cultural heritage sites in Iraq and Syria to assess their future restoration, preservation, and protection needs\". In 2014, the UNESCO's Committee for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict condemned at the Ninth Meeting \"repeated and deliberate attacks against cultural property... in particular in the Syrian Arab Republic and the Republic of Iraq\". UNESCO Director-General Irina Bokova called the destructions in Mosul a violation of the United Nations Security Council Resolution 2199, and the destruction of Nimrud a war crime.\n\nFormer Prime Minister of Iraq Nouri al-Maliki reported that the local parliamentary tourism and antiquities committee had \"filed complaints with the UN to condemn all ISIL crimes and abuses, including those that affect ancient places of worship\". On 28 May 2015, the United Nations General Assembly unanimously passed a resolution, initiated by Germany and Iraq and sponsored by 91 UN member states, stating that ISIL's destruction of cultural heritage may amount to a war crime and urging international measures to halt such acts, which it described as a \"tactic of war\".\n\nAfter the Palmyra temple's destruction in August 2015, the Institute for Digital Archaeology (IDA) announced plans to establish a digital record of historical sites and artifacts threatened by ISIL advance. To accomplish this goal, the IDA, in collaboration with UNESCO, will deploy 5,000 3D cameras to partners in the Middle East. The cameras will be used to capture 3D scans of local ruins and relics.\n\nThe general director of the Czech National Museum, Michal Lukeš, signed an agreement in June 2017 committing the institution to help Syria save, preserve and conserve much of its cultural and historical heritage damaged by war, including the ancient site of Palmyra; he met with Maamoun Abdulkarim and discussed plans for the works that are said to last until 2019.\n\nIn June 2017, The World Monuments Fund (WMF) announced launching a £500,000 scheme to train Syrian refugees near the Syrian-Jordanian border in traditional stone masonry. The aim is teaching them to develop skills necessary to be able to help in restoring cultural heritage sites that have been damaged or destroyed during the Syrian Civil War once peace is restored to Syria.\n\nMinor restorations have already begun: Palmyrene funerary busts of a deceased man and a woman, damaged and defaced by ISIL, were taken from Palmyra, then to Beirut to be sent off to Rome. Italian experts restored the portraits using 3D technology to print resin prosthetics, which were coated with a thick layer of stone dust to blend in with the original stone; the prosthetics were attached to the damaged faces of the busts using strong magnets. The restored pieces are now back in Syria. Abdulkarim said the restoration of the busts \"is the first real, visible positive step that the international community has taken to protect Syrian heritage\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22562859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22562859", "title": "Do-it-yourself biology", "text": "Do-it-yourself biology\n\nDo-it-yourself biology (DIY biology, DIY bio) is a growing biotechnological social movement in which individuals, communities, and small organizations study biology and life science using the same methods as traditional research institutions. DIY biology is primarily undertaken by individuals with extensive research training from academia or corporations, who then mentor and oversee other DIY biologists with little or no formal training. This may be done as a hobby, as a not-for-profit endeavor for community learning and open-science innovation, or for profit, to start a business.\n\nThe term \"biohacking\" as well as the concept of do-it-yourself biology has been known as early as 1988.\n\nBiohacking entered the San Francisco programmer and maker communities as early as 2005, through simple demonstrations of basic experiments. As DIYbio experiments became the focus of SuperHappyDevHouse hackers, the hobby gained additional momentum.\n\nIn 2005 Rob Carlson wrote in an article in \"Wired\": \"The era of garage biology is upon us. Want to participate? Take a moment to buy yourself a lab on eBay.\" He then set up a garage lab the same year, working on a project he had previously worked at the Molecular Sciences Institute in Berkeley, California.\n\nIn 2008, the DIYbio organization was founded by Jason Bobe and Mackenzie Cowell and its first meeting held.\n\nIn 2010, Genspace opened the first community biology lab, Ten months later it was followed by BioCurious, and Victoria Makerspace. Many other labs and organizations followed, including but not limited to Counter Culture Labs in Oakland, CA, Baltimore Underground Science Space in Baltimore, MD, TheLab in Los Angeles, CA and Denver Biolabs in Denver, CO.\n\nIn 2016, the first conference to focus specifically on biohacking was announced to take place in Sept. in Oakland, CA.\n\nThe DIYbio movement seeks to revise the notion that one must be an academic with an advanced degree to make any significant contribution to the biology community. It allows large numbers of small organizations and individuals to participate in research and development, with spreading knowledge a higher priority than turning profits.\n\nThe motivations for DIY biology include (but aren't limited to) lowered costs, entertainment, medicine, biohacking, life extension, and education. Recent work combining open-source hardware of microcontrollers like the Arduino and RepRap 3-D printers, very low-cost scientific instruments have been developed.\n\nMany organizations maintain a laboratory akin to a wet-lab makerspace, providing equipment and supplies for members. Many organizations also run classes and provide training. For a fee (usually between $50 and $100), members can join some spaces and do experiments on their own.\n\nThe DIY biology movement attempts to make available the tools and resources necessary for anyone, including non-professionals, to conduct biological engineering. One of the first pieces of open source laboratory equipment developed was the Dremelfuge by Irish biohacker Cathal Garvey, which uses a 3D printed tube holder attached to a Dremel rotary tool to spin tubes at high speeds, replacing often expensive centrifuges. Many other devices like PCR machines have been recreated extensively. In recent times, more complex devices have been created such as the OpenDrop digital microfluidics platform and the DIY NanoDrop both developed by GaudiLabs. Opentrons makes open-source, affordable lab robots, and got its start as a DIY biology collaboration at Genspace.\n\nMost advocacy in biohacking is about the safety, accessibility and future legality of experimentation. Todd Kuiken of the Woodrow Wilson Center proposes that through safety and self-governance, DIY biologists won't be in need of regulation. However, Josiah Zayner has proposed that safety is inherent in biohacking and that accessibility should be the foremost concern as there is large underrepresentation of social and ethnic minorities in biohacking.\n\nMany biohacking projects revolve around the modification of life and molecular and genetic engineering.\n\nBioinformatics is another popular target for do-it-yourself biology research. As in other fields, many programming languages can be used in DIY biology, but most of the languages that are used are those with large bioinformatics libraries.\n\nExamples include BioPerl or BioPython, which use the languages Perl and Python, respectively.\n\nGenetic Engineers are a subculture of biohackers as one of the most accessible forms of biohacking is through engineering microorganisms or plants. Experiments can range from using plasmids to fluorescent bacteria, controlling gene expression using light in bacteria, even using CRISPR to engineer the genome of bacteria or yeast.\n\nRestricted access to medical care and medicine has pushed biohackers to start experimenting in medically related fields. The Open Insulin project aims to make the recombinant protein insulin more accessible by creating an open source protocol for expression and purification. Other experiments that have involved medical treatments include a whole body microbiome transplant and the creation of open source artificial pancreases for diabetics.\n\nGrinders are a subculture of biohackers that focus on implanting technology or introducing chemicals into the body to enhance or change their bodies' functionality. \n\nSome biohackers can now sense which direction they face using a magnetic implant that vibrates against the skin.\n\nIn 2000, controversial and self-described \"transgenic artist\" Eduardo Kac appropriated standard laboratory work by biotechnology and genetics researchers in order to both utilize and critique such scientific techniques. In the only putative work of transgenic art by Kac, the artist claimed to have collaborated with a French laboratory (belonging to the Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique) to procure a green-fluorescent rabbit: a rabbit implanted with a green fluorescent protein gene from a type of jellyfish [\"Aequorea victoria\"] in order for the rabbit to fluoresce green under ultraviolet light. The claimed work came to be known as the \"GFP bunny\", and which Kac called \"Alba\". This claim by Kac has been disputed by the scientists at the lab who noted that they had performed the exact same experiment (i.e., the insertion of the jellyfish GFP protein-coding gene) on numerous other animals (cats, dogs, etc.) previously and did not create \"Alba\" (known to the researchers only as \"Rabbit Number 5256\") under the direction of Kac. The laboratory consequently kept possession of the transgenic rabbit which it had created and funded and the \"transgenic art\" was never exhibited at the Digital Avignon festival [2000] as intended. Kac -- claiming that his rabbit was the first GFP bunny created in the name of Art -- used this dispute to popularize the issue as one of disguised censorship by launching a \"Free Alba\" campaign. A doctored photo of the artist holding a day-glow-green tinted rabbit appears on his website. The members of the Critical Art Ensemble have written books and staged multimedia performance interventions around this issue, including \"The Flesh Machine\" (focusing on in vitro fertilisation, surveillance of the body, and liberal eugenics) and \"Cult of the New Eve\" (In order to analyze how, in their words, \"Science is the institution of authority regarding the production of knowledge, and tends to replace this particular social function of conventional Christianity in the west\").\n\nHeather Dewey-Hagborg is an information artist and biohacker who uses genomic DNA left behind by people as a starting point for creating lifelike, computer-generated, 3-D portraits.\n\nBiohacking experiences many of the same criticisms as synthetic biology and genetic engineering already receive, plus other concerns relating to the distributed and non-institutional nature of the work, involving potential hazards with lack of oversight by professionals or governments. Concerns about biohackers creating pathogens in unmonitored garage laboratories led the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to begin sending its representatives to DIYbio conferences in 2009. The arrest and prosecution of some members for their work with harmless microbes, such as artivist Steve Kurtz, has been denounced as political repression by critics who argue the U.S. government has used post-9/11 anti-terrorism powers to intimidate artists and others who use their art to criticize society.\n\nExisting regulations are not specific to this field, so that the possibility of pathological organisms being created and released unintentionally or intentionally by biohackers has become a matter of concern, for example, in the spirit of the re-creation of the 1917 flu virus by Armed Forces Institute of Pathology researchers in 2005. In the US the FBI Weapons of Mass Destruction Directorate has worked with the American Association for the Advancement of Science's National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity to convene a series of meetings to discuss biosecurity, which have included discussions of amateur biologists and ways to manage the risks to society it poses. At the National Institutes of Health, National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity leads efforts to educate the public on \"dual use research of concern\", for example with websites like \"Science Safety Security\". In 2011, DIYbio organized conferences to attempt to create codes of ethics for biohackers.\n\nPat Mooney, executive director of ETC Group, is a critic of biohacking who argues that—using a laptop computer, published gene sequence information, and mail-order synthetic DNA—just about anyone has the potential to construct genes or entire genomes from scratch (including those of the lethal pathogens) in the near-future. A 2007 ETC Group report warns that the danger of this development is not just bio-terror, but \"bio-error\".\n\nWhile no DIYbio project to date has involved harmful agents, the fear remains in the minds of both regulators and laypersons. However, it is often pointed out that DIYbio is at too early a stage to consider such advanced projects feasible, as few successful transformative genetics projects have been undertaken yet. It is also worth noting that, while an individual could conceivably do harm with sufficient skill and intent, there exist biology labs throughout the world with greater access to the technology, skill and funding to accomplish a bioweapons project.\n\nWhile detractors argue that do-it-yourself biologists need some sort of supervision, enthusiasts argue that uniform supervision is impossible and the best way to prevent accidents or malevolence is to encourage a culture of transparency, where, in essence, do-it-yourself biologists would be peer reviewed by other biohackers. Enthusiasts argue that fear of potential hazards should be met with increased research and education rather than closing the door on the profound positive impacts that distributed biological technology will have on human health, the environment, and the standard of living around the world. Due to the lack of precedent regarding such a business model, the DIYbio founders see this as an opportunity to be innovators in regulatory and safety policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30498454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30498454", "title": "Elegant decay", "text": "Elegant decay\n\nElegant decay is the cultural agreement that some places, and structures, become gradually more elegant, notable, or beautiful as they decay, or fall into ruin, due to their historical, architectural, or cultural significance. Although such reverence is subjective, it is true that certain cities, regions or even countries are more susceptible to the general concept due to past opulence, or their lengthy or enduring history or culture.\n\nContrary to the general interpretation that places or structures are more noteworthy in their newness, or older structures hold more value and interest after being historically restored to their original state, the concept of elegant decay is that in the slow degradation of the structures an inherent elegance, or beauty, emerges due to past historic importance. In recent times, this concept has been exploited by those seeking to stimulate tourism.\n\nWith its rich history, and centuries of past prestige and prominence, Western Europe has many places where elegant decay is notable and celebrated. One of the most salient is Italy, due to its lengthy historic prominence in prehistoric, ancient, medieval, and modern times. The most celebrated of Italian cities in elegant decay is arguably Venice, largely due to the whole city slowly crumbling and sinking into its lagoon.\n\nAlthough Western Europe holds many instances of elegant decay today, the New World also has places of crumbled reverence as well. Most notable in the United States may be the city and region around New Orleans, Louisiana, with its historic fusion of cultures and important contributions to American expansion. In the concept of elegant decay, there sometimes appears to be an element of impending doom to such places and structures, as Venice slowly sinks, and New Orleans is under constant threat from hurricanes.\n\nElegant decay is different in concept and plan than ruin value, in which structures are planned to look beautiful as ruins from the early planning stages. The concept of elegant decay is related to the concept of patina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9928", "title": "Ethnology", "text": "Ethnology\n\nEthnology (from the Greek \"ἔθνος\", \"ethnos\" meaning \"nation\") is the branch of anthropology that compares and analyzes the characteristics of different peoples and the relationships between them (cf. cultural, social, or sociocultural anthropology).\n\nCompared to ethnography, the study of single groups through direct contact with the culture, ethnology takes the research that ethnographers have compiled and then compares and contrasts different cultures.\nThe term \"ethnologia\" (\"ethnology\") is credited to Adam Franz Kollár (1718-1783) who used and defined it in his \"Historiae ivrisqve pvblici Regni Vngariae amoenitates\" published in Vienna in 1783. as: “the science of nations and peoples, or, that study of learned men in which they inquire into the origins, languages, customs, and institutions of various nations, and finally into the fatherland and ancient seats, in order to be able better to judge the nations and peoples in their own times.” \n\nKollár's interest in linguistic and cultural diversity was aroused by the situation in his native multi-ethnic and multilingual Kingdom of Hungary and his roots among its Slovaks, and by the shifts that began to emerge after the gradual retreat of the Ottoman Empire in the more distant Balkans.\n\nAmong the goals of ethnology have been the reconstruction of human history, and the formulation of cultural invariants, such as the incest taboo and culture change, and the formulation of generalizations about \"human nature\", a concept which has been criticized since the 19th century by various philosophers (Hegel, Marx, structuralism, etc.). In some parts of the world, ethnology has developed along independent paths of investigation and pedagogical doctrine, with \"cultural anthropology\" becoming dominant especially in the United States, and \"social anthropology\" in Great Britain. The distinction between the three terms is increasingly blurry. Ethnology has been considered an academic field since the late 18th century, especially in Europe and is sometimes conceived of as any comparative study of human groups.\nThe 15th-century exploration of America by European explorers had an important role in formulating new notions of the Occident (the Western world), such as the notion of the \"Other\". This term was used in conjunction with \"savages\", which was either seen as a brutal barbarian, or alternatively, as the \"noble savage\". Thus, civilization was opposed in a dualist manner to barbary, a classic opposition constitutive of the even more commonly shared ethnocentrism. The progress of ethnology, for example with Claude Lévi-Strauss's structural anthropology, led to the criticism of conceptions of a linear progress, or the pseudo-opposition between \"societies with histories\" and \"societies without histories\", judged too dependent on a limited view of history as constituted by accumulative growth.\n\nLévi-Strauss often referred to Montaigne's essay on cannibalism as an early example of ethnology. Lévi-Strauss aimed, through a structural method, at discovering universal invariants in human society, chief among which he believed to be the incest taboo. However, the claims of such cultural universalism have been criticized by various 19th- and 20th-century social thinkers, including Marx, Nietzsche, Foucault, Derrida, Althusser, and Deleuze.\n\nThe French school of ethnology was particularly significant for the development of the discipline, since the early 1950s. Important figures in this movement have included Lévi-Strauss, Paul Rivet, Marcel Griaule, Germaine Dieterlen, and Jean Rouch.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31039138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31039138", "title": "Falling-out", "text": "Falling-out\n\nFalling-out is a culture-bound syndrome primarily reported in the southern United States and the Caribbean. It is described as a constricted consciousness as a psychological response to anxiety and specific stressors. Sudden collapse characterizes episodes of falling-out, whether without warning or preceded by dizziness and a spinning sensation. The individual suffering from symptoms of falling out can usually hear and understand what is going on around them.\n\nFalling-out is not treated as an illness unless it becomes disabling. It is often seen as a normal response to stressful situations, funerals, or when a person receives shocking information.\n\n"}
{"id": "51207248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51207248", "title": "Farid Matuk", "text": "Farid Matuk\n\nFarid Matuk is an American poet and educator, born to a Peruvian father and Syrian mother in Peru. He writes in both English and Spanish, and his Spanish translations have appeared in \"Kadar Koli,\" \"Translation Review\", \"Mandorla\", and \"Bombay Gin\". His poems have appeared in \"Denver Quarterly\", \"Flag + Void\", \"Iowa Review\", and \"Poetry\" and abroad in \"White Wall Review\" (Canada), \"Critical Quarterly\" (UK), and \"Poem: International English Language Quarterly\" (UK). He is currently Associate Professor of English and Creative Writing at the University of Arizona. His book \"This Isa Nice Neighborhood (Letter Machine, 2010)\" was the recipient of an Honorable Mention in the 2011 Arab American Book Awards. and was included in The Poetry Society of America's New American Poets series. \"My Daughter La Chola (Ahsata, 2013)\" received an Honorable Mention in the 2014 Arab American Book Awards. My Daughter La Chola was also named among the best books of 2013 by \"The Volta\" and by The Poetry Foundation while selections from its pages have been anthologized in \"The Best American Experimental Poetry, 2014\", \"The &Now Awards: The Best Innovative Writing Vol. 3\", and in \"Angels of the Americlypse: An Anthology of New Latino@ Writing\". He serves as poetry editor for \"Fence\" and on the editorial board for the Creative Writing Studies book series at Bloomsbury. Matuk is the recipient of both the Ford Fellowship and Fulbright Fellowship. The University of Arizona Press published his second full-length collection, \"The Real Horse\", in 2018.\n"}
{"id": "1525258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1525258", "title": "Highbrow", "text": "Highbrow\n\nUsed colloquially as a noun or adjective, \"highbrow\" is synonymous with intellectual; as an adjective, it also means elite, and generally carries a connotation of high culture. The word draws its metonymy from the pseudoscience of phrenology, and was originally simply a physical descriptor.\n\n\"Highbrow\" can be applied to music, implying most of the classical music tradition; to literature—i.e., literary fiction and poetry; to films in the arthouse line; and to comedy that requires significant understanding of analogies or references to appreciate. The term \"highbrow\" is considered by some (with corresponding labels as 'middlebrow' 'lowbrow') as discriminatory or overly selective; and \"highbrow\" is currently distanced from the writer by quotation marks: \"We thus focus on the consumption of two generally recognised 'highbrow' genres—opera and classical\". The first usage in print of \"highbrow\" was recorded in 1884. The term was popularized in 1902 by Will Irvin, a reporter for \"The Sun\" who adhered to the phrenological notion of more intelligent people having high foreheads.\n\nThe opposite of \"highbrow\" is \"lowbrow\", and between them is \"middlebrow\", describing culture that is neither high nor low; as a usage, \"middlebrow\" is derogatory, as in Virginia Woolf's unsent letter to the \"New Statesman\", written in the 1930s and published in \"The Death of the Moth and Other Essays\" (1942). According to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", the word \"middlebrow\" first appeared in print in 1925, in \"Punch\": \"The BBC claims to have discovered a new type—'the middlebrow'. It consists of people who are hoping that some day they will get used to the stuff that they ought to like\". The term had previously appeared in hyphenated form in 1912:\nIt was popularized by the American writer and poet Margaret Widdemer, whose essay \"Message and Middlebrow\" appeared in the \"Review of Literature\" in 1933. The three genres of fiction, as American readers approached them in the 1950s and as obscenity law differentially judged them, are the subject of Ruth Pirsig Wood, \"Lolita in Peyton Place: Highbrow, Middlebrow, and Lowbrow Novels\", 1995.\n\nPrince Hamlet was considered by Virginia Woolf as a highbrow lacking orientation in the world once he had lost the lowbrow Ophelia with her grip on earthly realities: this, she thought, explained why in general highbrows \"honour so wholeheartedly and depend so completely upon those who are called lowbrows\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1064401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1064401", "title": "Hypercolor", "text": "Hypercolor\n\nHypercolor was a line of clothing, mainly T-shirts and shorts, that changed colour with heat.\n\nThey were manufactured by Generra Sportswear Company of Seattle and marketed in the United States as Generra Hypercolor or Generra Hypergrafix and elsewhere as Global Hypercolor. They contained a thermochromic pigment made by Matsui Shikiso Chemical of Japan, that changed between two colours – one when cold, one when warm. The shirts were produced with several color change choices beginning in 1991. The effect could easily be permanently damaged, particularly when the clothing was washed in hotter than recommended water, ironed, bleached, or tumble-dried.\n\nGenerra Sportswear Co. had originally been founded as a men's sportswear distributor and importer in Seattle in 1980. The company was sold to Texas-based Farah Manufacturing Co. in 1984 and bought back by its founders in 1989. In 1986, the company added childrenswear and womenswear items to their portfolio. They struggled to meet the overwhelming demand for Hypercolor products. Between February and May 1991 they sold $50 million in Hypercolor garments. Generra went bankrupt due to mismanagement and fading demand in 1992. The Hypercolor business for the U.S. market was sold to The Seattle T-Shirt Company in 1993; Generra kept the rights for the international market. The company emerged from bankruptcy in 1995 as a licensing business. The Generra name was acquired by Public Clothing Co. of New York in 2002. Today, Generra Co. is a contemporary women's and men's apparel brand headquartered in New York City.\n\nIn the early 2000s, the technique was revived by a number of apparel brands.\n\nSubstances that can change color due to a change in temperature are called thermochromes. There are two types of thermochromes: liquid crystals (used in mood rings) and leuco dyes (used in Hypercolor T-shirts).\n\nThe color change of Hypercolor shirts is based on combination of two colors: the color of the dyed fabric, which remained constant, and the color of the thermochromic dye. Droplets of the thermochromic dye mixture are enclosed in transparent microcapsules, a few micrometers in diameter, bound to the fibers of the fabric.\n\nThe thermochromic droplets are actually a mixture of several chemicals — crystal violet lactone (the color-changing dye itself), benzotriazole (a weak acid), and a quaternary ammonium salt of a fatty acid (myristylammonium oleate) dissolved in 1-dodecanol as solvent. Together, these lead to a reversible chemical reaction in response to temperature change that produces a change of color.\n\nAt low temperatures, the mixture is a solid. The weak acid forms a colored complex with the leuco dye by causing the lactone ring in the center of the dye molecule to open. At high temperatures, above 24–27 °C, the solvent melts and the ammonium salt dissociates, allowing it to react with the weak acid. This reaction increases the pH, which leads to closing of the lactone ring of the dye to convert it to its colorless (leuco) form.\n\nTherefore, at the low temperature the color of the shirt is the combination of the color of the encapsulated colored dye with the color of the dyed fabric, while at higher temperatures the capsules become colorless and the color of the fabric prevails.\n"}
{"id": "10677746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10677746", "title": "Information exchange", "text": "Information exchange\n\nInformation exchange or information sharing are informal terms that can either refer to bidirectional \"information transfer\" in telecommunications and computer science or \"communication\" seen from a system-theoretic or information-theoretic point of view. As \"information\" in this context invariably refers to (electronic) data that encodes and represents the information at hand, a broader treatment can be found under data exchange.\n\nThe term information sharing has a long history in information technology. Traditional information sharing referred to one-to-one exchanges of data between a sender and receiver. These information exchanges are implemented via dozens of open and proprietary protocols, message and file formats. Electronic data interchange (EDI) is a successful implementation of commercial data exchanges that began in the late 1970s and remains in use today.\n\nInitiatives to standardize information sharing protocols include extensible markup language (XML), simple object access protocol (SOAP), and web services description language (WSDL).\n\nFrom the point of view of a computer scientist, the four primary information sharing design patterns are sharing information one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-many, and many-to-one. Technologies to meet all four of these design patterns are evolving and include blogs, wikis, really simple syndication, tagging, and chat.\n\nOne example of United States government's attempt to implement one of these design patterns (one to one) is the National Information Exchange Model (NIEM). One-to-one exchange models fall short of supporting all of the required design patterns needed to fully implement data exploitation technology.\n\nAdvanced information sharing platforms provide controlled vocabularies, data harmonization, data stewardship policies and guidelines, standards for uniform data as they relate to privacy, security, and data quality.\n\nThe term information sharing gained popularity as a result of the 9/11 Commission Hearings and its report of the United States government's lack of response to information known about the planned terrorist attack on the New York City World Trade Center prior to the event. The resulting commission report led to the enactment of several executive orders by President Bush that mandated agencies implement policies to \"share information\" across organizational boundaries. In addition, an Information Sharing Environment Program Manager (PM-ISE) was appointed, tasked to implement the provisions of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004. In making recommendation toward the creation of an \"Information Sharing Environment\" the 9/11 Commission based itself on the findings and recommendations made by the Markle Task Force on National Security in the Information Age.\n\nInformation exchange is also used to describe the process of learning and the efficiency of the learning.\n\n"}
{"id": "39730622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39730622", "title": "Journal of Narrative Theory", "text": "Journal of Narrative Theory\n\nThe Journal of Narrative Theory is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal covering narratology in literary fiction. The journal was established in 1971 as the \"Journal of Narrative Technique\" and obtained its current title in 1999. It is published by the Department of English at Eastern Michigan University and the editors-in-chief are Abby Coykendall and Andrea Kaston Tange. In \"An Introduction to Narratology\", Monika Fludernik lists it as one of \"the most important journals in the field\".\n"}
{"id": "7754645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7754645", "title": "Kick the bucket", "text": "Kick the bucket\n\nTo kick the bucket is an English idiom, considered a euphemistic, informal, or slang term meaning 'to die'. Its origin remains unclear, though there have been several theories.\n\nA common theory is that the idiom refers to hanging, either as a method of execution or suicide. However, there is no evidence to support this. Its earliest appearance is in the \"Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue\" (1785), where it is defined as 'to die'. In John Badcock's slang dictionary of 1823, the explanation is given that \"One Bolsover having hung himself from a beam while standing on a pail, or bucket, kicked this vessel away in order to pry into futurity and it was all UP with him from that moment: \"Finis\"\".\n\nThe theory favoured by the OED relates to the alternative definition of a bucket as a beam or yoke that can be used to hang or carry things on. The \"bucket\" may refer to the beam on which slaughtered pigs are suspended. The animals may struggle on the bucket, hence the expression. The word \"bucket\" still can be used today to refer to such a beam in the Norfolk dialect. It is thought that this definition came from the French word \"trébuchet\" or \"buque\", meaning balance. William Shakespeare used the word in this sense in his play Henry IV Part II where he says:\nA third theory suggests that the origin of the phrase comes from the Catholic custom of holy-water buckets:\n\nYet another theory seeks to extend the saying beyond its earliest use in the 16th century with reference to the Latin proverb \"Capra Scyria\", the goat that is said to kick over the pail after being milked (920 in Erasmus' Adagia). Thus a promising beginning is followed by a bad ending or, as Andrea Alciato phrased it in the Latin poem accompanying the drawing in his \"Emblemata\" (1524), 'Because you have spoilt your fine beginnings with a shameful end and turned your service into harm, you have done what the she-goat does when she kicks the bucket that holds her milk and with her hoof squanders her own riches'. Here it is the death of one's reputation that is in question.\n\nAt one time the American and Caribbean expression 'kickeraboo' used to be explained as a deformed version of 'kick the bucket'. The expression occurs as the title of a mid-19th century American minstrel ballad with the ending 'Massa Death bring one bag and we Kickeraboo'. However, it is now thought that it may have derived from a native word in one of the West African creoles. The expression 'kek(e)rebu' is first recorded in 1721 with the meaning 'to die' in the Krio language of Sierra Leone. Earlier still 'Kickativoo' is recorded in Ghana (then known as the Gold or Slave Coast). In 1680 it referred to the capsizing of a canoe but also had the meaning 'to die'.\n\nWhatever African American usage might have been in the 19th century, by the 20th century they were using the idiom 'kick the bucket'. It occurs in the jazz classic \"Old Man Mose\", recorded by Louis Armstrong in the US in 1935, and in the West Indies it figured in the title of the reggae hit “Long Shot kick de bucket”, recorded by The Pioneers in 1969. In the case of the latter, the song refers to the death of a horse.\n\nIn North America, a variation of the idiom is 'kick off'. A related phrase is to \"hand in one's dinner pail\", a bucket that contains a worker's dinner. Another variation, 'bucket list', or a list of things to do before one dies, is derived from \"to kick the bucket\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44806831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44806831", "title": "Light Painting World Alliance", "text": "Light Painting World Alliance\n\nLight Painting World Alliance (LPWA) is a nonprofit organization (NPO). Its goal is to offer the light painting community a cross-border platform to show its art, to set up networks and to promote social concerns and further training by means of light painting.\n\nFor this purpose LPWA established a network of local representatives from currently 30 countries worldwide.\nIt was founded in December 2011 by Russian artist Sergey B. Churkin.\nLPWA showcases light painting works of its members in the context of exhibitions, conferences and special events using an advisory board of lightpainters for selection.\n\nIn September 2014 LPWA was awarded status as an official Collaborating Partner of the International Year of Light and Light-based Technologies 2015 (IYL2015) by UNESCO.\nThis happened in accordance with the proclaimed International Year of Light and Light-based Technologies 2015 by UNESCO.\nAs representatives of LPWA artists Sergey Churkin, Eric Mellinger, Hugo Baptista und JanLeonardo were officially invited to attend opening ceremonies at UNESCO Headquarters Paris.\n\n"}
{"id": "39052181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39052181", "title": "Make me a sandwich", "text": "Make me a sandwich\n\nMake me a sandwich is a catchphrase used in popular culture, often on the internet, to mock or discredit women in a satirical manner. It is a stereotype based on women belonging in the kitchen. \n\nFor example, during Hillary Clinton's 2008 campaign for the Democratic nomination for United States President, it was noted in the news that a Facebook group had been created titled \"Hillary Clinton: Stop Running for President and Make Me a Sandwich.\"\n\nThe phrase, as used in an intended humorous context, dates to at least 1995. \n"}
{"id": "38305143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38305143", "title": "Malinchism", "text": "Malinchism\n\nMalinchism () or malinchist () is a form of attraction that the foreigner has in the popular imagination, causing individuals to lose the spirit of nationality by moving to the other side, a particular case of cultural cringe. It is derived from the name of Hernán Cortés's Nahua advisor La Malinche, referring to a deep-rooted Mexican inferiority complex or self-hatred for the preference for all things foreign to the point of self-destruction. La Malinche is used as a symbol for being supposed to have assisted the Spaniards in destroying Native Americans' way of life, values, norms and culture and exploit the Native American peoples.\n\n\"Malinchism\" is a pejorative label, expressing disdain for those who are attracted by foreign values, thinking them superior, of better quality and worthy of imitation. In Mexico and in other countries the term \"malinchism\" or \"malinchist\" applies to all those who feel an attraction to foreign cultures and disregard for their own national culture. It also applies to politics, as in El Salvador, in which the leftist political parties call their opponents \"malinchist right-wing\". The myth of Malinche and the force of this feeling of disgust crossed the Mexican border, and malinchism came to be applied as a technical term, political, for giving preference to foreign cultures.\n\nIt has been argued that upper-class consumers in Mexico display malinchism in their preference for American imports, rather than local Mexican brands. As result, American products are sold mostly on the middle class market, and their advertising agencies generally avoid working class and rural areas. They concentrate their efforts on Mexico City, Monterrey, and Guadalajara, which purchase 70 percent of the American imports.\n\nMalinchism is also associated with a societal depiction of women as the source of betrayal and nefarious behavior. In the images of Mexican popular culture, this theme plays out with Malinche often portrayed as both the deceiver and the deceived. In theatrical productions, she is sometimes portrayed as a victim of conquest, and sometimes the manufacturer of her own destiny; almost always, Malinche is portrayed as guilty, in a form of victim blaming. If she was indeed forced to help the conquistadors against her will, it was because she didn't struggle enough; if she was a willing participant, she not only brought her own troubles, but she caused all of her people and her children to suffer. She is represented in art as a figure showing women's inborn deception and guilt — one who used her sexuality and in so doing betrayed her own unwitting children. Even in dance, the dichotomy persists. In \"La Malinche,\" a ballet composed in 1949, by José Limón, Malinche is at first an unwilling victim, then assumes the proud deportment of an aristocrat, and in the end, weighted down by the finery she wears, she gives birth to the mixed-race child who rejects her. In literature, Malinche has been compared to Eve, the temptress who through deception, leads men astray. \n"}
{"id": "49457873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49457873", "title": "Mennonite Your Way", "text": "Mennonite Your Way\n\nMennonite Your Way (MYW) is a hospitality service that caters to Mennonites. Like all hospitality services, it is an example of collaborative consumption and sharing. \n\nMYW publishes a printed directory of people who are willing to offer homestays in their residences. There are over 1,700 hosts. Guests must buy the directory for $45; the charge for hosts is $30. Guests must pay to the host a nightly fee of $10 per adult, $2 per child and if breakfast is offered, $2 per meal, unless specified otherwise.\n\nParticipants are mostly Mennonites or other followers of Anabaptism, such as Schwarzenau Brethren. Hosts are mostly elderly couples and are mostly in areas where there are traditionally many Mennonites of Swiss and South-German ancestry, such as Pennsylvania. Although MYW operates in 70 counties, almost all hosts are either in the United States, Germany, the Netherlands, or Switzerland.\n\nMYW was created in 1976 by Mennonites Leon and Nancy Stauffer.\n"}
{"id": "5151373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5151373", "title": "Mentifact", "text": "Mentifact\n\nMentifact (sometimes called a psychofact) is a term coined by Julian Huxley, used together with the related terms \"sociofact\" and \"artifact\" to describe how cultural traits, such as \"beliefs, values, ideas\", take on a life of their own spanning over generations, and are conceivable as objects in themselves. This concept has been useful to anthropologists in refining the definition of culture. For instance, Edward Tylor, the first academic anthropologist, included both artifacts and such abstract concepts as kinship systems as elements of culture. Anthropologist Robert Aunger explains that such an inclusive definition ends up encouraging poor anthropological practice because \"it becomes difficult to distinguish what exactly is \"not\" part of culture\". Aunger goes on to explain that after the cognitive revolution in the social sciences in the 1960s, there is \"considerable agreement\" among anthropologists that a mentifactual analysis, one that assumes that culture consists of \"things in the head\" (i.e. mentifacts) is the most appropriate way to define the concept of culture.\n"}
{"id": "53111373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53111373", "title": "Multiethnolect", "text": "Multiethnolect\n\nMultiethnolect is a term originally coined by Clyne (2000) and Quist (2000). It is used by a number of linguists to define an emerging, distinct variety of language found in young, working-class urban neighbourhoods, across Scandinavia, the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and Great Britain. Multiethnolects appear to be less homogeneous than either dialects or sociolects and are assumed to be context-bound and transient, to the extent that they are ‘youth languages'. Wiese (2006) uses the term German Kiezdeutsch, meaning ‘neighbourhood German’, to refer to multiethnic youth language in Germany. Cheshire et al. (2011) claim that the term \"Jafaican\", which refers to youth language in multiethnic parts of London, a name that has close associations with hip-hop, is a type of multiethnolect. Kotsinas (1988) uses the term \"rinkebysvenska\" (named after one such district, Rinkeby) to refer to the Swedish characteristics of multiethnolects that are spoken in districts of Stockholm. Multientholects are considered to be a type of Labovian \"vernacular\" that many older people claim that young people in London today sound as if they are \"talking black\".\"The reasons for the emergence of European multiethnolects at this point in history is presumably linked to specific types of community formation in urban areas which have seen very large-scale immigration from developing countries. People of different language backgrounds have settled in already quite underprivileged neighbourhoods, and economic deprivation has led to the maintenance of close kin and neighbourhood ties. Castells (2000) writes of prosperous metropolises containing communities such as these: ‘It is this distinctive feature of being globally connected and locally disconnected, physically and socially, that makes mega-cities a new urban form’.\"Cheshire, Nortier, and Adger state that 'a defining characteristic is that [multiethnolects] are used by (usually monolingual) young people from non-immigrant backgrounds as well as by their bilingual peers'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53372308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53372308", "title": "National memory", "text": "National memory\n\nNational memory is a form of collective memory defined by shared experiences and culture. It is an integral part to national identity.\n\nIt represents one specific form of cultural memory, which makes an essential contribution to national group cohesion. Historically national communities have drawn upon commemorative ceremonies and monuments, myths and rituals, glorified individuals, objects, and events in their own history to produce a common narrative.\n\nAccording to Lorraine Ryan, national memory is based on the public's reception of national historic narratives and the ability of people to affirm the legitimacy of these narratives.\nNational memory typically consists of a shared interpretation of a nation's past. Such interpretations can vary and sometimes compete. They can get challenged and augmented by a range of interest groups, fighting to have their histories acknowledged, documented and commemorated and reshape national stories. Often national memory is adjusted to offer a politicized vision of the past to make a political position appear consistent with national identity. Furthermore, it profoundly affects how historical facts are perceived and recorded and may circumvent or appropriate facts. A repertoire of discursive strategies functions to emotionalize national narrative and nationalize personal pasts.\n\nNational memory has been used calculatedly by governments for dynastic, political, religious and cultural purposes since as early as the sixteenth century.\n\nMarketing of memory by the culture industry and its instrumentalisation for political purposes can both be seen as serious threats to the objective understanding of a nation's past.\n\nLorraine Ryan notes that individual memory both shapes and is shaped by national memory, and that there is a competition between the dominant and individual memories of a nation.\n\nHyung Park states that the nation is continuously revived, re-imagined, reconstituted, through shared memories among its citizens.\n\nNational memories may also conflict with the other nations' collective memory.\n\nReports that are narrated in terms of national memory characterize the past in ways that merge the past, the present and the future into \"a single ongoing tale\".\n\nPierre Nora argues that a \"democratisation of history\" allows for emancipatory versions of the past to surface:\n\nHowever, national history being passed on by the culture industry, such as by historical films, can be seen as serious threats to the objective understanding of a nation's past.\n\nNations' memories can be shared across nations via media such as the Internet.\n\nNational memory can be a force of cohesion as well as division and conflict. It can foster constructive national reforms, international communities and agreements, dialogue as well as deepen problematic courses and rhetoric.\n\nIdentity crisis can occur due to bad memories (such as national crimes) or the absence of a belief in a shared past.\n\nOften new developments, processes, problems and events are made sense of and contextualized by drawing from national memory.\n\nCritical history or historic memory cuts from national memory's tradition centric to national heritage and orients itself towards a specialized study of history in a more sociological manner.\n\nIt has been proposed that the unthinkable ought not to be unmasked but that instead what made it thinkable should be reconstructed and that the difficulty of discussing the non-places or the bad places of national memory make it necessary to include forgetfulness and amnesia in the concept.\n\nNational memory may lead to questioning the nation as it is as well as its identity and imply a societal negotiation of what the country wishes to be as a nation. To understand the links between memory, forgetfulness, identity and the imaginary construction of the nation analysis of the discourse in the places of memory is fundamental as in all writings of national history an image of the nation is being restructured.\n\n"}
{"id": "7618874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7618874", "title": "Paris syndrome", "text": "Paris syndrome\n\nParis syndrome (, , \"Pari shōkōgun\") is a condition exhibited by some individuals when visiting or going on vacation to Paris, as a result of extreme shock derived from their discovery that Paris is not what they had expected it to be. The syndrome is characterized by a number of psychiatric symptoms such as acute delusional states, hallucinations, feelings of persecution (perceptions of being a victim of prejudice, aggression, or hostility from others), derealization, depersonalization, anxiety, and also psychosomatic manifestations such as dizziness, tachycardia, sweating, and others, such as vomiting. Similar syndromes include Jerusalem syndrome and Stendhal syndrome. The condition is commonly viewed as a severe form of culture shock. It is particularly noted among Japanese travelers. It is not listed as a recognised condition in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\".\n\nProfessor Hiroaki Ota, a Japanese psychiatrist working in France, is credited as the first person to diagnose the condition in 1986. Later work by Youcef Mahmoudia, a physician with the hospital Hôtel-Dieu de Paris, indicates that Paris syndrome is \"psychopathology related to travel, rather than a syndrome of the traveller.\" He theorized that the excitement resulting from visiting Paris causes the heart to accelerate, causing giddiness and shortness of breath, which results in hallucinations in the manner similar to the Stendhal syndrome described by Italian psychiatrist Graziella Magherini in her book \"La sindrome di Stendhal\".\n\nJapanese visitors are observed to be especially susceptible. It was first noted in \"Nervure\", the French journal of psychiatry, in 2004. From the estimated six million yearly visitors, the number of reported cases is not large: according to an administrator at the Japanese embassy in France, around 20 Japanese tourists a year are affected by the syndrome.\n\nMario Renoux, the president of the Franco-Japanese Medical Association, states in \"Libération\"': \"Des Japonais entre mal du pays et mal de Paris\" (\"The Japanese are caught between homesickness and Paris sickness\", 13 December 2004) and that Japanese magazines are primarily responsible for creating this syndrome. Renoux indicates that Japanese media, magazines in particular, often depict Paris as a place where most people on the street look like \"stick-thin\" models and most women dress in high fashion brands such as Louis Vuitton.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42649463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42649463", "title": "Passive fluency", "text": "Passive fluency\n\nPassive fluency is where a person can fluently read and audibly understand a language whilst not having the ability to fluently speak or write the language. Passive fluency is often brought about by being raised in one language (which becomes the person's passive language) and being schooled in another language (which becomes the person's native language).\n\nPeople who are passively fluent in a language are often latent speakers who were raised in an environment where the language was spoken but did not become native speakers.\n\nA more common term for this phenomenon is 'passive bilingualism'. Grosjean argues that there has been a monolingual bias regarding who is considered a 'bilingual', where people who do not have equal competence in all their languages are judges not speaking properly. 'Balanced bilinguals' are, in fact, very rare, and the fluency of a bilingual in his/ her languages is domain- specific: it depends on what they need the languages for. This means that speakers may not admit to their fluency in their passive language, despite the fact that there are social (extralinguistic) factors underlying their different competencies.\n\nKarlos Cid Abasolo discusses that passive bilingualism would be a minimum requirement for the co- official status of Basque and Spanish to become a working reality. As there are currently many monolingual Spanish speakers, and no monolingual Basque speakers, there is not yet a situation where an individual fluent in Basque could speak in his/ her mother tongue, regardless of the domain, circumstance or interlocutor.\n"}
{"id": "47764669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47764669", "title": "Peclers", "text": "Peclers\n\nPeclers is a trend consulting agency founded in 1970. With over 40 years of industry experience, Peclers consults with multiple brands and creative individuals in trend analysis, consumer reports, and brand strategies. The creative team at Peclers creates seasonal trend books that set the building blocks for businesses in the fashion and home industries. From trend forecast to styling intelligence, Peclers covers a variety of industry divisions in retail, beauty and cosmetics, electronics and consumer goods.\n\nIn 2003, Peclers joined WPP plc, a multinational advertising and public relations company based in London. Peclers has a broad international presence with its offices located in Paris, New York City, Shanghai, and a network of business partners across the world in 30 countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43732489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43732489", "title": "Purple economy", "text": "Purple economy\n\nThe purple economy is that part of the economy which contributes to sustainable development by promoting the cultural potential of goods and services.\n\n“The purple economy refers to taking account of cultural aspects in economics. It designates an economy that adapts to the human diversity in globalization and that relies on the cultural dimension to give value to goods and services.” These two trends, one vertical and one horizontal, feed one another. In fact the growth in the cultural component attached to products is linked to each territory’s cultural vitality.\n\nThe context of the purple economy is that of the growing importance of culture in contemporary society. The factors involved in this include in particular: a global economic and political readjustment in favour of emerging countries, a return to local environments (once again perceived as centres for stability), new forms of claims (following on from the collapse of the great ideologies), growing social demand for quality based on cultural consumption patterns (which go hand in hand with the logic of popularization, individualization and longer life expectancies), innovative approaches (that presuppose a cultural state of mind and interdisciplinarity conducive to serendipity), and so on.\n\nThe purple economy is multidisciplinary, in that it enriches all goods and services by capitalizing on the cultural dimension inherent to every sector. The sensory, experiential economy is one application of this.\n\nIt differs from the cultural economy, which is sector-based.\n\nIn June 2013, the conclusions of a first inter-institutional working group on the purple economy, formed of experts from UNESCO, the OECD, the International Organisation of the Francophonie, French ministries, various companies and civil society. That document underscored the impact of the phenomenon of culturalization, which now affects the entire economy, with follow-on effects on employment and training. The report differentiates between \"purple jobs\" and \"purplifying professions\": the former are directly linked to the cultural environment by their very purpose (like town planners and developers), while the latter are merely caused to transform under the effect of culturalization (such as positions in human resources or in marketing and communications).\n\nAnother reference document published in June 2017 mentioned various aspects of the human environment in which economics are likely to produce cultural benefits: architecture, art, colours, enjoyment, ethics, heritage, imagination, learning, social skills, singularity, etc.\n\nThe term first appeared in 2011, in France, in a manifest published on Le Monde.fr. The signatories included the board members of the association Diversum, which organized the first International Purple Economy Forum under the patronage of UNESCO, the European Parliament and the European Commission.\n\nThe purple economy emphasizes the presence of externalities: the cultural environment from which agents draw and on which, in return, they leave their own footprints is a common good. As a result, the purple economy sees culture as an axis for sustainable development.\n\nIn fact, culture has been a whole sub-section of sustainability since the beginning. Corporate social responsibility can even be said to have originated in the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights adopted by the United Nations in 1966.\n\nThis issue is just one of the different components of sustainable development, alongside concerns relating to the natural environment (green economy) and to the social environment (social economy). The complementary nature of these aspects of the sustainable economy was reaffirmed in a call published by \"Le Monde Économie\" in 2015, leading up to the 21st United Nations Conference on Climate Change.\n"}
{"id": "3402906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3402906", "title": "Qaum", "text": "Qaum\n\nQaum (, ) or nation may refer to a community of people who share a common language, culture, ethnicity, descent, and/or history. In this definition, a \"nation\" has no physical borders. However, it can also refer to people who share a common territory and government (for example the inhabitants of a sovereign state) irrespective of their ethnic make-up. The protean word \"Qawm\" is of Arabic origin, and is used to refer to any form of solidarity.\n\nPakistani people are known as \"Pakistani Qaum\" (Urdu: ).\n\n"}
{"id": "1046243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1046243", "title": "Reciprocity (cultural anthropology)", "text": "Reciprocity (cultural anthropology)\n\nIn cultural anthropology, reciprocity refers to the non-market exchange of goods or labour ranging from direct barter (immediate exchange) to forms of gift exchange where a return is eventually expected (delayed exchange) as in the exchange of birthday gifts. It is thus distinct from the true gift, where no return is expected. Reciprocity is said to be the basis of most non-market exchange. David Graeber argues, \"as currently used, 'reciprocity' can mean almost anything. It is very close to meaningless.\"\n\nWhen the exchange is immediate, as in barter, it does not create a social relationship. When the exchange is delayed, it creates both a relationship as well as an obligation for a return (i.e. debt). Hence, some forms of reciprocity can establish hierarchy if the debt is not repaid. The failure to make a return may end a relationship between equals. Reciprocal exchanges can also have a political effect through the creation of multiple obligations and the establishment of leadership, as in the gift exchanges (Moka) between Big Men in Melanesia. Some forms of reciprocity are thus closely related to redistribution, where goods and services are collected by a central figure for eventual distribution to followers.\n\nMarshall Sahlins, a well-known American cultural anthropologist, identified three main types of reciprocity (generalized, balanced and negative) in the book \"Stone Age Economics\" (1972). Reciprocity was also the general principal used by Claude Lévi-Strauss to explain the \"Elementary Structures of Kinship\" (1949), in one of the most influential works on kinship theory in the post-war period.\n\nAnnette Weiner argued that the \"norm of reciprocity\" is deeply implicated in the development of Western economic theory. Both John Locke and Adam Smith used the idea of reciprocity to justify a free market without state intervention. Reciprocity was used, on the one hand, to legitimize the idea of a self-regulating market; and to argue how individual vice was transformed into social good on the other. Western economic theorists starting with the eighteenth century Scots economists Sir James Steuart and Smith differentiated pre-modern natural (or self-subsistent) economies from civilized economies marked by a division of labour that necessitated exchange. Like early sociologist Émile Durkheim, they viewed natural economies as characterized by mechanical solidarity (like so many peas in a pod) whereas the civilized division of labour made producers mutually dependent upon one another resulting in organic solidarity. These oppositions solidified by the late nineteenth century in the evolutionary idea of primitive communism marked by mechanical solidarity as the antithesis and alter ego of Western \"Homo economicus\". It is this armchair anthropology opposition that originally informed modern anthropological debate when Malinowski sought to overturn the opposition and argue that archaic societies are equally regulated by the norm of reciprocity and maximizing behaviour.\n\nThe concept was key to the debate between early anthropologists Bronislaw Malinowski and Marcel Mauss on the meaning of \"Kula exchange\" in the Trobriand Islands off Papua New Guinea during the First World War. Malinowski used Kula exchange to demonstrate the apparently random gift-giving was in fact a key political process by which non-state political leadership spanning a vast archipelago was established. Gift-giving, he argued, was not altruistic (as it supposedly is in our society) but politically motivated for individual gain. Marcel Mauss theorized the impetus for a return as \"the spirit of the gift,\" an idea that has provoked a long debate in economic anthropology on what motivated the reciprocal exchange. Claude Lévi-Strauss, drawing on Mauss, argued there were three spheres of exchange governed by reciprocity: language (exchange of words), kinship (exchange of women), and economics (exchange of things). He thus claimed all human relationships are based on the norm of reciprocity. This claim has been disputed by anthropologists Jonathan Parry, Annette Weiner, and David Graeber amongst others.\n\nMarshall Sahlins has emphasized that non-market exchange is constrained by social relationships. That is, exchange in non-market societies is less about acquiring the means of production (whether land or tools) and more about the redistribution of finished goods throughout a community. These social relationships are largely kinship based. His discussion of types of reciprocity is located within what he calls the \"domestic mode of production.\" His typology of reciprocity thus refers to \"cultures lacking a political state, and it applies only insofar as economy and social relations have not been modified by the historic penetration of states.\" Paul Sillitoe has extended the analysis of reciprocity in these conditions, arguing that the type of reciprocity found will depend upon which sphere of production is being examined. The production of subsistence goods is under the control of domestic units and hence marked by generalized reciprocity. Wealth objects – by their nature from outside – are competitively exchanged to acquire status, but no one is able to control their production and hence centralize power.\n\nIn these circumstances, reciprocal exchange can be divided in two types: dyadic back-and-forth exchange (reciprocity), and pooling (redistribution). Pooling is a system of reciprocities. It is a \"within\" group relationship, whereas reciprocity is a \"between\" relationship. Pooling establishes a centre, whereas reciprocity inevitably establishes two distinct parties with their own interests. While the most basic form of pooling is that of food within the family, it is also the basis for sustained community efforts under a political leader.\n\nReciprocity, in contrast, is a dyadic exchange covering a range of possibilities, depending on individual interests. These interests will vary according to the social distance of the parties. A range of kinds of reciprocity can thus be sketched out, according to Sahlins:\n\n\nThis typology of reciprocal exchange was developed by Sahlins in relation to the domestic mode of production (i.e. 'stone age economics') and hence should be contrasted with the 19th century armchair conceptions of 'primitive communism.' Within this same domestic mode of production, the degree of social distance – kinship in particular – affects the kind of reciprocity. Since kinship is the major way in which these societies are organized, nonkin (strangers) are viewed negatively. A general model of reciprocity must recognize that the closeness of the kin tie will vary according to the type of kinship system. In so far as kinship also determines residence, kinship closeness may also translate into spatial closeness. Hence one finds generalized reciprocity within the household-kinship group, balanced reciprocity within a spatial community, and negative reciprocity with outsiders (i.e. outside the community). The kind of reciprocity reflects the moral nature of the social relationship, hence morality is not universal, but dependent on social distance. Sahlins' model thus views reciprocity as socially, morally and economically structured and \"the structure is that of kinship-tribal groups\" not a universalizing moral ethic.\n\nWith rank comes privileges. However, in traditional societies \"social inequality is more the organization of economic equality. Often, in fact, high rank is only secured or sustained by o'ercrowing generosity.\" Rank is usually generational, with elders having seniority, but still held by the bounds of close kinship. Generalized reciprocity by such elders may be a \"starting mechanism\" for more general hierarchy, by placing many in the giver's debt. This leads to the question, \"when does reciprocity give way to redistribution.\" Sahlins argues that chiefly redistribution is not different in principle and nothing but a highly organized form of kinship-rank reciprocity.\n\nDavid Graeber argues, in contrast, that balanced gift exchange and market exchange have more in common than normally assumed. Since both are balanced, the social relationship created through the sense of debt and obligation is constantly in danger of being ended by the return gift/exchange. He thinks it better to contrast\n\n\nThe alliance theory (or general theory of exchanges) is the name given to the structural method of studying kinship relations. It finds its origins in Claude Lévi-Strauss's \"Elementary Structures of Kinship\" (1949). According to Levi-Strauss, the universal prohibition of incest pushes human groups towards exogamy where certain categories of kin are forbidden to marry. The incest taboo is thus a negative prescription; without it, nothing would push men to go searching for women outside of their inner kinship circle, or vice versa. In a process akin to the division of labour which makes exchange necessary, one's daughter or sister is offered to someone outside a family circle, and starts a circle of exchange of women: in return, the giver is entitled to a woman from the other's intimate kinship group. Thus the negative prescriptions of the prohibition have positive counterparts. The idea of the alliance theory is thus of a reciprocal or a generalized exchange which founds affinity, just as economic exchange due to the division of labour resulted in organic solidarity. This global phenomena takes the form of a \"circulation of women\" which links together the various social groups in one whole: society. Lévi-Strauss emphasizes this a system of generalized exchange based on indirect reciprocity. A generalized system does not involve a direct or balanced dyadic exchange and hence presupposes an expansion of trust.\n\n"}
{"id": "8625075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8625075", "title": "Sanseki", "text": "Sanseki\n\nThe term \"Sanseki\" (三跡) or \"three [brush] traces\" is used in Japanese to refer to a group of three famous Heian period calligraphers:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35836108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35836108", "title": "Social networking pedagogy", "text": "Social networking pedagogy\n\nSocial Networking Pedagogy is a philosophy of education described by curriculum theorists Thomas Patrick Huston and Hallie DeCatherine Jones as a form of learner-driven participatory culture where the user’s experience is reciprocal, consisting of a range of input and output experiences mediated by social networking technologies. The range of individual and unique differentiated user experiences form a composite impression on the individual which functions as an epistemic form of how we come to know and experience the world and its social, cultural, political and economic realities. \n\nIn educational settings, social networking pedagogical approaches place social networking technologies at their core, thus presenting expansive opportunities for education to extend the curriculum beyond the traditional walls of educational institutions by reaching into the daily-lived experiences of individuals. The archival features and lack of temporal constraints associated with Internet technologies sustain continually changing currents that educators can connect to student-driven interests by engaging them with trending topics. Through Social Network Pedagogy, educators can develop a teaching praxis where the classroom and social space blend and individuals’ creative contributions are acknowledged for their cultural value. \n\nJones and Huston began theorizing the development of Social Networking Pedagogy during their tenure as doctoral students at the Indiana University School of Education where they were colleagues in the Department of Curriculum and Instruction. They point to the fields of cultural studies and critical pedagogy, especially the contributions of David Trend with his book Cultural Pedagogy\" Art, Education, Politics and critical theorist Henry Giroux.\n"}
{"id": "44183472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44183472", "title": "Spatial turn", "text": "Spatial turn\n\nSpatial turn is a term used to describe an intellectual movement that places emphasis on place and space in social science and the humanities. It is closely linked with quantitative studies of history, literature, cartography, and other studies of society. The movement has been influential in providing mass amounts of data for study of cultures, regions, and specific locations.\n\nAcademics such as Ernst Cassirer and Lewis Mumford helped to define a sense of \"community\" and \"commons\" in their studies, forming the first part of a \"spatial turn.\" The turn developed more comprehensively in the later twentieth century in French academic theories, such as those of Michel Foucault. \n\nTechnologies have also played an important role in \"turns.\" The introduction of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) has also been instrumental in quantifying data in the humanities for study by its place.\n"}
{"id": "25490263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25490263", "title": "Speech repetition", "text": "Speech repetition\n\nSpeech repetition is the saying by one individual of the spoken vocalizations made by another individual. This requires the ability in the person making the copy to map the sensory input they hear from the other person's vocal pronunciation into a similar motor output with their own vocal tract.\n\nSuch speech input output imitation often occurs independently of speech comprehension such as in speech shadowing when a person automatically says words heard in earphones, and the pathological condition of echolalia in which people reflexively repeat overheard words. This links to speech repetition of words being separate in the brain to speech perception. Speech repetition occurs in the dorsal speech processing stream while speech perception occurs in the ventral speech processing stream. Repetitions are often incorporated unawares by this route into spontaneous novel sentences immediately or after delay following storage in phonological memory.\n\nIn humans, the ability to map heard input vocalizations into motor output is highly developed due to this copying ability playing a critical role in a child's rapid expansion of their spoken vocabulary. In older children and adults it still remains important as it enables the continued learning of novel words and names and additional languages. Such repetition is also necessary for the propagation of language from generation to generation. It has also been suggested that the phonetic units out of which speech is made have been selected upon by the process of vocabulary expansion and vocabulary transmissions due to children preferentially copying words in terms of more easily imitated elementary units.\n\nVocal imitation happens quickly: words can be repeated within 250-300 milliseconds both in normals (during speech shadowing) and during echolalia. The imitation of speech syllables possibly happens even quicker: people begin imitating the second phone in the syllable [ao] earlier than they can identify it (out of the set [ao], [aæ] and [ai]). Indeed, \"...simply executing a shift to [o] upon detection of a second vowel in [ao] takes very little longer than does interpreting and executing it as a shadowed response\". Neurobiologically this suggests \"...that the early phases of speech analysis yield information which is directly convertible to information required for speech production\". Vocal repetition can be done immediately as in speech shadowing and echolalia. It can also be done after the pattern of pronunciation is stored in short-term memory or long-term memory. It automatically uses both auditory and where available visual information about how a word is produced.\n\nThe automatic nature of speech repetition was noted by Carl Wernicke, the late nineteenth century neurologist, who observed that \"The primary speech movements, enacted before the development of consciousness, are reflexive and mimicking in nature..\".\n\nVocal imitiation arises in development before speech comprehension and also babbling: 18-week-old infants spontaneously copy vocal expressions provided the accompanying voice matches. Imitation of vowels has been found as young as 12 weeks. It is independent of native language, language skills, word comprehension and a speaker's intelligence. Many autistic and some mentally disabled people engage in the echolalia of overheard words (often their only vocal interaction with others) without understanding what they echo. Reflex uncontrolled echoing of others words and sentences occurs in roughly half of those with Gilles de la Tourette syndrome. The ability to repeat words without comprehension also occurs in mixed transcortical aphasia where it links to the sparing of the short-term phonological store.\n\nThe ability to repeat and imitate speech sounds occurs separately to that of normal speech. Speech shadowing provides evidence of a 'privileged' input/output speech loop that is distinct to the other components of the speech system. Neurocognitive research likewise finds evidence of a direct (nonlexical) link between phonological analysis input and motor programming output.\n\nSpeech sounds can be imitatively mapped into vocal articulations in spite of vocal tract anatomy differences in size and shape due to gender, age and individual anatomical variability. Such variability is extensive making input output mapping of speech more complex than a simple mapping of vocal track movements. The shape of the mouth varies widely: dentists recognize three basic shapes of palate: trapezoid, ovoid, and triagonal; six types of malocclusion between the two jaws; nine ways teeth relate to the dental arch and a wide range of maxillary and mandible deformities. Vocal sound can also vary due to dental injury and dental caries. Other factors that do not impede the sensory motor mapping needed for vocal imitation are gross oral deformations such as hare-lips, cleft palates or amputations of the tongue tip, pipe smoking, pencil biting and teeth clinching (such as in ventriloquism). Paranasal sinuses vary between individuals 20-fold in volume, and differ in the presence and the degree of their asymmetry.\n\nVocal imitation occurs potentially in regard to a diverse range of phonetic units and types of vocalization. The world's languages use consonantal phones that differ in thirteen imitable vocal tract place of articulations (from the lips to the glottis). These phones can potentially be pronounced with eleven types of imitable manner of articulations (nasal stops to lateral clicks). Speech can be copied in regard to its social accent, intonation, pitch and individuality (as with entertainment impersonators). Speech can be articulated in ways which diverge considerably in speed, timbre, pitch, loudness and emotion. Speech further exists in different forms such as song, verse, scream and whisper. Intelligible speech can be produced with pragmatic intonation and in regional dialects and foreign accents. These aspects are readily copied: people asked to repeat speech-like words imitate not only phones but also accurately other pronunciation aspects such as fundamental frequency, schwa-syllable expression, voice spectra and lip kinematics, voice onset times, and regional accent.\n\nIn 1874 Carl Wernicke proposed that the ability to imitate speech plays a key role in language acquisition. This is now a widely researched issue in child development. A study of 17,000 one and two word utterances made by six children between 18 months to 25 months found that, depending upon the particular infant, between 5% and 45% of their words might be mimicked. These figures are minima since they concern only immediately heard words. Many words that may seem spontaneous are in fact delayed imitations heard days or weeks previously. At 13 months children who imitate new words (but not ones they already know) show a greater increase in noun vocabulary at four months and non noun vocabulary at eight months. A major predictor of vocabulary increase in both 20 months, 24 months, and older children between 4 and 8 years is their skill in repeating nonword phone sequences (a measure of mimicry and storage). This is also the case with children with Down's syndrome . The effect is larger than even age: in a study of 222 two-year-old children that had spoken vocabularies ranging between 3–601 words the ability to repeat nonwords accounted for 24% of the variance compared to 15% for age and 6% for gender (girls better than boys).\n\nImitation provides the basis for making longer sentences than children could otherwise spontaneously make on their own. Children analyze the linguistic rules, pronunciation patterns, and conversational pragmatics of speech by making monologues (often in crib talk) in which they repeat and manipulate in word play phrases and sentences previously overheard. Many proto-conversations involve children (and parents) repeating what each other has said in order to sustain social and linguistic interaction. It has been suggested that the conversion of speech sound into motor responses helps aid the vocal \"alignment of interactions\" by \"coordinating the rhythm and melody of their speech\". Repetition enables immigrant monolingual children to learn a second language by allowing them to take part in 'conversations'. Imitation related processes aids the storage of overheard words by putting them into speech based short- and long-term memory.\n\nThe ability to repeat nonwords predicts the ability to learn second-language vocabulary. A study found that adult polyglots performed better in short-term memory tasks such as repeating nonword vocalizations compared to nonpolyglots though both are otherwise similar in general intelligence, visuo-spatial short-term memory and paired-associate learning ability. Language delay in contrast links to impairments in vocal imitation.\n\nElectrical brain stimulation research upon the human brain finds that 81% of areas that show disruption of phone identification are also those in which the imitating of oral movements is disrupted and vice versa; Brain injuries in the speech areas show a 0.9 correlation between those causing impairments to the copying of oral movements and those impairing phone production and perception.\n\nSpoken words are sequences of motor movements organized around vocal tract gesture motor targets. Vocalization due to this is copied in terms of the motor goals that organize it rather than the exact movements with which it is produced. These vocal motor goals are auditory. According to James Abbs 'For speech motor actions, the individual articulatory movements would not appear to be controlled with regard to three- dimensional spatial targets, but rather with regard to their contribution to complex vocal tract goals such as resonance properties (e.g., shape, degree of constriction) and or aerodynamically significant variables'. Speech sounds also have duplicable higher-order characteristics such as rates and shape of modulations and rates and shape of frequency shifts. Such complex auditory goals (which often link—though not always—to internal vocal gestures) are detectable from the speech sound which they create.\n\nTwo cortical processing streams exist: a ventral one which maps sound onto meaning, and a dorsal one, that maps sound onto motor representations. The dorsal stream projects from the posterior Sylvian fissure at the temporoparietal junction, onto frontal motor areas, and is not normally involved in speech perception. \nCarl Wernicke identified a pathway between the left posterior superior temporal sulcus (a cerebral cortex region sometimes called the Wernicke's area) as a centre of the sound \"images\" of speech and its syllables that connected through the arcuate fasciculus with part of the inferior frontal gyrus (sometimes called the Broca's area) responsible for their articulation. This pathway is now broadly identified as the dorsal speech pathway, one of the two pathways (together with the ventral pathway) that process speech. The posterior superior temporal gyrus is specialized for the transient representation of the phonetic sequences used for vocal repetition. Part of the auditory cortex also can represent aspects of speech such as its consonantal features.\n\nMirror neurons have been identified that both process the perception and production of motor movements. This is done not in terms of their exact motor performance but an inference of the intended motor goals with which it is organized. Mirror neurons that both perceive and produce the motor movements of speech have been identified. According to the motor theory of speech imitation such speech mirror neurons in infants have selected for motor goals with vocal track gestures that are easy to imitate and this has shaped the nature of the phonetic units out of which spoken words are constructed. Speech is mirrored constantly into its articulations since speakers cannot know in advance that a word is unfamiliar and in need of repetition—which is only learnt after the opportunity to map it into articulations has gone. Thus, speakers if they are to incorporate unfamiliar words into their spoken vocabulary\nmust by default map all spoken input. The motor theory of speech imitation unlike that of motor theory of speech perception does not link mirror neurons with speech perception.\n\nHuman language is a vocabulary-based form of communication that unlike that of other animals employs tens of thousands of lexicals and names. This requires that young humans new to language have the ability to quickly learn both the pronunciations and use of many thousands of words. If children could not repeat speech without problems, human language could not exist. This makes the evolution of the capacity of speech repetition a critical innovation needed for the origin of speech The motor theory of speech imitation argues that this need for speech to be imitable not speech perception nor speech production moreover underlies the evolved nature of the vowel and consonant units of phonetics.\n\nWords in sign languages, unlike those in spoken ones, are made not of sequential units but of spatial configurations of subword unit arrangements, the spatial analogue of the sonic-chronological morphemes of spoken language. These words, like spoken ones, are learnt by imitation. Indeed, rare cases of compulsive sign-language echolalia exist in otherwise language-deficient deaf autistic individuals born into signing families. At least some cortical areas neurobiologically active during both sign and vocal speech, such as the auditory cortex, are associated with the act of imitation.\n\nBirds learn their songs from those made by other birds. In several examples, birds show highly developed repetition abilities: the Sri Lankan Greater racket-tailed drongo (\"Dicrurus paradiseus\") copies the calls of predators and the alarm signals of other birds Albert's lyrebird (\"Menura alberti\") can accurately imitate the satin bowerbird (\"Ptilonorhynchus violaceus\"),\n\nResearch upon avian vocal motor neurons finds that they perceive their song as a series of articulatory gestures as in humans. Birds that can imitate humans, such as the Indian hill myna (Gracula religiosa), imitate human speech by mimicking the various speech formants, created by changing the shape of the human vocal tract, with different vibration frequencies of its internal tympaniform membrane. Indian hill mynahs also imitate such phonetic characteristics as voicing, fundamental frequencies, formant transitions, nasalization, and timing, through their vocal movements are made in a different way from those of the human vocal apparatus.\n\n\nApes taught language show an ability to imitate language signs with chimpanzees such as Washoe who was able to learn with his arms a vocabulary of 250 American Sign Language gestures. However, such human trained apes show no ability to imitate human speech vocalizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "11587822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11587822", "title": "Tarka sastra", "text": "Tarka sastra\n\nTarka Sastra is a science of dialectics, logic and reasoning, and art of debate that analyzes the nature and source of knowledge and its validity. Sastra in Sanskrit means that which gives teaching, instruction or command. Tarka means debate or an argument. According to one reckoning, there are six sastras. Vyakarana is one of them. Four of the sastras are particularly important Vyakarana, Mimamsa, Tarka, and Vedanta.\n\nThe sastra has concepts called \"poorva paksha\" and \"apara paksha\". When one raises a point (poorva paksha) the other one criticizes it (apara paksha). Then the debate starts. Each one tries to support his point of view by getting various references. The meaning of the word tarka also is specific, in that it does not imply a pure logical analysis but a complex activity of discourse guided by strict definitions and goals so as to have. This concept is referred in Bhagawad Gita as \"vAdaH pravadatAmasmi\" (vibhooti yOga).\n\nTarkasamgraha which is the foundational text of logic and discourse was al the text followed as a Guidelines for discourses. Tarka may be translated as \"hypothetical argument.\" Tarka is the process of questioning and cross-questioning that leads to a particular conclusion. It is a form of supposition that can be used as an aid to the attainment of valid knowledge.\n\nThere are several scholars well-versed in Tarka Sastras – Adi Shankara (788-820 CE), Ramanujacharya,Madhwacharya, Uddyotkar (Nyayavartik, 6th-7th century), Vācaspati Miśra (Tatparyatika, 9th century), Udayanacharya (Tatparyaparishuddhi, 10th century), Jayanta Bhatta (Nyayamanjari, 9th century), Vishwanath (Nyayasutravrtti, 17th century), and Radhamohan Goswami (Nyayasutravivaran, 18th century), Kumaran Asan. Paruthiyur Krishna Sastri and Sengalipuram Anantarama Dikshitar were specialized in Vyakarana, Mimamsa and Tarka Sastra. Also, Krishna Sastri excelled all those scholars of his contemporary period in Tarka Sastra.\n\nJSTOR:\n\nWorldcat:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32322033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32322033", "title": "The Chariton Collector", "text": "The Chariton Collector\n\nThe Chariton Collector was a local history and folklore magazine published biannually between 1980 and 1989 by students at Kirksville High School, Kirksville, Missouri. The magazine took its name from the Chariton River, which flows through northeast Missouri.\n\nIn Fall of 1979 a new class, Local History, was offered as an elective at Kirksville High School under the direction of Mrs. Carol Trowbridge. Instead of standard textbook instruction Mrs. Trowbridge envisioned an interactive learning experience where students would collect oral histories from the people of Adair County and the larger northeast Missouri area. This was inspired by the success of the \"Foxfire\" books and magazines along with an increased interest in local history brought about by the U.S. Bicentennial. In the summer of 1980, realizing that the stories written and interviews conducted during the class year should be preserved and published for the general public to enjoy, Mrs. Trowbridge and student volunteers compiled and edited the first issue of \"The Chariton Collector\", which was released in Fall, 1980.\n\nFrom the first issue the general public greeted \"The Chariton Collector\" with eagerness, all of the initial printing of 1,250 magazines selling out within a few weeks time. A change in leadership took place in Fall, 1982 as Mrs. Mary Grossnickle took over the renamed \"Local and State History\" class from the departing Mrs. Trowbridge. Operated on a non-profit basis, any proceeds from sales of \"Collector\" issues were used to fund the next issues printing as well as purchase supplies needed to fulfill the classes primary mission of recording and cataloging oral histories. Over a ten-year period a total of eighteen issues, comprising over 150 stories were published. Little-known or forgotten tales from the whimsical to the gruesome found their way into the pages of the \"Collector\". A typical issue might include the famous, like author Lester Dent and circus impresario William Preston Hall, or the unknown like local basket weavers and former residents of a coal mining camp.\n\nIn the late 1980s the Kirksville R-III school district was facing substantial budget shortfalls, necessitating cutbacks in various classes, programs, and extracurricular activities. Despite the fact that \"The Chariton Collector\" was largely self-funded, the class responsible for its publication, now named \"Missouri History\", was removed from the elective offerings and the final issue of the \"Collector\" published in Spring, 1989. Thanks to the internet and the work of Ms. Katherine Goodwin, a student at Truman State University, \"The Chariton Collector\" experienced a rebirth of sorts in 2006. All stories and photographs from each of the eighteen issues were scanned and placed online for free use by the general public via the website of Truman State's Pickler Memorial Library. Additionally, Kirksville High School donated interview tapes, transcripts, and photographs associated with \"The Chariton Collector\" to Pickler Libraries' Special Collections department. Rare copies of the \"Collector\" can sometimes be found for sale online or at public auctions, but always for many times the original cover price.\n\n"}
{"id": "8074243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8074243", "title": "The Word and the World", "text": "The Word and the World\n\nThe Word and the World Project of the Stanford University's Learning Lab developed a large lecture, Introduction to Humanities (IHUM) course adopting pedagogical strategies and technologies designed to enhance learning. The course was given in 1997 and 1998. The goal of the curriculum innovations was to transform a large lecture course into a learning community. Professors: Larry Friedlander (English), Haun Saussy (East Asian Studies), and Tim Lenior (History); teaching fellows: Carlos Seligo and Margo Denman and lab staff: Charles Kerns and George Toye worked together to develop a holistic curriculum mediated through a website center for the course.\n\nThis course was developed in response to the shortcomings of earlier large lecture courses. This type of course typically rated poorly in student evaluations and often led students to behaviors that inhibited learning: students skipped lectures and did not read assignments or prepare for meetings; students crammed for exams and waited until the last minute to write papers with a focus on grades and not learning. They were passive participants in a system that did not foster active engagement. Often there was a lack of continuity between lecture and section. Students had widely varying levels of knowledge about the texts. Faculty had very little information about the students’ knowledge as the course proceeded and the students had little feedback on their performance.\n\nThe curriculum was based on the reading of five texts, Genesis, Blade Runner, Hamlet, Descartes' Meditations, from the viewpoint of the scholar of history, literature, or philosophy. The course emphasized methods of reading and critical and interpretive approaches, rather than content.\nThis first year course met weekly in two one-hour lectures for all 100 students and two one-hour discussion section meetings of 15 students each. Students and instructors engaged in web activities including structured reading assignments and asynchronous discussion forums. The web site provided rich resources to supplement the texts. Students worked cross-section group projects and on panel discussions. There was no final exam for the course; a fair was held in which students exhibited their project web sites.\n\nA site that had a calendar, announcements, faculty bios, the asynchronous discussion forums, assignments, and student projects\nThe course web site linked rich resources supporting each text to engage students from novices to those well-informed on the texts. It included explanatory information, annotations, cultural information, critical analyses, visual interpretations of the texts including paintings, video recordings of multiple performances, and different cuts of the films.\nThe web site also had a series of on-line assignments that structured the learners’ reading activities. These on-line activities drew upon the students’ previous knowledge and guided them as they approached each text. In the first year of the project in 1997 students responses were recorded in a personal on-line, shareable portfolio, but after noting little use of the portfolio, the design was changed in the second iteration of the course in 1998 so that assignments were displayed directly in the discussion Forum.\n\nThe Forum had special features to support large lecture courses such as photographs of the posting student next to his/her message, organization into sections, and notification systems to alert faculty and groups to special postings. The forum was used to discuss lectures; it was where assignments were posted (they were not sent to an instructor); and was used for communication in forming project groups.The Forum was enhanced in the second year to allow direct linkage to assignments, faculty-controlled subject organization, and threaded discussion.\n\nThe students in the course completed projects in the second half of the course that demonstrated their understanding of the texts. Projects were constructed in many media the first year but were limited to posters and web sites in the second. Faculty met often with students helping them to plan their projects. All projects from the previous year were available as models when the course was repeated.\n\nThe project employed several modes of project and technology evaluation: questionnaires, interviews, video interaction analysis, peer review, and ethnographic studies. Findings:\n\n-The Forum provided a venue for discussion by quiet students and accommodated different learning styles.\n-The Forum and assignments helped students prepare for face-to-face meetings by discussing basic issues before class. \n-It added to workload of teaching staff.\n-There was a positive correlation between scores on papers and number of Forum postings.\n\n"}
{"id": "31876747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31876747", "title": "The law of conservation of misery", "text": "The law of conservation of misery\n\nThe Law of Conservation of Misery is a folk wisdom that states that the total amount of misery in a system is constant.\n\nThis implies that when you try to decrease the misery in one aspect of a system, you will increase the misery in some of the other aspects. In other words, for each problem you solve, at least one new problem is created, or as many new problems that together equal the trouble caused by the original problem. This law has particular significance in the realm of fantasy football, where one person's misery appears to correlate inversely with another person's happiness. \n"}
{"id": "29789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29789", "title": "Tourism", "text": "Tourism\n\nTourism is travel for pleasure or business; also the theory and practice of touring, the business of attracting, accommodating, and entertaining tourists, and the business of operating tours. Tourism may be international, or within the traveller's country. The World Tourism Organization defines tourism more generally, in terms which go \"beyond the common perception of tourism as being limited to holiday activity only\", as people \"traveling to and staying in places outside their usual environment for not more than one consecutive year for leisure and not less than 24 hours, business and other purposes\".\n\nTourism can be domestic or international, and international tourism has both incoming and outgoing implications on a country's balance of payments. Today, tourism is a major source of income for many countries, and affects the economy of both the source and host countries, in some cases being of vital importance.\n\nTourism suffered as a result of a strong economic slowdown of the late-2000s recession, between the second half of 2008 and the end of 2009, and the outbreak of the H1N1 influenza virus, but slowly recovered. International tourism receipts (the travel item in the balance of payments) grew to trillion ( billion) in 2011, corresponding to an increase in real terms of 3.8% from 2010. International tourist arrivals surpassed the milestone of 1 billion tourists globally for the first time in 2012, emerging markets such as China, Russia, and Brazil had significantly increased their spending over the previous decade. The ITB Berlin is the world's leading tourism trade fair. Global tourism accounts for ca. 8% of global greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nThe word \"tourist\" was used in 1772 and \"tourism\" in 1811. It is formed from the word \"tour\", which is derived from Old English \"turian\", from Old French \"torner\", from Latin \"tornare\"; 'to turn on a lathe,' which is itself from Ancient Greek \"tornos\" (τόρνος); 'lathe'.\n\nTourism has become an important, even vital, source of income for many regions and even entire countries. The \"Manila Declaration on World Tourism of 1980\" recognized its importance as \"an activity essential to the life of nations because of its direct effects on the social, cultural, educational, and economic sectors of national societies and on their international relations.\"\n\nTourism brings large amounts of income into a local economy in the form of payment for goods and services needed by tourists, accounting for 30% of the world's trade in services, and for 6% of overall exports of goods and services. It also generates opportunities for employment in the service sector of the economy associated with tourism.\n\nThe hospitality industries which benefit from tourism include transportation services (such as airlines, cruise ships, trains and taxicabs); hospitality services (such as accommodations, including hotels and resorts); and entertainment venues (such as amusement parks, restaurants, casinos, shopping malls, music venues, and theaters). This is in addition to goods bought by tourists, including souvenirs.\n\nOn the flip-side, tourism can degrade people and sour relationships between host and guest.\n\nIn 1936, the League of Nations defined a \"foreign tourist\" as \"someone traveling abroad for at least twenty-four hours\". Its successor, the United Nations, amended this definition in 1945, by including a maximum stay of six months.\n\nIn 1941, Hunziker and Kraft defined tourism as \"the sum of the phenomena and relationships arising from the travel and stay of non-residents, insofar as they do not lead to permanent residence and are not connected with any earning activity.\" In 1976, the Tourism Society of England's definition was: \"Tourism is the temporary, short-term movement of people to destinations outside the places where they normally live and work and their activities during the stay at each destination. It includes movements for all purposes.\" In 1981, the International Association of Scientific Experts in Tourism defined tourism in terms of particular activities chosen and undertaken outside the home.\n\nIn 1994, the United Nations identified three forms of tourism in its \"Recommendations on Tourism Statistics\":\n\nThe terms \"tourism\" and \"travel\" are sometimes used interchangeably. In this context, travel has a similar definition to tourism, but implies a more purposeful journey. The terms \"tourism\" and \"tourist\" are sometimes used pejoratively, to imply a shallow interest in the cultures or locations visited. By contrast, \"traveler\" is often used as a sign of distinction. The sociology of tourism has studied the cultural values underpinning these distinctions and their implications for class relations.\n\nInternational tourist arrivals reached 1.035 billion in 2012, up from over 996 million in 2011, and 952 million in 2010. In 2011 and 2012, international travel demand continued to recover from the losses resulting from the late-2000s recession, where tourism suffered a strong slowdown from the second half of 2008 through the end of 2009. After a 5% increase in the first half of 2008, growth in international tourist arrivals moved into negative territory in the second half of 2008, and ended up only 2% for the year, compared to a 7% increase in 2007. The negative trend intensified during 2009, exacerbated in some countries due to the outbreak of the H1N1 influenza virus, resulting in a worldwide decline of 4.2% in 2009 to 880 million international tourists arrivals, and a 5.7% decline in international tourism receipts.\n\nThe World Tourism Organization reports the following ten destinations as the most visited in terms of the number of international travelers in 2017.\n\nInternational tourism receipts grew to US$1,260 billion in 2015, corresponding to an increase in real terms of 4.4% from 2014. The World Tourism Organization reports the following entities as the top ten tourism earners for the year 2015:\n\nThe World Tourism Organization reports the following countries as the ten biggest spenders on international tourism for the year 2015.\n\nBased upon air traffic, the MasterCard Global Destination Cities Index rates the following as the world's ten most popular cities for international tourism.\n\nMasterCard rates the following cities as the world's ten biggest earners from international tourism in 2015.\n\nEuromonitor International rated these the world's cities most visited by international tourists in January 2015:\n\nTravel outside a person's local area for leisure was largely confined to wealthy classes, who at times traveled to distant parts of the world, to see great buildings and works of art, learn new languages, experience new cultures, and to taste different cuisines. As early as Shulgi, however, kings praised themselves for protecting roads and building way stations for travelers. Travelling for pleasure can be seen in Egypt as early on as 1500 B.C. During the Roman Republic, spas and coastal resorts such as Baiae were popular among the rich. Pausanias wrote his \"Description of Greece\" in the 2nd century AD. In ancient China, nobles sometimes made a point of visiting Mount Tai and, on occasion, all five Sacred Mountains.\n\nBy the Middle Ages, Christianity and Buddhism had traditions of pilgrimage. Chaucer's Canterbury Tales and Wu Cheng'en's \"Journey to the West\" remain classics of English and Chinese literature.\n\nThe 10th- to 13th-century Song dynasty also saw secular travel writers such as Su Shi (11th century) and Fan Chengda (12th century) become popular in China. Under the Ming, Xu Xiake continued the practice. In medieval Italy, Francesco Petrarch also wrote an allegorical account of his 1336 ascent of Mount Ventoux that praised the act of traveling and criticized \"frigida incuriositas\" (\"cold lack of curiosity\"). The Burgundian poet later composed his own horrified recollections of a 1430 trip through the Jura Mountains.\n\nModern tourism can be traced to what was known as the Grand Tour, which was a traditional trip around Europe (especially Germany and Italy), undertaken by mainly upper-class European young men of means, mainly from Western and Northern European countries. In 1624, young Prince of Poland, Ladislaus Sigismund Vasa, the eldest son and heir of Sigismund III, embarked for a journey across Europe, as was in custom among Polish nobility. He travelled through territories of today's Germany, Belgium, Netherlands, where he admired the Siege of Breda by Spanish forces, France, Switzerland to Italy, Austria, and the Czech Republic. It was an educational journey and one of the outcomes was introduction of Italian opera in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nThe custom flourished from about 1660 until the advent of large-scale rail transit in the 1840s, and generally followed a standard itinerary. It was an educational opportunity and rite of passage. Though primarily associated with the British nobility and wealthy landed gentry, similar trips were made by wealthy young men of Protestant Northern European nations on the Continent, and from the second half of the 18th century some South American, US, and other overseas youth joined in. The tradition was extended to include more of the middle class after rail and steamship travel made the journey easier, and Thomas Cook made the \"Cook's Tour\" a byword.\n\nThe Grand Tour became a real status symbol for upper class students in the 18th and 19th centuries. In this period, Johann Joachim Winckelmann's theories about the supremacy of classic culture became very popular and appreciated in the European academic world. Artists, writers and travellers (such as Goethe) affirmed the supremacy of classic art of which Italy, France and Greece provide excellent examples. For these reasons, the Grand Tour's main destinations were to those centres, where upper-class students could find rare examples of classic art and history.\n\n\"The New York Times\" recently described the Grand Tour in this way:\n\nThe primary value of the Grand Tour, it was believed, laid in the exposure both to the cultural legacy of classical antiquity and the Renaissance, and to the aristocratic and fashionably polite society of the European continent.\n\nLeisure travel was associated with the Industrial Revolution in the United Kingdomthe first European country to promote leisure time to the increasing industrial population. Initially, this applied to the owners of the machinery of production, the economic oligarchy, factory owners and traders. These comprised the new middle class. Cox & Kings was the first official travel company to be formed in 1758.\n\nThe British origin of this new industry is reflected in many place names. In Nice, France, one of the first and best-established holiday resorts on the French Riviera, the long esplanade along the seafront is known to this day as the \"Promenade des Anglais\"; in many other historic resorts in continental Europe, old, well-established palace hotels have names like the \"Hotel Bristol\", \"Hotel Carlton\", or \"Hotel Majestic\"reflecting the dominance of English customers.\n\nA pioneer of the travel agency business, Thomas Cook's idea to offer excursions came to him while waiting for the stagecoach on the London Road at Kibworth. With the opening of the extended Midland Counties Railway, he arranged to take a group of 540 temperance campaigners from Leicester Campbell Street station to a rally in Loughborough, away. On 5 July 1841, Thomas Cook arranged for the rail company to charge one shilling per person; this included rail tickets and food for the journey. Cook was paid a share of the fares charged to the passengers, as the railway tickets, being legal contracts between company and passenger, could not have been issued at his own price. This was the first privately chartered excursion train to be advertised to the general public; Cook himself acknowledged that there had been previous, unadvertised, private excursion trains. During the following three summers he planned and conducted outings for temperance societies and Sunday school children. In 1844 the Midland Counties Railway Company agreed to make a permanent arrangement with him, provided he found the passengers. This success led him to start his own business running rail excursions for pleasure, taking a percentage of the railway fares.\n\nIn 1855, he planned his first excursion abroad, when he took a group from Leicester to Calais to coincide with the Paris Exhibition. The following year he started his \"grand circular tours\" of Europe. During the 1860s he took parties to Switzerland, Italy, Egypt and the United States. Cook established \"inclusive independent travel\", whereby the traveller went independently but his agency charged for travel, food and accommodation for a fixed period over any chosen route. Such was his success that the Scottish railway companies withdrew their support between 1862 and 1863 to try the excursion business for themselves.\n\nCruising is a popular form of water tourism.\nLeisure cruise ships were introduced by the \"Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company\" (P&O) in 1844, sailing from Southampton to destinations such as Gibraltar, Malta and Athens. In 1891, German businessman Albert Ballin sailed the ship \"Augusta Victoria\" from Hamburg into the Mediterranean Sea. June 29, 1900 saw the launching of the first purpose-built cruise ship was \"Prinzessin Victoria Luise\", built in Hamburg for the Hamburg America Line.\n\nMany leisure-oriented tourists travel to seaside resorts on their nearest coast or further afield. Coastal areas in the tropics are popular in both summer and winter.\n\nAcademics have defined mass tourism as travel by groups on pre-scheduled tours, usually under the organization of tourism professionals. This form of tourism developed during the second half of the 19th century in the United Kingdom and was pioneered by Thomas Cook. Cook took advantage of Europe's rapidly expanding railway network and established a company that offered affordable day trip excursions to the masses, in addition to longer holidays to Continental Europe, India, Asia and the Western Hemisphere which attracted wealthier customers. By the 1890s over 20,000 tourists per year used Thomas Cook & Son.\n\nThe relationship between tourism companies, transportation operators and hotels is a central feature of mass tourism. Cook was able to offer prices that were below the publicly advertised price because his company purchased large numbers of tickets from railroads. One contemporary form of mass tourism, package tourism, still incorporates the partnership between these three groups.\n\nTravel developed during the early 20th century and was facilitated by the development of the automobiles and later by airplanes.\nImprovements in transport allowed many people to travel quickly to places of leisure interest, so that more people could begin to enjoy the benefits of leisure time.\n\nIn Continental Europe, early seaside resorts included: Heiligendamm, founded in 1793 at the Baltic Sea, being the first seaside resort; Ostend, popularised by the people of Brussels; Boulogne-sur-Mer and Deauville for the Parisians; Taormina in Sicily. In the United States, the first seaside resorts in the European style were at Atlantic City, New Jersey and Long Island, New York.\n\nBy the mid-20th century the Mediterranean Coast became the principal mass tourism destination. The 1960s and 1970s saw mass tourism play a major role in the Spanish economic \"miracle\".\n\nNiche tourism refers to the numerous specialty forms of tourism that have emerged over the years, each with its own adjective. Many of these terms have come into common use by the tourism industry and academics. Others are emerging concepts that may or may not gain popular usage. Examples of the more common niche tourism markets are:\n\nOther terms used for niche or specialty travel forms include the term \"destination\" in the descriptions, such as destination weddings, and terms such as location vacation.\n\nSt. Moritz, Switzerland became the cradle of the developing winter tourism in the 1860s: hotel manager Johannes Badrutt invited some summer guests from England to return in the winter to see the snowy landscape, thereby inaugurating a popular trend. It was, however, only in the 1970s when winter tourism took over the lead from summer tourism in many of the Swiss ski resorts. Even in winter, up to one third of all guests (depending on the location) consist of non-skiers.\n\nMajor ski resorts are located mostly in the various European countries (e.g. Andorra, Austria, Bulgaria, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Czech Republic, Cyprus, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Norway, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Sweden, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey), Canada, the United States (e.g. Montana, Utah, Colorado, California, Wyoming, Vermont, New Hampshire, New York) Argentina, New Zealand, Japan, South Korea, Chile, and Lebanon.\n\nSome places that already have ski opportunities can also have glaciers in the area. Some of theses places already offer a glacier hike to see the glaciers in another way that they can. One of these places are New Zealand. New Zealand has several glaciers that are available for this experience. The Franz Josef is one of these glaciers that tourism is available. The only way to get to the glacier is via a helicopter. Before helicopters were invented the way that people were able to get up to the glacier was by hiking up to the glacier. The companies have to make sure that people are safe from when they are on the glacier. This would fall under environmental tourism as well as winter tourism.\n\nThere has been an up-trend in tourism over the last few decades, especially in Europe, where international travel for short breaks is common. Tourists have a wide range of budgets and tastes, and a wide variety of resorts and hotels have developed to cater for them. For example, some people prefer simple beach vacations, while others want more specialised holidays, quieter resorts, family-oriented holidays, or niche market-targeted destination hotels.\n\nThe developments in air transport infrastructure, such as jumbo jets, low-cost airlines, and more accessible airports have made many types of tourism more affordable. The WHO estimated in 2009 that there are around half a million people on board aircraft at any given time. There have also been changes in lifestyle, for example some retirement-age people sustain year round tourism. This is facilitated by internet sales of tourist services. Some sites have now started to offer dynamic packaging, in which an inclusive price is quoted for a tailor-made package requested by the customer upon impulse.\n\nThere have been a few setbacks in tourism, such as the September 11 attacks and terrorist threats to tourist destinations, such as in Bali and several European cities. Also, on 26 December 2004, a tsunami, caused by the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, hit the Asian countries on the Indian Ocean, including the Maldives. Thousands of lives were lost including many tourists. This, together with the vast clean-up operations, stopped or severely hampered tourism in the area for a time.\n\nIndividual low-price or even zero-price overnight stays have become more popular in the 2000s, especially with a strong growth in the hostel market and services like CouchSurfing and airbnb being established. There has also been examples of jurisdictions wherein a significant portion of GDP is being spent on altering the primary sources of revenue towards tourism, as has occurred for instance in Dubai.\n\n\"Sustainable tourism is envisaged as leading to management of all resources in such a way that economic, social and aesthetic needs can be fulfilled while maintaining cultural integrity, essential ecological processes, biological diversity and life support systems.\" (World Tourism Organization)\n\nSustainable development implies \"meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.\" (World Commission on Environment and Development, 1987)\n\nAn important part of sustainable tourism is something known as the three pillars of sustainability which include Economic, Environmental/Ecological and Socio-cultural. For a destination to be truly sustainable it must have an equal balance which the three pillars. Economic is in relation to money and making and maintaining a certain amount of cash. Environmental is of course in relation to the environment it looks into whether the local ecosystems can support the influx of visitors and also how these visitors effect the ecosystem. Then finally Socio-cultural is about how well the culture of this area is able to maintain its traditions with the incoming tourists. These pillars are important because they are the true key to being sustainable when discussing tourism.\n\nSustainable tourism can be seen as having regard to ecological and social-cultural carrying capacities and includes involving the community of the destination in tourism development planning (that was done e.g. in Fruška Gora National Park in Serbia). It also involves integrating tourism to match current economic and growth policies so as to mitigate some of the negative economic and social impacts of 'mass tourism'. Murphy (1985) advocates the use of an 'ecological approach', to consider both 'plants' and 'people' when implementing the sustainable tourism development process. This is in contrast to the 'boosterism' and 'economic' approaches to tourism planning, neither of which consider the detrimental ecological or sociological impacts of tourism development to a destination.\n\nHowever, Butler questions the exposition of the term 'sustainable' in the context of tourism, citing its ambiguity and stating that \"the emerging sustainable development philosophy of the 1990s can be viewed as an extension of the broader realization that a preoccupation with economic growth without regard to its social and environmental consequences is self-defeating in the long term.\" Thus 'sustainable tourism development' is seldom considered as an autonomous function of economic regeneration as separate from general economic growth.\n\nEcotourism, also known as ecological tourism, is responsible travel to fragile, pristine, and usually protected areas that strives to be low-impact and (often) small-scale. It helps educate the traveler; provides funds for conservation; directly benefits the economic development and political empowerment of local communities; and fosters respect for different cultures and for human rights.\"Take only memories and leave only footprints\" is a very common slogan in protected areas. Tourist destinations are shifting to low carbon emissions following the trend of visitors more focused in being environmentally responsible adopting a sustainable behavior.\n\nThe movie tourism is a form of tourism for those who visit the film and television locations, ie the places used for filming a film or a television series. In addition to organized tours (and not) to film locations lately has widened the tendency to a type of tourism, linked to the cinema, which relates to events, conventions and more like the case of the Dizionario del Turismo Cinematografico.\n\nThe Dizionario del Turismo Cinematografico is an artistic costume movement originally born as a journalistic column on various online and paper publications officially in 2012 (with a genesis formed in the previous decade) but, in the following years, it has become a real costume fashion popularized in sites, associations, institutions, municipal administrations, political parties, movements and television listings all over the world. It also includes Museums and Sports Groups linked to its brand. The purpose of the work is varied: from the redevelopment of territorial areas thanks to the artistic interest raised to be film and fiction locations (Movie tourism) to promote events linked to the Cinema as film anniversaries, festivals, parties to theme (Toga Party, Monster Party, Cosplay Party, Hollywood Party, Pajamas Party, etc ...), manifestations born in films or that the cinema has helped to divulge (though already existing) as, for example, the Demolition Derby, village festivals disseminated by the Cinema (such as those appearing in the Mondo Cane film series, etc ...). We wanted to differentiate from Movie Tourism (a fashion that has existed for several decades) to be more varied and not limited to tourism (that is a part of the Dizionario del Turismo Cinematografico).\nIn the mid-2000s, the student of video advertising and journalistic communications at the Turin branch of the Fellini Institute Davide Lingua (called Dave Lingua), obsessed with customary phenomena, has in mind to create a totally new object to redevelop areas territories hit by the crisis but fun and that leads to fashion accessible to all. This is the genesis for the creation of the Dizionario del Turismo Cinematografico. A few years later (between 2010, the beginning of the collaboration, and 2012) creates with this name a column (which initially deals with Cine tourism, Cinema Museums and Costume Party with a cinematic theme) within the site (in that period related to the homonymous paper magazine) of the Milan group Mondadori filmtv.it which soon became the most popular of the magazine with a myriad of collaborators. In the following period the Dizionario del Turismo Cinematografico appears as a column in various newspapers and magazines (the Netweek group, La Voce, is mentioned in La Stampa and many other newspapers) and officially appears as a cultural movement that gives full freedom to all to join simply using the Dizionario del Turismo Cinematografico (respecting however the topics of interest of the movement) coming to create totally independent sections (but always within legally registered bodies or associations), with their own statutes and directives but with only provided that the official founder (helped at the beginning by the first members) Davide Lingua is recognized as Permanent Director for life (in fact director and not president because he wants to underline the journalistic origin of the project).\n\nFrom its birth until today the Dizionario del Turismo Cinematografico is a worldwide journalistic column, television broadcasting, has sections in many associations, institutions that collaborate with municipal administrations, has dealt with the official celebrations of film shooting anniversaries (for example Salasco of the film Bitter Rice), appears in the credits of many films for the collaboration given, organizes communication courses, cultural and sporting events, etc ...\n\nVolunteer tourism (or voluntourism) is growing as a largely Western phenomenon, with volunteers travelling to aid those less fortunate than themselves in order to counter global inequalities. Wearing (2001) defines volunteer tourism as applying “to those tourists who, for various reasons, volunteer in an organised way to undertake holidays that might involve aiding or alleviating the material poverty of some groups in society”. VSO was founded in the UK in 1958 and the US Peace Corps was subsequently founded in 1960. These were the first large scale voluntary sending organisations, initially arising to modernise less economically developed countries, which it was hoped would curb the influence of communism.\n\nThis form of tourism is largely praised for its more sustainable approach to travel, with tourists attempting to assimilate into local cultures, and avoiding the criticisms of consumptive and exploitative mass tourism. However, increasingly voluntourism is being criticised by scholars who suggest it may have negative effects as it begins to undermine local labour, and force unwilling host communities to adopt Western initiatives, while host communities without a strong heritage fail to retain volunteers who become dissatisfied with experiences and volunteer shortages persist. Increasingly organisations such as VSO have been concerned with community-centric volunteer programmes where power to control the future of the community is in the hands of local people.\n\nPro-poor tourism, which seeks to help the poorest people in developing countries, has been receiving increasing attention by those involved in development; the issue has been addressed through small-scale projects in local communities and through attempts by Ministries of Tourism to attract large numbers of tourists. Research by the Overseas Development Institute suggests that neither is the best way to encourage tourists' money to reach the poorest as only 25% or less (far less in some cases) ever reaches the poor; successful examples of money reaching the poor include mountain-climbing in Tanzania and cultural tourism in Luang Prabang, Laos. There is also the possibility of pro-poor tourism principles being adopted in centre sites of regeneration in the developed world.\n\nRecession tourism is a travel trend which evolved by way of the world economic crisis. Recession tourism is defined by low-cost and high-value experiences taking place of once-popular generic retreats. Various recession tourism hotspots have seen business boom during the recession thanks to comparatively low costs of living and a slow world job market suggesting travelers are elongating trips where their money travels further. This concept is not widely used in tourism research. It is related to the short-lived phenomenon that is more widely known as staycation.\n\nWhen there is a significant price difference between countries for a given medical procedure, particularly in Southeast Asia, India, Eastern Europe, Cuba and Canada where there are different regulatory regimes, in relation to particular medical procedures (e.g. dentistry), traveling to take advantage of the price or regulatory differences is often referred to as \"medical tourism\".\n\nEducational tourism is developed because of the growing popularity of teaching and learning of knowledge and the enhancing of technical competency outside of classroom environment. In educational tourism, the main focus of the tour or leisure activity includes visiting another country to learn about the culture, study tours, or to work and apply skills learned inside the classroom in a different environment, such as in the International Practicum Training Program.\n\nThis type of tourism is focused tourists coming into a region to either participate in an event or to see an organized event put on by the city/region. This type of tourism can also fall under sustainable tourism as well and companies that create a sustainable event to attend open up a chance to not only the consumer but their workers to learn and develop from the experience. Creating a sustainable atmosphere it creates a chance to inform and encourage sustainable practices. An example of event tourism would be the music festival South by Southwest that is hosted in Austin, Texas annually. This is a perfect example because very year people from all over the world flock to this one city for one week to sit in on technology talks and see a whole city of bands perform. These people are being drawn here to experience something that they are not able to experience in their hometown which is exactly what event tourism is about.\n\nCreative tourism has existed as a form of cultural tourism, since the early beginnings of tourism itself. Its European roots date back to the time of the Grand Tour, which saw the sons of aristocratic families traveling for the purpose of mostly interactive, educational experiences. More recently, creative tourism has been given its own name by Crispin Raymond and Greg Richards, who as members of the Association for Tourism and Leisure Education (ATLAS), have directed a number of projects for the European Commission, including cultural and crafts tourism, known as sustainable tourism. They have defined \"creative tourism\" as tourism related to the active participation of travellers in the culture of the host community, through interactive workshops and informal learning experiences.\n\nMeanwhile, the concept of creative tourism has been picked up by high-profile organizations such as UNESCO, who through the Creative Cities Network, have endorsed creative tourism as an engaged, authentic experience that promotes an active understanding of the specific cultural features of a place.\nMore recently, creative tourism has gained popularity as a form of cultural tourism, drawing on active participation by travelers in the culture of the host communities they visit. Several countries offer examples of this type of tourism development, including the United Kingdom, Austria, France, the Bahamas, Jamaica, Spain, Italy, New Zealand and South Korea.\n\nThe growing interest of tourists in this new way to discover a culture regards particularly the operators and branding managers, attentive to the possibility of attracting a quality tourism, highlighting the intangible heritage (craft workshops, cooking classes, etc.) and optimizing the use of existing infrastructure (for example, through the rent of halls and auditorium).\n\nExperiential travel (or \"immersion travel\") is one of the major market trends in the modern tourism industry. It is an approach to travelling which focuses on experiencing a country, city or particular place by connecting to its history, people, food and culture.\n\nThe term “Experiential travel” is already mentioned in publications from 1985 – however it was discovered as a meaningful market trend much later.\n\nOne emerging area of special interest has been identified by Lennon and Foley (2000) as \"dark\" tourism. This type of tourism involves visits to \"dark\" sites, such as battlegrounds, scenes of horrific crimes or acts of genocide, for example concentration camps. Its origins are rooted in fairgrounds and medieval fairs.\n\nPhilip Stone argues that dark tourism is a way of imagining one's own death through the real death of others. Erik H Cohen introduces the term \"populo sites\" to evidence the educational character of dark tourism. Populo sites transmit the story of victimized people to visitors. Based on a study at Yad Vashem, the Shoah (Holocaust) memorial museum in Jerusalem, a new term—\"in populo\"—is proposed to describe dark tourism sites at a spiritual and population center of the people to whom a tragedy befell. Learning about the Shoah in Jerusalem offers an encounter with the subject which is different from visits to sites in Europe, but equally authentic. It is argued that a dichotomy between \"authentic\" sites at the location of a tragedy and \"created\" sites elsewhere is insufficient. Participants' evaluations of seminars for European teachers at Yad Vashem indicate that the location is an important aspect of a meaningful encounter with the subject. Implications for other cases of dark tourism at \"in populo\" locations are discussed. In this vein, Peter Tarlow defines dark tourism as the tendency to visit the scenes of tragedies or historically noteworthy deaths, which continue to impact our lives. This issue cannot be understood without the figure of trauma.\n\nSocial tourism is making tourism available to poor people who otherwise could not afford to travel for their education or recreation. It includes youth hostels and low-priced holiday accommodation run by church and voluntary organisations, trade unions, or in Communist times publicly owned enterprises. In May 1959, at the second Congress of Social Tourism in Austria, Walter Hunziker proposed the following definition: \"Social tourism is a type of tourism practiced by low income groups, and which is rendered possible and facilitated by entirely separate and therefore easily recognizable services\".\n\nAlso known as \"Tourism of Doom,\" or \"Last Chance Tourism\" this emerging trend involves traveling to places that are environmentally or otherwise threatened (such as the ice caps of Mount Kilimanjaro, the melting glaciers of Patagonia, or the coral of the Great Barrier Reef) before it is too late. Identified by travel trade magazine Travel Age West editor-in-chief Kenneth Shapiro in 2007 and later explored in \"The New York Times\", this type of tourism is believed to be on the rise. Some see the trend as related to sustainable tourism or ecotourism due to the fact that a number of these tourist destinations are considered threatened by environmental factors such as global warming, overpopulation or climate change. Others worry that travel to many of these threatened locations increases an individual’s carbon footprint and only hastens problems threatened locations are already facing.\n\nReligious tourism, in particular religious travel, is used to strengthen faith and show devotion both of which are central tenets of many major religions. Religious tourists seek destinations whose image encourages them to believe that they can strengthen the religious elements of their self-identity in a positive manner. Given this, the perceived image of a destination may be positively influenced by whether it conforms to the requirements of their religious self-identity or not.\n\nThe World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) forecasts that international tourism will continue growing at the average annual rate of 4%. With the advent of e-commerce, tourism products have become one of the most traded items on the internet. Tourism products and services have been made available through intermediaries, although tourism providers (hotels, airlines, etc.), including small-scale operators, can sell their services directly. This has put pressure on intermediaries from both on-line and traditional shops.\n\nIt has been suggested there is a strong correlation between tourism expenditure per capita and the degree to which countries play in the global context. Not only as a result of the important economic contribution of the tourism industry, but also as an indicator of the degree of confidence with which global citizens leverage the resources of the globe for the benefit of their local economies. This is why any projections of growth in tourism may serve as an indication of the relative influence that each country will exercise in the future.\n\nThere has been a limited amount of orbital space tourism, with only the Russian Space Agency providing transport to date. A 2010 report into space tourism anticipated that it could become a billion-dollar market by 2030.\n\nSince the late 1980s, sports tourism has become increasingly popular. Events such as rugby, Olympics, Commonwealth games, Asian Games and football World Cups have enabled specialist travel companies to gain official ticket allocation and then sell them in packages that include flights, hotels and excursions.\nAs a result of the late-2000s recession, international arrivals suffered a strong slowdown beginning in June 2008. Growth from 2007 to 2008 was only 3.7% during the first eight months of 2008. This slowdown on international tourism demand was also reflected in the air transport industry, with a negative growth in September 2008 and a 3.3% growth in passenger traffic through September. The hotel industry also reported a slowdown, with room occupancy declining. In 2009 worldwide tourism arrivals decreased by 3.8%. By the first quarter of 2009, real travel demand in the United States had fallen 6% over six quarters. While this is considerably milder than what occurred after the 9/11 attacks, the decline was at twice the rate as real GDP has fallen.\n\nHowever, evidence suggests that tourism as a global phenomenon shows no signs of substantially abating in the long term. It has been suggested that travel is necessary in order to maintain relationships, as social life is increasingly networked and conducted at a distance. For many people vacations and travel are increasingly being viewed as a necessity rather than a luxury, and this is reflected in tourist numbers recovering some 6.6% globally over 2009, with growth up to 8% in emerging economies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53380942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53380942", "title": "World-Information.Org", "text": "World-Information.Org\n\nWorld-Information Institute (WII) is an independent cultural institution located in Vienna, Austria linking research and public discourse in the realms of innovation, digital culture technologies, and society. Its vast documentation and processing of digital media technologies sheds light on the future perspectives of global developments and involves complex and heterogeneous information resources.\n\nWorld-Information Institute forms part of an international network of partner institutions and experts in the fields of information and communication technologies and their social implications.\n\nWII’s main fields of research are a politics of the commons (and, from this perspective: problems of intellectual property regimes), new forms of cultural production, politics of search and organization of knowledge, surveillance technologies, big data and visualization, cultural and media policies. A recent example of an activity to further develop cultural and media policies is “Netzpolitischer Konvent” (Convention of the Austrian civil society on net politics), in which a catalogue of demands was drafted and subsequently presented to the public. \n\nWII's main projects include:\n\nWorld-Information.Org was launched as the main media project of the European Capital of Culture 2000 in Brussels. The social, cultural and political dimensions of the new information and communication technologies were discussed. The World-Information exhibition presented objects and research results on topics such as the history of modern communication technologies, the \"big players\" in the IT industry, financial networks or human rights. The program was completed by the \"World-InfoCon\" conference. Most resources are available on the world-information.org page.\nThe first presentation was followed by a series of conferences and exhibitions in Vienna (Technisches Museum Wien, 2000 ), Amsterdam (Oude Kerk and De Balie Centre for Culture and Politics, 2002 ), Novi Sad / Belgrade (Museum of Vojvodina, Museum of Contemporary Art, Belgrade, 2003 ), Bangalore (2005 ) and Paris (as part of the festival \"Futur en Seine\", 2009 ).\n\nThe \"Deep Search\" conference critically dealt with \"the social and political dimensions of how we navigate the deep seas of knowledge\". Critically analyzing a situation in which Google assumes a monopoly-like position in the field of search in many countries around the world, the conference asked questions as: „How is computer readable significance produced, how is meaning involved in machine communication? Where is the emancipatory potential of having access to such vast amounts of information? What are the dangers of our reliance on search engines? And are there any approaches that do not follow the currently dominating paradigm of Google?“ \n\nThis conference on the future of cultural freedom and cultural intelligence in digital theory and practice took place at the Austrian Cultural Forum New York. It followed attempts to go beyound the obsolete models of the artist/author as genius and searched for collective and collaborative practices that could invent new terrains and flows. New kinds of 'virtual' spaces and their role for critical cultural practices were discussed. The conference also aimed at developing strategies that could elude being instrumentalized by the creative industries in their „seemingly infinite appetite for things radical“. \n\nThe debate on the policies of searching continued 2010 with the conference \"Deep Search II\": \"The automatic classification of data, its indexing, and its evaluation are at the heart of new communication environments. What lies beneath is not just a drive to organize the world's information, but also to classify human relations: from the management of the modern workplace and consumers in mass societies, to the bio-political management of the network society.\"\n\nThe conference \"Shared Digital Futures\" dealt with the impact of digital networking technologies to the production of culture and examined about the new role of the artwork as the same end product and raw material for further production of culture, models for sustainable funding of Commons, new forms of collective authorship and the opportunities opened by the blurring of boundaries between artists and audiences.\n\nThe conference and exhibition \"Information as a reality\" in cooperation with the magazine and with Ars Electronica at the Lentos Art Museum in Linz dealt with critical cultural practices in digital networks and the increasing change of social reality by digital models and virtual information regimes. Cultural workers have played an important pioneering role in the colonization of digital worlds. What role can they assume now, 20 years after the emergence of the Internet?\n\nThe conference \"Digital Clouds and Urban Spaces\" at Architekturzentrum Wien focused on Smart Cities and the city as an information system where urbanity is increasingly shaped by networks of informational technologies. The conference took account to the fact, that this does not only apply to phenomena as traffic control systems or planning models, but that the world of work, social spaces and cultural processes are also subject to substantial transformations related to these developments. Before this backdrop, the conference questioned the simplistic promises made by global corporations and their technologies to render cities more efficient, safer and cleaner.\n\nIn a cooperation with the magazine World-Information Institute revisited 20 years of net culture. The resulting texts formed the main part of issue XXI/1 (winter 2015) of the magazine. Issue Presentation (MAK – Museum of Applied Arts, Vienna): Critical Net Practice: Information as a reality? Jumper / Band XXI, No. 1, Winter 2015.\n\nThe international conference and event series \"Algorithmic Regimes\" examined the growing influence of digital control systems and their cascading effects of powerful effect on cultural and social realities. In addition to the conference, the event „Algorithms are no Angels“ with Matthew Fuller und Graham Harwood, a Videointerview with Stefano Harney, and an audiovisual evening about the power of algorithms were conducted, that presented an annotated remix of film clips and documentaries, relating to automated control systems.\n\nWahlkabine.at was founded in 2002 by the Institute for New Culture Technologies/t0 and was presented for the first time during the National Council elections in the same year. The online polling-booth sees itself as an instrument of political education, which encourages the users to deal with political content in a playful way and provides factual information and feedback opportunities.\n\nGiven the fact that increasing personalization nowadays replaces more and more the political content, Wahlkabine.at considers the publication of all party-programs and their scientific contextualization as a fundamental tool for political participation as well as a revealing resource collection for personal reflection on the voting behavior.\n\nWahlkabine.at focuses on elections on Austrian national and regional levels and on EU-level (European Parliament), but also includes elections of the Austrian National Student Union and a few individual cases (e.g. Austrian Economic Chambers / Sector Information and Consulting 2010). In the context of regional elections in Vienna in autumn 2015 (with an electorate of approximately 1.14 million eligible voters) 160,000 users visited the online polling booth.\n\nFuture Non Stop – started as a project in 2010, online since 2012 – is an extensive archive and an experiment in logics of navigating information: “Based on an extensive archive going back to 1994 the site collects materials that serve as important reference documents in the field of new media, politics, and art and makes them accessible to a wider public. Instead of a hierarchically structured archive an experimental navigation interface opens up new ways to explore large information nodes. Documents are associated by a range of tag that allow to filter relevance according to topics and issue relations. ASCR, short for Advanced Semantic Content Repository, is the open source information architecture and \"editing back end\" of Future Non Stop.” \n\nThe Institute for New Culture Technologies/t0 was established in 1993 as an arts and culture related international competence platform for the critical use of information and communication technologies. Over the years it has pursued a broad range of transdisciplinary activities. From producing and hosting infrastructure to organizing conferences, festivals and exhibitions, local interventions and skill transfer, as well as international research and publishing. Konrad Becker and Francisco de Sousa Webber, who founded the institute, currently form the board of directors together with .\n\nWhen the founders of the Institute for New Culture Technologies/t0 set up a web server (in an unofficially tolerated act of ‘misuse’ of the underemployed Internet server of Vienna’s general hospital AKH) in 1993, they created one of the first arts and culture-related sites on the emerging World Wide Web.\n\nThe institute has been conceptualised as a platform from which independent initiatives and organizations could emerge. The first of these initiatives was Public Netbase – now an ‘historical example’ of an early new media organization in Europe. Founded in 1994, it was located in Messepalast, the predecessor of Vienna’s Museumsquartier. It combined various functions and activities: It was a non-profit Internet service provider that facilitated internet access mainly for the independent arts and cultural sector. This was accompanied by a program of workshops and courses to develop media competence. Public Netbase became a social space for this emerging scene of artists, techheads, activists etc., and ran an almost daily evening program of discussions, presentations, screenings and music events. In addition to these grassroots activities international exhibitions and conferences were conducted. Public Netbase used to be t0’s main initiative until it had to be discontinued due to lack of funding (which was a result of repression by the Austrian right-wing government in 2006.\n\nBut already in 1999 the next initiative had been founded: World-Information.Org (WIO). It was presented – under the patronage of UNESCO – as the lead project of the New-Media-program of the Brussels 2000 European Capital of Culture. WIO resembles an intelligence agency, that collects and analyses information, but not in the interest of a state or as a think tank for corporate businesses, but for the independent cultural sector. Starting from the Brussels project, a series of international exhibitions and conferences has been developed.\nWorld-Information Institute (WII) is WIO’s research department. In addition to conducting research, it continues the program of international conferences and the activities to further develop culture and media policies. In addition, on the Austrian national level, wahlkabine.at was founded in 2002 and became Austria’s most prominent online “polling booth”.\n\nSince 2010, Institute for New Culture Technologies/t0 has developed the ‘living archive’ Future Non Stop, in which all its activities are documented, which makes it a valuable resource covering twenty years of activities in new media art, net culture and participatory use and critical analyses of new technologies, digital networks and the World Wide Web.\n\nAcross all these activities, t0 has closely collaborated with groups and organizations such as Critical Art Ensemble, RTMark, The Yes Men, De Balie, Kuda.org, De Waag, Adbusters, Institute for Applied Autonomy, Sarai (Media Lab), Bundeszentrale für politische Bildung, V2 Institute for the Unstable Media, 0100101110101101.ORG and Nettime.\nArtists and researchers who have been involved in t0’s program, include Saskia Sassen, Bruno Latour, Peter Lamborn Wilson / Hakim Bey, Franco Bifo Berardi, Chantal Mouffe, Brian Holmes, Marko Peljhan, Ben Bagdikian, Marina Gržinić, Arundhati Roy, Manuel De Landa, Michel Bauwens, R. Trebor Scholz, Monica Narula (RAQS Media Collective), Monika Mokre, Femke Snelten and many others.\n\nPublic Netbase was initiated by the Institute for New Culture Technologies/t0 in the Vienna Museumsquartier in 1994 as a non-profit internet provider and a platform for the participatory use of information and communication technology. With its WWW-server as well as with its workshops, instruction courses, and educational events for the broad public, Public Netbase contributed continually to the evolution of a lively internet scene and a heightened consciousness for the implications of the new communication and information technologies.\n\nAs a focal point of European and international art, culture, and media networks, the Viennese net culture institute attempted to develop an understanding for the manifold opportunities and the potential of new communication media, but also to look critically at a society that is increasingly determined by technology.\n\nIn addition to the series of workshops and discussions the activities of Public Netbase included, among other, projects that combined exhibitions, conferences and workshops (e.g. Synworld playwork:hyperspace (1999) and Free Bitflows (2004)), projects in public space (nikeground (2003) and Basecamp (2001/2002)) and activities that strengthened self-organization of independent media initiatives and demanded further development of cultural and media policies (in Austria, but also on European level, e.g. European Cultural Backbone (1999-2003)). Public Netbase was very active in the resistance movements against the Austrian right-wing government, that came into power beginning of 2000 and included Jörg Haider’s Freedom Party (FPÖ). An own strand of activities derived from this (e.g. government-austria.at (2000/2001)) and elements of political activism became stronger across all strands of activities.\n\nFor a more extensive list of projects cf. the article on Public Netbase.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9810476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9810476", "title": "Zombie", "text": "Zombie\n\nA zombie (Haitian French: \"\", ) is a fictional undead being created through the reanimation of a human corpse. Zombies are most commonly found in horror and fantasy genre works. The term comes from Haitian folklore, where a \"zombie\" is a dead body reanimated through various methods, most commonly magic. Modern depictions of the reanimation of the dead do not necessarily involve magic but often invoke science fictional methods such as carriers, radiation, mental diseases, vectors, pathogens, scientific accidents, etc.\n\nThe English word \"zombie\" is first recorded in 1819, in a history of Brazil by the poet Robert Southey, in the form of \"zombi\". The Oxford English Dictionary gives the origin of the word as West African, and compares it to the Kongo words ' (god) and ' (fetish). A Kimbundu-to -Portuguese dictionary from 1903 defines the related word nzumbi as soul, while a later KimbunduPortuguese dictionary defines it as being a \"spirit that is supposed to wander the earth to torment the living.\" \n\nOne of the first books to expose Western culture to the concept of the voodoo zombie was \"The Magic Island\" by W. B. Seabrook in 1929. This is the sensationalized account of a narrator who encounters voodoo cults in Haiti and their resurrected thralls. \"Time\" claimed that the book \"introduced 'zombi' into U.S. speech\".\n\nZombies have a complex literary heritage, with antecedents ranging from Richard Matheson and H. P. Lovecraft to Mary Shelley's \"Frankenstein\" drawing on European folklore of the undead. In 1932, Victor Halperin directed \"White Zombie\", a horror film starring Bela Lugosi. Here zombies are depicted as mindless, unthinking henchmen under the spell of an evil magician. Zombies, often still using this voodoo-inspired rationale, were initially uncommon in cinema, but their appearances continued sporadically through the 1930s to the 1960s, with notable films including \"I Walked with a Zombie\" (1943) and \"Plan 9 from Outer Space\" (1959).\n\nA new version of the zombie, distinct from that described in Haitian folklore, has also emerged in popular culture during the latter half of the twentieth century. This \"zombie\" is taken largely from George A. Romero's seminal film \"Night of the Living Dead\", which was in turn partly inspired by Richard Matheson's 1954 novel \"I Am Legend\". The word \"zombie\" is not used in \"Night of the Living Dead\" but was applied later by fans. The monsters in the film and its sequels, such as \"Dawn of the Dead\" and \"Day of the Dead\", as well as its many inspired works, such as \"Return of the Living Dead\" and \"Zombi 2\", are usually hungry for human flesh, although \"Return of the Living Dead\" introduced the popular concept of zombies eating brains. The \"zombie apocalypse\" concept, in which the civilized world is brought low by a global zombie infestation, became a staple of modern popular art.\n\nThe English word \"zombie\" is first recorded in 1819, in a history of Brazil by the poet Robert Southey, in the form of \"zombi\", actually referring to the Afro-Brazilian rebel leader named Zumbi and the etymology of his name in \"nzambi\". The Oxford English Dictionary gives the origin of the word as West African and compares it to the Kongo words \"nzambi\" (god) and \"zumbi\" (fetish).\n\nIn Haitian folklore, a \"zombie\" (Haitian French: \"zombi\", Haitian Creole: \"zonbi\") is an animated corpse raised by magical means, such as witchcraft.\n\nThe concept has been popularly associated with the religion of voodoo, but it plays no part in that faith's formal practices.\n\nHow the creatures in contemporary zombie films came to be called \"zombies\" is not fully clear. The film \"Night of the Living Dead\" made no spoken reference to its undead antagonists as \"zombies\", describing them instead as \"ghouls\" (though ghouls, which derive from Arabic folklore, are demons, not undead). Although George Romero used the term \"ghoul\" in his original scripts, in later interviews he used the term \"zombie\". The word \"zombie\" is used exclusively by Romero in his 1978 script for his sequel \"Dawn of the Dead\", including once in dialog. According to George Romero, film critics were influential in associating the term \"zombie\" to his creatures, and especially the French magazine \"Cahiers du Cinéma\". He eventually accepted this linkage, even though he remained convinced at the time that \"zombies\" corresponded to the undead slaves of Haitian voodoo as depicted in Bela Lugosi's \"White Zombie\".\n\nZombies are featured widely in Haitian rural folklore as dead persons physically revived by the act of necromancy of a \"bokor\", a sorcerer or witch. The \"bokor\" is opposed by the \"houngan\" or priest and the \"mambo\" or priestess of the formal voodoo religion. A zombie remains under the control of the \"bokor\" as a personal slave, having no will of its own.\n\nThe Haitian tradition also includes an incorporeal type of zombie, the \"zombie astral\", which is a part of the human soul. A \"bokor\" can capture a zombie astral to enhance his spiritual power. A zombie astral can also be sealed inside a specially decorated bottle by a \"bokor\" and sold to a client to bring luck, healing, or business success. It is believed that God eventually will reclaim the zombie's soul, so the zombie is a temporary spiritual entity.\n\nIt has been suggested that the two types of zombie reflect soul dualism, a belief of Haitian voodoo. Each type of legendary zombie is therefore missing one half of its soul (the flesh or the spirit).\n\nThe zombie belief has its roots in traditions brought to Haiti by enslaved Africans, and their subsequent experiences in the New World. It was thought that the voodoo deity Baron Samedi would gather them from their grave to bring them to a heavenly afterlife in Africa (\"Guinea\"), unless they had offended him in some way, in which case they would be forever a slave after death, as a zombie. A zombie could also be saved by feeding them salt. English professor Amy Wilentz has written that the modern concept of Zombies was strongly influenced by Haitian slavery. Slave drivers on the plantations, who were usually slaves themselves and sometimes Voodoo priests, used the fear of zombification to discourage slaves from committing suicide.\n\nWhile most scholars have associated the Haitian zombie with African cultures, a connection has also been suggested to the island's indigenous Taíno people, partly based on an early account of native shamanist practices written by the Hieronymite monk Ramón Pané, a companion of Christopher Columbus.\n\nThe Haitian zombie phenomenon first attracted widespread international attention during the United States occupation of Haiti (1915–1934), when a number of case histories of purported \"zombies\" began to emerge. The first popular book covering the topics was William Seabrook's \"The Magic Island\" (1929). Seabrooke cited Article 246 of the Haitian criminal code which was passed in 1864, asserting that it was an official recognition of zombies. This passage was later used in promotional materials for the 1932 film \"White Zombie\".\n\nIn 1937, while researching folklore in Haiti, Zora Neale Hurston encountered the case of a woman who appeared in a village. A family claimed she was Felicia Felix-Mentor, a relative who had died and been buried in 1907 at the age of 29. The woman was examined by a doctor; X-rays indicated that she did not have a leg fracture that Felix-Mentor was known to have had. Hurston pursued rumors that affected persons were given a powerful psychoactive drug, but she was unable to locate individuals willing to offer much information. She wrote, \"What is more, if science ever gets to the bottom of Vodou in Haiti and Africa, it will be found that some important medical secrets, still unknown to medical science, give it its power, rather than gestures of ceremony.\"\n\nA Central or West African origin for the Haitian zombie has been postulated based on two etymologies in the Kongo language, \"nzambi\" (\"god\") and \"zumbi\" (\"fetish\"). This root helps form the names of several deities, including the Kongo creator deity Nzambi a Mpungu and the Louisiana serpent deity Li Grand Zombi (a local version of the Haitian Damballa), but it is in fact a generic word for a divine spirit. The common African conception of beings under these names is more similar to the incorporeal \"zombie astral\", as in the Kongo Nkisi spirits.\n\nA related, but also often incorporeal, undead being is the jumbee of the English-speaking Caribbean, considered to be of the same etymology; in the French West Indies also, local \"zombies\" are recognized, but these are of a more general spirit nature.\n\nThe idea of physical zombie-like creatures is present in some South African cultures, where they are called \"xidachane\" in Sotho/Tsonga and \"maduxwane\" in Venda. In some communities, it is believed that a dead person can be zombified by a small child. It is said that the spell can be broken by a powerful enough sangoma. It is also believed in some areas of South Africa that witches can zombify a person by killing and possessing the victim's body in order to force it into slave labor. After rail lines were built to transport migrant workers, stories emerged about \"witch trains\". These trains appeared ordinary, but were staffed by zombified workers controlled by a witch. The trains would abduct a person boarding at night, and the person would then either be turned into a zombified worker, or beaten and thrown from the train a distance away from the original location.\n\nSeveral decades after Hurston's work, Wade Davis, a Harvard ethnobotanist, presented a pharmacological case for zombies in a 1983 paper in the \"Journal of Ethnopharmacology\", and later in two popular books, \"The Serpent and the Rainbow\" (1985) and \"Passage of Darkness: The Ethnobiology of the Haitian Zombie \"(1988).\n\nDavis traveled to Haiti in 1982 and, as a result of his investigations, claimed that a living person can be turned into a zombie by two special powders being introduced into the blood stream (usually via a wound). The first, \"coup de poudre\" (French: \"powder strike\"), includes tetrodotoxin (TTX), a powerful and frequently fatal neurotoxin found in the flesh of the pufferfish (order Tetraodontidae). The second powder consists of deliriant drugs such as datura. Together, these powders were said to induce a deathlike state in which the will of the victim would be entirely subjected to that of the bokor. Davis also popularized the story of Clairvius Narcisse, who was claimed to have succumbed to this practice. The most ethically questioned and least scientifically explored ingredient of the powders, is part of a recently buried child's brain.\n\nThe process described by Davis was an initial state of deathlike suspended animation, followed by re-awakening — typically \"after\" being buried — into a psychotic state. The psychosis induced by the drug and psychological trauma was hypothesised by Davis to reinforce culturally learned beliefs and to cause the individual to reconstruct their identity as that of a zombie, since they \"knew\" they were dead, and had no other role to play in the Haitian society. Societal reinforcement of the belief was hypothesized by Davis to confirm for the zombie individual the zombie state, and such individuals were known to hang around in graveyards, exhibiting attitudes of low affect.\n\nDavis's claim has been criticized, particularly the suggestion that Haitian witch doctors can keep \"zombies\" in a state of pharmacologically induced trance for many years. Symptoms of TTX poisoning range from numbness and nausea to paralysis — particularly of the muscles of the diaphragm — unconsciousness, and death, but do not include a stiffened gait or a deathlike trance. According to psychologist Terence Hines, the scientific community dismisses tetrodotoxin as the cause of this state, and Davis' assessment of the nature of the reports of Haitian zombies is viewed as overly credulous.\n\nScottish psychiatrist R. D. Laing highlighted the link between social and cultural expectations and compulsion, in the context of schizophrenia and other mental illness, suggesting that schizogenesis may account for some of the psychological aspects of zombification. Particularly, this suggests cases where schizophrenia manifests a state of catatonia.\n\nRoland Littlewood, professor of anthropology and psychiatry, published a study supporting a social explanation of the zombie phenomenon in the medical journal \"The Lancet\" in 1997.\nThe social explanation sees observed cases of people identified as zombies as a culture-bound syndrome, with a particular cultural form of adoption practiced in Haiti that unites the homeless and mentally ill with grieving families who see them as their \"returned\" lost loved ones, as Littlewood summarizes his findings in an article in \"Times Higher Education\":\n\nPulliam and Fonseca (2014) and Walz (2006) trace the zombie lineage back to ancient Mesopotamia. In the \"Descent of Ishtar\", the goddess Ishtar threatens:\n\nShe repeats this same threat in a slightly modified form in the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\".\n\"Frankenstein\" by Mary Shelley, while not a zombie novel in particular, prefigures many 20th-century ideas about zombies in that the resurrection of the dead is portrayed as a scientific process rather than a mystical one, and that the resurrected dead are degraded and more violent than their living selves. \"Frankenstein\", published in 1818, has its roots in European folklore, whose tales of vengeful dead also informed the evolution of the modern conception of the vampire. Later notable 19th-century stories about the avenging undead included Ambrose Bierce's \"The Death of Halpin Frayser\", and various Gothic Romanticism tales by Edgar Allan Poe. Though their works could not be properly considered zombie fiction, the supernatural tales of Bierce and Poe would prove influential on later writers such as H. P. Lovecraft, by Lovecraft's own admission.\n\nIn the 1920s and early 1930s, the American horror author H. P. Lovecraft wrote several novellae that explored the undead theme. \"Cool Air\", \"In the Vault\", and \"The Outsider\" all deal with the undead, but Lovecraft's \"Herbert West–Reanimator\" (1921) \"helped define zombies in popular culture\". This series of short stories featured Herbert West, a mad scientist who attempts to revive human corpses with mixed results. Notably, the resurrected dead are uncontrollable, mostly mute, primitive and extremely violent; though they are not referred to as zombies, their portrayal was prescient, anticipating the modern conception of zombies by several decades. Edgar Rice Burroughs similarly depicted animated corpses in the second book of his Venus series, again without ever using the terms \"zombie\" or \"undead\".\n\nAvenging zombies would feature prominently in the early 1950s EC Comics, which George A. Romero would later claim as an influence. The comics, including \"Tales from the Crypt\", \"Vault of Horror\" and \"Weird Science\", featured avenging undead in the Gothic tradition quite regularly, including adaptations of Lovecraft's stories, which included \"In the Vault\", \"Cool Air\" and \"Herbert West–Reanimator\".\n\nRichard Matheson's 1954 novel \"I Am Legend\", although classified as a vampire story would nonetheless have definitive impact on the zombie genre by way of George A. Romero. The novel and its 1964 film adaptation, \"The Last Man on Earth\", which concern a lone human survivor waging war against a world of vampires, would by Romero's own admission greatly influence his 1968 low-budget film \"Night of the Living Dead\"; a work that would prove to be more influential on the concept of zombies than any literary or cinematic work before it.\n\nFilms featuring zombies have been a part of cinema since the 1930s, with \"White Zombie\" (directed by Victor Halperin in 1932) being one of the earliest examples. With George A. Romero's \"Night of the Living Dead\" (1968), the zombie trope began to be increasingly linked to consumerism and consumer culture. Today, zombie films are released with such regularity (at least 55 titles were released in 2014 alone) that they can be viewed as a separate subgenre of Horror film.\n\nVoodoo-related zombie themes have also appeared in espionage or adventure themed works outside the horror genre. For example, the original \"Jonny Quest\" series (1964) and the James Bond novel and movie \"Live and Let Die\" both feature Caribbean villains who falsely claim the voodoo power of zombification in order to keep others in fear of them.\n\nThe modern conception of the zombie owes itself almost entirely to George A. Romero's 1968 film \"Night of the Living Dead\". In his films, Romero \"bred the zombie with the vampire, and what he got was the hybrid vigour of a ghoulish plague monster\". This entailed an apocalyptic vision of monsters that have come to be known as Romero zombies.\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" chided theater owners and parents who allowed children access to the film. \"I don't think the younger kids really knew what hit them,\" complained Ebert. \"They were used to going to movies, sure, and they'd seen some horror movies before, sure, but this was something else.\" According to Ebert, the film affected the audience immediately:\"The kids in the audience were stunned. There was almost complete silence. The movie had stopped being delightfully scary about halfway through, and had become unexpectedly terrifying. There was a little girl across the aisle from me, maybe nine years old, who was sitting very still in her seat and crying.\" Romero's reinvention of zombies is notable in terms of its thematics; he used zombies not just for their own sake, but as a vehicle \"to criticize real-world social ills—such as government ineptitude, bioengineering, slavery, greed and exploitation—while indulging our post-apocalyptic fantasies\". \"Night\" was the first of six films in Romero's \"Living Dead\" series. Its first sequel, \"Dawn of the Dead\", was released in 1978.\n\nLucio Fulci's \"Zombi 2\" was released just months after \"Dawn of the Dead\" as an ersatz sequel (\"Dawn of the Dead\" was released in several other countries as \"Zombi\" or \"Zombie\").\n\nThe 1981 film \"Hell of the Living Dead\" referenced a mutagenic gas as a source of zombie contagion: an idea also used in Dan O'Bannon's 1985 film \"Return of the Living Dead\". \"Return of the Living Dead\" featured zombies that hungered specifically for brains.\n\nThe mid-1980s produced few zombie films of note. Perhaps the most notable entry, \"The Evil Dead\" series, while highly influential are not technically zombie films but films about demonic possession, despite the presence of the undead. 1985's \"Re-Animator\", loosely based on the Lovecraft story, stood out in the genre, achieving nearly unanimous critical acclaim, and becoming a modest success, nearly outstripping Romero's \"Day of the Dead\" for box office returns.\n\nAfter the mid-1980s, the subgenre was mostly relegated to the underground. Notable entries include director Peter Jackson's ultra-gory film \"Braindead\" (1992) (released as \"Dead Alive\" in the U.S.), Bob Balaban's comic 1993 film \"My Boyfriend's Back\" where a self-aware high school boy returns to profess his love for a girl and his love for human flesh, and Michele Soavi's \"Dellamorte Dellamore\" (1994) (released as \"Cemetery Man\" in the U.S.). Several years later, zombies experienced a renaissance in low-budget Asian cinema, with a sudden spate of dissimilar entries including \"Bio Zombie\" (1998), \"Wild Zero\" (1999), \"Junk\" (1999), \"Versus\" (2000) and \"Stacy\" (2001).\n\nThere are not many Japanese films related to what may be considered in the West as a zombie film. Early films such as \"The Discarnates\" features little gore and no cannibalism but is about the dead returning to life looking for love rather than a story of apocalyptic destruction. The zombie themed video game \"Resident Evil\" (1996) was released to sales of 24 million copies worldwide. Most Japanese zombie films emerged in the wake of \"Resident Evil\", such as \"Versus\", \"Wild Zero\", \"Junk\" all from 2000. The zombies film released after \"Resident Evil\" behave similarly to the Zombie films of the 1970s.\n\nThe turn of the millennium coincided with a decade of box-office successes in which the zombie subgenre experienced a resurgence: the \"Resident Evil\" movies (2002, 2004, 2007, 2010, 2012, 2016), the British films \"28 Days Later\" and \"28 Weeks Later\" (2002, 2007), the \"Dawn of the Dead\" remake (2004) and the comedies \"Shaun of the Dead\" (2004) and \"Dance of the Dead\" (2008). The new interest allowed Romero to create the fourth entry in his zombie series: \"Land of the Dead\", released in the summer of 2005. Romero returned to the series with the films \"Diary of the Dead\" (2008) and \"Survival of the Dead\" (2010). \nGenerally, the zombies in these shows are the slow, lumbering and unintelligent kind first made popular in \"Night of the Living Dead\". Motion pictures created within the 2000s, however, like the \"Dawn of the Dead\" remake, and \"House of the Dead\", have featured zombies that are more agile, vicious, intelligent, and stronger than the traditional zombie. An alternate take on the zombie was 2013's film (and book) \"Warm Bodies\", where the zombie has consciousness and some intelligence.\n\nIn 2013, the AMC series \"The Walking Dead\" had the highest audience ratings in the United States for any show on broadcast or cable with an average of 5.6 million viewers in the 18- to 49-year-old demographic.\n\nIntimately tied to the concept of the modern zombie is the \"zombie apocalypse\"; the breakdown of society as a result of an initial zombie outbreak that spreads. This archetype has emerged as a prolific subgenre of apocalyptic fiction and has been portrayed in many zombie-related media after \"Night of the Living Dead\". In a zombie apocalypse, a widespread (usually global) rise of zombies hostile to human life engages in a general assault on civilization. Victims of zombies may become zombies themselves. This causes the outbreak to become an exponentially growing crisis: the spreading phenomenon swamps normal military and law enforcement organizations, leading to the panicked collapse of civilized society until only isolated pockets of survivors remain, scavenging for food and supplies in a world reduced to a pre-industrial hostile wilderness. Possible causes for zombie behavior in a modern population can be attributed to viruses, bacteria or other phenomena that reduce the mental capacity of humans causing them to behave in a very primitive and destructive fashion. \n\nThe usual subtext of the zombie apocalypse is that civilization is inherently vulnerable to the unexpected, and that most individuals if desperate enough cannot be relied on to comply with the author's ethos. The narrative of a zombie apocalypse carries strong connections to the turbulent social landscape of the United States in the 1960s, when \"Night of the Living Dead\" provided an indirect commentary on the dangers of conformity, a theme also explored in the novel \"The Body Snatchers\" (1954) and associated film \"Invasion of the Body Snatchers\" (1956). Many also feel that zombies allow people to deal with their own anxieties about the end of the world. One scholar concluded that \"more than any other monster, zombies are fully and literally apocalyptic ... they signal the end of the world as we have known it.\" While zombie apocalypse scenarios are secular, they follow a religious pattern based on Christian ideas of an end-times war and messiah.\n\nDue to a large number of thematic films and video games, the idea of a zombie apocalypse has entered the mainstream, and many fans have begun making efforts to prepare for the hypothetical future zombie apocalypse. Such efforts include creating weapons and selling educational material informing people how to survive a zombie outbreak; while most of these are tongue-in-cheek and do not represent an authentic belief that a zombie apocalypse in the near future is likely, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have used the fictional scenario to demonstrate survival and emergency-preparedness techniques that may be useful in a \"real-world\" setting.\n\n\nThe stories usually follow a single group of survivors, caught up in the sudden rush of the crisis. The narrative generally progresses from the onset of the zombie plague, then initial attempts to seek the aid of authorities, the failure of those authorities, through to the sudden catastrophic collapse of all large-scale organization and the characters' subsequent attempts to survive on their own. Such stories are often squarely focused on the way their characters react to such an extreme catastrophe, and how their personalities are changed by the stress, often acting on more primal motivations (fear, self-preservation) than they would display in normal life.\n\nThere has been a growth in the number of zombie manga in the last decade, and in a list of \"10 Great Zombie Manga\", Anime News Network's Jason Thompson placed \"I Am a Hero\" at number 1, considering it \"probably the greatest zombie manga ever\". In second place was \"Living Corpse\" and in third, \"Biomega\", which he called \"the greatest science-fiction virus zombie manga ever\".\n\n\"\" was adapted into a live action film in 2014.\n\nArtist Jillian McDonald has made several works of video art involving zombies, and exhibited them in her 2006 show, \"Horror Make-Up,\" which debuted on 8 September 2006 at Art Moving Projects, a gallery in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.\n\nArtist Karim Charredib has dedicated his work to the zombie figure. In 2007, he made a video installation at villa Savoye called \"Them !!!\" where zombies walked in the villa like tourists.\n\nZombies are a popular theme for video games, particularly of, but not limited to, the stealth, survival horror, first-person shooter and role-playing game genres. Important horror fiction media franchises in this area include \"Resident Evil\", \"Dead Rising\", \"The House of the Dead\", \"Dead Island\", \"Left 4 Dead\", \"Dying Light\", \"State of Decay\", \"The Last of Us\" and the Zombies game modes from \"Call of Duty\" title series.\n\nPopCap Games' \"Plants vs. Zombies\", a humorous tower defense game, was an indie hit in 2009, featuring in several best-of lists at the end of that year. The massively multiplayer online role-playing game \"Urban Dead\", a free grid-based browser game where zombies and survivors fight for control of a ruined city, is one of the most popular games of its type.\n\nDayZ, a zombie-based survival horror mod for ArmA 2, was responsible for over 300,000 unit sales of its parent game within two months of its release. Over a year later, the developers of the mod created a standalone version of the same game, which currently is in early-access on Steam, and so far it has sold 3 million copies since its release in December 2013\n\nRomero would later opine that he believes that much of the 21st century obsessions with Zombies can be traced more towards video games than films, Noting that it was not until the 2009 film Zombieland that a Zombie film was able to grose more the 100 million.\n\nOutside of video games, zombies frequently appear in trading card games, such as \"\" or \"Yu-Gi-Oh! Trading Card Game\" (which even has a Zombie-Type for its \"monsters\"), as well as in role-playing games, such as \"Dungeons & Dragons\", tabletop games such as \"Zombies!!!\" and , and tabletop wargames, such as \"Warhammer Fantasy\" and \"40K\". The game \"Humans vs. Zombies\" is a zombie-themed live-action game played on college campuses.\n\nWriting for \"Scientific American\", Kyle Hill praised the 2013 game \"The Last of Us\" for the game's plausibility, which based its zombie enemies on a fictional strain of the \"Cordyceps\" fungus, which has real-world parasitic properties. Despite plausibility, to date there have been no documented cases of humans infected by \"Cordyceps\".\n\nOn 18 May 2011, the United States' Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) published a graphic novel, \"Preparedness 101: Zombie Apocalypse\" providing tips to survive a zombie invasion as a \"fun new way of teaching the importance of emergency preparedness\". The CDC goes on to summarize cultural references to a zombie apocalypse. It uses these to underscore the value of laying in water, food, medical supplies, and other necessities in preparation for any and all potential disasters, be they hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, or hordes of zombies.\n\nOn 17 October 2011, The Weather Channel in the United States published an article, \"How To Weather the Zombie Apocalypse\", that included a fictional interview with a Director of Research at the CDD, the \"Center for Disease Development\". Questions answered include \"How does the temperature affect zombies' abilities? Do they run faster in warmer temperatures? Do they freeze if it gets too cold?\"\n\nIn 2011, the US government drafted CONPLAN 8888-11,\na real plan detailing a strategy to defend against a zombie attack.\n\nMichael Jackson's music video \"Thriller\" (1983), in which he dances with a troop of zombies, has been preserved as a cultural treasure by the Library of Congress' National Film Registry. Many pop culture media have paid tribute to this video, such as a gathering of 14,000 university students dressed as zombies in Mexico City, and 1500 prisoners in orange jumpsuits recreating the zombie dance in a viral video .\n\nThe Brooklyn hip hop trio Flatbush Zombies incorporate many tropes from zombie fiction and play on the theme of a zombie apocalypse in their music. They portray themselves as \"living dead\", describing their use of psychedelics such as LSD and psilocybin mushrooms as having caused them to experience ego death and rebirth.\n\nIn the 1990s, zombie fiction emerged as a distinct literary subgenre, with the publication of \"Book of the Dead\" (1990) and its follow-up \"Still Dead: Book of the Dead 2\" (1992), both edited by horror authors John Skipp and Craig Spector. Featuring Romero-inspired stories from the likes of Stephen King, the \"Book of the Dead\" compilations are regarded as influential in the horror genre and perhaps the first true \"zombie literature\". Horror novelist Stephen King has written about zombies including his short story \"Home Delivery\" (1990) and his novel \"Cell\" (2006) concerning a struggling young artist on a trek from Boston to Maine in hopes of saving his family from a possible worldwide outbreak of zombie-like maniacs.\n\nMax Brooks's novel \"World War Z\" (2006) became a New York Times bestseller. Brooks had previously authored \"The Zombie Survival Guide\" (2003), a zombie-themed parody of pop-fiction survival guides published in 2003. Brooks has said that zombies are so popular because \"Other monsters may threaten individual humans, but the living dead threaten the entire human race... Zombies are slate wipers.\" Seth Grahame-Smith's mashup novel \"Pride and Prejudice and Zombies\" (2009) combines the full text of Jane Austen's \"Pride and Prejudice\" (1813) with a story about a zombie epidemic within the novel's British Regency period setting. In 2009, Katy Hershbereger of St. Martin's Press stated \"In the world of traditional horror, nothing is more popular right now than zombies... The living dead are here to stay.\" \nThe zombie also appears as a metaphor in protest songs, symbolizing mindless adherence to authority, particularly in law enforcement and the armed forces. Well-known examples include Fela Kuti's 1976 album \"Zombie\", and The Cranberries' 1994 single \"Zombie\".\n\nOrganized zombie walks have been staged, either as performance art or as part of protests that parody political extremism or apathy.\n\nA variation of the zombie walk is the zombie run. Here participants do a 5k run wearing a belt with several flag \"lives\". If the chasing zombies capture all of the flags the runner becomes \"infected\". If he or she reaches the finish line—which may involve wide detours—ahead of the zombies the participant is a \"survivor\". In either case an appropriate participation medal is awarded.\n\nResearchers have used theoretical zombie infections to test epidemiology modeling. One study found that all humans end up turned or dead. This is because the main epidemiological risk of zombies, besides the difficulties of neutralizing them, is that their population just keeps increasing; generations of humans merely \"surviving\" still have a tendency to feed zombie populations, resulting in gross outnumbering. The researchers explain that their methods of modelling may be applicable to the spread of political views or diseases with dormant infection.\n\nAdam Chodorow of the Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law at Arizona State University investigated the estate and income tax implications of a zombie apocalypse under United States federal and state tax codes. Neuroscientists Bradley Voytek and Timothy Verstynen have built a side career in extrapolating how ideas in neuroscience would theoretically apply to zombie brains. Their work has been featured in \"Forbes\", \"New York Magazine\", and other publications.\n\n\n"}
