{"id": "1139419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1139419", "title": "Africanization", "text": "Africanization\n\nAfricanization or Africanisation (lit., making something African) has been applied in various contexts, notably in geographic and personal naming and in the composition of the civil service e.g. via processes such as indigenization.\n\nAfricanization has referred to the modification of place names and personal names to reflect an \"African\" identity. In some cases, changes are not a change of transliteration rather than of the European name.\n\nIn many cases during the colonial period, African place names were Anglicized or Francized.\n\nVarious African countries have undergone name changes during the previous century as the result of consolidations and secessions, territories gaining sovereignty, and regime changes.\n\n\nOther name changes take place when an African person converts to or from Islam or another religion. (See Islamic name.)\n\nExamples:\n\nIn some countries immediately following their independence, \"Africanization\" was the name given to racial policies, affirmative action intended to increase the number of Africans in civil service (which had historically been dominated by whites or Asians.)\n\nThe term Africanization, abbreviated as the numeronym \"A12n,\" has been applied to discussion of internationalization and localization of software and content in African languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "1695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1695", "title": "Amazons", "text": "Amazons\n\nIn Greek mythology, the Amazons (, ', singular , ') were a tribe of women warriors related to Scythians and Sarmatians. Apollonius Rhodius, at Argonautica, mentions that Amazons were the daughters of Ares and Harmonia (a nymph of the Akmonian Wood). They were brutal and aggressive, and their main concern in life was war.\n\nHerodotus and Strabo place them on the banks of the Thermodon, while Diodorus giving the account of Dionysius of Mitylene, who, on his part, drew on Thymoetas, states that before the Amazons of the Thermodon there were, much earlier in time, the Amazons of Libya. These Amazons started from Libya, passed through Egypt and Syria, and stopped at the Caïcus in Aeolis, near which they founded several cities. Later, he says, they established Mytilene a little way beyond the Caïcus. Aeschylus, in Prometheus Bound, places the original home of the Amazons in the country about Lake Maeotis and they later moved to Themiscyra on the Thermodon. Homer tells that the Amazons were sought and found somewhere near Lycia.\n\nNotable queens of the Amazons are Penthesilea, who participated in the Trojan War, and her sister Hippolyta, whose magical girdle, given to her by her father Ares, was the object of one of the labours of Heracles. Diodorus mentions that the Amazons traveled from Libya under Queen Myrina. Amazon warriors were often depicted in battle with Greek warriors in amazonomachies in classical art.\n\nArchaeological discoveries of burial sites with female warriors on the Eurasian steppes suggest that the Scythian women may have inspired the myth. From the early modern period, their name has become a term for female warriors in general. Amazons were said to have founded the cities and temples of Smyrna, Sinope, Cyme, Gryne, Ephesus, Pitania, Magnesia, Clete, Pygela, Latoreria and Amastris; according to legend, the Amazons also invented the cavalry.\n\nPalaephatus, who was trying to rationalize the Greek myths in his work \"On Unbelievable Tales\" or \"On Incredible Tales\" (), stated that the Amazons most probably were men mistaken for women by their enemies because they wore clothing which reached their feet, tied up their hair in headbands and shaved their beards, and also, since they did not exist during his time, most probably they did nοt exist in the past either.\n\nThe origin of the word is uncertain. It may be derived from an Iranian ethnonym \"*ha-mazan-\" \"warriors\", a word attested indirectly through a derivation, a denominal verb in Hesychius of Alexandria's gloss (\"\"\": 'to make war' in Persian\"), where it appears together with the Indo-Iranian root \"*kar-\" \"make\" (from which Sanskrit \"karma\" is also derived).\n\nIt may also be derived from \"\" \"manless, without husbands\" (\"a-\" privative and a derivation of \"*man-\" also found in Slavic \"muzh\") has been proposed, an explanation deemed \"unlikely\" by Hjalmar Frisk. 19th-century scholarship also connected the term to the ethnonym Amazigh. A further explanation proposes Iranian *\"ama-janah\" \"virility-killing\" as source.\n\nAmong Classical Greeks, \"amazon\" was given a folk etymology as originating from ' () and ' (), \"without breast\", connected with an etiological tradition once claimed by Marcus Justinus who alleged that Amazons had their right breast cut off or burnt out. There is no indication of such a practice in ancient works of art, in which the Amazons are always represented with both breasts, although one is frequently covered. Adrienne Mayor suggests the origin of this myth was due to the word's etymology.\n\nGreeks also used some descriptive phrases for them. Herodotus used the \"Androktones\" (, singular , ') (\"killers of men\") and \"Androleteirai\" (, singular , ') (\"destroyers of men, murderesses\"), in the Iliad they are also called \"Antianeirai\" (, singular , \"\") (\"against men\") and Aeschylus, in his work \"Prometheus Bound\", used \"styganor\" () (\"those who loathe all men\").\n\nHerodotus and Strabo placed them on the banks of the Thermodon and Themiscyra. Herodotus also mentions that some Amazons lived at Scythia because after the Greeks defeated the Amazons in battle, they sailed away carrying in three ships as many Amazons as they had been able to take alive, but out at sea the Amazons attacked the crews and killed them, then these Amazons landed at Scythian lands. Strabo writes that the original home of the Amazons was in Themiscyra and the plains about Thermodon and the mountains that lie above them, but were later driven out of these places, and during his time they were said to live in the mountains above Caucasian Albania (not to be confused with the modern Albania), but he also states that some others, among them Metrodorus of Scepsis and Hypsicrates, say that after Themiscyra, the Amazons traveled and lived on the borders of the Gargarians, in the northerly foothills of those parts of the Caucasian Mountains which are called Ceraunian. Diodorus giving the account of Dionysius of Mitylene, who, on his part, drew on Thymoetas states that before the Amazons of the Thermodon there were, much earlier in time, the Amazons of Libya. These Amazons started from Libya passed through Egypt and Syria, and stopped at the Caïcus in Aeolis, near which they founded several cities. Later, he says, they established Mitylene a little way beyond the Caïcus. Aeschylus, in \"Prometheus Bound\", places the original home of the Amazons in the country about Lake Maeotis and they later moved to Themiscyra on the Thermodon. According to Pseudo-Plutarch, the Amazons lived in and about the Tanais () river (modern Don river), formerly called the Amazonian or Amazon () river, because the Amazons bathed themselves therein. The Amazons later moved to Themiscyra (speculated to be modern Terme, though no ruins exist) on the River Thermodon (the Terme river in northern Turkey).\nPlutarch mentions that the campaign(s) of Heracles and Theseus against the Amazons was at Euxine Sea (modern Black Sea). Homer tells that the Amazons were sought and found somewhere near Lycia.\nThe Amazons were supposed to have founded many towns, amongst them Smyrna, Ephesus, Cyme, Myrina, Sinope, Paphos, Mitylene. At Patmos there was a place called Amazonium. Also, on the island of Lemnos, there was another Myrina. The cities of Myrina had this name after the amazon Myrina.\n\nApollonius Rhodius, at Argonautica, mentions that at Thermodon the Amazons were not gathered together in one city, but scattered over the land, parted into three tribes. In one part dwelt the Themiscyreians (), in another the Lycastians (), and in another the Chadesians ().\n\nGreeks also used other descriptive phrases for them. Herodotus used the \"Androktones\" (, singular , ') (\"killers/slayers of men\") and \"Androleteirai\" (, singular , ') (\"destroyers of men, murderesses\"), in the Iliad they are also called \"Antianeirai\" (, singular , \"\") (\"equivalent to men\") and Aeschylus used the \"Styganor\" () (\"those who loathe all men\") in his work Prometheus Bound.\n\nHerodotus stated that in the Scythian language they were called \"Oiorpata\", \"oior\" meaning \"man\", and \"pata\" meaning \"to slay\".\n\nIn some versions of the myth, no men were permitted to have sexual encounters or reside in Amazon country; but once a year, in order to prevent their race from dying out, they visited the Gargareans, a neighbouring tribe.\n\nStrabo, giving credits to Metrodorus of Scepsis and Hypsicrates, mentions that at his time the Amazons were believed to live on the borders of the Gargareans. There were two special months in the spring in which they would go up into the neighboring mountain which separates them and the Gargareans. The Gargareans also, in accordance with an ancient custom, would go there to offer sacrifice with the Amazons and also to have intercourse with them for the sake of begetting children. They did this in secrecy and darkness, any Gargareans at random with any Amazon, and after making them pregnant they would send them away. Any females that were born are retained by the Amazons themselves, but the males would be taken to the Gargareans to be brought up; and each Gargarean to whom a child is brought would adopt the child as his own, regarding the child as his son because of his uncertainty. He also stated that the Gargareans went up from Themiscyra into this region with the Amazons, then, in company with some Thracians and Euboeans who had wandered thus far, waged war against them. They later ended the war against the Amazons and made a compact that they should have dealings with one another only in the matter of children, and that each people should live independent of the other.\nIn addition, he states that the right breasts of all Amazons are seared when they are infants, so that they can easily use their right arm for every needed purpose, and especially that of throwing the javelin and use the bow.\nHerodotus mentions that when Greeks defeated the Amazons at war, they sailed away carrying in three ships as many Amazons as they had been able to take alive, but out at sea the Amazons attacked the crews and killed them. But the Amazons knew nothing about ships so they were driven about by waves and winds and they were disembarked at the land of the Scythians, there they met first with a troop of horses feeding, they seized them and mounted upon these they plundered the property of the Scythians. The Scythians were not able to understand them because they did not know either their speech or their dress or the race to which they belonged, and they thought that they were men. Scythians fought a battle against them, and after the battle the Scythians got possession of the bodies of the dead, and thus they discovered that they were women. After the battle Scythians sent young men and told them to encamp near the Amazons and to do whatsoever they should do. If the women should come after them, they were not to fight but to retire before them, and when the women stopped, they were to approach near and encamp. This plan was adopted by the Scythians because they desired to have children born from them. When the Amazons perceived that they had not come to do them any harm, they let them alone; and the two camps approached nearer to one another every day: and the young men, like the Amazons, had nothing except their arms and their horses and got their living, as the Amazons did, by hunting and by taking booty. One day a Scythian and an Amazon came close. They could not speak to each other because they were speaking different languages but the Amazon made signs to him with her hand to come. Later the young Scythians and the Amazons joined their camps and lived together, each man having for his wife her with whom he had had dealings at first. The men were not able to learn the language of the Amazons, but the women learned Scythian.\nApollonius Rhodius, at Argonautica, mentions that Amazons were the daughters of Ares and Harmonia (a nymph of the Akmonian Wood). They were brutal and aggressive, and their main concern in life was war. According to him, the Amazons were not gathered together in one city, but scattered over the land, parted into three tribes. In one part dwelt the Themiscyreians (), in another the Lycastians (), and in another the Chadesians (). Also, he mention that on an island, the Queens of the Amazons, Otrere () and Antiope (), built a marble temple of Ares. On this desert island there were ravening birds, which in countless numbers haunt it. The island mentioned is the Aretias. Argonauts passed by Themiscyra on their journey to Colchis. Zeus sent Boreas (the North Wind), and with his help the Argonauts stood out from the shore near Themiscyra where the Themiscyreian Amazons were arming for battle.\n\nThe King Iobates sent Bellerophon against Amazons, hoping that they would kill him, but Bellerophon killed them all.\n\nThe Amazons appear in Greek art of the Archaic period and in connection with several Greek legends. The tomb of Myrine is mentioned in the \"Iliad\"; later interpretation made of her an Amazon: according to Diodorus,\n\nAccording to Diodorus, the Amazons under the rule of Queen Myrina, invaded the lands of the Atlantians. Amazons defeated the army of the Atlantian city of Cerne, treated the captives savagely, killed all the men, led into slavery the children and women, and razed the city. When the terrible fate of the inhabitants of Cerne became known among the other Atlantians, they were struck with terror, surrendered their cities on terms of capitulation and announced that they would do whatever should be commanded them. Queen Myrina bearing herself honourably towards the Atlantians, established friendship with them and founded a city to bear her name in place of the city of Cerne which had been razed; and in it she settled both the captives and any native who so desired. Atlantians presented her with magnificent presents and by public decree voted to her notable honours, and she in return accepted their courtesy and in addition promised that she would show kindness to their nation. Diodorus also mentions that the Amazons of Queen Myrina used the skins of gigantic snakes, from Libya, to protect themselves at battle. Later Queen Myrine led her Amazons to victory against the Gorgons. After the battle against the Gorgons, Myrina accorded a funeral to her fallen comrades on three pyres and raised up three great heaps of earth as tombs, which are called \"Amazon Mounds\" ().\n\nOne of the tasks imposed upon Hercules by Eurystheus was to obtain possession of the girdle of the Amazonian queen Hippolyta. He was accompanied by his friend Theseus, who carried off the princess Antiope, sister of Hippolyta, an incident which led to a retaliatory invasion of Attica, in which Antiope perished fighting by the side of Theseus. In some versions, however, Theseus marries Hippolyta and in others, he marries Antiope and she does not die; by this marriage with the Amazon Theseus had a son Hippolytus. \nIn another version of this myth, Theseus made this voyage on his own account, after the time of Heracles.\nThe battle between the Athenians and Amazons is often commemorated in an entire genre of art, amazonomachy, in marble bas-reliefs such as from the Parthenon or the sculptures of the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus.\nPlutarch, in his work Parallel Lives-The Life of Theseus, mentions that Bion said that the Amazons, were naturally friendly to men, and did not fly from Theseus when he touched upon their coasts.\n\nAmazons attacked the Phrygians, who were assisted by Priam, then a young man. In his later years, however, towards the end of the Trojan War, his old opponents took his side against the Greeks under their queen Penthesilea \"of Thracian birth\", who was slain by Achilles.\n\nThe god Dionysus and his entourage fought the amazons at Ephesus, the Amazons fled to Samos, but Dionysus pursued them and at Samos he killed a great number of them on a spot which was, from that occurrence, called Panaema (), which means blood-soaked field. In another myth Dionysus united with the Amazons to fight against Cronus and the Titans.\n\nThe Amazons are also said to have undertaken an expedition against the island of Leuke, at the mouth of the Danube, where the ashes of Achilles had been deposited by Thetis. The ghost of the dead hero appeared and so terrified the horses, that they threw and trampled upon the invaders, who were forced to retire. Pompey is said to have found them in the army of Mithridates.\n\nThey are heard of in the time of Alexander, when some of the king's biographers make mention of Amazon Queen Thalestris visiting him and becoming a mother by him (the story is known from the \"Alexander Romance\"). However, several other biographers of Alexander dispute the claim, including the highly regarded secondary source, Plutarch. In his writing he makes mention of a moment when Alexander's secondary naval commander, Onesicritus, was reading the Amazon passage of his Alexander history to King Lysimachus of Thrace who was on the original expedition: the king smiled at him and said \"And where was I, then?\"\n\nThe Roman writer Virgil's characterization of the Volscian warrior maiden Camilla in the \"Aeneid\" borrows heavily from the myth of the Amazons.\n\nJordanes' \"Getica\" (), purporting to give the earliest history of the Goths, relates that the Goths' ancestors, descendants of Magog, originally dwelt within Scythia, on the Sea of Azov between the Dnieper and Don Rivers. After a few centuries, following an incident where the Goths' women successfully fended off a raid by a neighboring tribe, while the menfolk were off campaigning against Pharaoh Vesosis, the women formed their own army under Marpesia and crossed the Don, invading Asia. Her sister Lampedo remained in Europe to guard the homeland. They procreated with men once a year. These Amazons conquered Armenia, Syria, and all of Asia Minor, even reaching Ionia and Aeolia, holding this vast territory for 100 years. Jordanes also mentions that they fought with Hercules, and in the Trojan War, and that a smaller contingent of them endured in the Caucasus Mountains until the time of Alexander. He mentions by name the Queens Menalippe, Hippolyta, and Penthesilea.\n\nIn the Grottaferrata Version of \"Digenes Akritas\", the twelfth century medieval epic of Basil, the Greek-Syrian knight of the Byzantine frontier, the hero battles with and kills the female warrior Maximo.\n\n\nThere are several (conflicting) lists of names of Amazons.\n\nOther names of Amazons from various sources include:\n\n\nAccording to ancient sources (Plutarch, Theseus, Pausanias), Amazon tombs could be found frequently throughout what was once known as the ancient Greek world. Some are found in Megara, Athens, Chaeronea, Chalcis, Thessaly at Skotousa, in Cynoscephalae, and statues of Amazons are all over Greece. Stephanus of Byzantium, quoting Ephorus, mention that the tomb of the amazon Anaea () was at the city of Anaea (), which also has this name after the amazon.\n\nAt both Chalcis and Athens, Plutarch tells us that there was an Amazoneum or shrine of Amazons that implied the presence of both tombs and cult. At the entrance of Athens there was a monument to the Amazon Antiope. On the day before the Thesea at Athens there were annual sacrifices to the Amazons. In historical times Greek maidens of Ephesus performed an annual circular dance with weapons and shields that had been established by Hippolyta and her Amazons. They had initially set up wooden statues of Artemis, a \"bretas\" (Pausanias, (): \"Description of Greece\", Book I: Attica).\n\nIn works of art, battles between Amazons and Greeks are placed on the same level as – and often associated with – battles of Greeks and centaurs. The belief in their existence, however, having been once accepted and introduced into the national poetry and art, it became necessary to surround them as far as possible with the appearance of natural beings. Amazons were therefore depicted in the manner of Scythian or Sarmatian horsemen. Their occupation was hunting and war; their arms the bow, spear, axe, a half shield, nearly in the shape of a crescent, called \"pelta\", and in early art a helmet. The model in the Greek mind had apparently been the goddess Athena. In later art they approach the model of Artemis, wearing a thin dress, girt high for speed; while on the later painted vases their dress is often peculiarly Persian – that is, close-fitting trousers and a high cap called the \"kidaris\". They were usually on horseback but sometimes on foot.\nThis depiction of Amazons demonstrates just how closely, in the Greek mind, the Amazons were linked to the Scythians. Their manner of dress has been noted to bear a striking similarity to the traditional dress of nomadic peoples from the Crimea to Mongolia. Amazons were described by Herodotus as wearing trousers and having tall stiff caps. The double-sided axe was the most emblematic of their weapons. Amazons can also be identified in vase paintings by the fact that they are wearing one earring. The battle between Theseus and the Amazons (Amazonomachy) is a favourite subject on the friezes of temples (e.g. the reliefs from the frieze of the Temple of Apollo at Bassae, now in the British Museum), vases and sarcophagus reliefs; at Athens it was represented on the shield of the statue of Athena Parthenos, on wall-paintings in the Theseum and in the \"Stoa Poikile\". There were also three standard Amazon statue types.\n\nLater in the Renaissance, as Amazon myth evolved, artists started to depict warrior women in a new light. Queen Elizabeth was often thought of as an Amazon-like warrior during her reign and was sometimes depicted as such. Though, as explained in \"Divinia Viagro\" by Winfried Schleiner, Celeste T. Wright \"has given a detailed account of the bad press Amazons had in the Renaissance (with respect to their unwomanly conduct and Scythian cruelty). She notes that she has not found any Elizabethans comparing the queen directly to an Amazon, and suggests that they might have hesitated to do so because of the association of Amazons with enfranchisement of women, which was considered contemptible.\"\n\nPeter Paul Rubens and Jan Brueghel depicted the Battle of the Amazons around 1598, showing many attributes of Renaissance-styled paintings. Amazons also appear in the Rococo period in another painting titled \"Battle of the Amazons\" by Johann Georg Platzer. As a part of the Romantic period revival, German artist Anselm Feuerbach painted the Amazons as well. His paintings “engendered all the aspirations of the Romantics: their desire to transcend the boundaries of the ego and of the known world; their interest in the occult in nature and in the soul; their search for a national identity, and the ensuing search for the mythic origins of the Germanic nation; finally, their wish to escape the harsh realities of the present through immersion in an idealized past.”\n\nHerodotus reported that the Sarmatians were descendants of Amazons and Scythians, and that their wives observed their ancient maternal customs, \"frequently hunting on horseback with their husbands; in war taking the field; and wearing the very same dress as the men\". Moreover, said Herodotus, \"No girl shall wed till she has killed a man in battle\". In the story related by Herodotus, a group of Amazons was blown across the Maeotian Lake (the Sea of Azov) into Scythia near the cliff region (today's southeastern Crimea). After learning the Scythian language, they agreed to marry Scythian men, on the condition that they not be required to follow the customs of Scythian women. According to Herodotus, this band moved toward the northeast, settling beyond the Tanais (Don) river, and became the ancestors of the Sauromatians. According to Herodotus, the Sarmatians fought with the Scythians against Darius the Great in the 5th century BC.\n\nHippocrates describes them as: \"They have no right breasts...for while they are yet babies their mothers make red-hot a bronze instrument constructed for this very purpose and apply it to the right breast and cauterize it, so that its growth is arrested, and all its strength and bulk are diverted to the right shoulder and right arm.\"\n\nAmazons came to play a role in Roman historiography. Caesar reminded the Senate of the conquest of large parts of Asia by Semiramis and the Amazons. Successful Amazon raids against Lycia and Cilicia contrasted with effective resistance by Lydian cavalry against the invaders (Strabo 5.504; Nicholas Damascenus). Gnaeus Pompeius Trogus pays particularly detailed attention to the Amazons. The story of the Amazons as deriving from a Cappadocian colony of two Scythian princes Ylinos and Scolopetos is due to him. Pliny the Elder records some surprising facts pointing to the valley of the Terme River as possibly being their home: a mountain named for them (the modern Mason Dagi), as well as a settlement Amazonium; Herodotus (VI.86) first mentions their capital Themiscyra, which Pliny locates near the Terme. Philostratus places the Amazons in the Taurus Mountains. Ammianus places them east of Tanais, as neighbouring the Alans. Procopius places them in the Caucasus. Diodorus Siculus (\"Bibliotheca historica\" III, chapter 52) mentioned that besides Pontus Amazons existed much older race (at that time entirely disappeared) of Amazons from western Libya, and retells their mythological story which includes Atlantis and Greek mythology.\n\nAlthough Strabo shows skepticism as to their historicity, the Amazons in general continue to be taken as historical throughout Late Antiquity. Several Church Fathers speak of the Amazons as of a real people. Solinus embraces the account of Pliny. Under Aurelianus, captured Gothic women were identified as Amazons (Claudianus). The account of Justinus was influential, and was used as a source by Orosius who continued to be read during the European Middle Ages. Medieval authors thus continue the tradition of locating the Amazons in the North, Adam of Bremen placing them at the Baltic Sea and Paulus Diaconus in the heart of Germania.\n\nAmazons continued to be discussed by authors of the European Renaissance, and with the Age of Exploration, they were located in ever more remote areas. In 1542, Francisco de Orellana reached the Amazon River (\"Amazonas\" in Spanish), naming it after a tribe of warlike women he claimed to have encountered and fought on the Nhamundá River, a tributary of the Amazon. Afterwards the whole basin and region of the Amazon (\"Amazônia\" in Portuguese, \"Amazonía\" in Spanish) were named after the river. Amazons also figure in the accounts of both Christopher Columbus and Walter Raleigh. Famous medieval traveller John Mandeville mentions them in his book:\n\nMedieval and Renaissance authors credit the Amazons with the invention of the battle-axe. This is probably related to the \"sagaris\", an axe-like weapon associated with both Amazons and Scythian tribes by Greek authors (see also Thracian tomb of Aleksandrovo kurgan). Paulus Hector Mair expresses astonishment that such a \"manly weapon\" should have been invented by a \"tribe of women\", but he accepts the attribution out of respect for his authority, Johannes Aventinus.\n\nAriosto's \"Orlando Furioso\" contains a country of warrior women, ruled by Queen Orontea; the epic describes an origin much like that in Greek myth, in that the women, abandoned by a band of warriors and unfaithful lovers, rallied together to form a nation from which men were severely reduced, to prevent them from regaining power. The Amazons and Queen Hippolyta are also referenced in Geoffrey Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\" in \"The Knight's Tale\".\n\nClassicist Peter Walcot wrote, \"Wherever the Amazons are located by the Greeks, whether it is somewhere along the Black Sea in the distant north-east, or in Libya in the furthest south, it is always beyond the confines of the civilized world. The Amazons exist outside the range of normal human experience.\"\n\nNevertheless, there are various proposals for a historical nucleus of the Amazons of Greek historiography, the most obvious candidates being historical Scythia and Sarmatia in line with the account by Herodotus, but some authors prefer a comparison to cultures of Asia Minor or even Minoan Crete.\n\nSpeculation that the idea of Amazons contains a core of reality is based on archaeological findings from burials, pointing to the possibility that some Sarmatian women may have participated in battle. These findings have led scholars to suggest that the Amazonian legend in Greek mythology may have been \"inspired by real warrior women\".\n\nEvidence of high-ranking warrior women comes from kurgans in southern Ukraine and Russia.\nDavid Anthony notes, \"About 20% of Scythian-Sarmatian 'warrior graves' on the lower Don and lower Volga contained women dressed for battle similar to how men dress, a phenomenon that probably inspired the Greek tales about the Amazons.\"\nUp to 25% of military burials were of armed Sarmatian women usually including bows. Russian archaeologist Vera Kovalevskaya points out that when Scythian men were away fighting or hunting, nomadic women would have to be able to defend themselves, their animals and pasture-grounds competently. During the time that the Scythians advanced into Asia and achieved near-hegemony in the Near East, there was a period of twenty-eight years when the men would have been away on campaigns for long periods. During this time the women would not only have had to defend themselves, but to reproduce, and this could well be the origin of the idea that Amazons mated once a year with their neighbours, if Herodotus actually based his accounts on fact.\n\nBefore modern archaeology uncovered some of the Scythian burials of warrior-maidens entombed under kurgans in the region of Altai Mountains and Sarmatia,\n\nWhen Minoan archeology was still in its infancy, nevertheless, a theory raised in an essay regarding the Amazons contributed by Lewis Richard Farnell and John Myres to Robert Ranulph Marett's \"Anthropology and the Classics\" (1908), placed their possible origins in Minoan civilization, drawing attention to overlooked similarities between the two cultures. According to Myres, the tradition interpreted in the light of evidence furnished by supposed Amazon cults seems to have been very similar and may have even originated in Minoan culture. \n\nFrancisco de Orellana gave the Amazon river its name after reporting pitched battles with tribes of female warriors, whom he likened to the Amazons.\n\nThe city of Samsun in modern-day Turkey features a recently constructed \"Amazon Village\" museum, created to bring attention to the legacy of the Amazons and to generate both academic interest and popular tourism. A festival is also held every year in the Terme district of Samsun Province to celebrate the Amazons.\n\nIn Greece, female equestrians are also called \"Amazons\" ().\n\nAmazons became an important subject of the fine arts around 1900, especially in the work of the Munich painter and sculptor Franz Stuck (1863-1928). \n\nIn Nazi-Germany open air events called \"Nacht der Amazonen\" (Night of the Amazons) were performed at Nymphenburg Palace in Munich between 1936 and 1939. These revues with bare-breasted girls presented an allegedly emancipated female role as part of the „new race“ intended to be realized by racial fanatics. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "842605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=842605", "title": "Antipope Benedict XIV", "text": "Antipope Benedict XIV\n\nBenedict XIV was the name used by two closely related minor antipopes of the 15th century. The first, Bernard Garnier became antipope in 1424 and died c. 1429. The second, Jean Carrier, became antipope c. 1430 and apparently left office, whether by death or resignation, by 1437.\n\nNeither of these claimants was supported by more than a very small faction within the Church. They claimed to be the successors to Benedict XIII, one of the parties to the great Papal Schism. In 1417, the Council of Constance resolved the Schism, proclaiming Martin V the new Pope and demanding that Benedict XIII renounce his claim. Benedict XIII, however, remained at a castle in Peñíscola (kingdom of Valencia) and continued to maintain supporters. He died in 1423, but, the day before his death, he created four cardinals loyal to him, in order to ensure the Avignon line. Three of these cardinals met and elected Antipope Clement VIII. However, one of Benedict XIII's cardinals, Jean Carrier, disputed the validity of this election. Carrier, acting as the College of Cardinals by himself, elected Bernard Garnier, who took the name Pope Benedict XIV, instead. Carrier was the archdeacon of Rodez, near Toulouse, and Garnier had been the sacristan of Rodez.\n\nGarnier conducted his office secretly and was known as the \"hidden pope\": a letter from the Count of Armagnac to Joan of Arc indicates that only Carrier knew Benedict XIV's location. Garnier's reign as Benedict XIV ended at his death in 1429 or 1430, although he named four of his own cardinals, one of whom was named Jean Farald.\n\nFollowing Garnier's death, Jean Carrier elected himself as the new pope, and also styled himself Pope Benedict XIV. Carrier, however, had been captured and imprisoned by Antipope Clement VIII. Carrier finished his days in captivity in the castle of Foix.\n\nSome imagine that cardinals loyal to him elected a series of increasingly marginal antipopes in 1437 and 1470. For instance, this is the scenario in the 1995 novel \"l'Anneau du pêcheur\" by the French writer Jean Raspail.\n\n"}
{"id": "39320762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39320762", "title": "Ariel Castro kidnappings", "text": "Ariel Castro kidnappings\n\nThe Ariel Castro kidnappings took place between 2002 and 2004 when three young women — Michelle Knight, Amanda Berry, and Georgina \"Gina\" DeJesus — were kidnapped by Ariel Castro and held captive in his home in the Tremont neighborhood of Cleveland, in the U.S. state of Ohio. They were subsequently imprisoned until May 6, 2013, when Berry escaped with her six-year-old daughter and contacted the police. Knight and DeJesus were rescued by responding officers and Castro was arrested within hours.\n\nOn May 8, 2013, Castro was charged with four counts of kidnapping and three counts of rape. Castro pleaded guilty to 937 criminal counts of rape, kidnapping, and aggravated murder as part of a plea bargain. He was sentenced to life plus 1,000 years in prison without the possibility of parole. One month into his sentence, Castro committed suicide by hanging himself with bedsheets in his prison cell.\n\nAriel Castro was born on July 11, 1960, in Yauco, Puerto Rico, to Pedro Castro and Lillian Rodriguez. When he was a child, his parents divorced. Shortly after the divorce, Castro moved to the mainland with his mother and three siblings. The family first settled in Reading, Pennsylvania, and later moved to Cleveland, Ohio, where Castro's father and several other extended family members were living. Castro had nine siblings. According to Castro's uncle, his family knew the DeJesus family and had lived in the same West Cleveland neighborhood. Castro was a 1979 graduate of Cleveland's Lincoln-West High School.\n\nCastro met his future girlfriend, Grimilda Figueroa, when his family moved into a house across the street from hers in the 1980s. They lived with both sets of parents, but moved into their own home at 2207 Seymour Avenue in 1992. Their home was a two-story, , four-bedroom, one-bathroom house with a unfinished basement built in 1890 and remodeled in 1956. According to Figueroa's sister, Elida Caraballo, when the couple moved into their new home, \"all hell started breaking loose\". Caraballo and her husband Frank claim Castro beat Figueroa, breaking her nose, ribs, and arms. He also threw her down a flight of stairs, cracking her skull. In 1993, Castro was arrested for domestic violence but was not indicted by a grand jury.\n\nFigueroa moved out of the home in 1996 and secured custody of her four children. Police assisted in the move and detained Castro, but did not pursue charges. Castro continued to threaten and attack Figueroa after she left him, according to Caraballo. A 2005 filing by Figueroa in Cuyahoga County Domestic Relations Court accused Castro of inflicting multiple severe injuries on her and of \"frequently abduct[ing]\" her daughters. A temporary restraining order against Castro was granted, but was dismissed a few months later. Figueroa died in 2012 due to complications from a brain tumor.\n\nBefore his arrest at the age of 52, Castro worked as a bus driver for the Cleveland Metropolitan School District until he was fired for \"bad judgment\", including making an illegal U-turn with children on his bus, using his bus to go grocery shopping, leaving a child on the bus while he went for lunch, and leaving the bus unattended while he took a nap at home. He was earning $18.91 per hour when he was discharged. At the time of his arrest, Castro's home was in foreclosure due to three years (2010–12) of unpaid real estate taxes.\n\nAll of Castro's victims were kidnapped after accepting a ride from Castro. He drove each to his home, lured them inside, took them to the basement, and restrained them. The house at 2207 Seymour Avenue, where they were held, was located in Cleveland's residential Tremont neighborhood, where they had all disappeared. It has since been demolished.\n\nMichelle Knight (born April 23, 1981) disappeared on August 23, 2002, after leaving a cousin's house. She was 21 years old at the time. On the day of her disappearance, she was scheduled to appear in court for a child custody case involving her son, who was in the custody of the state.\n\nFollowing Knight's rescue, police acknowledged that limited resources had been spent on investigating her disappearance, in part because she was an adult. Knight was believed to have run away voluntarily due to anger over losing custody of her son. According to Cleveland Deputy Police Chief Ed Tomba, she \"was the focus of very few tips\". Her removal from the National Crime Information Center database fifteen months after she disappeared has been criticized. Cleveland Police and the FBI maintain that her inclusion or exclusion had no bearing on her rescue.\n\nAmanda Marie Berry (born April 22, 1986) disappeared on April 21, 2003, the day before her 17th birthday. She was last heard from when she called her sister to tell her that she was getting a ride home from her job at a Burger King at West 110th Street and Lorain Avenue. The FBI initially considered Berry a runaway until a week after her disappearance, when an unidentified male used her cell phone to call her mother, saying, \"I have Amanda. She's fine and will be coming home in a couple of days\".\n\nBerry was featured in a 2004 segment of Fox's \"America's Most Wanted\" (re-aired in 2005 and 2006), which linked her to Gina DeJesus, who by that point had also gone missing in Cleveland. Berry and DeJesus were profiled on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" and \"The Montel Williams Show\", where in 2004 self-proclaimed psychic Sylvia Browne told Berry's mother, Louwana Miller, that her daughter was dead and that she was \"in water\". This pronouncement devastated her mother, causing her to take down pictures and give away Berry's computer. However, Miller continued to search for Berry until her death from heart failure in 2006. After Berry was found alive in 2013, Browne received criticism for the false declaration that Berry was dead.\n\nIn July 2012, Robert Wolford, a prison inmate who previously lived in Tremont, claimed to have information about the location of Berry's body and led police to an empty lot on Cleveland's West Side, where a fruitless search was conducted. Wolford was sentenced in January 2013 to four-and-a-half years in prison for obstruction of justice, making a false report, and making a false alarm.\n\nOn December 25, 2006, Berry gave birth to a daughter at 2207 Seymour Avenue. DNA evidence has confirmed that Castro was the biological father of the child.\n\nGeorgina \"Gina\" Lynn DeJesus (born February 13, 1990) went missing at age 14. She was last seen at a payphone at about 3 p.m. on April 2, 2004, on the way home from her middle school at West 105th Street and Lorain Avenue. DeJesus and her friend, Castro's daughter Arlene, had called Figueroa for permission to have a sleepover at DeJesus's house, but Figueroa replied they could not and the two girls parted ways. Arlene was the last person to see DeJesus before her disappearance.\n\nDeJesus was taken under the impression that she was being dropped off, and trusted Castro because she was friends with his teenage daughter. Because no one witnessed DeJesus's abduction, an AMBER Alert was not issued, which angered DeJesus's father. He said in 2006, \"The Amber Alert should work for any missing child … Whether it's an abduction or a runaway, a child needs to be found. We need to change this law\".\n\nA year after DeJesus' disappearance, the FBI released a composite sketch and description of a male suspect, described as \"Latino, 25 to 35 years of age, , , with green eyes, a goatee and possibly a pencil-thin beard\". According to court records, Castro was , ; he had brown eyes and a goatee.\n\nDeJesus was featured in the aforementioned \"America's Most Wanted\" segment, which linked her to Berry. The disappearances received regular media attention over the years, continuing into 2012, while the families held public vigils. Castro attended at least two of these vigils, reportedly participated in a search party, and tried to get close to the DeJesus family. While a journalism student in 2004, Castro's son Anthony interviewed DeJesus's mother for an article about the disappearances in the \"Plain Press\". Police kept an active investigation open, offering a $25,000 reward for information.\n\nAfter Knight's kidnapping, Castro took her upstairs, tied her hands and feet together, and pulled her up using her hands, feet, and neck. He left her there for three days without food. Prosecutors at Castro's sentencing wrote that diaries kept by the women \"speak of forced sexual conduct, of being locked in a dark room, of anticipating the next session of abuse, of the dreams of someday escaping and being reunited with family, of being chained to a wall, of being held like a prisoner of war, of missing the lives they once enjoyed, of emotional abuse, of his threats to kill, of being treated like an animal, of continuous abuse, and of desiring freedom\". The women were kept in locked upstairs bedrooms, where they were forced to use plastic toilets that were \"emptied infrequently\". They were fed one meal a day, and allowed to shower twice a week at most.\n\nKnight told police that Castro had impregnated her at least five times, and had induced miscarriages each time through beatings: hitting with dumbbells, punching, and slamming her against walls. Starvation was also included. Knight's grandmother told reporters that she would require facial reconstruction surgery due to the beatings she endured; she also lost hearing in one ear. At one point, Knight had a pet dog while in captivity, but Castro killed the dog by snapping its neck after it bit him while trying to protect Knight. DeJesus told law enforcement she was raped but did not believe she was ever impregnated.\n\nIn December 2006, Castro allegedly ordered Knight to assist in the birth of Berry's child, which took place in a small inflatable swimming pool, and threatened to kill Knight if the baby did not survive. At one point, the baby stopped breathing, but Knight was able to resuscitate her. Castro occasionally took the child out of the house, including to visit his mother; the girl called Castro \"daddy\" and Castro's mother \"grandmother\". In 2013, he showed one of his adult daughters a picture of the child and said that she was his girlfriend's daughter from another man. He had told others who saw her that she was his granddaughter.\n\nAccording to a statement from Cleveland Police, officers visited Castro's home only once following the kidnappings to discuss an unrelated incident. Castro did not appear to be home at the time and was later interviewed elsewhere. Although neighbors claimed to have called the police about suspicious activity observed at the home, police have said they have no record of any such calls. Castro's son Anthony reported that there were certain areas of the house that were inaccessible due to being locked. He also mentioned an occasion where, three weeks before the women's escape, Castro asked him if Berry would ever be found. Anthony said he told Castro that Berry was likely dead, to which Castro responded: \"Really? You think so?\"\n\nNBC affiliate WKYC reported that during Castro's interrogation, he recalled each of the three abductions in great detail and indicated that they were unplanned crimes of opportunity. According to WKYC's sources, Castro did not have an \"exit plan\" and believed that he would eventually be caught. He referred to himself as \"coldblooded\" and a sex addict. Police found a suicide note in Castro's home in which he allegedly discussed the abductions and wrote that his money, videos and possessions should be given to the kidnapped women if he were caught.\n\nOn May 6, 2013, Berry was finally able to make contact with Castro's neighbors, leading to her escape with her 6-year-old daughter, and the rescue of DeJesus and Knight by authorities. According to police, when Castro left the house that day, Berry realized that he failed to lock the home's \"big inside door\", although the exterior storm door was bolted. She did not attempt to break through the outer door because \"she thought [Castro] was testing her\", according to the police report. Previously, Castro tested the women by leaving the house partially unlocked and exits unsecured. If they attempted to escape, he beat them. Instead, Berry screamed for help when she saw neighbors through the screen. \n\nNeighbor Angel Cordero responded to the screaming but was unable to communicate with Berry, because he spoke little English. Another neighbor, Charles Ramsey, joined Cordero at the house's front door during the rescue. A hole was kicked through the bottom of the storm door, and Berry crawled through, carrying her daughter; Ramsey said Berry told him that she and her child were being kept inside the house against her will. Upon being freed, she went to the house of another Spanish-speaking neighbor and called 9-1-1, saying;\n\nResponding police officers entered Castro's house. As they walked through an upstairs hallway with guns drawn, they announced themselves as Cleveland Police. After peeking out from a slightly opened bedroom door, Knight entered the hallway and leaped into an officer's arms, repeatedly saying, \"You saved me.\" Soon afterward, DeJesus entered the hallway from another room. Knight and DeJesus walked out of the home, and all three women, plus the child, were taken to MetroHealth Medical Center. Berry and DeJesus were released from the hospital the next day. Knight was discharged four days later, on May 10.\n\nCastro was arrested on May 6, 2013. He was charged with four counts of kidnapping and three counts of rape on May 8, which carry prison sentences of ten years to life in Ohio. Two of Castro's brothers were also initially taken into custody, but were released on May 9 after police announced that they had no involvement in the kidnappings.\n\nCastro made his first court appearance at the Cleveland Municipal Court on May 9, where bail was set at $2 million per kidnapping charge, adding to a total of $8 million. Additional charges were reported to be pending, including aggravated murder (for intentional induction of miscarriages), attempted murder, assault, a charge for each alleged instance of rape, and a kidnapping charge for each day each captive was allegedly held. On May 14, Castro's attorneys said he would plead \"not guilty\" to all charges if indicted for kidnapping and rape.\n\nA Cuyahoga County grand jury returned a true bill of indictment against Castro on June 7. It contained 329 counts, including two counts of aggravated murder (under different sections of the Ohio criminal code) for his alleged role in the termination of one of the women's pregnancies. The indictments covered only the period from August 2002 to February 2007. The county prosecutor, Timothy J. McGinty, stated that the investigation was ongoing, and that any further findings would be presented to the grand jury. McGinty said that pursuing a death penalty specification would be considered following completion of indictment proceedings.\n\nAfter entering a not guilty plea for Castro on June 12, one of his attorneys, Craig Weintraub, said that although some of the charges against Castro were indisputable, \"it is our hope that we can continue to work toward a resolution to avoid having an unnecessary trial about aggravated murder and the death penalty\". He noted, \"We are very sensitive to the emotional strain and impact that a trial would have on the women, their families and this community\". Castro was found competent to stand trial on July 3.\n\nOn July 12, a Cuyahoga County grand jury returned a true bill of indictment for the remainder of the period after February 2007. It brought the total to 977 counts: 512 counts of kidnapping, 446 of rape, seven of gross sexual imposition, six of felonious assault, three of child endangerment, two of aggravated murder, and one of possession of criminal tools. On July 17, Castro pleaded not guilty to the expanded indictment.\n\nCastro pleaded guilty on July 26 to 937 of the 977 charges against him, including charges of kidnapping, rape, and aggravated murder, as part of a plea bargain which called for consecutive sentences of life in prison plus 1,000 years, all without parole. Under the plea deal, Castro forfeited his right to appeal, and could not profit in any way due to his crimes. He also forfeited his assets, including his home, which prosecutors said would be demolished. Castro was told by Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court Judge Michael Russo, \"You will not be getting out. Is that clear?\" to which Castro responded, \"I do understand that, your honor.\" Castro also made comments about his \"addiction to pornography\" and \"sexual problem\", but was cut off by Judge Russo, who said such issues could be discussed at the August 1 sentencing hearing. A law firm representing Berry, DeJesus, and Knight released a statement that the three women were \"relieved by today's plea. They are satisfied by this resolution to the case, and are looking forward to having these legal proceedings draw to a final close in the near future\".\n\nAt the sentencing hearing on August 1, Castro was sentenced to consecutive life terms in prison, plus 1,000 years, all without any possibility of parole. He was also fined $100,000. The court forfeited all of his property and assets to the Cuyahoga County government. Before his sentencing, Castro addressed the court for twenty minutes, in which he said he was \"a good person\" and \"not a monster\", but that he was addicted to sex and pornography, and had \"practiced the art of masturbation\" from a young age. He claimed that he had never beaten or tortured the women, and insisted that \"most\" of the sex he had with them \"was consensual\". He shifted between an apologetic tone and blaming the FBI for failing to catch him, as well as his victims themselves, insisting to the court that when he had sex with them he discovered they were not virgins. He would alternatively shift back into apologetic comments, saying: \"I hope they can find in their hearts to forgive me because we had a lot of harmony going on in that home\".\n\nThe sentencing judge also heard from Knight and family members of Berry and DeJesus. Knight told Castro: \"You took eleven years of my life away. I spent eleven years in hell, now your hell is just beginning. I will overcome all that has happened, but you will face hell for eternity. I will live on, you will die a little every day as you think of the eleven years of atrocities that you inflicted on us... I can forgive you, but I will never forget.\"\n\nOn July 9, 2013, Knight, Berry, and DeJesus broke their public silence for the first time since their rescue by releasing a video statement thanking the public for their support. An attorney for Berry and DeJesus said the women \"still have a strong desire for privacy\" and did not wish to speak to the media about their ordeal. The Cleveland Courage Fund, a bank account set up to help the women in their transition to independent life, had collected approximately $1.05 million at the time of the video's release. Before Berry's disappearance, her grandfather had promised to give her a classic Chevrolet Monte Carlo from the year Berry was born. He kept the car after her kidnapping, in case she was still found alive. After her rescue, Berry called her grandfather, and asked if he still had the car, which he did, although it was in need of restoration from having gone unused. Several automotive shops offered to perform the restoration for free.\n\nIn an interview with \"People\" magazine on the first anniversary of her rescue, Knight discussed some of her ordeals as well as her life leading up to her abduction. Since her rescue, she legally changed her first name to Lily, and began to get several tattoos as her way of coping with the healing process. Knight also revealed that her son was adopted by his foster parents while she was in captivity, and that while she wanted to see him, she does not want to bring him into the ordeal she has had to deal with, and planned to see him after he becomes an adult. Knight planned to open a restaurant, dreamed of getting married — which she did in 2016 — and adopt children. Knight also planned to reunite with Berry and DeJesus in the future, but began focusing on getting her own life back on track. Berry and DeJesus received honorary diplomas from John Marshall High School in 2015.\n\nAs part of the plea bargain, the house where Castro lived, and where he had held the women captive, was demolished on August 7, 2013. Knight was present and handed out yellow balloons, which she said represented missing children, to the gathered crowd. The balloons were released before DeJesus's aunt began the demolition with a swing of a crane.\n\nOn the evening of September 3, 2013, one month into his life sentence, Castro was found hanging with a bed sheet in his detention cell at the Correctional Reception Center in Orient, Ohio. Prison staff performed CPR on Castro before he was taken to the Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center in Columbus, where he was pronounced dead shortly thereafter. The following day, Franklin County coroner Dr. Jan Gorniak announced that a preliminary autopsy had found the cause of Castro's death to be suicide by hanging.\n\nOn October 10, 2013, the Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Correction released a report that suggested Castro may have died accidentally from auto-erotic asphyxiation rather than suicide. Gorniak rejected the possibility, standing by her ruling of suicide. The report also said two prison guards had falsified logs documenting their observation of Castro hours before he was found dead. Castro was not on suicide watch at the time of his death, but had been subject to routine checks every thirty minutes due to his notoriety.\n\nA consultant's report was released on December 3, and officially concluded that \"all available evidence pointed to suicide, including a shrine-like arrangement of family pictures and a Bible in Castro's cell, an increasing tone of frustration in his prison journal and the reality of spending the rest of his life in prison while subject to constant harassment.\" The Ohio State Highway Patrol also reviewed the case and reached the same conclusion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26048760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26048760", "title": "Batch 10", "text": "Batch 10\n\nBatch 10 is a name journalists have given to the tenth batch of former Saudi captives to be repatriated to Saudi Arabian custody.\nFive of the fourteen captives in this group repatriated to Saudi captivity on November 9, 2007 were among the eleven former Guantanamo captives to be listed on the 85 men on the Saudi list of most wanted suspected terrorists, published on February 3, 2009.\nOne of the cohort, Said Ali al-Shihri, became second in command of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.\n\nAccording to Peter Taylor, reporting for the \"BBC\", his team found that the cohort of Saudis repatriated in November 2007 problematic.\nHe reported that many of these captives were not rehabilitated.\nHe reported that five of the fourteen men in batch 10 escaped to Yemen, and joined jihadists there.\nThe version of the men's names were Mohammed al-Awfi, Said al-Shihri, Yussef al-Shihri, Murtadha Ali Saeed Magram and Turki Meshawi Zayid al-Assiri.\nSaid al-Shihri and Mohammed al-Awfi appeared in an alarming video in January 2009. Said al-Shihri took a leadership role in Al Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula.\nYussef al-Shihri was killed in a shoot-out with Saudi security officials. He is alleged to have tried to cross the Saudi border dressed in a Burkha, an all-encompassing female garment, armed with a suicide belt.\nTaylor reports that Murtadha Ali Saeed Magram and Turki Meshawi Zayid al-Assiri remain at large.\nThe other nine men repatriated in batch 10 were:\nZaid Muhamamd Sa'id Al Husayn,\nSultan Ahmed Dirdeer Musa Al Uwaydha,\nKhalid Saud Abd Al Rahman Al Bawardi,\nFaha Sultan,\nFahd Umr Abd Al Majid Al Sharif,\nNayif Abdallah Ibrahim Al Nukhaylan,\nAbdullah Abd Al Mu'in Al Wafti,\nHani Saiid Mohammad Al Khalif\nand Jabir Hasan Muhamed Al Qahtani.\n"}
{"id": "20896854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20896854", "title": "Belyayev circle", "text": "Belyayev circle\n\nThe Belyayev circle () was a society of Russian musicians who met in Saint Petersburg, Russia between 1885 and 1908, and whose members included Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, Alexander Glazunov, Vladimir Stasov, Anatoly Lyadov, Alexander Ossovsky, Witold Maliszewski, Nikolai Tcherepnin, Nikolay Sokolov, Alexander Winkler among others. The circle was named after Mitrofan Belyayev, a timber merchant and amateur musician who became a music philanthropist and publisher after hearing the music of the teenage Glazunov.\n\nThe Belyayev circle believed in a national style of classical music, based on the achievements of the composer group The Five which preceded it. One important difference between composers in the Belyayev circle and their counterparts in the Five was an acceptance in the necessity of Western-styled academic training; this was an attitude passed down by Rimsky-Korsakov, who taught many of the composers in the circle at the Saint Petersburg Conservatory. While these composers were more open to Western compositional practices and influences, especially through the music of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, they closely followed many of the compositional practices of the Five to the point of mannerism, especially in their depiction of folkloric subject matter.\n\nThe Belyayev circle came to dominate musical life in St. Petersburg. Composers who desired patronage, publication or public performance of their works through Belyayev were compelled to write in a musical style accepted by Glazunov, Lyadov and Rimsky-Korsakov. There was also peer pressure to compose in this style, as well as a distrust of composers who did not do so. Several composers who believed in the philosophy of the Belyayev circle became professors and heads of music conservatories in Russia, which extended the influence of the group past the physical confines of St. Petersburg and timewise well into the 20th century.\n\nBelyayev was one of a growing number of Russian nouveau-riche industrialists who became patrons of the arts in mid- to late-19th century Russia; their number included Nadezhda von Meck, railway magnate Savva Mamontov and textile manufacturer Pavel Tretyakov. While Nadezhda von Meck insisted on anonymity in her patronage in the tradition of \"noblesse oblige\", Belyayev, Mamontov and Tretyakov \"wanted to contribute conspicuously to public life\". Because of their cultural and political orientation, they were more likely than the aristocracy to support native talent, and were more inclined to support nationalist artists over cosmopolitan ones. This was not due to any social or political agenda implicit in the art, but due to the Russianness of the art itself. This included the music of the composers Belyayev chose to support.\n\nAn amateur viola player and chamber music enthusiast, Belyayev hosted \"quartet Fridays\" at his home in St. Petersburg. A frequent visitor to these gatherings was Rimsky-Korsakov. Belyayev became a music patron after he had heard the First Symphony by the sixteen-year-old Glazunov, who had been discovered by Balakirev and tutored by Rimsky-Korsakov in musical composition, counterpoint and orchestration. Not only did Glazunov become a fixture of the \"quartet Fridays\", but Belyayev also published Glazunov's work and took him on a tour of Western Europe. This tour included a visit to Weimar, Germany to present the young composer to famed Hungarian composer and pianist Franz Liszt.\n\nSoon Belyayev became interested in other Russian composers. In 1884 he set up an annual Glinka prize, named after pioneer Russian composer Mikhail Glinka (1804–1857). In 1885 he founded his own music publishing firm, based in Leipzig, Germany, through which he published works by Glazunov, Rimsky-Korsakov, Lyadov and Borodin at his own expense. By publishing in Leipzig, Belyayev could offer the double benefit of higher quality music printing than was available in Russia at the time, plus the protection of international copyright which Russia did not offer. At Rimsky-Korsakov's suggestion, Belyayev also founded his own concert series, the Russian Symphony Concerts, open exclusively to Russian composers. Among the works written especially for this series were the three by Rimsky-Korsakov by which he is currently best known in the West—\"Scheherazade\", the \"Russian Easter Festival Overture\" and \"Capriccio espagnol\". To select which composers to assist with money, publication or performances from the many who now appealed for help, Belyayev set up an advisory council made up of Glazunov, Lyadov and Rimsky-Korsakov. They would look through the compositions and appeals submitted and suggest which composers were deserving of patronage and public attention.\n\nThe musical scene in St. Petersburg came to be dominated by the Belyayev circle since Rimsky-Korsakov had taught many of its members at the Conservatory there. Since Glazunov, Lyadov and Rimsky-Korsakov acted in an advisory capacity to the Belyayev enterprises, and thus became channels of Belyayev's largesse, composers who wished to be part of this circle and who desired Belyayev's patronage had to write in a musical style approved by these three men. Because of this stricture, Rimsky-Korsakov's style became the preferred academic style—one that young composers had to follow if they hoped to have any sort of career. In this sense, the Belyayev circle acted as a compositional guild. The better pupils from the St. Petersburg Conservatory received initiation by their invitation to the \"quartet Fridays\", and admission to the circle \"guaranteed well remunerated publication by Edition Belieff, Leipzig, and performance in the Russian Symphony Concert programs\". Thus, the Belyayev circle \"set up an establishment that governed all aspects of musical creation, education and performance\".\n\nThe Belyayev circle ran counter in its philosophy to the artistic movement and magazine \"Mir iskusstva\" (, \"World of Art\"). \"Mir iskusstva\" \"identified with the artistic values of the [Russian] aristocracy\" in its cosmopolitanism and belief of a universal culture. The composers of the Belyayev circle, like the Five before it, believed in a national, realist form of Russian classical music that should stand apart in its style and characteristics from Western European classical music. In this sense, the Belyayev composers shared similar goals with the Abramtsevo Colony and Russian Revival in the sphere of fine arts. Another way \"Mir iskusstva\" disagreed with the Belyayev circle was that they believed the composers under Belyayev were practicing art for art's sake, much like a social program. This practice ran counter to their belief in focusing on \"art as the spiritual expression of the individual's creative genius\", as they felt Alexander Pushkin had done in his poetry and Tchaikovsky in his music. Alfred Nurok commented in an 1899 review in \"Mir iskusstva\":\n\nMusicologist Richard Taruskin writes, \"Within the Belyayev circle a safe conformism became increasingly the rule\". Concert programs needed to be filled with new Russian works, and new works had to be published to offer to the music public. It was therefore necessary \"to dip rather deep into the pool of available Conservatory trained talent\", and the circle became known for the number of less-than-first-rate talents harbored within it. Critic and composer César Cui, who had been part of the Five along with Rimsky-Korsakov, derisively called these younger composers \"clones\". Though there was some snobbism involved in criticism of the Belyayev circle, there was also enough truth in the issue of conformism to cause the circle some embarrassment.\nA contributing factor to this conformism was the gradual academization of composers in the nationalist circle, fueled by Rimsky-Korsakov's efforts in this regard with his students. An increasing number of these students joined the Belyayev circle; the result was \"the emergence of production-line 'Russian style' pieces, polished and correct, but lacking originality\".\n\nThe composers who formed the Belyayev circle were nationalistic in their outlook, as were the Five before them. Like the Five, they believed in a uniquely Russian style of classical music that utilized folk music and exotic melodic, harmonic and rhythmic elements, as exemplified by the music of Balakirev, Borodin and Rimsky-Korsakov. Unlike the Five, these composers also believed in the necessity of an academic, Western-based background in composition. The necessity of Western compositional techniques was something that Rimsky-Korsakov had instilled in many of them in his years at the St. Petersburg Conservatory. Compared to the \"revolutionary\" composers in Balakirev's circle, Rimsky-Korsakov found those in the Belyayev circle to be \"progressive ... attaching as it did great importance to technical perfection, but ... also broke new paths, though more securely, even if less speedily...\"\n\nGlazunov's attitude toward outside influences was typical of the Belyayev circle. He studied Tchaikovsky's works and \"found much that was new ... that was instructive for us as young musicians. It struck me that Tchaikovsky, who was above all a lyrical and melodic composer, had introduced operatic elements into his symphonies. I admired the thematic material of his works less than the inspired unfolding of his thoughts, his temperament and the constructural perfection.\" Rimsky-Korsakov noted \"a tendency toward eclecticism\" among the composers in the Belyayev circle, as well as a \"predilection ... for Italian-French music of the time of wig and farthingale [that is, the eighteenth century], music introduced by Tchaikovsky in his \"Queen of Spades\" and \"Iolanthe\"\".\n\nNevertheless, while the Belyayev circle was more tolerant of outside influence to a certain degree than their predecessors under Balakirev, they still followed the compositional practices of the Five closely. Maes writes, \"The harmonies of Mussorgsky's coronation scene in \"Boris\", the octatonicism of \"Mlada\" and \"Sadko\", Balakirev's folk-song stylizations, Rimsky-Korsakov's colorful harmonization—all these served as a store of recipes for writing Russian national music. In the portrayal of the national character ... these techniques prevailed over the subjects portrayed\".\n\nUnlike their predecessors in the Five, composers in the Belyayev circle did not concern themselves greatly with folklorism—the invention or adaptation of folklore to newly written stories or songs, or to folklore that is reworked and modified for modern tastes. They also did not travel to other parts of Russia to actively search for folk songs, as Balakirev had done. When the Belyayev composers produced folkloric works, \"they simply imitated Balakirev's or Rimsky-Korsakov's styles\".\n\nOne of the Belyayev composers, Mikhail Ippolitov-Ivanov, continued the Five's work in musical orientalism—the use of exotic melodic, harmonic and rhythmic elements to depict the middle- and far-eastern parts of the Russian Empire. He wrote three operas set in an oriental background and composed in Balakirev's style—\"Ruth\", \"Azra\" and \"Izmena\". The story for the last of these operas \"deals with the struggle between Christians and Muslims during the sixteenth-century occupation of Georgia by the Persians\". Ippolotov-Ivanov is best known in the West for his two sets of \"Caucasian Sketches\" \"an orientalist orchestral work modeled on Balakirev and Borodin\".\n\nLyadov wrote in a \"fantastic\" vein akin to Rimsky-Korsakov's, especially in his tone poems based on Russian fairy tales, \"Baba Yaga\", \"Kikimora\" and \"The Enchanted Lake\". This style of musical writing was based on extensive use of the whole tone scale and the octatonic scale to depict supernatural or magical characters and events, hence the term \"fantastic\". Though he would break from the Belyayev aesthetic in subsequent works, Igor Stravinsky wrote his ballet \"The Firebird\" in a similar musical style.\n\nDespite Rimsky-Korsakov's denial of bias among composers of the Belyayev circle, musicologist Solomon Volkov mentions that they and the Five shared a mutual suspicion of compositions that did not follow its canon. This proved especially true of the First Symphony of Sergei Rachmaninoff, a Moscow composer and protege of Tchaikovsky. Rimsky-Korsakov, whose own musical preferences in his later years were not overly progressive, may have sounded an advance warning on hearing the symphony in rehearsal when he told Rachmaninoff, \"Forgive me, but I do not find this music at all agreeable\". By the reports of many present, the rehearsal that Rimsky-Korsakov had heard, conducted by Glazunov, was both a disaster as a performance and a horrific travesty of the score. The premiere, held in St. Petersburg on March 28, 1897, went no better. Cui wrote in his review of the work, among other things, \"If there were a conservatory in Hell, and if one of its talented students were to compose a programme symphony based on the story of the Ten Plagues of Egypt, and if he were to compose a symphony like Mr. Rachmaninoff's, then he would have fulfilled his task brilliantly and would delight the inhabitants of Hell\". The symphony was not performed again in Rachmaninoff's lifetime, and while Rachmaninoff did not destroy or disavow the score, he suffered a psychological collapse that led to a three-year creative hiatus.\n\nMaes writes that the composers who formed the Belyayev circle have often been described as \"important links to, and pathbreakers for\" modernist Russian composers such as Stravinsky and Sergei Prokofiev. This, he asserts, is actually a false assumption which suggests that modernism was the result of a gradual process. The truth, Maes suggests, was that modernist music in Russia was a much more radical break from the Belyayev circle than many have claimed. Rimsky-Korsakov's extensive use of the octatonic scale and other harmonic experiments \"was a gold mine for those bent on a modernist revolution,\" Maes writes. \"However, the renewing force had still to be liberated from the cliches and routines into which the Belyayev aesthetic had been pressed\".\n\nBias toward the musical aesthetics practiced by the Belyayev circle would continue at the St. Petersburg Conservatory after Rimsky-Korsakov's retirement in 1906, with his son-in-law Maximilian Steinberg in charge of composition classes at the Conservatory through the 1920s. Dmitri Shostakovich would complain about Steinberg's musical conservatism, typified by such phrases as \"the inviolable foundations of the \"kuchka\"\" and the \"sacred traditions of Nikolai Andreyevich [Rimsky-Korsakov]\". Nor was this traditionalism limited to St. Petersburg. Well into the Soviet era, many other music conservatories remained run by traditionalists such as Ippolitov-Ivanov in Moscow and Reinhold Glière in Kiev. Because of these individuals, Maes writes, \"the conservatories retained a direct link with the Belyayev aesthetic\".\n\n"}
{"id": "276088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=276088", "title": "Brat Pack (actors)", "text": "Brat Pack (actors)\n\nThe Brat Pack is a nickname given to a group of young actors who frequently appeared together in teen-oriented in the 1980s. First mentioned in a 1985 \"New York\" magazine article, it is now usually defined as the cast members of two specific films released in 1985—\"The Breakfast Club\" and \"St. Elmo's Fire\"—although other actors are sometimes included. The \"core\" members are considered to be Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Rob Lowe, Andrew McCarthy, Demi Moore, Judd Nelson, Molly Ringwald, and Ally Sheedy.\n\nThe term \"Brat Pack\", a play on the Rat Pack from the 1950s and 1960s, was first popularized in a 1985 \"New York\" magazine cover story, which described a group of highly successful film stars in their early twenties. David Blum wrote the article after witnessing several young actors (Emilio Estevez, Rob Lowe, and Judd Nelson) being mobbed by groupies at Los Angeles' Hard Rock Cafe. The group has been characterized by the partying of members such as Robert Downey Jr., Estevez, Lowe, and Nelson.\n\nHowever, an appearance in one or both of the ensemble casts of John Hughes' \"The Breakfast Club\" and Joel Schumacher's \"St. Elmo's Fire\" is often considered the prerequisite for being a core Brat Pack member. With this criterion, the most commonly cited members include: \n\nAbsent from most lists is Mare Winningham, the only principal member of either cast who never starred in any other films with any other cast members. Estevez was cited as the \"unofficial president\" of the Brat Pack. He and Demi Moore were once engaged. In 1999, McCarthy said he was never a member of the group: \"The media made up this sort of tribe. I don't think I've seen any of these people since we finished \"St. Elmo's Fire\".\"\n\nThe initial \"New York\" article covered a group of actors larger, or more inclusive, than the currently understood meaning of the term \"Brat Pack\". For example, most of the cast members of \"The Outsiders\" were mentioned, including Tom Cruise, C. Thomas Howell, Matt Dillon, Patrick Swayze, and Ralph Macchio, none of whom starred in any other 1980s movies with any \"core\" Brat Packers, besides Patrick Swayze. Charlie Sheen appears in several lists – more for his family relationship to Brat Pack leader Emilio Estevez and his partying than for his collaborative film work with other members.\n\nJames Spader and Robert Downey, Jr. have also been considered members, and performed alongside other Brat Packers: both of them with Andrew McCarthy in \"Less Than Zero\"; Spader with McCarthy in \"Mannequin\" and with McCarthy and Molly Ringwald in \"Pretty in Pink\"; and Downey with Anthony Michael Hall (\"Weird Science\" and \"Johnny Be Good\"; and the cast of \"Saturday Night Live\") and with Molly Ringwald (\"The Pick-up Artist\"). Other actors who have been linked with the group include Kevin Bacon, Matthew Broderick, Jon Cryer, John Cusack, Jami Gertz, Mary Stuart Masterson, Sean Penn, Kiefer Sutherland, and Lea Thompson. In her autobiography, Melissa Gilbert connects herself with the Brat Pack, as her social life centered on Estevez and Lowe (both of whom she was engaged to). Through frequent collaborative work, the actor Harry Dean Stanton, then in his late 50s, became a mentor for the group of young actors.\n\nDavid Blum's \"New York\" story, titled \"Hollywood's Brat Pack\", ran on June 10, 1985. It was originally supposed to be just about Emilio Estevez, but one night, Estevez invited Blum to hang out with him, Rob Lowe, Judd Nelson, and others at the Hard Rock Cafe. It was a typical night out for the group, who had gotten close while filming \"St. Elmo's Fire\". That night, Blum decided to change the article's focus to an entire group of young actors at the time. The \"St. Elmo's Fire\" crew members did not like Blum and sensed that he was jealous of the actors' success.\n\nWhen the piece ran, the actors all felt betrayed, especially Estevez. The article mentioned people in several films but focused on Estevez, Lowe, and Nelson, and portrayed those three negatively. The \"Brat Pack\" label, which the actors disliked, stuck for years afterward. Before the article ran, they had been regarded as talented individuals; after the article, all of them were grouped together and regarded as unprofessional. Interviewed for Susannah Gora's 2010 book \"You Couldn't Ignore Me If You Tried: The Brat Pack, John Hughes, And Their Impact on a Generation\", Blum admitted that he should not have written the article.\n\nWith the increased negative attention to them, the actors soon stopped socializing with one another. On the group's camaraderie, Ally Sheedy later said, \"[The article] just destroyed it. I had felt truly a part of something, and that guy just blew it to pieces.\"\n\nDuring the late 1980s, several of the Brat Pack actors had their careers mildly derailed by problems relating to drugs, alcohol, and in Lowe's case, a sex tape. According to Gora, \"Many believe they could have gone on to more serious roles if not for that article. They were talented. But they had professional difficulties, personal difficulties after that.\" By the 21st century, the term \"Brat Pack\" had lost its negative connotation.\n\nThe films themselves have been described as representative of \"the socially apathetic, cynical, money-possessed and ideologically barren eighties generation.\" They made frequent use of adolescent archetypes, were often set in the suburbs surrounding Chicago, and focused on white, middle-class teenage angst. According to author Susannah Gora, these films \"changed the way many young people looked at everything from class distinction to friendship, from love to sex and fashion to music.\" They are considered \"among the most influential pop cultural contributions of their time.\"\n\nIn 2012, \"Entertainment Weekly\" listed \"The Breakfast Club\" as the best high school movie ever made. On VH1's list of the 100 greatest teen stars, Molly Ringwald was ranked #1, Rob Lowe was ranked #2, Anthony Michael Hall was ranked #4, Ally Sheedy was ranked #34, and Andrew McCarthy was ranked #40.\n\nBeyond the two primary films, there is no generally accepted list of \"Brat Pack\" movies. While Blum's article credits \"Taps\", a 1981 sleeper starring Timothy Hutton with Cruise and Penn, as the first Brat Pack movie, the list of movies below represents the more traditional filmography, with each movie including at least two core members in starring roles:\n\nOther 1980s films, many with similar coming-of-age themes, that starred only one core Brat Pack actor with one or more close contributors include:\n\nSome films have been dubbed \"Brat Pack movies\" despite having no stars from the core membership, including 1984's \"Red Dawn\" with C. Thomas Howell, Jennifer Grey, Charlie Sheen, Harry Dean Stanton, Patrick Swayze, and Lea Thompson, 1990's \"Pump Up The Volume\", 1986's \"Ferris Bueller's Day Off\" which starred Grey and Sheen in supporting roles and 1987's \"The Lost Boys\" with Kiefer Sutherland and Jami Gertz in key roles.\n\nMany of the Brat Pack members have continued to act past the 1980s. Molly Ringwald continued acting in films throughout the 1990s and in 2001, began performing as Sally Bowles in the Broadway revival of \"Cabaret.\" In 2013, she released a jazz record called \"Except Sometimes\"\". She also began starring in television shows such as \"The Secret Life of the American Teenage\"r and \"Riverdale\".\n\nEmilio Estevez and Judd Nelson also continued to act. Nelson has performed on three seasons on the show \"Suddenly Susan\" and \"Bad Kids Go to Hell\". Ally Sheedy has acted in more independent works and shows like Kyle XY and also she teaches at La Guardia High school of Performing Arts. Close contributor Robert Downey Jr. became one of the most successful actors since then. His most acclaimed character is Tony Stark / Iron Man in the 2008 Marvel Studios film \"Iron Man\", a role he later reprised in multiple sequels, several Avengers ensemble films, as well as other standalone superhero films.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3944357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3944357", "title": "Coat of arms of the King of Spain", "text": "Coat of arms of the King of Spain\n\nThe coat of arms of the King of Spain is the heraldic symbol representing the monarch of Spain. The current version of the monarch's coat of arms was adopted in 2014 but is of much older origin. The arms marshal the arms of the former monarchs of Castille, León, Aragon, and Navarre.\n\nTraditionally, coats of arms did not belong to a nation but to the monarch who would quarter his shield with territorial claims of his dynasty. Formerly, the Spanish monarch's arms were much more complex than they are today. It would feature the arms of the various territories of this dynasty. A simpler version of these arms, known as the \"lesser arms\", would also be used; This lesser arms were another set of arms within the centre of the full arms. During the later part of the Bourbon dynasty this would be quarterly Castille and Leon.\n\nIn 1868, during the provisional government that followed the overthrow of Queen Isabella II, an arms of \"national character\" was adopted; This 1868 arms created the present-day arrangement of elements in the shield. The \"national arms\" and \"royal arms\" would coexist after the restoration of the monarchy. In 1931, the royal arms was revised to incorporate what had been hitherto the \"national arms\" into the royal arms and to replace the former lesser arms of the King (i.e. quarterly Castille and Leon). The monarchy would later be abolished later that year.\n\nWhen don Juan Carlos, grandson of Alfonso XIII (the last king of Spain), was chosen to be the successor of General Francisco Franco, the arms adopted for his use in 1971 as Prince of Spain was quarterly Castille, Leon, Aragon, and Navarre. The heraldic achievement also included the collar of the Order of the Golden Fleece, the Cross of Burgundy and the yoke and bundle of arrows formerly used by the Catholic Monarchs; This would be the same arms he would use as King. Upon Felipe VI's ascension to the throne in 2014, the cross, yoke, and arrows would not be retained in the royal arms.\n\nThe blazoning of the coat of arms of the King of Spain is set out in Royal Decree 527/2014, 20 June, an amendment to Title II of Spanish Royal Decree 1511/1977 adopting Flags, Standards, Guidons, Insignia and Emblems Regulation. The coat of arms was adopted when King Felipe VI was enthroned as King of Spain.\n\nThe shield is divided into four quarters, blazoned as follows:\n\n\nArgent enté en point, with a pomegranate proper seeded gules, supported, sculpted and leafed in two leaves vert, which is for Granada.\n\nInescutcheon azure bordure gules, three fleurs-de-lys or, which is for Bourbon-Anjou.\n\nAll surrounded by the collar of the Golden Fleece and crowned with a crown of the same metal and precious stones, with eight rosettes, five visible, and eight pearls interspersed, closed at the top by eight diadems also adorned with pearls and surmounted by a cross on a globe, which is the royal crown of Spain.\n\nIn 1969, General Francisco Franco appointed Juan Carlos I as his \"successor to the Headship of the Spanish state with the title of King\" but gave him the new title of Prince of Spain instead of the traditional title of Prince of Asturias. From 1971 to 1975, Juan Carlos as Prince of Spain used a coat of arms which was virtually identical to the one later adopted when he became King in 1975. Earlier coat of arms differed only that it featured the royal crown of a Crown Prince of Spain, the King's royal crown has eight half-arches of which five are visible, while the Prince's one has only four half-arches of which three are visible. Joined to the shield was the red saltire of Burgundy and, to the dexter and sinister of the base point, the yoke gules in its natural position with ribbons, of the field, and the sheaf of five arrows gules with the arrowheads inverted and ribbons, of the field, which used to be the symbol of the Catholic Monarchs of Spain.\n\nSince June 2014, Juan Carlos's son, Felipe VI, has been using the same arms but without the cross of Burgundy, yoke and arrows. King Juan Carlos's arms include a red lion instead of the purple one displayed on the current version\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2230818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2230818", "title": "Deed of change of name", "text": "Deed of change of name\n\nA deed of change of name is a legal document—used in the United Kingdom, Ireland and some other countries with legal systems based on English common law—for an official name change by a person or family. It is one use of a deed poll.\n\nSome organisations, such as government departments issuing passports and driving licences, may not recognise a name change without documentation, such as a deed or statutory declaration. However, an official document is not a legal requirement for a valid name change according to common law.\n\nIn England and Wales, such a deed may be registered in the Central Office of the High Court. Deeds so registered are advertised in the \"London Gazette\". A deed of name change on behalf of a minor must be approved by the Senior Master on behalf of the Master of the Rolls who will take into account the child's best interests. A deed poll can also be used to change a child's name, as long as everyone with parental responsibility for the child consents to it and the child does not object to it.\n\nRegistration of deeds is regulated by the \"Enrolment of Deeds (Change of Name) Regulations 1994\", SI 1994/604 (as amended)\n. Compared to some other European countries, for example Germany, a name change in the UK is easy and virtually unrestricted regarding choice.\n\nRegistration of a deed of change of name is not a legal requirement in the United Kingdom. A standard legal document, with stock wording, filled in by the person making the deed poll, and signed in presence of a witness, carries sufficient legal authority to be recognised. The witness need not be a solicitor but can be anyone over the age of 18 independent of the person changing their name.\n\nThe procedure, requirements and law surrounding the issue in Northern Ireland are similar to those in England and Wales.\nIn England, Northern Ireland and Wales, a deed of change of name will not change the name on a birth certificate. For instance, when applying for a passport, both the certificate and the deed would need to be presented as documents of identity. In Northern Ireland, for children between the ages of two and eighteen years, only one change of forename(s) and one change of surname may be recorded. In Scotland, it is also possible to record a change of name on the original birth register entry at the General Register Office. However, only one change of forename and three changes of surname are permitted.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, a deed poll of change of name () is obtainable from the Central Office of the Four Courts, Dublin at a cost of €30. Like in the UK, there are very few restrictions on name changes. One is that foreign nationals must also obtain a change of name license from the Irish Naturalisation and Immigration Service. One of Ireland's most noted name changers was the politician Seán Loftus, who repeatedly added middle names referring to his political views so that they would appear on election ballot papers.\n\nIn \"re Parrott, Cox v Parrott\" [1946] Ch 183, Mr Justice Vaisey stated that he did not believe that a deed poll could be used to change a person's Christian name (first name) – that could be done by only an Act of Parliament. Deeds that change a person's first name can be registered by the applicant in the Enrolment Books of the Senior Courts of England and Wales, which is located within the Royal Courts of Justice on Strand, London, and they are usually endorsed \"Notwithstanding the decision of Mr Justice Vaisey in \"re Parrott, Cox v Parrott\", the applicant wishes the enrolment to proceed\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27975085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27975085", "title": "Eight Tigers", "text": "Eight Tigers\n\nThe Eight Tigers (), sometimes referred to as the Gang of Eight (八党/八黨), were a powerful group of eunuchs (宦官) that controlled the Chinese imperial court during the reign of the Ming Dynasty Zhengde Emperor (r. 1505-1521 CE).\n\nLed by Liu Jin, the remaining members of the coterie were Ma Yongcheng (馬永成), Gao Feng (高鳳), Luo Xiang (羅祥), Wei Bin (魏彬), Qiu Ju (丘聚), Gu Dayong (谷大用) and Zhang Yong (張永).\n\nEunuchs are castrated men who have often been used as servants in imperial and noble households, due to the belief that they would not be distracted by or a danger to women. Eunuchs were often utilized in the imperial household as harem guards and attendants. The harems were considered necessary in order to help produce a male heir, and the eunuchs were trusted protectors.\n\nBefore the Ming Dynasty, eunuchs had long been a powerful political force in China. In the Tang Dynasty, from 821 until the dynasty's end, eunuchs were \"the real power holders\". They controlled the Imperial Guard and the Palace Secretariat, chose seven out of eight emperors, and possibly killed two emperors.\n\nThe first Ming emperor, Hongwu (1328-1398), was worried about the power of eunuchs. He erected a tablet that said, \"Eunuchs must have nothing to do with administration\", and he worked to disempower them. He warned, \"Anyone using eunuchs as his eyes and ears will be blind and deaf\". Despite these measures, many of emperors who followed Hongwu were more willing to leave ruling to the eunuchs, and the Ming Dynasty became the peak of eunuch influence. By the end of the 15th century, there were 10,000 eunuchs working in the palace.\n\nIn addition to close access to the emperor and his wives and concubines, they were often trusted with imperial sons. Oftentimes this trust extended to eunuchs being given command as palace guards, military commanders, or imperial inspectors. They controlled the court's luxury workshops and managed the tributes from the provinces and foreign countries, and they were often made the heads of official missions abroad. This power gave the eunuchs many chances to become rich through graft. They also eventually controlled the secret police, which meant they could control the nation through blackmail and corruption.\n\nEmperor Zhengde ascended to the imperial throne in 1505, aged 14, after the death of his father.\n\nFrom the early days of his rule it was clear that the young emperor distrusted government officials and was partial to eunuchs who took an active role in raising him. The emperor's inner circle consisted of 8 eunuchs who served him when he was still heir apparent and became his personal staff shortly after Zhengde began his reign. Shortly after the emperor's ascension to the throne, the Eight Tigers swiftly took control of important positions not only in the imperial court but in the secret service and the army. In addition to this, they appointed their relatives to influential ranks and roles in the dynasty.\n\nOne of the eunuchs, Liu Jin, who would emerge as the leader of the group, was put in charge of palace music in early 1506, putting him in position of control over the emperor's entertainment. He excelled in this role, coming up with ideas for pastimes that proved to be much to the emperor's liking.\n\nSeveral groups within the imperial elites were alarmed with Liu Jin's promotion and the group's apparent influence over the young ruler, and so they began plotting against the Eight Tigers.\n\nThree grand secretaries, inherited from the emperor's father and supported by the ministers, demanded the group's execution, while senior eunuchs insisted on banishment as a punishment that the Emperor would be more likely to consider. A joint plan was finally agreed upon and set in motion with a direct petition to the emperor, asking for Liu Jin's execution and banishment of the other members of the group from the imperial court.\n\nLiu Jin was notified of the plot by one of his agents and led seven other eunuchs to ask for mercy before Emperor Zhengde on October 27, 1506.\n\nThe emperor heeded their plea, and on the following day it was announced that he would decide upon their fate at his leisure. All but one grand secretaries resigned immediately upon hearing the news and a number of senior officials followed suit.\n\nThe plot was averted and most checks on the eunuchs' power eliminated with it.\n\nLiu Jin proceeded to retaliate against those who spoke out against him, leading to a string of dismissals, incidents of torture and imprisonments of a number of high government figures.\n\nIn February 1507, twenty-one officials who had protested the dismissal of the senior grand secretaries were beaten and reduced to the status of commoners.\n\nBy the end of 1507 very few in the palace were willing to challenge the reign of terror of Liu Jin, who was known to many at the time as \"Emperor Liu\", and his fellow eunuchs.\n\nLiu Jin was from the area of Xingping, Shaanxi. He was born on February 28, 1451 into the Tan family. His original name was Tan Jin. He considered himself very eloquent, so he decided to become a eunuch, as he considered that his best path to success. After becoming a eunuch, he was adopted by another eunuch named Liu, and changed his name to Liu Jin.\n\nHe began working in the imperial palace in the 1480s, where he began to consolidate the group that later became the Eight Tigers. In 1492, he was removed from his post at the Chenghua emperor's tomb to serve the new heir apparent, the future Zhengde emperor. Liu became a favorite of his, and he became the head of the bureau of bells and drums after Zhengde's rise to the throne in 1505. From there, Liu Jin gradually gained more power and influence, and became known as the leader of the Eight Tigers.\n\nMost Ming and modern historians regard Liu Jin's rise to power as tyrannic and describe him as \"rapacious, cruel, and wily\". He became the Head of the Directorate of Ceremonies, in which role he was notorious for altering rescripts in transit to and from the emperor. This meant he essentially controlled what the emperor knew and what the emperor approved. Later, he became the chief of the imperial staff, and became known for taking bribes from senior officials. For example, he required the thirteen provincial administration officials to pay him 20,000 taels of silver when they visited the capital, three times a year. He also was very influential in the military. At the height of his power, all military actions had to be approved by him, giving him more power than the generals.\n\nAfter the re-establishment of the Western Depot under Gu Dayong, Liu Jin convinced the emperor to create the \"Neixinchang\", or Inner Branch Depot, which would supervise direct dangers to the throne and the emperor's safety. This Depot was made supervisor to the other two, the East and West Depots, thus consolidating Liu Jin's power. The depot persecuted many of the opponents to Liu Jin and his policies. It is estimated that more than one thousand people were killed by the Inner Branch Depot.\n\nFrom the money he gained through corruption, he went on to flaunt his glory and wealth by building a palace in his hometown.\n\nDuring the fall of his reign, officials were sent to detain him and confiscate his belongings. During the house search, the officials found a total of 12,057,800 taels of gold and 259,583,600 taels of silver, as well as gems, false seals, and fans with concealed knives, ostensibly for use in his plot against the emperor. He was ordered to be executed by the punishment of death by a thousand cuts. He was cut 3,357 times over a period of three days.\n\nZhang Yong, a native of Xincheng, Baoding, is fairly absent in historical records until his time in the Eight Tigers. During Emperor Zhengde's reign, he took control of many important posts and developed a tight bond between him and the Emperor. By doing this, he began to disregard the government's policies and plans. For instance, despite heavy opposition from the Ministry of Revenue, he successfully acquired some privatised land. He controlled the Eastern Depot, one of the secret police and intelligence operations that reported to the emperor. He also was given control of the Shen-Chi garrison, which had been established to practice with firearms. In 1510, Zhang Yong was appointed Supreme Commander of the military and sent to put down the Prince of Anhua's rebellion.\n\nDuring Liu Jin's reign, Zhang Yong was his right-hand in the battlefield and at home. He did not get along with Liu Jin, but could not be removed from power due to his military prowess. He conspired with Yang Yiqing to remove Liu Jin from power, and became the most powerful member of the remaining Eight Tiger's after Liu Jin's death.\n\nIn October 1511, he asked the emperor to allow him to select 6,000 troops from the Capital Garrison reserves to be specially trained as assault forces for times of crisis. The emperor approved the request due to his need to fight the rebel forces of Liu the Sixth.\n\nIn July 1514, Zhang Yong was put in charge of an operation to defend against Mongol invasion.\n\nHowever, after Emperor Zhengde's death, his status fell to that of a regular eunuch, and he was ordered to retire by the new emperor, Jiajing. However, by 1529 he had begun to regain some power, and was made the Grand Secretary of Integrated Divisions. He died shortly after this appointment.\n\nAfter the fall of Liu Jin, Gao Feng was made one of the new heads of the Directorate of Ceremonies, along with Wei Bin. Besides this, information on Gao Feng is limited.\n\nMa Yongcheng was from the Bazhou or Wenan area. He grew rich off of the bandit situation, accepting bribes from them so they could gain favor with the emperor. Ma Yongcheng took control of the Eastern Depot, which operated as a spy and secret police agency during the Ming dynasty.\n\nGu Dayong is known for his place at the head of the Western Depot, a secret-police style intelligence agency. Emperor Zhengde reopened it in 1506 after 25 years of dormancy, with Gu Dayong as its leader, due to his desire to have a more comprehensive intelligence agency. The Western Depot was closed down after Liu Jin's arrest, although Emperor Zhengde still considered Gu Dayong quite favorably.\n\nIn August 1511, Gu Dayong was appointed overall superintendent of military affairs, and he led a group of troops south of the capital to fight the rebel forces of the Liu brothers. As a reward for defeating the rebellion, his younger and older brothers became earls.\n\nMembers of his family assumed important positions and roles inside the dynasty. For instance, Gu Dayong's father was given the right to command the Embroidered Uniform Guard alongside Zhang Young's father.\n\nHe also worked in charitable construction projects in Peking. In 1508, he donated a large bell to the Daoist Baiyunguan (White Cloud Temple), which had built a new hall. In 1510 and 1512, he restored the Southern Park's Lingtongmiao, the Yanfasi outside of the city's western gate, and the Huguosi (so that it could house Central Asian monks). He used donations from the emperor and the imperial family to carry out these projects, which seem to have been authorized and requested by the emperor. Gu Dayong also seems to have chosen at least one of his one projects, restoring an old temple in the far Western Hills, turning it into \"a bright and glittering precinct\".\n\nAfter the death of the Zhengde Emperor, he was temporarily honored, before being banished to Nanking, where he died.\n\nHe was in charge of the Eastern Depot, but lost his job after the arrest of Liu Jin. He does not have any of his own records, but is only mentioned sometimes in biographies of the other Eight Tigers. Besides this, information on Qiu Ju is limited.\n\nWei Bin was given command of the \"san qian ying\" (三千營) garrison, which was made of 3,000 barbarians who had surrendered to the throne. Wei Bin is also known for building the Hongshangshi. He used divination to find a suitable burial place in Peking's southern suburbs, and built Hongshangshi there in 1514. The land was officially endowed by the emperor, and the temple became known as Sir Wei's Temple. It was famous for its crab-apple orchards and other unusual trees. After Liu Jin's execution, Wei Bin was made one of the heads of the Directorate of Ceremonial, along with Gao Feng. Wei Bin was made to retire upon the ascension of the Jiajing Emperor.\n\nThere is almost no available information on Luo Xiang, although it is known that he was a member of the Eight Tigers.\n\nAt the beginning of the Zhengde Emperor's reign, Liu Jin and seven other eunuchs who had served him were added to his personal staff. He ignored the advice of his grand secretaries, who told him to limit the roles of his eunuchs in government. Having been raised by eunuchs, he liked them, and, starting in 1506, he gave them important financial and military roles. He enjoyed spending time with them, practicing riding, archery, wrestling, and music. Liu Jin was responsible for palace entertainment, and \"provided dancing, wrestling matches, a menagerie of exotic animals, and of course music\". He also encouraged the Zhengde Emperor to leave the palace in disguise to explore the streets of Peking, which the emperor grew to love. He was thus disinterested in ruling his own government, so he began to leave matters of state solely to his eunuchs.\n\nSince he didn't want to deal with manners of state, he left most of the empire's affairs to the eunuchs. For instance, he needed money to implement various imperial projects, but did not want to use his personal funds, so he listened to and implemented the ideas of the Eight Tigers, which mostly meant raising new taxes.\n\nAlthough Zhengde spent all his money and time on palace entertainments, the Eight Tigers never criticized him and always obeyed his wishes, which caused him to trust them greatly. One example of this is when, in 1516, he decided he wanted to leave the imperial palace and move to Xuanhua for a more entertaining life. Since his grand secretaries and many other officials opposed this, he was prevented from doing so. On September 8, 1517, he attempted the move again, instructing Gu Dayong not to let anyone else follow him past the Juyong pass on the way to Xuanhua. Due to Gu Dayong's dutiful execution of this order, the other government officials could do nothing but wait until the emperor got bored with his new life and returned to Peking in 1518.\n\nZhengde's trust in his eunuchs transcended many attempts to remove the Eight Tigers from power. He gave them dragon robes to wear, which symbolized that they were immune to charges for any crimes they might have committed. The only real challenge to this trust manifested in the arrest of Liu Jin, who had always been his favorite, and was accomplished only with the help of all the other Eight Tigers.\n\nGovernment Control\n\nAfter the failed 1506 petition to remove the Eight Tigers from power, Liu Jin began removing anyone opposed to him from power. In March 1507, he issued an edict that made he and the other Eight Tigers equal in rank and authority to the highest provincial officials, as well as the right to investigate any administrative or judicial matter. All official documents had to be approved by him first before they could be sent to the ministries or grand secretariat. He also broke custom by sentencing officials to punishment by cangue for minor offenses, namely not acknowledging his authority, which had previously never been used on officials, and only for serious crimes. Liu Jin had control of the imperial administration in both the capital and the provinces by the summer of 1507. \n\nThe eunuchs were able to expand their roles within the palace to control the rest of the government structure. Many of these positions became available for the Eight Tigers after the governmental purge after the 1506 petition. For instance, the eunuch Director of Ceremonial usually controlled the Western or Eastern Depots, as well as the Embroidered-Uniform guard, who \"exercised almost unlimited police and governmental authority\", with a greatly feared prison.\n\nThe Depots, which were intelligence and terror organizations, were run by the Eight Tigers. Qiu Ju ran the Eastern Depot, Gu Dayong ran the Western Depot, and Liu Jin ran the Inner Branch Depot. Many suspects, including Imperial Ministers, censors, soldiers, and civilians, were arrested, beaten heavily, and sometimes killed. The Inner Branch Depot's embroidered-uniform guards conducted much of the beating and torture. Those arrested number in the several thousands. The Western and Inner Branch Depots were shut down after Liu Jin's arrest for extortion, although the emperor remained fond of Gu Dayong and contemplated reopening the Western Depot. There was too much backlash, however, and it remained closed. The Eastern Depot, on the other hand, remained operational for the next few years, under different directors, until its disbandment after Emperor Zhengde's death.\n\nWhen he was in power, Liu Jin managed to drastically change government structure in the favor of him and his fellow eunuchs, but he was aiming for much more that was never realized. He wanted to create an empire where eunuchs were the superiors of every official in every branch of government, a scale which would have been unprecedented in Chinese history. Most of his radical reforms to this end are not known, because they were rigorously opposed by the civil officials and so were never implemented.\n\nFinancial\n\nIn 1506, Liu Jin was given the task of raising revenue for the emperor. He claimed that the decline in revenues was due to mismanagement and corruption, and decided to run a general investigation and fine the ineffective officials. Liu Jin implemented many new taxes and worked against corruption and ineffectiveness of government officials. He also became known for accepting large bribes.\n\nFor example, in June 1508, Liu ordered grain inventory inspections. He dispatched secretaries and censors around China to see how much fodder and hay had been purchased, as well as if it had been changed for silver or remained in storage in the warehouses. He also targeted abuses by the local elites, punishing ineffectual officials with jail time or heavy fines paid in grain, which was then shipped to the north and west. In Fukien and Szechwan, Liu Jin added a surtax on silver mines, event though the officials had reported that there was no more silver in them. Since he gave heavy fines to officials who displeased him, many began to pay him bribes to avoid those fines.\n\nLiu Jin also implemented surveys of the military agricultural colonies, which is what eventually led to the Prince of Anhua rebellion in 1510.\n\nEarly Opposition\n\nCensor Jiang Qin objected to Liu Jin driving important officials out of office. Calling Liu Jin \"a minor servant\", he questioned why the emperor should trust Liu Jin so fully when everyone else hated and feared him. He also stated he would give his head if it meant removing Liu Jin from power. For these statements, Jiang Qin was given 30 lashes and imprisoned. Three days later, he again urged Zhengde to execute Liu Jin, but he was beaten again. Finally, after a final flogging, he died.\n\nAfter Liu Jin was appointed the head of the imperial household in June 1506, the grand secretaries were alarmed. They questioned the action but were ignored.\n\nThe first real plan to remove Liu Jin from power came from other, senior eunuchs who felt threatened by his influence. They wanted him either banished to Nanking or executed. On October 27, 1506, Han Wen, the minister of revenue, submitted a petition to the emperor, requesting that he execute the Eight Tigers. The emperor was unwilling to consider this. Minister of personal Hsu Chin warned that the emperor would not change his mind on so drastic a request, but the grand secretaries were resolute, and convinced the senior eunuchs to get the emperor to sign the petition. The court officials agreed to ask the emperor to carry out the sentence on the morning of October 28.\n\nHowever, one of Liu Chin's agents in the court told him about the plan. On the night of October 27, the Eight Tigers begged the emperor for mercy. Liu Jin told the emperor that it was all a conspiracy and that the eunuch Director of Ceremonial was cooperating with the grand secretaries to limit the emperor's power. The emperor believed Liu Jin, and removed the conspirators from their posts, designating Liu Jin as Director of Ceremonial. The rest of the Eight Tigers took over several other important eunuch agency and military positions. The deposed senior eunuchs were banished to Nanking, but were assassinated en route.\n\nOn October 28, 1506, the morning the court had agreed would be the end of the Eight Tigers, the officials realized that something was strange when they were all summoned to the morning audience. A senior official announced that the emperor had decided he would decide what to do about the Eight Tigers by himself. Almost all the grand secretaries then resigned, realizing the battle was lost, and Liu Jin accepted the resignations personally.\n\nLiu Jin went on to consolidate his control and exact revenge over those who had opposed him. He framed Han Wen for fraud, and dismissed him on December 13, 1506. In February 1507, the twenty-one senior officials who had protested the removal of the grand secretaries were beaten and given commoner status. From then on, officials who opposed Liu Jin were beaten, tortured, and dismissed.\n\nOn July 23, 1508, a group of eunuchs submitted an anonymous letter to the emperor about Liu Jin's crimes. Liu Jin thought it must have been written by an official, and began investigating them, arresting all the palace officials. He released them once he discovered a eunuch had written the letter, and then he established a security agency to investigate them. He banished the eunuchs involved to Nanking.\n\nLiu Jin raised the tax rate in Shaanxi, and he had tax delinquents arrested and beaten. This angered the soldiers in the province. The local prince, Prince Anhua, was already angry about the power of the eunuchs. He believed that they gained their positions through persuasiveness, not through any real helpfulness to the empire. Therefore, Prince Anhua decided to take the opportunity to rebel. On May 12, 1510, he held a banquet, then had the soldiers come in and kill the officials, officers, and eunuchs in attendance. He then announced he was raising an army to defeat Liu Jin. However, the rebellion only lasted 19 days before he was betrayed by one of his own cavalry commanders. Zhang Yong and Yang Yiqing, who had been dispatched to defeat the rebellion, arrived to escort the prince back to the capital for his execution.\n\nLiu Jin was not on good terms with Zhang Yong, who could not be removed from his post like Liu Jin's other enemies due to his military prowess. Liu Jin considered himself the dictator of the rest of the Eight Tigers, and often delegated the work he did not want to do to them. This attitude caused the rest of the Eight Tigers to resent him as well. This rift led to the eventual toppling of Liu Jin.\n\nBy 1510 the relations between Liu Jin and Zhang Yong have significantly deteriorated. As an inspector of the army Zhang Yong was sent to Shaanxi to oversee the suppression of the Prince of Anhua rebellion by the imperial forces. His companion during the travels was Yang Yiqing, the supreme commander of the army, who was once forced out of office by Liu Jin in 1507 and held a grudge against him. Yang Yiquing managed to convince the eunuch that Liu Jin was planning an operation that would put Zhang Yong's life in danger. He claimed that Liu Jin was planning to assassinate the emperor and put his own grand-nephew on the throne, and that the plan would begin on September 17, 1510.\n\nOn September 13, the emperor held a banquet with the Eight Tigers, and Liu Jin left first. Zhang Yong told the emperor about Liu Jiu's plan, and he and the rest of the Eight Tigers convinced him to send guards to arrest Liu Jin and confiscate his property. The emperor decided he was guilty when he saw Liu Jin's hordes of wealth.\n\nAt his trial, Liu Jin at first tried his normal tactics of controlling those who defied him. He appealed to the people who he claimed he had helped over the years, saying they owed him. When an imperial consort asked why he had so much armor hidden away if not to attack the emperor, he stopped speaking. The emperor was convinced, and Liu Jin was sentenced to death by a thousand cuts. The execution began on September 27 and lasted for 3 days. His property was taken and used to prop up the emperor's finances.\n\nThe execution of Liu Jin, which took place in 1510, greatly diminished the ability of the group to influence emperor's decisions. The system built by Liu Jin that bestowed significant authority upon the eunuchs was swiftly dismantled by the government officials after his death. However, the Zhengde emperor continued to entrust the remaining members of the Eight Tigers with authority. He still needed financial security, so he gave the eunuchs the power to take whatever supplies and labor they needed from civil officials, in order to make their jobs easier. He appointed Wei Bin and Gao Feng as the new Directors of Ceremonial, and had the rest continue to run the garrisons and surveillance agencies.\n\nAfter the death of the Zhengde emperor, many of the Eight Tigers were banished.\n\nConfucian scholars viewed the eunuchs as usurpers, as they rose to power independent of the examination system.\n\nAdditionally, the imperial censors, who sometimes criticized powerful eunuchs directly to the emperor, viewed the defeat of Liu Jin as a victory for the strength of China's empire. In 1624, censor Yang Lien implored the emperor to impeach eunuch Wei Zhongxian in a letter which said that eunuchs must be kept from interfering in anything outside palace life. He mentioned Liu Jin: \"Even such arrogant and lawless eunuchs as Wang Zhen and Liu Jin were promptly executed. Thus the dynasty lasted until today\".\n\nIn the histories, written by the Confucian scholars, eunuchs, including the Eight Tigers and especially Liu Jin, are portrayed negatively. Liu Jin is blamed for the outbreak of rebellions at the end of Emperor Zhengde's reign. In the earliest complete narrative of the 1510 rebellion, \"Rebellion Quelled at Jianghuai\", written in 1513, Wang Ao argued that Liu Jin was responsible for the rebellion, writing, \"In the early Zhengde reign, the traitorous eunuch unlawfully seized the power of the sovereign. By [his] cruel punishments and tyranny, [he] poisoned all within the seas. All within the seas was confused and in upheaval. [When] the traitorous eunuch was executed, the masses of bandits/rebels arose\". In Jianghai jianqu ji, Zhu Yunming asserted that Liu Jin's abuses pushed the empire to rebellion.\n\nOne Ming historian who portrays Liu Jin in a more positive light is Liao Xinyi in \"A Brief Study of Liu Jin's 'Change of Established Regulations\", in which he argues that the grain inventory inspections were motivated more by the need to supplement the grain of the northern and western borders than by a desire by Liu Jin to extract bribes or revenge.\n\nIn the \"Veritable Records of Wuzong\", Liu Jin is again described in a very negative way. There seems to be disagreement on his relation to the rebellions, for while it is agreed that he sometimes worked tirelessly to stop banditry, it is also sometimes claimed that he was personally linked to the bandits and supported them in their rebellions. It is true that rebellions rose along with Liu Jin's fall, but the relationship between those events is unclear.\n\nNishimura Gensho, the leading Japanese scholar of the 1510 rebellion, attributes the rebellion to the weakness of Emperor Zhengde as his court was overrun by scheming eunuchs. He claims that the extensive intelligence network run by the eunuchs caused the empire to fall into a period of panic, and that the imperial estates uprooted peasants from their land and livelihoods, lending more support to the rebellion.\n\nThe dragon cloaks worn by the emperor's chosen Eight Tigers came to symbolize great power, which was desirable to young men trying to make a career. The Eight Tigers convinced many young boys and men to become castrated, as they believed that was the path towards a successful life.\n\nOverall, the Eight Tigers add credence to the many stories told in the classical Chinese histories and in modern scholarship about how much power eunuchs had in imperial China. In a book of classical Chinese tales, the Eight Tigers and their infamy are mentioned several times. A few examples: Liu Jin, as head of the Inner Branch Depot, was powerful enough to demand that officials kneel before him and to order flogging punishments, sometimes until death. The Inner Branch Depot is infamous for arresting people numbering in the several thousands. It also mentions the Eastern Depot, calling it an \"imperial terror establishment\" and \"Gestapo-like organization\".\n\nLiu Jin is featured in several plays and novels.\n\nHang Kai, who was instrumental in Lin Jiu's removal from power, wrote many plays featuring Liu Jin, as they were both from Xinping.\n\nHowever, the most famous play with Liu Jin, Famensi (Famen Temple) became popular during the Qing Dynasty, its earliest known record in 1845. This classic Peking Opera included the lines, \"My last name is Liu, my first name is Jin… At age seven, I was castrated and entered the imperial palace two years later… I helped Emperor Zhengde ascend the throne\". In the play, Liu Jin is a painted-face role (xiahualian), whose face is painted red to indicate Liu Jin's \"rough characteristics and compelling power\".\n\nFamen Temple tells the story of a famous murder case. The murderers got away, and an innocent man was falsely accused, by Liu Jin ordered the court to be reviewed, which led to the punishment of the perpetrators. Throughout the play, he is decisive, but his decisions are backed up or checked by the Empress Dowager. The play thus portrays Liu Jin in a relatively positive light. Famen Temple is a famous classic opera, and was a favorite of Empress Dowager Cixi. It has a famous video recording from 1950 and a few famous audio recordings.\n\nAt least two novels written in the Qing dynasty feature Liu Jin in a treacherous plot. In \"Bajian qixia wuyi pingmen qianhou zhuan\" and \"Sanmenjie\", Liu Jin lures the emperor from the capital's safety to Suzhou, promising him beautiful women and scenery. Using his connections with three bandit chiefs, who have an army of ten-thousand men based in Qingzhou, Shandong, Liu Jin has the imperial entourage attacked. The emperor is saved by the bravery of a set of fraternal twins.\n\n"}
{"id": "32019742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32019742", "title": "Fathers of the Constitution", "text": "Fathers of the Constitution\n\nThe Fathers of the Constitution () were the seven political leaders who participated in the writing of the Spanish Constitution of 1978. \n\nGabriel Cisneros, Miguel Herrero y Rodríguez de Miñón and José Pedro Pérez Llorca\nrepresented the centre-right Union of the Democratic Centre; Manuel Fraga Iribarne, the right-wing People's Alliance; Gregorio Peces-Barba, the left-wing Spanish Socialist Worker's Party; Jordi Solé Tura, the Unified Socialist Party of Catalonia and Miguel Roca Junyent, of the Democratic Pact for Catalonia, represented the Catalan nationalists.\n\nThe 7 fathers of the Constitution.\n"}
{"id": "12599169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12599169", "title": "Jack of the President of the Republic of Poland", "text": "Jack of the President of the Republic of Poland\n\nJack of the President of the Republic of Poland – Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland () is a jack flag used in the Polish Armed Forces to mark the presence and pay respect to the President of the Republic of Poland who is also \"ex officio\" the commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces. The jack is raised on Polish Navy ships when the president is officially on board, as well as on land, if the president is present. The design of the jack is based directly on the pre-war Banner of the Republic of Poland which used to be part of presidential insignia.\n\nThe jack of the President is defined in the Ordinance of the Minister of National Defense on the Use of Insignia of the Armed Forces of January 26, 1996 with subsequent amendments. The ordinance defines the jack of the President as \"a piece of red cloth with the image of the state eagle (i.e. the White Eagle from the national coat of arms) in the middle, bordered with a \"wężyk generalski\"\", an ornate wavy line used in the Polish military as a symbol of general's rank. The hoist to fly ratio is 5:6. The proportion of the eagle's height to the fly is 3:5.\n\nThe presidential jack is used in military ceremonies attended by the commander-in-chief. Celebrations of the Constitution Day, May 3; Polish Armed Forces Day, August 15; and Independence Day, November 11 (see Public holidays in Poland) are typical occasions. For example, during the grand military parade on August 15, 2007 in Warsaw, President Lech Kaczyński rode in a convertible jeep preceded by a mounted cavalry officer carrying the presidential jack,\nwhile a smaller jack was attached to the president's jeep as a car flag. The jack also draped the coffins of President Kaczyński (see Death and state funeral of Lech Kaczyński and Maria Kaczyńska) and former President-in-exile Ryszard Kaczorowski after both died in the Smolensk air crash of 2010.\n\nA state banner was used in Poland as insignia of the head of state (king, president, etc.) as early as the 11th century CE. Although its design changed with time, it was always a heraldic banner, i.e. one based directly on the national coat of arms: a crowned White Eagle in a red field. In 1919, the Sejm (lower house of parliament) established the Banner of the Republic of Poland, reserved for use by the head of state – the State Leader (\"Naczelnik Państwa\") and, later, President of the Republic. In 1927, it was modified to reflect the adoption of a new official rendering of the national coat of arms. At this point the banner was virtually identical to the current design for the presidential jack.\n\nAfter the Second World War, the Banner of the Republic was still used by presidents-in-exile while a variant with a crownless eagle was used by Communist authorities at home. Officially abandoned in 1955, the banner continued to be used in practice by the prime minister and, during the 1960s, by the Council of State, a collective head of state of the time.\n\nThe modern Jack of the President of the Republic of Poland was established by the Minister of National Defense on January 29, 1996 with the sole purpose of flying it on Polish Navy ships while the commander-in-chief is on board. On December 14, 2005, the use of the presidential jack was extended to all branches of Polish Armed Forces. It was first flown on land during a Constitution Day ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Warsaw on May 3, 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55633356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55633356", "title": "Keibu keioiba", "text": "Keibu keioiba\n\nKeibu keioiba is a mythological or fictional character based on Meetei folklore. It is a creature having half tiger and half human features, depicted to be transformed from a learned ancient Manipuri physician. He was experimenting his magical skills and powers, and came up with this idea of turning himself into a powerful man with strength of a tiger. He became this creature with the head, limbs and strength of a tiger but failed to remember how to revert to his normal human form, owing to low memory or thinking capacity of a tiger.\n\nThis is a story of a kind, dedicated and skilled ancient Manipuri physician, who used to ride on a horse and visit places to heal the suffering ailments. As his knowledge and skill kept on increasing day by day, he kept on wanting to learn more and more. At a time, he was able to do whatever he wanted. He kept on conducting experiments until he decided to turn himself into a tiger one day, for he wanted the power of a tiger.\n\nHe taught his wife how to help him turn into a tiger and how to return to his human form. But, as soon as he became the tiger-like creature/ keibu keioiba, he developed the tiger-instinct of roaring and frightening people. So, his wife ran away from him before he could be subjected to return to his human form. Instead, he even tried to kill his wife and ran away in the wild far from home.\nWhen he got hungry, he would come to human villages to steal poultry or fish or livestock, as he never learned how to hunt like a real tiger in the wild. He became the feared and the hated. He began to target humans for food.\n\nHe came to a village and took a young girl called Thabaton, who was home alone, left by her seven brothers for work. He was avenged by the brothers and the girl was saved.\nThe story depicts the never-ending desire of man for getting more which ultimately ruins himself. It teaches a lesson to us about the evil effects of this human nature. We can witness many examples of this today- e.g., global warming because of the never-ending industrial race, world devastation by never ending arms race in world wars, etc.\n\nAlmost every Manipuri grow up listening to this folktale from their elders. It is a common story told to kids over many generations.\n\nA 2-D Manipuri animated film, titled as \"keibu keioiba\", has been made, directed by Bhumenjoy konsam, released in 2009, based on the original folktale. The movie has increased awareness of the story to the selfie-generation kids of present Manipur as well as to other communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "41149574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41149574", "title": "Lambeth slavery case", "text": "Lambeth slavery case\n\nOn 21 November 2013 Metropolitan Police from the Human Trafficking Unit arrested two suspects at a residential address in Lambeth, South London. A 73-year-old ethnic Indian Singaporean man, Aravindan Balakrishnan, and a 67-year-old Tanzanian woman, his wife, Chanda Pattni, had been investigated for slavery and domestic servitude. The case centred around the Workers' Institute of Marxism–Leninism–Mao Zedong Thought commune which was led by Balakrishnan. In the early 1980s after a police raid, Balakrishnan decided to move the group's activities underground. Balakrishnan's control over his followers intensified and the commune became a prison to his followers. On 25 October 2013, three women were rescued from the commune. These were: a 69-year-old Malaysian woman (later revealed to be Aishah Wahab), a 57-year-old Irish woman (Josephine Herivel) and a 30-year-old British woman (Katy Morgan-Davies). Katy Morgan-Davies was born into the sect and hadn't experienced the outside world until her release.\n\nAravindan Balakrishnan (known to his followers as \"Comrade Bala\") was born in Kerala, India but migrated to Singapore, Malaya, where his father was a soldier, when he was 10. Balakrishnan was a student at Raffles Institution and later the University of Singapore, where although gaining a reputation as a \"quiet chap\", he became increasingly politically active and believed that he would have been imprisoned in Singapore had he openly admitted to being a communist. In 1977, while living in London, His Singaporean citizenship – which he gained in 1960 – was revoked due to his leadership of the Workers' Institute of Marxism–Leninism–Mao Zedong Thought, which the Ministry of Home Affairs accused of engaging in \"activities which are prejudicial to the security\" of Singapore, and denounced him as a radical \"closely associated with Eurocommunists\". The authorities claimed that Balakrishnan and others, many of them former Singaporean students he had associated with in London, were plotting to overthrow Singapore's leader, Lee Kuan Yew.\n\nDespite believing the United Kingdom to be a fascist state due to its treatment of the people of Singapore during the Malayan Emergency, Balakrishnan emigrated to the UK in 1963 on a British Council scholarship to study at the London School of Economics, and married his wife Chandra in 1971. Over the years he built up a following by giving lectures and staging various sit-ins and protests. He was a regular attendee at London demonstrations, where he waved banners depicting the Chinese leader Mao Zedong and addressed the crowds.\n\nIn 1974, Balakrishnan and his \"small clique\" were expelled from the Communist Party of England (Marxist–Leninist) on account of \"their pursuance of conspiratorial and splittist activities ... spreading social fascist slanders against the Party and the proletarian movement\" and attempting \"to put themselves above the discipline of the Party\". The CPE(M–L) \"repudiated the metaphysical logic harmfully promoted\" by Balakrishnan in \"opposition to dialectical materialism and the concrete analysis of concrete conditions\". In response, Balakrishnan set up the Workers' Institute and launched his own publication, the \"South London Workers' Bulletin\", which accused the CPE(M–L) of being \"fascists\" and \"agents of imperialism\".\n\nBetween 1974 and 1976, his followers attempted to \"build revolutionary stable base areas in working-class communities\", primarily South London, and worked in ordinary jobs. Balakrishnan discouraged his followers from joining trade unions, describing them as agents of the \"imperialist fascist bourgeoisie\".\n\nEventually, after the more liberal members of his group drifted away, a cult of around 10 female members formed around him. The collective moved to Brixton in 1976, under the title Workers Institute of Marxism-Leninism-Mao Zedong Thought. Following Mao's death in 1976, the Institute built the Mao Zedong Memorial Centre at 140 Acre Lane, Brixton, which also functioned as a communist collective of \"thirteen comrades\", with \"13 members living on the premises, half in paid work, six doing full-time revolutionary work, with a strong emphasis on women taking a leading role (apart from leading the Party Committee headed by Bala)\". Members were handed a rota of chores and only allowed to go out in pairs, which Balakrishnan claimed was because the area they lived in was \"notorious for violence\" and \"anything could happen\".\n\nFollowing a police raid on the Memorial Centre in March 1978, which the group claimed involved \"over 200 police\", including officers from the Special Patrol Group, \"under the pretext of searching for drugs\", the Workers' Institute effectively went underground, with the remaining members being convinced to end all contact with others and maintain an intense level of secrecy. Family members were later branded fascist agents and ostracised, and Balakrishnan and his captives moved to a number of properties during this time as a means for him to escape detection from the authorities. Balakrishnan convinced his followers that everything was controlled by him from the sun, the moon, wind and fires; that he could overthrow governments, control natural disasters, and make people live or die. In order to progress his cause, Balakrishnan invented \"JACKIE\" (an acronym for Jehovah, Allah, Christ, Krishna and Immortal Easwaran) – a type of dangerous, mystical machine that monitored all thought and could control minds. \n\nBalakrishnan began sexually abusing two of the women in 1979, often physically beating them and making others watch as he did so. All of the women were beaten and four (not including his wife) were said to have been sexually assaulted or engaged with sexual relations with him. Balakrishnan forced the women to swallow his ejaculate as it was \"the elixir of life\", and claimed the women he sexually abused had been trying to seduce him out of \"jealousy\" for his lover.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe two older victims are believed to have met Balakrishnan in London through, according to police, a shared political ideology, as he was the leader of the Workers' Institute of Marxism–Leninism–Mao Zedong Thought. The women were not being physically restrained, but held by \"invisible handcuffs\" after being subjected to brainwashing, emotional abuse and physical abuse by their captors. \nThe three women, who are not related, are said to have been held captive for more than 30 years with the youngest of the three thought to have spent her whole life in servitude. However it has not yet been established if she was born in the house from where she was rescued. The police were tipped off by Freedom Charity who contacted police following a phone call they had received on 18 October, during which a woman stated that she'd been held unwillingly for more than 30 years. Aneeta Prem of Freedom Charity confirmed that the Irish woman made contact with the charity after watching the ITV television documentary \"Forced to Marry\" about forced marriage in the United Kingdom. The women, who are said to be \"highly traumatised\", are now in safe accommodation.\n\nThe two suspects were bailed until April 2014, and were unable to return to the three-bedroom flat they rented from a housing association.\n\nOn 11 December 2014, it emerged that Balakrishnan had been charged with offences relating to cruelty to a person under 16, four counts of rape and 17 counts of indecent assault. Balakrishnan appeared before Westminster magistrates on 17 December 2014. His wife, Chanda Pattni, was released earlier in 2014, as there was considered to be insufficient evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction. \n\nBalakrishnan's trial started on 11 November 2015. During his trial, he acted as the only defence witness, and told jurors that a challenge to his leadership resulted in the 1986 Space Shuttle Challenger disaster, and that JACKIE was responsible for the death of a Malaysian prime minister and the election of Jeremy Corbyn as Leader of the Labour Party.\n\nOn 4 December 2015, Balakrishnan was convicted of child cruelty, false imprisonment, four counts of rape, six counts of indecent assault and two counts of assault. On 29 January 2016, Balakrishnan was jailed for 23 years. \n"}
{"id": "86518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86518", "title": "Liath Luachra", "text": "Liath Luachra\n\nLiath Luachra, the \"Gray of Luachair\", is the name of two characters in the Fenian Cycle of Irish mythology. Both appear in \"The Boyhood Deeds of Fionn\", which details the young life and adventures of the hero Fionn mac Cumhaill.\n\nThe first Liath Luachra is one of Fionn's foster mothers who raise him after the death of his father Cumhal at the hands of Goll mac Morna. She is a great warrior and a companion of Fionn's aunt, the druidess Bodhmall; together they raise the boy in secret in the forest of Sliabh Bladhma. Eventually Fionn's ever-spreading fame threatens to bring his father's killers to him, and his caretakers send him to find his own way. By this point they have taught him enough that he can survive on his own, and he goes into the king of Bantry's service.\n\nThe second Liath Luachra is a tall, hideous warrior and a member of the Fianna. He had been an enemy of Cumhal, and even dealt him the first blow in the battle at which he died. Later Goll mac Morna gave him possession of Cumhal's treasures, and made him the Fianna's official treasurer. His \"corrbolg\" or \"crane bag\" is one of the warrior band's great treasures. Eventually he kills a young warrior named Glonda; Fionn sees the man's mother crying blood over the murder and decides to avenge him. He kills Liath easily and takes his treasure from him. This Liath has a son, Conán mac Lia, who becomes lord of Luchair and a marauder against Fionn and the Fianna. He is eventually reconciled with the group and joins them.\n\n"}
{"id": "53280209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53280209", "title": "Lil Miquela", "text": "Lil Miquela\n\nMiquela Sousa, better known as Lil Miquela, is a fictional character created by Trevor McFedries and Sara Decou as a digital art project. Miquela is an Instagram model and music artist claiming to be from Downey, California.\n\nThe project began in 2016 as an Instagram profile. By April 2018, the account had amassed more than a million followers by portraying the lifestyle of an Instagram it-girl over social media. The account also details a fictional narrative which presents Miquela as a sentient robot in conflict with other digital projects created by McFedries and Decou.\n\nIn August 2017, Miquela released her first single, \"Not Mine\". Her pivot into a music has been compared to virtual musicians Gorillaz and Hatsune Miku.\n\nMiquela’s first Instagram post was made on April 22, 2016. The project garnered both intrigue and criticism for the character's digital appearance with fans and online commenters oscillating between positing that Miquela is an art project or a social experiment carried out by a real unidentified woman. Miquela was rumored to be a marketing gimmick for \"The Sims\". British model Emily Bador was rumored to be Miquela, fans citing the character's abundance of freckles. Bador openly acknowledged the physical similarity.\n\nMiquela has been pictured with a number of celebrities including Diplo, How to Dress Well, killerandasweetthang founder Eileen Kelly, Molly Soda, Nile Rogers, and Samantha Urbani. She has been interviewed and or profiled in a number of publications including Refinery29, Vogue, Buzzfeed, v-files, Nylon, the Guardian, Business of Fashion, The Cut, and BBC.com. As well as by Shane Dawson, YouTube celebrity, in a phone interview. She appeared on the cover of High Snobiety in April 2018. In February 2018, Miquela did an Instagram takeover for Prada as part of Milan Fashion Week.\n\nIn April 2018, a trans-media story began to play out on Miquela's Instagram involving @Blawko22, and @BermudaIsBae, two other virtual Instagram accounts who are presented as \"sentient robots.\" The story suggests that two organizations are responsible for the creation of these sentient robots. In the narrative, fictional brand Brud created Miquela and \"Blawko22\" while competing fictional brand Cain Intelligence created \"BermudaIsBae\".\n\nOn April 17, all of Miquela's Instagram posts were removed. \"BermudaIsBae\" was purported to have hacked Miquela's account. The two online personas then began posting pictures together as Miquela worked to reclaim the original account. After reclaiming the account, Miquela posted a series of notes saying that she is a robot and claiming sentience.\n\nMiquela has released several singles since her debut with \"Not Mine,\" including \"You Should be Alone,\" \"Over You,\" and a collaboration with Baauer titled \"Hate Me.\" Her musical style is characterized by the use of auto-tune and trap-influenced production. Her music has been released on YouTube and Spotify. Miquela's sound is purportedly based off of the soundtrack to Sam Raimi's 1981 cult classic, Evil Dead. \n"}
{"id": "54506100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54506100", "title": "List of kings of Fib", "text": "List of kings of Fib\n\nThese mythological monarchs supposedly ruled Fib, the reigns of these monarchs are mostly legendary and begin in the 7th century BCE with king Fib. The reigns of these monarchs are attributed to the Pictish chronicles, written in the 10th century during the reign of King Kenneth II of Scotland.\n\nFor later monarchs see List of Pictish Kings. Fib became a puppet state after the reign of the only true king Fib, it was a sub-kingdom from the 7th century BCE until the 9th Century CE (691 BCE - 837/843 CE) when Pictland was united under Kenneth MacAlpin, the last king to rule Pictland before Kenneth was Drest X thus making him the last king of the Fib puppet-state.\n\n"}
{"id": "55719669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55719669", "title": "List of people and organisations named in the Paradise Papers", "text": "List of people and organisations named in the Paradise Papers\n\nThis is a list of people and organisations named in the Paradise Papers as connected to offshore companies. International Consortium of Investigative Journalists had stated in their politicians database as disclaimer, that \"There are legitimate uses for offshore companies and trusts. We do not intend to suggest or imply that any people, companies or other entities included in the ICIJ Offshore Leaks Database have broken the law or otherwise acted improperly. \"\n\nCurrent or former heads of state or government of their country as defined by their political position at the time of announcement, \"not\" whether the documents in the Papers relating to them coincided with their period of office.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38195450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38195450", "title": "List of personal coats of arms of Presidents of the United States", "text": "List of personal coats of arms of Presidents of the United States\n\nMany United States presidents have borne a coat of arms; largely through inheritance, assumption, or grants from foreign heraldic authorities. One, Dwight Eisenhower, received his upon becoming a Knight of the Order of the Elephant of Denmark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21297556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21297556", "title": "List of personal standards of the Kings of Portugal", "text": "List of personal standards of the Kings of Portugal\n\nThis is a list of personal standards of the Kings of Portugal.\n\n"}
{"id": "55886409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55886409", "title": "List of private residents of Covent Garden", "text": "List of private residents of Covent Garden\n\nThe entries in this tabulation cover some 150 years in the 17th and 18th centuries, when the private residents of Covent Garden included many people of rank and note. They ranged from marquesses to barons, foreign ambassadors and members of parliament to physicians, surgeons, antiquaries, artists, authors and dramatists. Some of the later arrivals were auctioneers, such as Christopher Cock and Abraham Langford, who found rich sources for future sales amongst their neighbours. \n\nMost of the entries are derived from \"The Piazza: Notable private residents in the Piazza\", which in turn is based on Sheppard's \"Survey of London: Volume 36, Covent Garden\". Other sources are noted where appropriate.\n"}
{"id": "691962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=691962", "title": "Lupus of Sens", "text": "Lupus of Sens\n\nSaint Lupus of Sens (or Saint Loup de Sens) (born c. 573; died c. 623) was an early French bishop of Sens.\n\nHe was the son of Betton, Count of Tonnerre, \"Blessed Betto,\" a member of the royal house of the Kingdom of Burgundy.\n\nThe Romanesque church dedicated to Saint Loup at Naud, 8 km from Provins in Champagne in the east of France is distinguished by the outstanding sculptures in the porch of its great doorway, with an ambitious iconographic program in which Saint Loup mediates entry into the mystery of the Trinity. About 980, Sevinus, archbishop of Sens, made a gift to the Benedictine community of the abbey of Saint-Pierre-le-Vif at Sens of four altars \"in villa que dicitus Naudus, in honore sancti lupi consecratum\"—\"in the demesne that is called Naud, consecrated in honor of Saint Loup\"—betokening the presence of a shrine already on this site, a priory under the direction of the abbot of Saint-Pierre-le-Vif. Other documents mention Saint-Loup-de-Naud among the possessions of the abbey at Sens, seat of an archbishop with close political ties to the French Crown, who had Paris within his diocese. Thus, though it lay so close to Provins, a seat of the counts of Champagne and the abbey church was completed by Henri le Libéral, comte de Champagne, the priory at Saint-Loup-de-Naud looked to Sens for its patronage: a visit from the abbot is documented in 1120. In 1160/61 Hugues de Toucy, Archbishop of Sens, presented to the priory the relic of Saint Loup, brought from the abbey of Sainte-Colombe, to that community's dismay; the sculpted \"portail\" with an iconography comparable to the royal portal at Chartres was doubtless undertaken shortly thereafter, when pilgrimages brought wealth to the community.\n\nThe priory was laid waste by the English in 1432, during the Hundred Years' War and again by the Huguenots in 1567, during the French Wars of Religion.\n\nNumerous communes of France are named Saint-Loup; they commemorate several venerable early saints with the Latinized Germanic name of \"Lupus\" (\"wolf\"): besides Saint Loup de Sens, venerated in Champagne, Île-de-France and Picardy there are Saint Loup de Troyes, Saint Loup de Bayeux, one of the early Bishops of Bayeux; and—more locally venerated—Saint Loup de Limoges, Saint Loup de Soissons, and Saint Loup de Châlons-en-Champagne. A number of the communes called Saint-Loup in the west of France are not easily connected with a specific Saint Loup.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45711199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45711199", "title": "Magnes the shepherd", "text": "Magnes the shepherd\n\nMagnes the shepherd, sometimes described as Magnes the shepherd boy, is a mythological figure, possibly based on a real person, who was cited by Pliny the Elder (23 CE – 79 CE) as discovering natural magnetism. His name, \"Magnes\", the Latin word for \"magnetite\", has been attributed as the origin of the Latin root that has passed into English, giving its speakers the words \"magnet\", \"magnetism\", the mentioned ore, and related formulations. Other authorities have attributed the word origin to other sources.\n\nAs set out in Pliny's \"Naturalis Historia\" (\"Natural History\"), an early encyclopedia published c. 77 CE – c. 79 CE, and as translated from the Latin in Robert Jacobus Forbes' \"Studies in Ancient Technology\", Pliny wrote the following (attributing the source of his information, in turn, to Nicander of Colophon):\nNicander is our authority that it [magnetite ore] was called Magnes from the man who first discovered it on Mount Ida and he is said to have found it when the nails of his shoes and the ferrule of his staff adhered to it, as he was pasturing his herds.\nThe passage appears at Book XXXVI of \"Naturalis Historia\", covering \"The Natural History of Stones\", at chapter 25 entitled \"The Magnet: Three Remedies\". Although Pliny's description is often cited, the story of Magnes the shepherd is postulated by physicist Gillian Turner to be much older, dating from approximately 900 BCE.\nAny writings Nicander may have made on the subject have since been lost.\n\nWritten in approximately 600 CE, book XVI of \"Etymologiae\" by Isidore of Seville tells the same story as Pliny, but places Magnes in India. This is repeated in Vincent of Beauvais' \"Miroir du Monde\" (c. 1250 CE) and in Thomas Nicols' 1652 work, \"Lapidary, or, the History of Pretious Stones\", wherein he describes Magnes as a \"shepherd of India, who was wont to keep his flocks about those mountains in India, where there was an abundance of lodestones\".\n\nFollowing from Pliny's account, the shepherd's name has been often cited as giving rise to the Latin root word and etymological source of the English word for magnet and the coterie of its related word forms such as \"magnetite\", \"magnet\", \"magnetism\", \"magnesium\", \"manganese\" and others. Other authorities, including the Roman poet and philosopher Lucretius (c. 99 BCE – c. 55 BCE), have attributed the etymology of \"magnet\", and progeny, to the name of the Lydian city, Magnesia ad Sipylum (Manisa, Turkey in modern times), where magnetic ore may have first been discovered or recognized. Other ancient locations have been attributed as the origin, including the Greek province Thracian Magnesia, and the Ionian city of Magnesia ad Maeandrum.\n\nThe idea that the legend of Magnes the shepherd could be the origin of \"magnet\", et al., and the legend itself has been criticized. Pliny's story is characterized in Gillian Turner's book \"North Pole, South Pole: The Epic Quest to Solve the Great Mystery of Earth’s Magnetism\" (2011) as \"no doubt embellished by centuries of retelling.\" In the 1896 treatise \"Coil and Current; or the Triumphs of Electricity\", the authors write: 'Magnet' is derived from the legend of Magnes, or from the territory of Magnesia. Pliny states that Magnes, the shepherd, discovered it, and the legend told of him is that while carrying a message over Mount Ida he felt his feet clinging to the earth, to the iron ore which lay thickly upon the hill. Hence the name of the Magnet. But Magnesia was a territory whence this native iron was for hundreds of years exported, and the name \"Magnet\" is, no doubt, due to this place.\n\n"}
{"id": "187916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187916", "title": "Man in the Moon", "text": "Man in the Moon\n\nThe Man in the Moon refers to any of several pareidolic images of a human face, head or body that certain traditions recognize in the disc of the full moon. The images are composed of the dark areas of the lunar \"maria\", or \"seas\" and the lighter highlands of the lunar surface.\n\nThere are various explanations for how the Man in the Moon came to be.\n\nA longstanding European tradition holds that the man was banished to the moon for some crime. Christian lore commonly held that he is the man caught gathering sticks on the Sabbath and sentenced by God to death by stoning in the book of Numbers XV.32-36. Some Germanic cultures thought he was a man caught stealing from a neighbor's hedgerow to repair his own. There is a Roman legend that he is a sheep-thief.\n\nOne medieval Christian tradition claims him to be Cain, the Wanderer, forever doomed to circle the Earth. Dante's \"Inferno\" alludes to this:\n<poem>\nFor now doth Cain with fork of thorns confine\nOn either hemisphere, touching the wave\nBeneath the towers of Seville. Yesternight\nThe moon was round.</poem>\n\nThis is mentioned again in his \"Paradise\":\n<poem>\nBut tell, I pray thee, whence the gloomy spots\nUpon this body, which below on earth\nGive rise to talk of Cain in fabling quaint?</poem>\n\nThere is also a Talmudic tradition that the image of Jacob is engraved on the moon, although no such mention appears in the Torah.\n\nJohn Lyly says in the prologue to his \"Endymion\" (1591), \"There liveth none under the sunne, that knows what to make of the man in the moone.\"\n\nIn Norse mythology, Máni is the male personification of the moon who crosses the sky in a horse-drawn carriage. He is continually pursued by the Great Wolf Hati who catches him at Ragnarök. \"Máni\" simply means \"Moon\".\n\nIn Chinese mythology, the goddess Chang'e is stranded upon the moon after foolishly consuming a double dose of an immortality potion. In some versions of the myth she is accompanied by Yu Tu, a moon rabbit.\n\nIn Haida mythology, the figure represents a boy gathering sticks. The boy's father had told him the moon's light would brighten the night, allowing the chore to be completed. Not wanting to gather sticks, the boy complained and ridiculed the moon. As punishment for his disrespect, the boy was taken from Earth and trapped on the moon.\n\nThere is a traditional belief that the Man in the Moon enjoyed drinking, especially claret. An old ballad runs (original spelling):\n<poem>\nOur man in the moon drinks clarret,\nWith powder-beef, turnep, and carret.\nIf he doth so, why should not you\nDrink until the sky looks blew?</poem>\n\nIn the English Middle Ages and renaissance, the moon was held to be the god of drunkards, and at least three London taverns were named \"The Man in the Moone\".\nThe man in the moon is named in an early dated English nursery rhyme:\n<poem>\nThe man in the moon came tumbling down\nAnd asked his way to Norwich;\nHe went by the south and burnt his mouth\nWith supping cold pease porridge.</poem>\n\nOne tradition sees a figure of a man carrying a wide burden on his back. He is sometimes seen as accompanied by a small dog. Various cultures recognise other examples of lunar pareidolia, such as the Moon rabbit.\n\nIn the Northern Hemisphere, a common Western perception of the face has it that the figure's eyes are Mare Imbrium and Mare Serenitatis, its nose is Sinus Aestuum, and its open mouth is Mare Nubium and Mare Cognitum. This particular human face can also be seen in tropical regions on both sides of the equator. However, the moon orientation associated with the face is observed less frequently—and eventually not at all—as one moves toward the South Pole.\n\nConventionalized illustrations of the Man in the Moon seen in Western art often show a very simple face in the full moon, or a human profile in the crescent moon, corresponding to no actual markings.\n\n\"The Man in the Moon\" can also refer to a mythological character said to live on or in the moon, but who is not necessarily represented by the markings on the face of the moon. An example is Yue-Laou, from Chinese tradition.\n\nThe Man in the Moone, by Francis Godwin is one of the earliest novels thought of as containing several traits prototypical of science fiction.\n\nThe Man in the Moon is made up of various lunar maria (which ones depend on the pareidolic image seen). These vast, flat spots on the Moon are called \"maria\" or \"seas\" because, for a long time, astronomers believed they were large bodies of water. They are large areas formed by lava that covered up old craters and then cooled, becoming smooth, basalt rock.\n\nThe near side of the Moon, containing these maria that make up the man, is always facing Earth. This is due to a tidal locking or synchronous orbit. Thought to have occurred because of the gravitational forces partially caused by the Moon's oblong shape, its rotation has slowed to the point where it rotates exactly once on each trip around the Earth. This causes the near side of the Moon to always turn its face toward Earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "17896015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17896015", "title": "Masters of Dirc van Delf", "text": "Masters of Dirc van Delf\n\nThe Masters of Dirc van Delf were a group of manuscript painters active in the Netherlands between 1400 and around 1410. The name has been appended to several unknown artists who together make up an important studio of illuminators, one of the first important ones known from fifteenth-century Holland. Their name is derived from the lavish work they did to illustrate devotional texts by Dirc van Delf, court chaplain to Albrecht of Bavaria from 1389 until 1404 in The Hague. The studio's artists combined with Dirc to play an important role in the new cultural life of the royal court in the Netherlands.\n\nPaintings by the Masters may be found in the collections of the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "561580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=561580", "title": "Necronym", "text": "Necronym\n\nA necronym (from the Greek words νεκρός, \"nekros\", \"dead\" and ὄνομα \"ónoma\", \"name\") is a reference to, or name of, a person who has died. Many cultures have taboos and traditions associated with referring to such a person. These vary from the extreme of never again speaking the person's real name, often using some circumlocution instead, to the opposite extreme of commemorating it incessantly by naming other things or people after the deceased.\n\nFor instance, in some cultures it is common for a newborn child to receive the name (a necronym) of a relative who has recently died, while in others to reuse such a name would be considered extremely inappropriate or even forbidden. While this varies from culture to culture, the use of necronyms is quite common.\n\nComposer Ludwig van Beethoven, born in 1770, had a brother named Ludwig Maria who was born in 1769 and lived for only six days. Vincent van Gogh had a brother of the same name who was born, and died, on March 30, 1852, exactly one year before the painter's birth. The artist Salvador Dalí was born nine months and ten days after his brother, also named Salvador, died from gastroenteritis at the age of one year and nine months.\n\nIn Ashkenazi Jewish culture, it is a custom to name a child after a beloved relative who died as a way of honoring the deceased. Often the child will share the same Hebrew name as the namesake but not the given name in the vernacular language (e.g. English).\n\nIn Japan, Buddhist families usually obtain a necronym, called a \"kaimyō\", for a deceased relative from a Buddhist priest in exchange for a donation to the temple. Traditionally, the deceased were thereafter referred to by the necronym, as a sign of pious respect. This name was often the only one inscribed on gravestones in the past, though now it is more common to have the necronym in addition to the given name.\n\nNecronyms were also commonly used during the Cold War as a means of protecting an intelligence officer's true identity. For example, the Soviet KGB agent Konon Molody was only known as Gordon Lonsdale (the true Lonsdale was a Canadian born two years after Molody and died in 1943 when he was 19) in the United States. Molody adopted the name when he was 32, 11 years after the real Lonsdale's death.\n\nThe practice of bestowing necronyms has sometimes caused confusion for historians. This is primarily because of the two birth certificates or records that could be present at a given time. This confusion often stems from the inability to differentiate the records of each child. One such example is the case of Shigechiyo Izumi (1865?–1986), accepted in 1986 as the world's oldest man by \"The Guinness Book of World Records\", but who was in fact possibly born in 1880, after one previous brother whose name he assumed upon his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "53874225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53874225", "title": "Nunong Karugtong", "text": "Nunong Karugtong\n\nNunong Karugtong was the name of a legendary figure in early Philippine history who supposedly established Binangonan de Lampon, the settlement which would eventually become the modern-day municipality of Infanta, Quezon.\n\nAccording to the legend, a group of settlers led by a figure named Nunong Karugtong crossed the Sierra Madre Mountains from somewhere in what is now Rizal Province in search of better living conditions. After examining multiple sites in what is now the Municipality of Infanta, they eventually settled on a site near the Bantilan River, where the discovery of a huge Yam root convinced them that the site was ideal for settlement. This eventually became the site of the settlement which European colonizers would call \"Binangonan de Lampon,\" which in turn would evolve into the Municipality of Infanta.\n"}
{"id": "2163726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2163726", "title": "Oriflamme", "text": "Oriflamme\n\nThe Oriflamme (from Latin \"aurea flamma\", \"golden flame\") was the battle standard of the King of France in the Middle Ages. It was originally the sacred banner of the Abbey of St. Denis, a monastery near Paris. When the oriflamme was raised in battle by the French royalty during the Middle Ages, most notably during the Hundred Years War, no prisoners were to be taken until it was lowered. Through this tactic they hoped to strike fear into the hearts of the enemy, especially the nobles, who could usually expect to be taken alive for ransom during such military encounters.\n\nIn French, the term \"oriflamme\" has come to mean any banner with pointed ends; by association with the form of the original.\n\nThe Oriflamme was mentioned in the eleventh-century ballad the \"Chanson de Roland\" (vv. 3093-5) as a royal banner, first called \"Romaine\" and then \"Montjoie\". According to legend, Charlemagne carried it to the Holy Land in response to a prophecy regarding a knight possessing a golden lance, from which flames would burn and drive out the Saracens. This suggests that the \"lance\" was originally the important object, with the banner simply a decoration, but this changed over time.\n\nThe Oriflamme was first used by Louis VI in 1124 and was last flown in battle at Agincourt in 1415, though a version of it remained in the Abbey of St. Denis until the 18th century.\n\nLouis VI replaced the earlier banner of Saint Martin with the oriflamme of the Abbey of St. Denis, which floated about the tomb of St. Denis and was said to have been given to the abbey by king Dagobert.\nUntil the 12th century the standard-bearer was the Comte de Vexin, who, as vowed to St. Denis, was the temporal defender of the abbey. Louis VI, having acquired Vexin, became standard-bearer; as soon as war began, Louis VI received Communion at St. Denis and took the standard from the tomb of the saint to carry it to the combat.\n\nIt is recorded as having been carried at the following battles/campaigns:\n\nThe Oriflamme was lost at least five times during its medieval history; Mons-en-Pévèle, Crécy Poitiers and Agincourt, and also during the campaigns of the Seventh Crusade under King Louis IX.\n\nThe banner was red or orange-red silk and flown from a gilded lance. According to legend, its colour stems from it being dipped in the blood of the recently beheaded St. Denis.\n\nThe surviving descriptions of the Oriflamme are in Guillaume le Breton (thirteenth century), in the \"Chronicle of Flanders\" (fourteenth century), in the \"Registra Delphinalia\" (1456) and in the inventory of the treasury of St. Denis (1536). They show that the primitive Oriflamme was succeeded in the course of the centuries by newer Oriflammes which bore little resemblance to one another except for their colour.\n\nWhen the Oriflamme was displayed on the battlefield it indicated that no quarter\nwas to be given, its red colour being symbolic of cruelty and ferocity.\n\nAlthough the azure ground (from the blue cope of St. Martin of Tours) strewn with gold fleur-de-lis remained the symbol of royalty until the 15th century, the Oriflamme became the royal battle standard of the King of France, and it was carried at the head of the king's forces when they met another army in battle. In the fifteenth century, the fleur-de-lis on the white flag of Joan of Arc became the new royal standard replacing both the symbol of royalty and the Oriflamme on the battle field.\n\nThe bearer of the standard, the \"porte-oriflamme\", became an office (like that of Marshal or Constable) and a great honour, as it was an important and very dangerous job to take charge of such a visible symbol in battle. If things went badly, the bearer was expected to die rather than relinquish his charge.\n\nFroissart vividly describes \"porte-oriflamme\" Geoffroi de Charny's fall at the side of his king at the Battle of Poitiers in this passage: “There Sir Geoffroi de Charny fought gallantly near the king (note: and his fourteen-year-old son). The whole press and cry of battle were upon him because he was carrying the king’s sovereign banner [the Oriflamme]. He also had before him his own banner, gules, three escutcheons argent. So many English and Gascons came around him from all sides that they cracked open the king’s battle formation and smashed it; there were so many English and Gascons that at least five of these men at arms attacked one [French] gentleman. Sir Geoffroi de Charny was killed with the banner of France in his hand, as other French banners fell to earth.”\n\n\nThe 19th-century poet Robert Southey refers to the Oriflamme and its reputation in his poem \"Joan of Arc\"\n"}
{"id": "3488351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3488351", "title": "People", "text": "People\n\nA people is a plurality of persons considered as a whole, as is the case with an ethnic group or nation. Collectively, for example, the contemporary Frisians and Danes are two related Germanic peoples, while various Middle Eastern ethnic groups are often linguistically categorized as Semitic peoples.\n\nVarious states govern, or claim to govern, in the name of \"the people\". Both the Roman Republic and the Roman Empire used the Latin term \"Senatus Populusque Romanus\", (the Senate and People of Rome). This term was fixed to Roman legionary standards, and even after the Roman Emperors achieved a state of total personal autarchy, they continued to wield their power in the name of the Senate and People of Rome.\n\nA People's Republic is typically a Marxist or socialist one-party state that claims to govern on behalf of the people even if it in practice often turns out to be a dictatorship. Populism is another umbrella term for various political tendencies that claim to represent the people, usually with an implication that they serve the \"common people\" instead of the elite.\n\nChapter One, Article One of the Charter of the United Nations states that peoples have the right to self-determination.\n\nIn criminal law, in certain jurisdictions, criminal prosecutions are brought in the name of \"the People\". Several U.S. states, including California, Illinois, and New York, use this style. Citations outside the jurisdictions in question usually substitute the name of the state for the words \"the People\" in the case captions. Four states — Massachusetts, Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Kentucky — refer to themselves as \"the Commonwealth\" in case captions and legal process. Other states, such as Indiana, typically refer to themselves as \"the State\" in case captions and legal process. Outside the United States, criminal trials in Ireland and the Philippines are prosecuted in the name of the people of their respective states.\n\nThe political theory underlying this format is that criminal prosecutions are brought in the name of the sovereign; thus, in these U.S. states, the \"people\" are judged to be the sovereign, even as in the United Kingdom and other dependencies of the British Crown, criminal prosecutions are typically brought in the name of the Crown. \"The people\" identifies the entire body of the citizens of a jurisdiction invested with political power or gathered for political purposes.\n\n"}
{"id": "59213408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59213408", "title": "Richard Chandler (wool-stapler)", "text": "Richard Chandler (wool-stapler)\n\nRichard Chandler (died 1810) was a wealthy wool-stapler of Gloucester.\n\nIn 1750, he had Winston Hall built for him in Constitution Walk, Gloucester, now a grade II* listed building. The house remained in the Chandler family until 1876. He was one of the original subscribers to the Gloucester and Sharpness Canal in 1792.\n\nHis will is held by the National Archives in Kew.\n"}
{"id": "220541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220541", "title": "Royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom", "text": "Royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom\n\nThe royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom, or the Royal Arms for short, is the official coat of arms of the British monarch, currently Queen Elizabeth II. These arms are used by the Queen in her official capacity as monarch of the United Kingdom. Variants of the Royal Arms are used by other members of the British royal family; and by the British government in connection with the administration and government of the country. In Scotland, there exists a separate version of the Royal Arms, a variant of which is used by the Scotland Office. The arms in banner form serve as basis for the monarch's official flag, known as the \"Royal Standard\".\n\nIn the standard variant used outside of Scotland, the shield is quartered, depicting in the first and fourth quarters the three passant guardant lions of England; in the second, the rampant lion and double tressure flory-counterflory of Scotland; and in the third, a harp for Ireland. The crest is a statant guardant lion wearing the St Edward's Crown, himself on another representation of that crown. The dexter supporter is a likewise crowned English lion; the sinister, a Scottish unicorn. According to legend a free unicorn was considered a very dangerous beast; therefore the heraldic unicorn is chained, as were both supporting unicorns in the royal coat of arms of Scotland.\n\nIn the greenery below, a thistle, Tudor rose and shamrock are depicted, representing Scotland, England and Ireland respectively. This armorial achievement comprises the motto, in French, of English monarchs, \"Dieu et mon Droit\" (God and my Right), which has descended to the present royal family as well as the Garter circlet which surrounds the shield, inscribed with the Order's motto, \"Honi soit qui mal y pense\" (Shame on him who thinks evil).\nThe official blazon of the Royal Arms is:\n\nThe Royal Arms as shown above may only be used by the Queen herself. They also appear in courtrooms, since the monarch is deemed to be the fount of judicial authority in the United Kingdom and law courts comprise part of the ancient royal court (thus so named). Judges are officially Crown representatives, demonstrated by the display of the Royal Arms behind the judge's bench in all UK courts (with the exceptions of the magistrates' court in the City of London, where behind the Justices of the Peace stands a sword upright flanked by the arms of the City and the Crown). In Northern Ireland, the Royal Arms cannot be displayed in courtrooms or on court-house exteriors. There are a few exceptions, with the Royal Arms allowed to be displayed in the courtrooms of the Royal Courts of Justice in Belfast and the courts in Armagh, Banbridge, Downpatrick, Magherafelt, or Omagh. They may be shown on the exterior of court buildings that had them in place prior to the 2002 law.\n\nAs the United Kingdom is governed in the monarch's name, the British Government also uses the Royal Arms as a national symbol of the United Kingdom, and, in that capacity, the coat of arms can be seen on several government documents and forms, passports, in the entrance to embassies and consulates, etc. However, when used by the government and not by the monarch personally, the coat of arms is often represented without the helm. This is also the case with the sovereign's Scottish arms, a version of which is used by the Scotland Office.\n\nThe Royal Arms have regularly appeared on the coinage produced by the Royal Mint including, for example, from 1663, the Guinea and, from 1983, the British one pound coin. In 2008, a new series of designs for all seven coins of £1 and below was unveiled by the Royal Mint, every one of which is drawn from the Royal Arms. The full Royal Arms appear on the one pound coin, and sections appear on each of the other six, such that they can be put together like a puzzle to make another complete representation of the Royal Arms.\n\nThe monarch grants Royal Warrants to select businesses and tradespeople which supply the Royal Household with goods or services. This entitles those businesses to display the Royal Arms on their packaging and stationery by way of advertising.\n\nIt is customary (but not mandatory) for churches throughout the United Kingdom whether in the Church of England or the Church of Scotland to display the Royal Arms to show loyalty to the Crown.\n\nA banner of the Royal Arms, known as the Royal Standard, is flown from the royal palaces when the monarch is in residence, Windsor Castle and Buckingham Palace being her principal abodes; and from public buildings only when the monarch is present. This protocol equally applies to the monarch's principal residences in Scotland (the Palace of Holyroodhouse and Balmoral Castle), where the Royal Standard (Scottish version) is flown. When the monarch is not in residence the Union Flag, or in Scotland the ancient Royal Standard of Scotland, is flown.\n\nThe widely sold British newspaper \"The Times\" uses the Hanoverian Royal Arms as a logo, whereas its sister publication, \"The Sunday Times\", displays the current Royal Arms.\n\nThe Royal Arms are also displayed in all courts in British Columbia, as well as in other Canadian provinces such as Ontario, where the judges are appointed by Crown authority.\n\nThe Royal Arms were also displayed by all Viceroys of Australia as representation of their Crown authority.\n\nThe Royal Arms are also used and displayed in the Supreme Courts of South Australia and Victoria.\n\nThe Royal Arms are also the coat of arms for the Western Australian Legislative Council.\n\nThe Royal Arms were controversially used by former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher as her official letterhead from .\n\nSince the Union of the Crowns in 1603, a separate version of the Royal Arms has been used in Scotland, giving the Scottish elements pride of place.\n\nThe shield is quartered, depicting in the first and fourth quarters the lion \"rampant\" of Scotland; in the second, the three lions \"passant guardant\" of England; and in the third, the harp of Ireland.\n\nThe crest atop the Crown of Scotland is a red lion, seated and forward facing, itself wearing the Crown of Scotland and holding the two remaining elements of the Honours of Scotland, namely the Sword of State and the Sceptre of Scotland. This was also the crest used in the Royal Arms of the Kingdom of Scotland. The motto, in Scots, appears above the crest, in the tradition of Scottish heraldry, and is an abbreviated form of the full motto: \"In My Defens God Me Defend\".\n\nThe supporters change sides and both appear wearing the crowns of their respective Kingdom. The dexter supporter is a crowned and chained unicorn, symbolising Scotland. The sinister supporter is a crowned lion, symbolising England. Between each supporter and the shield is a lance displaying the flag of their respective Kingdom.\n\nThe coat also features both the motto \"Nemo me impune lacessit\" (No one wounds (touches) me with impunity) and, surrounding the shield, the collar of the Order of the Thistle. On the compartment are a number of thistles, Scotland's national flower.\n\nUnlike the Acts of Union 1707 with Scotland, the Acts of Union 1800 with Ireland did not provide for a separate Irish version of the royal arms. The crest of the Kingdom of Ireland (\"on a wreath Or and Azure, a tower triple-towered of the First, from the portal a hart springing Argent attired and unguled Or\") has had little or no official use since the union. When the Irish Free State established its own seals in the 1930s, the \"Fob Seal\" used on letters of credence varied the British arms by having the harp in two quarters.\n\nThe harp quarter of the Royal Arms represents Ireland on both the English and Scottish versions. Likewise, one English quarter is retained in the Scottish version, and one Scottish quarter is retained in the English version. Thus, England, Scotland and Ireland are represented in all versions of the Royal Arms since they came under one monarch.\nBy contrast, there is no representation at all for Wales in the Royal Arms, as at the Act of Union 1707 Wales was an integral part of the Kingdom of England pursuant to the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542; thus, it has been argued Wales is represented in the English coat of arms. However the argument is somewhat disengenuous as in 1535 the Welsh Dragon was already part of the Tudor Coat of Arms. Upon the accession of the Tudor monarchs, who were themselves of Welsh descent, a Welsh Dragon was used as a supporter on the Royal Arms. This was dropped by their successors, the Scottish House of Stuart, who replaced the Tudors' dragon supporter with the Scottish unicorn\nIn the 20th century, the arms of the principality of Wales were added as an inescutcheon to the coat of arms of the Prince of Wales, and a banner of those arms with a green inescutcheon bearing the prince's crown is flown as his personal standard in Wales. The so-called Prince of Wales's feathers are a heraldic badge rather than a coat of arms upon a shield, but they are not Welsh in any case. They derive, in fact, from the English Princes of Wales (who may owe them to an exploit of Edward, the Black Prince at the Battle of Crécy) and carry the motto \"\" (German, \"I Serve\"). In any event, they do not form part of the Royal Arms, as opposed to the heraldic achievement of the Prince of Wales, who drops them upon his accession as King.\n\nThe current royal arms are a combination of the arms of the former kingdoms that make up the United Kingdom, and can be traced back to the first arms of the kings of England and kings of Scotland. Various alterations occurred over the years as the arms of other realms acquired or claimed by the kings were added to the royal arms. The table below tracks the changes in the royal arms from the original arms of King Richard I of England, and William I, King of Scots.\n\nMembers of the British royal family are granted their own personal arms which are based on the Royal Arms. Only children and grandchildren in the male line of the monarch are entitled to arms in this fashion: the arms of children of the monarch are differenced with a three-point label; grandchildren of the monarch are differenced with a five-point label. An exception is made for the eldest son of the Prince of Wales, who bears a three-point label. Since 1911, the arms of the Prince of Wales also displays an inescutcheon of the ancient arms of the Principality of Wales. \nQueens consort and the wives of sons of the monarch also have their own personal coat of arms. Typically this will be the arms of their husband impaled with their own personal arms or those of their father, if armigerous. However, the consorts of a Queen regnant are not entitled to use the Royal Arms. Thus Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh has been granted his own personal arms.\n\nCurrently the following members of the royal family have their own arms based on the Royal Arms:\n\nVarious versions of the Royal Arms are used by Her Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom, the Parliament of the United Kingdom and courts in some parts of the Commonwealth.\n\nHM Government generally uses a simplified version of the Royal Arms with a crown replacing the helm and crest, and with no compartment. In relation to Scotland, the Scotland Office and the Advocate General for Scotland use the Scottish version, again without the helm or crest, and the same was used as the day-to-day logo of the Scottish Executive until September 2007, when a rebranding exercise introduced the name \"Scottish Government\", together with a revised logo incorporating the flag of Scotland.\n\nThe Scottish Government continues to use the Arms on some official documents.\n\nThe simplified Royal Arms also feature:\n\n\nVarious courts in the Commonwealth also continue to use the Royal Arms:\n\n\nFurthermore:\n\nThis table breaks down the official blazons to enable comparison of the differences between the general coat and the coat used in Scotland.\n\n\nOf all the former Dominions only three retain elements from the British Coat of Arms:\n\n\nIreland uses the medieval arms of Ireland that are incorporated into the British Coat of Arms:\n\nAll other former Dominions have changed their coat of arms with little or no British influence:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54262097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54262097", "title": "Salome Sellers", "text": "Salome Sellers\n\nSalome Sellers (\"née\" Sylvester; January 1, 1800 – January 9, 1909) was an American centenarian who was the last known survivor from the 18th century.\n\nSalome Sylvester was born in Deer Isle, Maine (then part of Massachusetts), the daughter of Edward and Deborah (\"née\" Cushman) Sylvester. She grew up on Deer Isle and married Joseph Sellers on 23 December 1830. The couple had six children together, Salome outliving all but her oldest son, William. She was widowed in 1865.\n\nDue to her unusually long life, Salome was often featured in local newspapers and visited by people interested in her long life, something Salome once expressed as, \"I've lived too long. I'm only a curiosity now for people to come and stare at\".\n\nSalome Sellers died in the same house she and her husband had built in 1830 in Deer Isle, Maine on 9 January 1909, aged 109 years, 8 days. Her house is now known as the Salome Sellers House and home to the Deer Isle-Stonington Historical Society. There has also been a book written about her life: \"An Island Woman: Salome Sylvester Sellers, 1800-1909\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "723799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=723799", "title": "Sanat Kumara", "text": "Sanat Kumara\n\nAccording to the post-1900 publications of Theosophy, Lord Sunat Kumara is an \"Advanced Being\" at the Ninth level of initiation who is regarded as the 'Lord' or 'Regent' of Earth and of the humanity, and is thought to be the head of the Spiritual Hierarchy of Earth who dwells in Shamballah (also known as 'The City of Enoch').\n\nShamballah is said by the adherents to the Ascended Master Teachings, to be a floating city manifested on the etheric plane somewhere above the Gobi Desert in the borderlands of Mongolia.\n\nThe Great White Brotherhood is a spiritual 'fraternity' of Ascended Beings, including Lord Sunat Kumara, long since dedicated to the eventual Salvation of Mankind and the establishment of Divine Law again in this Three-dimensional reality.\n\nAccording to Elizabeth Van Buren, the Brotherhood once maintained (earthly) headquarters hidden in a remote valley near a sacred lake in old Tibet, until relatively recently, when, possibly due to the surmised threat of Communist China, they withdrew, allegedly through subterranean tunnels to an alternative earthly location in Peru, where they are still reported as having an earth base (circa 1985).\n\nThese authors believe that Lord Sunat Kumara is the founder of the Great White Brotherhood, composed of Masters of the Ancient Wisdom (called in the Ascended Master Teachings Ascended Masters) and volunteers from other worlds who have joined together to advance spiritual evolution on Earth.\n\nSanat Kumara appears as a rishi in the Hindu religious text the Chandogya Upanishad. A shrine to Sanat Kumara which attracts and unites people of all religions and faiths is situated in the town of Kataragama, Sri Lanka. In Sanskrit, \"Sanat Kumara\" is \"Eternal Youth\" (from Sanat \"eternal\", Ku \"with difficulty\" and Mara \"mortal\").\n\nThe Kumar resides in the most sublime center of our planet, Shamballa, the sahasrara of the world. The Kumara has several names, relating to the sahasrara centers of different Systemic Existences: At the Supra-Cosmic plane, he is called \"Sanatana\"; at the Cosmic plane, it is \"Subrahmanya\"; at the Solar plane, the Kumara is \"Sanaka\"; at the Planetary plane, it is \"Sanandana\"; and on this planet, it is \"Sanath\" Kumara. So Sanath Kumara is an aspect of Kumara that resides in Shamballa.\n\nScriptures, especially the Mahabharata, say that it is Sanath Kumara who comes down to help the Divine Plan of Creation, when Lord Krishna came to be. He was born to Lord Krishna as his son, and he was named Pradyumna. Sanath Kumara incarnates himself through the Divine Mother Rukmini as Pradyumna. On completion of his work, He again gets back to his original position and takes to the seat in Shambala as Sanath Kumara. These details are given in the last chapters of Mahabharata.\n\n\"Shambhala\" (Tib. \"bde 'byung\") in Vajrayana Buddhism (the religion of Tibet) is a Sanskrit term meaning \"place of peace/tranquility/happiness\". Gautama Buddha is said by Vajrayana Buddhists to have taught the Kalachakra tantra on request of King Suchandra of Shambhala; the teachings are also said to be preserved in Shamballa. The Stanzas of Dzyan from which Madame Blavatsky claimed to have gotten the information in The Secret Doctrine are believed by some scholars to have been a mistranslation of words \"Kalachakra tantra\" (\"rGyud-sde\" in Tibetan). Shambhala is ruled over by a line of Kings of Shambhala known as Kulika or Kalki Kings (Tib. \"Rigden\"), a monarch who upholds the integrity of the \"Kalachakra tantra\". In the teachings of Vajrayana Buddhism, the King of Shamballa is often metaphorically referred to as \"The King of the World\". Shamballa was thought by the Tibetans to be somewhere north of Lake Manasarovar and its adjacent Mount Kailasa, a sacred mountain in Tibet where it is thought that all the dragon currents intersect.\n\nThe ancient Buddhist temple, Kurama-dera in Japan, is host to a unique bodhisattva, the \"Defender Lord\", who is said to come from the planet Venus 6.5 million years ago. He is described as having the appearance of a 16-year-old boy.\n\nSanat Kumara was mentioned briefly by the theosophist Helena Blavatsky. She claimed he belonged to a group of beings, the \"Lords of the Flame\", whom Christian tradition has presented as Lucifer and the fallen angels.\n\nSanat Kumara gained greater prominence when Blavatsky's close-friend and colleague Charles W. Leadbeater wrote that Sanat Kumara was the \"King\" or \"Lord of the World\", and the head of the Great White Brotherhood of Mahatmas who had revealed the principles of theosophy.\n\nLater authors who draw from Theosophical teachings such as Alice Bailey and Elizabeth Clare Prophet have added to the story with further details. He is usually depicted as having the appearance of a 16-year-old boy, said to be the incarnation of the Will of the Logos, and purportedly possesses an unaging body not born of mortal woman.\n\nC.W. Leadbeater and later adherents of Theosophy such as Alice A. Bailey believe that Sanat Kumara descended from the etheric plane of the planet Venus to Earth 18,500,000 years ago (A.E. Powell gives a figure of 16,500,000 years ago; Elizabeth Clare Prophet of Church Universal and Triumphant does not give a specific date but says it was a minimum of 2,500,000 years ago). In Theosophy, the beings that helped Sanat Kumara organize the expedition from Venus are called the \"Lords of the Flame\". C.W. Leadbeater and Annie Besant said that Sanat Kumara brought 30 \"Lords of the Flame\" with him from Venus to help him set up his colony. In the later version of the story promulgated by Guy Ballard, notable \"Lords of the Flame\" include Gautama Buddha, and the World Teacher (the being referred to alternately as Maitreya or Christ by Benjamin Creme). Elizabeth Clare Prophet's Church Universal and Triumphant teaches that Sanat Kumara and the Lords of the Flame also brought 144,000 souls with them from Venus. Alice Bailey, on the other hand, gives the number 105 only. The prior incarnation and only incarnation of Maitreya, the Lord of Consciousness, according to some interpretations (not C.W. Leadbeater's), is Gauthama Siddartha Sakyamuni / Lord Buddha; according to these interpretations, he essentially 'overshadowed' the body of Gautama Siddhartha Buddha with Siddhartha's permission.\n\nSanat Kumara is regarded as the great guru, saviour of Earth. Believers in him see him in all the major religions, as Skanda/Kartikkeya in Hinduism, Brahma-Sanam Kumar in Buddhism, the Ancient of Days in Judeo-Christian traditions, and identify him as Ahura Mazda in Zoroastrianism (although the last of these claims is contested from a lack of information on the subject). It is also considered that Sanat Kumara is Al Khdir (green man) known to Sufi Muslims (according to Dakshinamurti).\n\nIt is maintained in most of these versions of Theosophy that Venus, the 'Planet of Love', is the most spiritually advanced planet of our solar system. The beings living on the etheric plane of Venus are said to be hundreds of millions of years ahead of us in their spiritual evolution. It is said that the governing council of Venus – the \"Seven Holy Kumars\" – sent one of themselves, Sanat Kumara, here to guide us.\n\nAccording to Theosophy, once Sanat Kumara arrived here, he directed the construction of the city of Shamballa on the etheric plane above the Gobi Desert to serve as his headquarters. Elizabeth Clare Prophet teaches that Shamballa was built physically on the White Island in the Gobi Sea (now the Gobi Desert), and was only later withdrawn from the physical to the etheric plane.\n\nThe main temple of Shamballa is topped with a golden dome and is surrounded by seven smaller temples—one for each of the seven rays. These temples are located on a number of wide boulevards resembling the Champs-Elysees. According to Elizabeth Clare Prophet, George Washington was divinely inspired by the Ascended Masters to choose city planner Pierre L'Enfant to create the city plan of Washington DC which, it is claimed, he unconsciously modeled on the plan of the city of Shamballa.\n\nThe most common title attributed to Lord Sanat Kumara in the Theosophical religious tradition is \"Lord of the World\". C.W. Leadbeater also states that an important duty of Sanat Kumara is to participate in an elaborate ritual every Wesak (the Full Moon of May) led by Gautama Buddha, and also participated in by the Maitreya (the being Theosophists identify as Christ), in which cosmic energy is focused from the \"Solar Logos\" to Earth in order to keep our planet's cosmic energy in balance. The ritual is said to take place in a ravine in southern Tibet (the Frontispiece of Leadbeater's book \"The Masters and the Path\" has a picture of the ritual taking place) and, it is stated by Leadbeater, can be viewed by in the etheric body or in the physical body by those who have etheric sight.\n\nParadoxically, two other common appellations of Sanat Kumara are two opposite titles: \"The Ancient of Days\" (because he has been on Earth millions of years) and \"The Youth of Sixteen Summers\" (because even though he is millions of years old, he still looks like he is 16 years old). Another of his titles is \"The One Initiator\" because it is said by C. W. Leadbeater in the \"Masters and the Path\" that he personally performs the initiation ceremony for anyone who has reached the third level of spiritual initiation. Alice A. Bailey indicates the same in her writings.\n\nIn the all organizations subscribing to the \"Ascended Master Teachings\", Sanat Kumara is presented as an Ascended Master. He is also currently, according to the Ascended Master Teachings, known as the \"Regent Lord of the World\" in deference to Gautama Buddha having taken the office of \"Lord of the World\". (1956). With Sananda Buddha taking on more of the day-to-day administrative tasks of governing the planet, this arrangement allows Sanat Kumara more time for the long-range galactic planning and interstellar diplomacy that is necessary for him to prepare Earth for its eventual admission to what Joshua David Stone calls the Galactic Confederation of Planets.\n\nSanat Kumara's symbol of the authority of his office as \"Lord of the World\" is a , magic wand called the \"Rod of Power\" made of the metal orichalcum, with cone-shaped diamonds on each end.\n\nThe Bridge to Freedom, Church Universal and Triumphant and all other \"Ascended Master Teachings\" organizations believe that Sanat Kumara has a \"Divine Complement\" (\"Twin Flame\") (i.e., a \"celestial wife\") – Lady Master Venus – the New Age \"Goddess of Love\". The Ascended \"Lady Master Venus\" is usually depicted as having the appearance of a 16-year-old girl. Sanat Kumara is believed to have married Lady Master Venus millions of years ago on Venus before he came to Earth.\n\nAccording to the Ascended Master Teachings, Sanat Kumara and the Lady Master Venus have a daughter named the Lady Master Meta who they brought with them from Venus. She is said to have incarnated as an Avatar in Atlantis (where she served as the high priestess at the \"Temple of Healing\") and in Sassanian Persia, where she married a mortal and had three children. In the Ascended Master Teachings, she is revered as the \"Goddess of Healing\" and is the patron deity of doctors and nurses. Since she is immortal, possessing a celestial body like Sanat Kumara and the Lady Master Venus, she, like the Lady Master Venus, also has the appearance of a 16-year-old girl.\n\nAccording to the Ascended Master Teachings, the Master Cha Ara \nwas originally one of the three children of Lady Master Meta when she incarnated as an Avatar in Sassanian Persia. He became a master alchemist who formulated an elixir of immortality made from rose petals, tea leaves from mcleod ganj and other ingredients. This enabled him to quickly achieve ascended masterhood. He uses small amounts of the elixir to heal people. He is the protector of all Zoroastrians. He works with St. Germain to bring about the New Age in the West Americas. Lady Master Meta’s husband and her other two children from her descent as an Avatar to Sassanian Persia have also become ascended masters but their names have not yet been revealed.\n\nIn the Ascended Master Teachings, a group of religions based on Theosophy, Lady Master Nada is the \"Chohan of the Sixth Ray\" (see Seven Rays), and is the Ascended Lady Master governing humanity's development of the Divine Qualities of Ministration, Service, and Peace. The colors of her Ray are purple and gold, and also ruby.\n\nShe is also considered a Member of the Karmic Board; she handles the appeals of those on the third ray. She is believed by those adherent to the Ascended Master Teachings to have succeeded the previous Chohan, the Master Jesus / Sananda Buddha, on January 1, 1956, when she is said to have fully taken on the Office of Chohan of the Sixth Ray., thus advancing from the fifth to the sixth level of initiation. She primarily serves at \"Arabian Retreat\" in the Arabian Peninsula, northeast of the Red Sea. Nada serves there with the Brothers and Sisters of the Indigo Cape, as well as with Jesus, his Mother Mary and El Samyam, the Chief of the Arabian Council. She also serves at \"The Rose Temple\", located on the etheric plane above New Bedford, Massachusetts. Designed after the pattern of a rose, with each \"petal\" being a room, this Retreat is the etheric counterpart of the \"Temple of Love\" on Atlantis where Nada once served as a High Priestess. In another human incarnate life in Atlantis, she was a lawyer. She was described as having raised her body and Ascended approximately 2,776 years ago.\n\nAlthough the Lady Master Nada's home residence (called in the Ascended Master Teachings her \"retreat\") is underground on the etheric plane on the Arabian peninsula, according to the Ascended Master Teachings, she teleports to Shamballa every workday to her day job on the Karmic Board, hearing the cases of those souls who are on the third ray.\n\nAccording to the \"I AM\" Activity, the Church Universal and Triumphant and others, the Ascended Masters (The great beings the original Theosophists called the \"Masters of the Ancient Wisdom\"), such as the Master Jesus, Saint Germain, Megha Alcorn aka Megan Sebastian on Earth, Kuthumi, Hatton, Gopal Das and others are working for the Spiritual Hierarchy of our planet, under the leadership of Lord Sanat Kumara, Gautama Buddha, and Maitreya. Many theosophists believe the \"Masters\" utilize the cosmic power of the Seven Rays to advance the \"Plan of the Masters\" to encourage the continual advance of civilization on Earth toward higher levels of consciousness. One of the beliefs of adherents of these belief systems is that the Masters of Wisdom have united together in an organization called the \"Great White Brotherhood\".\n\nThe Theosophist A.E. Powell stated that Sanat Kumara (whom he refers to as the \"Lord of the World\") is in continuous telepathic rapport with ANNA / Gaia, the \"Spirit of the Earth\" (i.e., the \"Planetary Logos\" – equivalent to the goddess known in some religions as Gaia or as Prithivi in Hinduism).C.W. Leadbeater and Alice A. Bailey stated that Sanat Kumara is in continuous telepathic rapport with the Solar Logos (the Being considered by Theosophists as the consciousness of the Sun). It is believed in Theosophy that Sanat Kumara captures the mystical power of the Seven Rays from the Solar Logos and distributes it to his assistants who guide the spiritual evolution of humanity, the \"Masters of the Ancient Wisdom\" (the Ascended Masters), who then focus the power to us. An intermediate trinity of Pratyeka-Buddhas assists Lord Buddha in stepping down this power from Sanat Kumara to Earth's Spiritual Hierarchy, and these Buddhas are also said to be Kumars originally from Venus.\n\nAccording to the \"Alice A. Bailey material\", Lord Sanat Kumara conducts business in an enormous room in his palace called \"The Council Chamber of the Lord of the World\". It is here that he regularly meets with Maitreya, the Maha Chohan, Djwal Khul, St. Germain, the Master Jesus and the other Masters of the Ancient Wisdom, of which it is said there are 24 principal council members, to assess the progress being made in implementing \"The Plan of the Masters\" to bring the human race to higher levels of consciousness. According to C.W. Leadbeater, it is also here that he periodically personally receives ambassadors from other solar systems.\n\nAccording to the \"Alice A. Bailey material\", Sanat Kumara has many assistants who help him in his arduous task of spiritually governing Earth as its presiding Regent. \nThese include The Watcher (also called the \"Silent Watcher\" or the \"Great Silent Watcher\"), whose function it is to continually watch the Akashic records and download daily all the information on them relevant to the life waves of Earth and forward it to the \"Custodian of the Hall of Records\". (the Watcher is part of a special race of beings who fulfill this function that are posted on planets throughout the Cosmos ); the Lords of Karma – Alice A. Bailey mentioned three \"Lords of Karma\" but did not name them; they are called in the Ascended Master Teachings the Karmic Board and they are stated to number seven and each of them is identified by name: The Great Divine Director (1st ray), The Goddess of Liberty (2nd ray), Lady Master Nada (3rd ray), Cyclopea (4th ray), Pallas Athena (5th ray), Lady Master Portia (6th ray), and Kwan Yin (7th ray). The Karmic Board decides when souls that are between lives are to reincarnate again (if a disembodied soul desires to reincarnate somewhere or somewhen else than where they have been assigned, they must file an appeal with the Karmic Board—each person has to file an appeal to the member of the board that handles the appeals for their \"soul ray\"); and the one Alice A. Bailey calls the Custodian of the Hall of Records (called the Keeper of the Scrolls in the Ascended Master Teachings), the being who is in charge of the \"Hall of Records\", an enormous administrative complex near Sanat Kumara’s palace in the etheric city of Shamballa—this is where the \"Recording Angels\" and those souls who are between incarnations who volunteer to give up their time in Summerland and help perform this work make visual records (utilizing the most advanced supercomputers on the etheric plane of Earth) of everything that happens in everyone’s lives on Earth. The raw data is first downloaded daily by \"The Watcher\" from the Akashic records and fed by him to the \"Custodian of the Hall of Records\" and thence forwarded to the \"recording angels\" and their volunteer helpers. These imprint records are sorted daily first into one of seven general files by the \"soul ray\" (see seven rays) of the soul that is reincarnating, and then downloaded from that general file into a special individual file for each soul that can be consulted by the \"Karmic Board\" if that soul makes an appeal before it.\n\nOmri-Tas, the \"Ruler of the Violet Planet\", is a Galactic level Ascended Master (Spiritual Hierarchy, Cosmic Beings) who with his celestial mate, Irmo-Sat, , is Sanat Kumara's violet flame supplier. The violet flame is composed of a special type of etheric matter particles, which may plausibly be called \"violetrons\", that are capable of cleansing bad karma. \"Omri-Tas\" rules a planet on the etheric plane called the Violet Planet, which is apparently several dozen to several hundred light years from Earth. The Violet Planet is one of many throughout the Cosmos that serve as reservoirs for the violet flame. Omri-Tas is the ruler of the Violet Planet that is closest to Earth and which is responsible for transmitting the violet flame from the Great Central Sun of the Cosmos via the Galactic Logos to planets in Ursa Major (Our sector is reputedly 'Sector Nine' of the 48 Sectors in this spiral Galaxy). Omri-Tas or one of his representatives periodically teleports from the Violet Planet to Shamballa with canisters of violet flame to replenish the violet flame in the large circular pool in the \"Temple of the Violet Flame\" in Shamballa (In return for the violet flame. Lord Sanat Kumara assigns to his care and tutelage worthy initiated Adepts/Chelas for etheric transport to their next assignments.\n\nBenjamin Creme subscribes to the modern esoteric view that Nordic aliens (like those mentioned by George Adamski – Creme accepts Adamski's sightings as valid.) pilot flying saucers from the Way-Station on Venus that is thought to exist on the etheric plane (Esotericists believe that since the Venusians' civilization is on the \"etheric plane\", the planet's heat doesn't affect them) and are capable of stepping down the level of vibration of themselves and their craft to the slower level of vibration of the atoms of the physical plane. Thus, Creme's followers assume that Sanat Kumara and the 'Lords of the Flame' [See Elizabeth Van Buren's Book of the same name.](Nordic aliens themselves) visit from Venus in a flying saucer. How, they ask, did Sanat Kumara get to Earth from Venus if it wasn't on a flying saucer? Creme's disciples believe that there is regular flying saucer traffic between Venus and Shamballa as well as other locations on Earth, especially areas where crop circles appear. Creme's acolytes believe that Shamballa is equipped with an astrodrome as well as with numerous flying saucer landing pads attached to the tops or the sides of the buildings to accommodate the heavy flying saucer traffic from Venus. Since Shamballa is envisioned as a floating city about five miles above the surface of the earth on the etheric plane, there are also numerous entrances in the basements of the buildings, where flying saucers can enter from the bottom of the city and park in spacious flying saucer parking garages provided in the basement levels of the buildings. In addition, says Creme, the Venusians have cigar-shaped mother ships up to four miles long to accommodate the transport of multiple individual flying saucers to and from Venus. According to Creme, sometimes flying saucers from places more distant than Venus, such as from Mars, the Moons of Jupiter, Uranus, Sirius, the Pleiades, and beyond, fly in to pay a visit at Shamballa. Since, according to Creme, the Venusians flying saucer designers outsource the actual construction of their flying saucers to the Martians (who are said to dwell on the etheric plane of Mars), whom he describes as the \"master engineers of the solar system\", Shamballa provides a convenient neutral ground where the Venusians and the Martians can meet to evaluate new flying saucer designs and negotiate flying saucer construction contracts between themselves.\n\nThe Master Ashtar was first incorporated into the Ascended Master Teachings by Joshua David Stone in the early 1990s, based on his incorporation of the early 1980s revelations of the medium Tuella into his own teachings. Stone had already begun teaching in 1993, based on the early 1980s revelations of Tuella, that the Master Jesus, under his galactic name Sananda (the name, Stone stated, he adopted after his resurrection), works with Commander Ashtar, flying with Pallas Athena in their own flying saucer within the Ashtar Galactic Command flying saucer fleet as its \"Commander-in-Chief\". According to Stone, another name used by \"Commander Ashtar\" to denote his flying saucer fleet is \"The Airborne Division of the Great White Brotherhood\". Although the Ashtar Command is ultimately under the titular authority of Sanat Kumara, the Master Jesus in consultation with Pallas Athena and Ashtar, make all the day to day command decisions. Stone continued to present these teachings after 1996 at the yearly Wesak Mount Shasta gatherings.\n\nAccording to some, The Ashtar Command is simply a modern concept of the Sumerian/Babylonian goddess and deity Astarte/Ishtar/Isis and her entourage whose assigned function is to protect an evolving mankind from the Satanic forces, then extant, on this planet, that sought to usurp the Earthly Regency of the local Ascended Masters in their role of protecting and engendering Divine Law upon the Earth until the arrival, at 'The Meridian of Time' of 'The Son of God'... Jesus/Sananda and his incarnation of 'The Christ Being'.\n\nLourene Altiery, also known as \"Karita\" to her followers, is an Ascended Master Teachings teacher originally from Joliet, Illinois who now resides in Sun Lakes, Arizona – she set up her website in 2001. According to Altiery, there are four Masters originally from the Spiritual Hierarchy Cosmic beings said to be patrolling near Ashtar Galactic Command Flying Saucer Fleet who are now permanently stationed on Shamballa. These are the Masters Ballerian, who is the proprietor of a flying saucer repair facility in Shamballa called \"God's Garage\"; Kumad, an expert linguist who helps the Keeper of the Scrolls decipher and interpret ancient manuscripts; Ashlem, a Tibetan Master who resides at the Hall of Records and helps people decipher their past lives by assisting them in accessing the Akashic records; and Sutko, the \"space detective\", who helps the Master K-17 solve unusually difficult cases. Elements of the \"Ashtar Galactic Command Flying Saucer Fleet\" sometimes dock at Shamballa so the flying saucer crews can go on 'shore leave'.\n\nAccording to the Ascended Master Teachings of Anne Bellringer of Rapid City, South Dakota, who began teaching in 1990, Hatonn, an android Pleiadean Master who flies aboard the flying saucer \"Phoenix\" (one of the flying saucers of the \"Ashtar Galactic Command Flying Saucer Fleet\", piloted by Hatonn’s partner the Master Soltec), monitors events on Earth for the \"Galactic Hall of Records\" at the galactic core.\n\nHe feeds information about events on Earth via subspace relay to the supercomputers at the \"Galactic Hall of Records\". However, Bellringer says that this activity is secondary to Hatonn's primary task, which is functioning as the liaison officer between Sanat Kumara and the Pleiadeans in order for him to be able to help Earth safely navigate in 2012 through the approaching so-called \"photon belt\", said to emanate from the Pleiades.\n\nAccording to many Christians, notably the anti-New Age author Constance Cumbey, New Age Leaders, including Masters of the Illuminati, are actually worshipping the Lord of this World, whose name is Sanat Kumara (Alice Bailey, \"Externalisation of the Hierarchy\", p. 676, 709, 725; and Elizabeth Van Buren, \"The Secret of the Illuminati\", p. 1). Bailey goes on to explain that Sanat Kumara is the \"life and the forming intelligence\", presiding over the Council of Shamballa [the Heaven of Earth according to New Age doctrine]. (\"The New Age Dictionary\", p. 172) Further, Sanat Kumara is \"the eternal youth from the Planet Venus\". The name Lucifer is one of the ancient Greek names for Venus. Therefore, according to Cumbey, Sanat Kumara is merely another name for Satan or Lucifer. (Cumbey, \"Hidden Dangers of the Rainbow\") [7].\n\nOther New Age leaders have tried to separate themselves from the Illuminati movement, and view that burdening the two groups as entirely coexistent is inaccurate and ineffectual. New Age theosophy also counters these critics, teaching the fact that the being known as Sanat Kumara would rather see spiritual harmony and peace, a fact which many Illuminati members ignore and abuse.\n\nIn the glossary of in the back of the book \"Alchemy\", which Elizabeth Clare Prophet claims was dictated to her by Kuthumi, Satan and Sanat Kumara are clearly distinguished as two different and opposed beings—Satan working for evil and Sanat Kumara for good.\n\nThe scholar K. Paul Johnson maintains that the \"Masters\" that Madame Blavatsky wrote about and produced letters from were actually idealizations of people who were her mentors. However, \"Sanat Kumara\", although mentioned in passing by Madame Blavatsky, was never mentioned by her as an important \"Master\" that Blavatsky claimed to have met. He was first presented, under the name \"Lord of the World\", as the head of the \"Masters\" by C.W. Leadbeater in his 1925 book \"The Masters and the Path\".\n\nPanelology\nVideo games\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33315904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33315904", "title": "Simhika", "text": "Simhika\n\nSimhika, or Sinhika, was the daughter of Demon king Hiranyakashipu and was the sister of the Vishnu devotee Bhakt Prahlada. She is also considered as the mother of Svarbhānu, who was beheaded into two by Lord Vishnu into Rahu, the head part and Ketu, the remaining body.\n\nSimhika got the boon from Brahma that she can control anyone's shadow. Later, she controlled Devi Chhaya, mother of Lord Shani and wife of Surya, the sun god. And eventually got defeated by Shani and Hanuman. Simhika was forgiven by monkey god, Hanuman, but Hanuman told her that whenever he finds her in later phase of life he'll kill her. Later, when Hanuman was climbing the ocean to Lanka, the kingdom of Demon Ravana, Simhika was hiding in the ocean and captured Hanuman's shadow, Hanuman jumped into her mouth and came out tearing her stomach, ending the life of Simhika.\n"}
{"id": "72740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72740", "title": "Slave name", "text": "Slave name\n\nA slave name is the personal name given by others to an enslaved person, or a name inherited from enslaved ancestors. The modern use of the term applies mostly to African Americans and West Indians who are descended from enslaved Africans who retain their name given to their ancestors by the enslavers.\n\nChanging from a slave name to a name embodying an African identity became common after emancipation in the 1960s by those in the African diaspora in the Americas seeking a reconnection to their African cultural roots.\n\nIn Rome slaves were given a single name by their owner. A slave who was freed might keep his or her slave name and adopt the former owner's name as a praenomen and nomen. As an example, one historian says that \"a man named Publius Larcius freed a male slave named Nicia, who was then called Publius Larcius Nicia.\"\n\nHistorian Harold Whetstone Johnston writes of instances in which a slave's former owner chose to ignore custom and simply chose a name for the freedman.\n\nA number of African-Americans and Afro-Caribbeans have changed their names out of the belief that the names they were given at birth were slave names. An individual's name change often coincides with a religious conversion (Muhammad Ali changed his name from Cassius Clay, Malcolm X from Malcolm Little, and Louis Farrakhan changed his from Louis Eugene Walcott, for example) or involvement with the black nationalist movement (e.g., Amiri Baraka and Assata Shakur).\n\nSome organizations encourage African-Americans to abandon their slave names. The Nation of Islam is perhaps the best-known of them. In his book, \"Message to the Blackman in America\", Nation of Islam leader Elijah Muhammad writes often of slave names. Some of his comments include:\n\n\nThe black nationalist US Organization also advocates for African-Americans to change their slave names.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31597516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31597516", "title": "St. Germain (Theosophy)", "text": "St. Germain (Theosophy)\n\nSt. Germain (also sometimes referred to as Master Rakoczi or Master R) is a legendary spiritual master of the ancient wisdom in various Theosophical and post-Theosophical teachings, responsible for the New Age culture of the Age of Aquarius and identified with the Count of St. Germain (\"fl.\" 1710–1784), who has been variously described as a courtier, adventurer, charlatan, inventor, alchemist, pianist, violinist and amateur composer.\n\nSome write that his name St. Germain was invented by him as a French version of the Latin \"Sanctus Germanus\", meaning \"Holy Brother\". In the Ascended Master Teachings (but not in traditional Theosophy), the \"Master R\", or the \"Master Rakóczi\", is a separate and distinct being from St. Germain.\n\nThere are several \"authoritative\" biographers who usually do not agree with one another. Probably the two best-known biographies are Isabel Cooper-Oakley's \"The Count of St. Germain\" (1912) and Jean Overton-Fuller's \"The Comte de Saint-Germain: Last Scion of the House of Rakoczy\" (1988). The former is a compilation of letters, diaries and private records written about the Count by members of the French aristocracy who knew him in the 18th century. Dr. Raymond Bernard's book \"The Great Secret – St. Germain\" is biographical and covers many aspects of the Count's life including his conflation with Sir Francis Bacon and the author of the Shakespearean opus. Manly Palmer Hall in his \"The Secret Teachings of All Ages\", describes some of the same attributes as Dr. Bernard, including the attribution of the writings of Shakespeare to a great adept like Francis Bacon, who could be amalgamated with the Count of St. Germain.\n\nThere have also been numerous French and German biographies, among them \"Der Wiedergänger: Das zeitlose Leben des Grafen von Saint-Germain\" by Peter Krassa, \"Le Comte de Saint-Germain\" by Marie-Raymonde Delorme and \"L'énigmatique Comte De Saint-Germain\" by Pierre Ceria and François Ethuin.\n\nA book titled \"The Great Secret, Count St. Germain\", by Dr. Raymond Bernard purports that St. Germain was actually Francis Bacon by birth, and later authored the complete Plays attributed to Shakespeare. He also contends, as does the Saint Germain Foundation in Schaumburg, Illinois, that Francis Bacon was the child of Queen Elizabeth and Lord Dudley but that it was kept quiet. According to the theory, Francis was raised by the Bacon family. Yet, throughout the Shakespearean canon, there are numerous hints that the author knows of his true birth, as revealed in the explicit clues in the text of the plays themselves, in pictures, as well as the cipher code that he employed.\n\nSaint Germain is the central figure in the Saint Germain Series of Books published by the Saint Germain Press (the publishing arm of the Saint Germain Foundation). The first two volumes, \"Unveiled Mysteries\" and \"The Magic Presence\", written by Guy Ballard as \"Godfré Ray King\" describe Saint Germain as an Ascended Master, like Jesus, who is assisting humanity. In these first two books, he discusses his personal experiences with Saint Germain and reveals many teachings that are in harmony with Theosophy and some other works referenced above. The third volume, \"The 'I AM' Discourses\", contains material that is foundational to the sacred scriptures of the \"I AM\" Religious Activity, founded in 1930, the first of the Ascended Master Teachings religions.\n\nThere are 20 Volumes in the Saint Germain Series of Books, which are also referred to as the \"Green Books.\" Another work of great importance, the \"Comte de Gabalis\", is said to be from the hand of Sir Francis Bacon before he Ascended and returned as Sanctus Germanus or Saint Germain. First printed in 1670, the book includes a picture of the Polish Rider, Rembrandt's famous painting at the Frick Collection in New York City, which is said to be of Sir Francis Bacon, \"a.k.a.\" the Comte de Gabalis, or the Count of the Cabala. Lotus Ray King (Edna Ballard's pen name), wife of Guy Ballard, talked about this book having been authored by the Ascended Master Saint Germain in the Round Table Talks of the \"I AM\" Religious Activity.\n\nSeveral Theosophists and practitioners of alternate esoteric traditions have claimed to have met Saint Germain in the late 19th or early 20th centuries: \n\nMany groups honor Saint Germain as a supernatural being called a Master of the Ancient Wisdom or an Ascended master. In the Ascended Master Teachings he is referred to simply as Saint Germain, or as the Ascended Master Saint Germain. As an Ascended Master, Saint Germain is believed to have many magical powers such as the ability to teleport, levitate, walk through walls, and to inspire people by telepathy, among others.\n\nThe Theosophical Society after Blavatsky's death considered him to be a Mahatma, Masters of the Ancient Wisdom or Adept. Helena Blavatsky said that he was one of her Masters of Wisdom and hinted that he had given her secret documents. Some esoteric groups credit him with inspiring the Founding Fathers to draft the United States Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, as well as providing the design of the Great Seal of the United States. (See Manly Palmer Hall's \"Secret Teachings of All Ages.\") In New Age beliefs, Saint Germain is always associated with the color violet, the jewel amethyst, and the \"Maltese cross\" rendered in violet (usually the \"iron cross style cross patee\" version). He is also regarded as the \"Chohan of the Seventh Ray\" According to The Theosophical Society, the Seven Rays are seven metaphysical principles that govern both individual souls and the unfolding of each 2,158-year-long Astrological Age. Since according to Theosophy the next Astrological Age, the Age of Aquarius, will be governed by the Seventh (Violet) Ray (the Ray of Ceremonial Order), Saint Germain is sometimes called \"The Hierarch of the Age of Aquarius\". According to the Ascended Master Teachings, Saint Germain is \"The God of Freedom for this system of worlds.\" According to the Ascended Master Teachings, the preliminary lead-up to the beginning of the Age of Aquarius began on 1 July 1956, when Ascended Master Saint Germain became the Hierarch of the Age of Aquarius, replacing the former Astrological Age Hierarch, the Ascended Master Jesus, who had been for almost 2,000 years the \"Hierarch of the Age of Pisces\".\n\nIn the works authored by Alice A. Bailey, Saint Germain is called \"Master Rakóczi\" or the \"Master R.\" (In the Ascended Master Teachings, the Master Rakoczi [ otherwise known as the Great Divine Director ] is regarded as Saint Germain's teacher in the Great White Brotherhood of Ascended Masters.) Alice A. Bailey's book \"The Externalisation of the Hierarchy\" (a compilation of earlier revelations published posthumously in 1957) gives the most information about his reputed role as a Spiritual Master. Saint Germain's spiritual title is said to be \"Lord of Civilization,\" and his task is the establishment of the new civilization of the Age of Aquarius. He is said to telepathically influence people who are seen by him as being instrumental in bringing about the new civilization of the Age of Aquarius. Alice A. Bailey stated that \"sometime after AD 2025,\" the Jesus, the Master Rakóczi (Saint Germain), Kuthumi, and others in the Spiritual Hierarchy would \"externalise\", i.e., descend from the spiritual worlds, and interact in visible tangible bodies on the Earth in ashrams, surrounded by their disciples. Alice A. Bailey said that St. Germain is the \"manager of the executive council of the Christ\"(Theosophists regard \"the Master Jesus\" and \"Christ\" as two separate and distinct beings. They believe in the Gnostic Christology espoused by Cerinthus (\"fl.\" c. 100 AD), according to which \"Christ\" is a being who was incarnated in Jesus only during the three years of the ministry of Jesus). According to certain Theosophists, \"Christ\" is identified as being a highly developed spiritual entity whose actual name is Maitreya. This Maitreya is the same being known in Buddhism as the Bodhisattva Maitreya, who is in training to become the next Buddha on Earth. According to Alice A. Bailey, the \"executive council of the Christ\" is a specific subgroup of the Masters of the Ancient Wisdom, charged with preparing the way for the Second Coming of Christ and the consequent inauguration of the Age of Aquarius.\n\nAccording to The Theosophical Society (not to be confused with the United Lodge of Theosophists) and the Ascended Master Teachings, Saint Germain was incarnated as: (see notes 1, 2, and 3 for sources): (Note: Not all Theosophical and Ascended Master Teaching groups accept all of these incarnations as valid. St. Germain's incarnations as St. Alban, Proclus, Roger Bacon and Sir Francis Bacon are universally accepted.)\n\n\nAccording to the Ascended Master Teachings, Francis Bacon made it appear that he died on Easter Sunday, 9 April 1626, and he even attended his own \"funeral\" in disguise. It is believed by the adherents of the Ascended Master Teachings that he then traveled secretly to Transylvania (then part of Hungary, now part of Romania) to the Rakoczy Mansion of the royal family of Hungary. Finally on 1 May 1684 he is believed to have attained (by his knowledge of alchemy) his physical Ascension (attaining immortality and eternal youth [ the sixth level of Initiation]) at which time Francis Bacon adopted the name \"Saint Germain.\"\n\nThe scholar K. Paul Johnson maintains that the \"Masters\" that Madame Blavatsky wrote about and produced letters from were actually idealizations of people who were her mentors.\n\nAlso see the article \"Talking to the Dead and Other Amusements\" by Paul Zweig \"New York Times\" 5 October 1980, which maintains that Madame Blavatsky's revelations were fraudulent.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8178655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8178655", "title": "The Bowery Boys", "text": "The Bowery Boys\n\nThe Bowery Boys are fictional New York City characters, portrayed by a company of New York actors, who were the subject of feature films released by Monogram Pictures from 1946 through 1958.\n\nThe Bowery Boys were successors of the \"East Side Kids,\" who had been the subject of films since 1940. The group originated as the \"Dead End Kids\", who originally appeared in the 1937 film \"Dead End.\" A few of the actors previously appeared together as \"The Little Tough Guys.\"\n\n\"The Dead End Kids\" originally appeared in the 1935 play \"Dead End,\" dramatized by Sidney Kingsley. When Samuel Goldwyn turned the play into a 1937 film, he recruited the original \"kids\" from the play—Leo Gorcey, Huntz Hall, Bobby Jordan, Gabriel Dell, Billy Halop, and Bernard Punsly—to appear in the same roles in the film. This led to the making of six other films that shared the collective title \"The Dead End Kids\".\n\nIn 1938, Universal launched its own tough-kid series, \"Little Tough Guys.\" Gradually, Universal recruited most of the original Dead End Kids, so the series ultimately featured \"The Dead End Kids and Little Tough Guys.\" Universal made twelve feature films, and three 12-chapter serials with the gang. The final film in Universal's series, \"Keep 'Em Slugging,\" was released in 1943, with Bobby Jordan replacing erstwhile ringleader Billy Halop.\n\nWhen Warner Brothers released the remaining Dead End Kids from their contracts in 1939, producer Sam Katzman at Monogram acted quickly and hired several of them, including Jordan and the Gorcey brothers, Leo and David, as well as some of the Little Tough Guys, including Hally Chester, to star in a new series using the team name \"The East Side Kids.\" These films also introduced 'Sunshine' Sammy Morrison, one of the original members of the Our Gang comedy team, as part of the gang.\n\nThe original members of the \"Dead End Kids\" were now working at several studios, so these films were made at the same time that Universal was making \"The Dead End Kids\" and \"Little Tough Guys\" series. A total of 21 films were made, with the final one, \"Come Out Fighting\", released in 1945.\n\nIn 1945, when East Side Kids producer Katzman refused to grant Leo Gorcey's request to double his weekly salary, Gorcey quit the series, which then ended immediately. Bobby Jordan then suggested a meeting with his agent, Jan Grippo. Grippo, Gorcey, and Hall formed Jan Grippo Productions, revamped the format, and rechristened the series \"The Bowery Boys.\" (The earlier films's credits appear as \"Leo Gorcey \"and\" The Bowery Boys\".) Gorcey, who owned 40 percent of the company, starred, produced, and contributed to the scripts. The new series followed a more established formula than the prior incarnations of the team, with the gang usually hanging out at Louie's Sweet Shop (at 3rd & Canal St.) until an adventure came along.\n\nThe original main characters were Terrence Aloysius \"Slip\" Mahoney (Leo Gorcey), Horace Debussy \"Sach\" Jones (Huntz Hall), Bobby (Bobby Jordan), Whitey (Billy Benedict), and Chuck (David Gorcey, sometimes billed as David Condon). \"Sunshine\" Sammy Morrison, \"Scruno\" in the East Side Kids films, declined the invitation to rejoin the gang. (He later stated in an interview that he \"didn't like the setup\", possibly referring to the idea of Gorcey and Hall being in the forefront, and being paid much more than the other members.) When Bobby Jordan quit the series for the same reason, his character was replaced by Butch Williams, with former East Side Kids Bennie Bartlett and Buddy Gorman alternating in the role. The proprietor of the malt shop where they hung out was the panicky Louie Dumbrowski (Bernard Gorcey, Leo's and David's real-life father).\n\nLike the previous incarnations of the team, the members went through a number of changes over the course of the series. Thirteen actors were members of the team at one time or another. Bobby Jordan, an original Dead End Kid, appeared in the first eight films, but left after being injured in an elevator accident. Jordan was also unhappy with the direction of the series, which favored Gorcey and Hall, and limited the participation of the other gang members.\n\nGabriel Dell returned in the fourth entry, \"Spook Busters\" (1946), as \"Gabe Moreno,\" a former member of the gang just out of the Navy with a French war-bride in tow. He remained (minus spouse) for the next 16 features. Gabe was a convenient \"utility\" character, frequently changing jobs (private investigator, policeman, songwriter, reporter, Nazi spy) to suit the story at hand—and the limited casting budget. Dell often acted as a bridge between the real world and those of the Boys who he would summon to assist him. He reprised one of his East Side Kids roles in \"Hard Boiled Mahoney\" (1947), playing Gabe as a myopic nerd with thick glasses, ascot and cap. His final appearance was in \"Blues Busters\" in 1950, generally regarded as one of the funniest in the series.\n\nThe early films such as \"In Fast Company\" (1946) flirted with the same humor-laced crime drama of the previous series, but they gradually shifted to all-out comedy, growing more slapstick and fantasy-oriented over the next decade. After 1950, the series began to resemble the farcical Abbott and Costello comedies—a far cry from the grim social realism of their 1930s films. The grittiness of the old days was sanitized with the gang's dingy basement club-house replaced by an ice cream parlor. The \"boys\" also adopted a more adult look, exchanging their sloppy, juvenile wardrobe for suits.\n\nThe team spirit of the ensemble cast faded as Huntz Hall was elevated to co-star status to showcase his comedic skills. The stories now focused entirely on Slip (the self-proclaimed leader of the bunch) and his zany sidekick, Sach, with the diminished three or four \"boys\" receding into the background with little to do. Time and again the plot revolved around Sach accidentally acquiring some strange power or ability (he becomes a psychic, champion wrestler, crooner, etc.) that Slip is quick to exploit. In most of the films, the gang pursues a scheme for quick riches or gets mixed up with neighborhood thugs. Story elements from their earlier films (haunted houses, mad scientists, nefarious spies) were also frequently incorporated into the new series.\n\nLike a streetwise Abbott and Costello, Gorcey and Hall became a cohesive comedy duo, extending their verbal and physical humor into broader slapstick comedy that served to increase the popularity of the series. In 1953, Edward Bernds, a new producer and director who had previously worked with The Three Stooges, transformed the series into lucrative kiddie-matinée fodder, with Gorcey and Hall re-enacting gags borrowed from the Stooges. (Huntz Hall cited Shemp Howard, who had appeared in three Little Tough Guys films, as a major influence during this latter phase in the series.)\n\nLeo's character \"Slip\" was famed for his malaprops (always delivered in a Brooklyn accent), such as \"a clever seduction\" for \"a clever deduction,\" \"I depreciate it!\" (\"I appreciate it!\"), and \"I regurgitate\" (\"I reiterate\").\n\nIn the 1940s, Abbott and Costello appeared in a quartet of \"service comedies\", one for each branch of the military. The Bowery Boys duplicated this feat a decade later with \"Bowery Battalion,\" \"Let's Go Navy!,\" \"Here Come the Marines,\" and \"Clipped Wings.\" Abbott and Costello spoofed westerns: \"Ride 'Em Cowboy\" (1942), the upper-classes: \"In Society\" (1944), and hillbillies: \"Comin' Round the Mountain\" (1951). The Bowery Boys repeated this formula in \"Bowery Buckaroos\" (1947), \"High Society\" (1955), and \"Feudin' Fools\" (1952), respectively.\n\nAbbott and Costello went on safari: \"Africa Screams\" (1949), to the Middle East: \"Lost in a Harem\" (1944), and even tangled with pirates in \"Abbott and Costello Meet Captain Kidd\" (1952). Once again, the Bowery Boys followed suit with \"Jungle Gents\" (1954), \"Bowery to Bagdad\" (1955), and \"Hold That Hypnotist\" (1957). Abbott and Costello become private detectives in \"Abbott and Costello Meet the Invisible Man\" (1951); the Bowery Boys open up a detective agency in 1953's \"Private Eyes\".\n\nAfter Abbott and Costello's haunted-house comedy \"Hold That Ghost\" (1941) became a smash hit, the East Side Kids released the similar \"Spooks Run Wild\" with Bela Lugosi later that year. Lugosi went on to help make \"Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein,\" one of A&C's most popular and critically acclaimed comedies. The basic premise, centered around Dracula's scheme to transplant Costello's brain into the Frankenstein monster (played by Glenn Strange), was duplicated a few months later by The Bowery Boys in \"Master Minds\" (1949). Glenn Strange once again plays a hulking monster who switches minds with Sach (Huntz Hall). With a title suggesting a send-up of the Abbott and Costello \"Meet\" films, \"The Bowery Boys Meet the Monsters\" (1954) was the highest grossing entry in the series.\n\nAfter filming \"Dig That Uranium\" in 1955, Bernard Gorcey was killed in an automobile accident, devastating his son Leo, who began to drink heavily, and it visibly affected his performance in the following film, \"Crashing Las Vegas\", which was his last. (During filming, he became violently unhinged, trashing the set and destroying every prop in sight.) At a subsequent meeting with Allied Artists, Gorcey demanded an increase on the 40% interest he held in the series. This was denied, and after a heated exchange, he quit the series and stormed off the studio lot.\n\nThe studio owed exhibitors three more films for the 1956 season, so Gorcey was replaced by Stanley Clements, a former tough-teen actor who had been in a few East Side Kids movies. Clements, as \"Duke Coveleskie,\" adapted to the series easily and completed the three films, which now starred \"Huntz Hall and The Bowery Boys.\" The new Hall-Clements partnership was successful enough to be renewed for the 1957 season. Four more films were made, with Eddie LeRoy joining the cast as bespectacled \"Blinky.\" With Bernard Gorcey gone, Louie's Sweet Shop was replaced by Clancy's Cafe with a similarly put-upon proprietor, \"Mike\" (Percy Helton, later played by Dick Elliott).\n\nIn all, there were 48 Bowery Boys films, making it the longest feature-film series of American origin in motion picture history (only the Mexican \"Santo\" film series ran longer), with the final film, \"In the Money,\" being released in 1958. Only Huntz Hall and David Gorcey had remained with the series since 1946.\n\nThe Bowery Boys and East Side Kids picked up a new generation of mostly younger fans when the films were repackaged and syndicated for television in the 1960s and 1970s. They became a staple for independent stations across the U.S., often used to fill up the early-afternoon time-slots on weekends.\n\n\n\nAll 48 Bowery Boys films were released on DVD by Warner Brothers via their \"made-to-order\" Archive Collection label in four volumes, each consisting of 12 films on 4 recordable media discs, beginning November 20, 2012. Initial distribution was advertised by Warner as being traditionally replicated on \"pressed disc\" media in anticipation of high demand for these first Bowery Boy releases to be \"remastered from the best available elements.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "397721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=397721", "title": "The Famous Five (Canada)", "text": "The Famous Five (Canada)\n\nThe Famous Five, or The Valiant Five, () were five Alberta women who asked the Supreme Court of Canada to answer the question, \"Does the word 'Persons' in Section 24 of the British North America Act, 1867, include female persons?\" in the case \"Edwards v Canada.\" The five women, Emily Murphy, Irene Marryat Parlby, Nellie Mooney McClung, Louise Crummy McKinney and Henrietta Muir Edwards, created a petition to ask this question. They fought to have women legally considered persons so that women could be appointed to the Senate. The petition was filed on August 27, 1927, and on April 24, 1928, Canada's Supreme Court summarized its unanimous decision that women are not such \"persons\".\n\nThe last line of the judgement reads, \"Understood to mean 'Are women eligible for appointment to the Senate of Canada,' the question is answered in the negative.\" This judgement was overturned by the British Judicial Committee of the Privy Council on October 18, 1929. This case came to be known as the \"Persons Case\". Although Canadian women (those who were British/Canadian citizens) had the vote in many provinces and in federal elections by 1929, the case was part of a continent-wide drive for political equality, coming seven years after discrimination against women's voting rights was prohibited in the United States through the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, and thus had important ramifications.\n\nSome saw this as \"radical change\"; others saw it as a restoration of the original framing of the English constitutional documents, including the 1689 Bill of Rights, which uses only the term \"person\", not the term \"man\" (or \"woman\" for that matter).\n\nSome others have interpreted the Privy Council rule as causing a change in the Canadian judicial approach to the Canadian constitution, an approach that has come to be known as the \"living tree doctrine\".\n\nThe famous five women were:\n\n\nEmily Murphy stood out in the famous five, bringing them to a victory in 1929. Emily was appointed to the office of Magistrate of the Edmonton Juvenile Court in 1916 and later became the magistrate of the newly created Women's Court. At the time, no woman had held such a position and many men objected.\n\nDuring her career as a writer, Murphy used the pen name \"Janey Canuck\". In 1922, she wrote \"The Black Candle\" which detailed her beliefs on race and drug use in Canada and strongly influenced the drug policy of the day. Murphy came from a privileged background in which white women were protected from many topics.\n\nIn 1916, Irene Parlby was elected as the first president of the United Farm Women of Alberta and in 1921, was elected to the Alberta legislature and received a cabinet post in the United Farmers of Alberta government, becoming the second woman in the British Empire to hold ministerial rank. She served as cabinet minister until the downfall of the government in 1935. Parlby worked with the Red Cross during World War I and later served on the Board of Governors of the University of Alberta.\n\nNellie McClung's jobs in her lifetime included teacher, author, public speaker, temperance activist, internationally known women's rights activist, and politician {Warne, Literature as Pulpit]. In 1918, she was a member of the Dominion War Council and the only woman representative at the League of Nations. She represented Canada at the Ecumenical Council of the Methodist church in 1921 and was the first woman on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation Board of the Governors. In 1921, McClung was elected to the Alberta legislature as an MLA in Edmonton for the Liberal Party. She served one term, not being re-elected in 1926. She was a member of the Political Equality League of Manitoba, and she played the leading role in the Mock Parliament held on January 29, 1914, at the Walker Theatre in Winnipeg, which humorously discussed Votes for Men.\n\nLouise McKinney became one of the first two women elected to a legislature in the British Empire, and the first to take her seat. She was a founder of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union in Alberta and the West – she served as the organization's vice-president for more than 22 years beginning in 1906 – and regularly attended World Meetings of the WCTU. She signed the appeal to the Privy Council in 1929. In 1931, she became president of the Canadian Union, Woman's Christian Temperance Union. McKinney was also named to be Commissioner for the first General Council of the United Church of Canada, and was the only woman to sign the Basis of Union.\n\nHenrietta Muir Edwards, author and researcher on women's topics, held an influence within the National Council of Women and held chairmanship of the Committee in Law in the National Council of Women for more than 35 years. She was also a Red Cross leader during the war years. Edwards was the secretary of the National Subcommittee which focused on thrift and economy in Canadian homes.\n\nNone of the five became senators; the first female senator was Quebecer Cairine Reay Wilson, appointed four months after the ruling. Nearly 80 years later, on October 8, 2009, the Senate voted to make the five the first \"honorary senators\". The achievement of personhood for women had been a monumental change which gave more power to women.\n\nSome might well question the overall significance of the decision, noting that by the 1920s the Senate of Canada was a largely powerless body. The more powerful House of Commons of Canada had elected its first female member (Agnes Macphail) in 1921, well before the Persons Case. However, the precedent did establish the principle that women could hold any political office in Canada. Moreover, the Five clearly did devote their energies to increasing women's participation on legislative bodies with greater power: three had been members of the Alberta legislature. The controversy surrounding the women has made commemoration difficult. The five women were activists in a variety of areas in their pursuit to better the conditions for women and children.\n\nOpinions on the Famous Five vary considerably. Many laud them as trailblazers for women. Others are disturbed by the opinions of some of the women on other issues, such as opposition to non-white immigration and their successful campaigns to have eugenics legislation introduced in Canadian provinces, which resulted in the sterilization of thousands of those deemed \"mentally deficient\" or \"insane\" in Alberta and elsewhere. Emily Murphy was not shy with her opinions and her outspoken nature had a tendency to give her a negative reputation. She wrote letters of her opinions to police chiefs, government officials, social service agencies and judicial officials about the extent of drug traffic and possible cures. Nellie McClung was known as the most memorable and popular of the famous five. Her causes included women's right to vote, prohibition, women in the church and women in public life. Henrietta Muir Edwards was described as \"tenacious\" with her work with prohibition.\n\nThe five women were activists in a variety of areas in their pursuit to better the conditions for women and children. Emily Murphy dealt with single mothers and issues of child support, child welfare, and adoption by lobbying for women's rights. Nellie McClung favoured free medical and dental treatment for school children as well as mothers' allowances and better property rights for women. She was open to divorce and birth control but opposed the sale and use of liquor. Louise McKinney believed strongly in the \"evils of alcohol\" and pushed to enact prohibition measures. She advocated excluding cigarettes from parcels sent to soldiers in World War I in 1917. She supported reasonable measures for social welfare and health as well as introducing bills intended to make prohibition more effective, to improve the lot of immigrants and bring better security to widows. She was responsible for the introduction of a motion which led to the Dower Act. Irene Parlby in her position as cabinet minister in Alberta pursued these goals expressed by McKinney. Henrietta Edwards worked with property law and sought to protect women and children.\n\nThe Famous Five have been commemorated with individual and group plaques in the foyer and antechamber of Canada's Senate, and two identical sculptures by Canadian artist Barbara Paterson, one on Parliament Hill in Ottawa, the other at the Olympic Plaza in Calgary. The sculpture on Parliament Hill was unveiled on October 18, 2000, in a public ceremony that included French and English singers, Inuit dancers, and speeches by Governor General Adrienne Clarkson and Prime Minister Jean Chrétien. A sculpture of the Famous Five by sculptor Helen Granger Young stands on the grounds of the Manitoba Legislature in Winnipeg. Commissioned by the Nellie McClung Foundation, it was unveiled at a ceremony on June 18, 2010.\n\nThe City of Edmonton has named one park in its River Valley Parks System after each of the \"Famous Five\".\n\nMurphy had many accomplishments, such as becoming the first president of the Federated Women's Institute of Canada, vice-president of National Council of Women of Canada, president of Canadian Women's Press Club, director of the Canadian Council of Child Welfare, vice-president of the Canadian Association of Child Protection, first president of the Women's Canadian Club of Edmonton and vice-president of the Social Service Council of Canada. Emily Murphy also received many honours for her life's work including being decorated by King George V to be a Lady of Grace of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem.\n\nIrene Parlby was honoured in 1935 at spring convocation at the University of Alberta with an honorary LL.D. degree. Tributes in honour of Henrietta Edwards can be found on a plaque in the Senate Chamber in Ottawa and another in the post office in Fort Macleod. Nellie McClung spoke in Calgary after Edwards' passing and spoke of Edwards, \"who for 40 years was convener of laws for the National Council of Women\" should not be forgotten.\n\nAlong with Thérèse Casgrain, the Five were commemorated in the 2001 Journey Series of Canada's fifty-dollar bill. In December 2011, the Bank of Canada announced that the Famous Five would not appear on the redesigned $50 Frontier Series banknote that it issued in 2012.\n\nThe achievement of personhood for women had been a monumental change which gave more power to women. To honour the Five and continue to involve women in leadership roles in Canada, Frances Wright and others established the non-profit Famous Five Foundation on October 18, 1996, the 70th anniversary of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council's decision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8657945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8657945", "title": "The Fourteen Infallibles", "text": "The Fourteen Infallibles\n\nThe Fourteen Infallibles ( \" Ma‘sūmūn\") ( \" Chahar'dah Ma‘sūm\") in Twelver Shia Islam are the Islamic prophet Muhammad, his daughter Fatima Zahra; and the Twelve Imams. All are considered to be infallible under the theological concept of Ismah. Accordingly, they have the power to commit sin but by their nature are able to avoid doing so, which is regarded as a miraculous gift from God. The Infallibles are believed to follow only God's desire in their actions because of their supreme righteousness, consciousness, and love for God. They are also regarded as being immune to error in practical matters, in calling people to religion, and in the perception of divine knowledge. Shias believe the Fourteen Infallibles are superior to the rest of creation and to the other major prophets.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21928489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21928489", "title": "Theophanes Continuatus", "text": "Theophanes Continuatus\n\nTheophanes Continuatus () or Scriptores post Theophanem (, \"those after Theophanes\") is the Latin name commonly applied to a collection of historical writings preserved in the 11th-century Vat. gr. 167 manuscript. Its name derives from its role as the continuation, covering the years 813–961, of the chronicle of Theophanes the Confessor, which reaches from 285 to 813. The manuscript consists of four distinct works, in style and form very unlike the annalistic approach of Theophanes.\n\nThe first work, of four books consists of a series of biographies of the emperors reigning from 813 to 867 (from Leo the Armenian to Michael III). As they were commissioned by Emperor Constantine VII (r. 913–959), they reflect the point of view of the reigning Macedonian dynasty. The unknown author probably used the same sources as Genesios. The second work is known as the \"Vita Basilii\" (Latin for \"Life of Basil\"), a biography of Basil I the Macedonian (r. 867–886) written by his grandson Constantine VII probably around 950. The work is essentially a panegyric, praising Basil and his reign while vilifying his predecessor, Michael III. The third work is a history of the years 886–948, in form and content very close to the history of Symeon Logothetes, and the final section continues it until 961. It was probably written by Theodore Daphnopates, shortly before 963.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42375049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42375049", "title": "Thirteen Martyrs of Bagumbayan", "text": "Thirteen Martyrs of Bagumbayan\n\nThe Thirteen Martyrs of Bagumbayan () were Filipino patriots in the Philippines who were executed by musketry on January 11, 1897, for cooperating with the Katipunan during the Philippine Revolution against Spain.\n\n\n\n "}
{"id": "9052813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9052813", "title": "Thirty-Six Immortals of Poetry", "text": "Thirty-Six Immortals of Poetry\n\nThe are a group of Japanese poets of the Asuka, Nara, and Heian periods selected by Fujiwara no Kintō as exemplars of Japanese poetic ability. The eldest surviving collection of the 36 poets' works is \"Nishi Honganji Sanjū-rokunin Kashu\" (\"Nishi Honganji 36 poets collection\") of 1113. Similar groups of Japanese poets include the Kamakura period \"Nyōbō Sanjūrokkasen\" (女房三十六歌仙), composed by court ladies exclusively, and the , or Thirty-Six Heian-era Immortals of Poetry, selected by Fujiwara no Norikane 藤原範兼 (1107–1165). This list superseded an older group called the Six Immortals of Poetry.\n\nSets of portraits (essentially imaginary) of the group were popular in Japanese painting and later woodblock prints, and often hung in temples.\n\n\n, composed in the Kamakura period, refers to thirty-six female immortals of poetry:\n\n\nThere are at least two groups of Japanese poets called :\nThe term usually refers to the second:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47063897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47063897", "title": "Young Turks (Bell Labs)", "text": "Young Turks (Bell Labs)\n\nThe Young Turks were a group of leading scientists who worked at Bell Labs, who were insatiably curious about the science behind communications. Many of them were encouraged to take risks, free from the responsibilities of applying for grants or from teaching. \"We were first-class troublemakers,\" Richard Hamming later recalled. \"We did unconventional things in unconventional ways and still got valuable results. Thus management had to tolerate us and let us alone a lot of the time.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1575820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1575820", "title": "Zucker, Abrahams and Zucker", "text": "Zucker, Abrahams and Zucker\n\nZucker, Abrahams and Zucker (abbreviated to ZAZ) were an American comedy filmmaking trio consisting of Jim Abrahams and brothers David Zucker and Jerry Zucker who specialized in writing slapstick comedy films during the 1980s. The trio knew each other during their childhood years, growing up in Shorewood, Wisconsin and attending Shorewood High School which is sometimes referenced in their work. While attending the University of Wisconsin–Madison, the trio founded a small theater known as The Kentucky Fried Theater in 1971 which led to their sketch comedy film \"The Kentucky Fried Movie\".\n\nThis was followed in 1980 by the trio's breakout hit \"Airplane!\", which remains a revered comedic milestone. Subsequent collaborations include the TV series \"Police Squad!\", its subsequent \"Naked Gun\" trilogy and the films \"Top Secret!\" and \"Ruthless People\". All of their projects relied heavily on parodies, visual gags and breaking of the fourth wall, and established a strong cult following. The notable stylistic exception is \"Ruthless People\", a more traditional farce that was directed by the trio but unlike their other productions, not written by them.\n\nProminent ZAZ actors and actresses include Leslie Nielsen, Lloyd Bridges, Robert Stack, Rowan Atkinson, Whoopi Goldberg and Charlie Sheen. The trio's status as a three-person team of co-directors is highly unusual, although some of their later projects were directed by David Zucker working solo and with Jerry Zucker and Abrahams credited only as producers and/or writers. Each member of the group also had individual solo careers:\n\n\nBelow is a filmography chart on which films the trio have directed together and solo:\n\n"}
