{"id": "3613142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3613142", "title": "Agricultural philosophy", "text": "Agricultural philosophy\n\nAgricultural philosophy (or philosophy of agriculture) is, roughly and approximately, a discipline devoted to the systematic critique of the philosophical frameworks (or ethical world views) that are the foundation for decisions regarding agriculture. Many of these views are also used to guide decisions dealing with land use in general. (Please see the Wikipedia article on environmental philosophy.) In everyday usage, it can also be defined as the love of, search after, and wisdom associated with agriculture, as one of humanity's founding components of civilization. However, this view is more aptly known as agrarianism. In actuality, agrarianism is only one philosophy or normative framework out of many that people use to guide their decisions regarding agriculture on an everyday basis. The most prevalent of these philosophies will be briefly defined below.\n\nThis view was first put forth by Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill. Though there are many varieties of utilitarianism, generally the view is that a morally right action is an action that produces the maximum good for people. This theory is a form of consequentialism; which basically means that the correct action is understood entirely in terms of the consequences of that action. Utilitarianism is often used when deciding farming issues. For example, farmland is commonly valued based upon its capacity to the grow crops that people want. This approach to valuing land is called Asset Theory (in contrast to Location Theory) and it is based upon utilitarian principles. Another example is when a community decides on what to do with a particular parcel of land. Let's say that this community must decide to use it for industry, residential uses, or for farming. By using a utilitarian approach, the council would judge which use would benefit the greatest number of people in the community and then make their choice based upon that information. Finally, it also forms the foundation for industrial farming; as an increase in yield, which would increase the number of people able to receive goods from farmed land, is judged from this view to be a good action or approach. Indeed, a common argument in favor of industrial agriculture is this it is a good practice because it increases the benefits for humans; benefits such as food abundance and a drop in food prices.\n\nHowever, several scholars and writers, such as Peter Singer, Aldo Leopold, Vandana Shiva, Barbara Kingsolver, and Wendell Berry have argued against this view. For example, Singer argues that the suffering of animals (farm animals included) should be included in the cost/benefit calculus when deciding whether or not to do an action such as industrial farming. It has also been challenged on the grounds that farmland and farm animals are instrumentalized in this view and not valued in and of themselves. In addition, systems thinkers, deep ecologists, and agrarian philosophers (such as Aldo Leopold & Wendell Berry) critique this view on the grounds that it ignores aspects of farming which are morally applicable and/or intrinsically valuable. The Slow Food Movement and the Buy Local Agricultural Movements are also built upon philosophical views morally opposed to extreme versions of this approach. Other critiques will be explored below when different philosophical approaches to agriculture are briefly explained. However, it is important to note that the Utilitarian approach to agriculture is currently the most widespread approach within the modern Western World.\n\nAnother philosophical approach often used when deciding land or farming issues is Libertarianism. Libertarianism is, roughly, the moral view that agents own themselves and have certain moral rights including the right to acquire property. In a looser sense, Libertarianism is commonly identified with the belief that each person has a right to a maximum amount of liberty when this liberty does not interfere with other people's freedom. A well known Libertarian theorist is John Hospers. Within this view, property rights are natural rights. Thus, it would be acceptable for a farmer to inefficiently farm their land as long as they don't harm others while doing it. In 1968, Garrett Harden applied this philosophy to land/farming issues when he argued that the only solution to the \"Tragedy of the Commons\" was to place soil and water resources into the hands of private citizens. He then supplied utilitarian justifications to support his argument and, indeed, you could argue that Libertarianism is rooted in utilitarian ideals. However, this leaves Libertarian based land ethics open to the above critiques lodged against Utilitarian approaches to agriculture. Even excepting these critiques, the Libertarian view has been specifically challenged by the critique that people making self-interested decisions can cause large ecological and social disasters such as the Dust Bowl disaster. Even so, it is a philosophical view commonly held within the United States and, especially, by U.S. ranchers and farmers.\n\nEgalitarian based views are often developed as a response to Libertarianism. This is because, while Libertarianism provides for the maximum amount of human freedom, it does not require a person to help others. In addition, it also leads to the grossly uneven distribution of wealth. A well known Egalitarian philosopher is John Rawls. When focusing on agriculture, what this translates into is the uneven distribution of land and food. While both Utilitarian and Libertarian approaches to agriculture ethics could conceivably rationalize this mal-distribution, an Egalitarian approach typically favors equality whether that be equal entitlement and/or opportunity to employment or access to food. However, if you recognize that people have a right to something, then someone has to supply this opportunity or item; whether that be an individual person or the government. Thus, the Egalitarian view links land and water with the right to food. With the growth of human populations and the decline of soil and water resources, Egalitarianism could provide a strong argument for the preservation of soil fertility and water.\n\nIn addition to Utilitarian, Libertarian, and Egalitarian philosophies, there are also normative views that are based upon the principle that land has intrinsic value and positions coming out of an ecological or systems view. Two main examples of this are James Lovelock's Gaia hypothesis which postulates that the Earth is an organism and deep ecologists who argue that human communities are built upon a foundation of the surrounding ecosystems or the biotic communities. While the above philosophies can be useful for guiding decision making on issues concerning land in general, they have limited usefulness when applied to agriculture because these philosophies privilege natural ecosystems and agricultural ecosystems are often considered not natural. One philosophy grounded in the principle that land has intrinsic value which is directly applicable to agriculture is Aldo Leopold's stewardship ethic or land ethic. For Leopold, an action is correct if it tends to \"preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the biotic community\". Similar to Egalitarian-based land ethics, many of the above philosophies were also developed as alternatives to utilitarian and libertarian based approaches. Leopold's ethic is currently one of the most popular ecological approaches to agriculture commonly known as agrarianism. Other agrarianists include Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, J. Hector St. John de Crèvecœur (1735–1813), Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803–1882), Henry David Thoreau (1817–1862), John Steinbeck (1902–1968), Wendell Berry (b. 1934), Gene Logsdon (b. 1932), Paul B. Thompson, and Barbara Kingsolver.\n"}
{"id": "16594692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16594692", "title": "Aonach", "text": "Aonach\n\nAn Aonach or Óenach was an ancient Irish public national assembly called upon the death of a king, queen, notable sage or warrior as part of ancestor worship practices. As well as the entertainment, the óenach was an occasion on which kings and notables met under truce and where laws were pronounced and confirmed.\n\nThe Aonach had three functions; honoring the dead, proclaiming laws, and funeral games and festivities to entertain. The first function took between one and three days depending on the importance of the deceased, guests would sing mourning chants called the \"Guba\" after which druids would improvise songs in memory of the dead called a \"Cepóg\". The dead would then be burnt on a funeral pyre. The second function would then be carried out by the Ollamh Érenn, giving out laws to the people via bards and druids and culminating in the igniting of another massive fire. The custom of rejoicing after a funeral was then enshrined in the \"Cuiteach Fuait\", games of mental and physical ability accompanied by a large market for traders. \n\nThe most notable fair, that held under the auspices of the High King of Ireland and the Uí Néill, was the \"Óenach Tailten\" or \"Tailteann Games\", which is given prehistoric origins by medieval writers. This was held at Teltown, in modern County Meath, as late as 1770. The compilers of the Irish annals considered violence and disorders at this óenach, or the failure of the incumbent High King to hold the fair, to be of note. The Irish Free State held revivals of the Tailteann Games from 1924 to 1932. \n\nOther important assemblies included that of Tlachtga, held on the Hill of Ward at Samhain, that of Carman, held in County Wexford, that of Uisnech, held at Beltane and that of Raigne in Osraige. Not all had pagan calendrical associations. The \"Óenach Colmáin\", probably held at Lynally, was named for Saint Elo Colman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "212373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212373", "title": "Barthélemy Prosper Enfantin", "text": "Barthélemy Prosper Enfantin\n\nBarthélemy Prosper Enfantin (8 February 17961 September 1864) was a French social reformer, one of the founders of Saint-Simonianism. He was also a proponent of a Suez canal.\n\nEnfantin was born in Paris, the son of a banker of Dauphiné. After receiving his early education at a lyceum, he was sent in 1813 to the École polytechnique. In March 1814 he was one of the band of students who, on the heights of Montmartre and Saint-Chaumont, attempted resistance to the armies of the Sixth Coalition which had engaged in the invasion of Paris. In consequence of this outbreak of patriotic enthusiasm, the school was soon after closed by Louis XVIII, and the young student was compelled to seek another career.\n\nInitially, he began working for a country wine merchant, travelling to Germany, Russia and the United Kingdom of the Netherlands. In 1821 he entered a banking-house newly established at Saint Petersburg, but returned two years later to Paris, where he was appointed cashier to the \"Caisse Hypothécaire\". At the same time, he became a member of the secret society of the \"Carbonari\".\n\nIn 1825 a new turn was given to his thoughts and his life by the friendship which he formed with Olinde Rodriguez, who introduced him to the Comte de Saint-Simon. He affiliated to Saint-Simon's version of utopian socialism, and, by 1829, he had become one of the acknowledged heads of the sect.\n\nAfter the July Revolution of 1830 Enfantin resigned his office of cashier, and devoted all his energy to the cause. Besides contributing to \"Le Globe\", he made appeals to the people by systematic preaching, and organized centres of action in some of the main cities of France.\n\nThe headquarters in Paris were moved from the modest rooms in the Rue Taranne to the large halls near the Boulevard des Italiens. Enfantin and Amand Bazard were proclaimed \"Pères Suprêmes\" (\"Supreme Fathers\") – a union which was, however, only nominal, as a divergence was already manifest. Bazard, who concentrated on organizing the group, had devoted himself to political reform, while Enfantin, who favoured teaching and preaching, dedicated his time to social and moral change. The antagonism was widened by Enfantin's announcement of his theory of the relation of man and woman, which would substitute a system of \"free love\" for the \"tyranny of marriage\".\n\nBazard and his disciples broke with Enfantin's group. The latter became sole \"father\", leading a chiefly religiously-oriented movement, joined by new converts (according to Enfantin's estimate, the total number of followers would have reached 40,000). He wore on his breast a badge with his title of \"Père\", was referred to by his preachers as \"the living law\", declared himself to be the chosen of God, and sent out emissaries in a quest of a woman predestined to be the \"female Messiah,\" and the mother of a new Saviour (the latter quest was very costly and altogether fruitless).\n\nMeanwhile, the new religion gathered believers in all parts of Europe. His extravagances and success at length brought him to the attention of authorities, who argued that he was endangering public morality - Enfantin had announced that the gulf between the sexes was too wide and this social inequality would impede rapid growth of society. Enfantin called for the abolition of prostitution and for the ability for women to divorce and obtain legal rights. This was considered radical for the time. In May 1832 the halls of the new sect were closed by the government, and the \"Père\", with some of his followers, appeared before the tribunals. He then retired to his estate at Menilmontant, near Paris, where with forty disciples, all of them men, he continued to carry out his socialist views. In August of the same year he was again arrested, and on his appearance in court he desired his defence to be undertaken by two women who were with him, alleging that the matter was of special concern to women; the request was promptly refused. The trial occupied two days and resulted in a verdict of guilty, and a sentence of imprisonment for a year with a small fine.\n\nThis prosecution discredited the new society. Enfantin was released in a few months. \n\nThen, accompanied by twenty of his followers, many of whom were also engineers from the Ecole Polytechnique, including , also known as Lambert-Bey, and some women, he went first to Constantinople. Enfantin had declared 1933 the Year of the Mother, and upon arrival in Constantinople the group began to strongly preach their views about gender relations and New Christianity. The Ottoman Empire told them to leave to avoid prison.\n\nEnfantin and his group then arrived in Egypt, where he planned to penetrate the feminine Orient with the masculine Occident in a consumation of progression - build a canal connecting the Mediterranean Sea with the Red Sea. In Egypt at that time, Muhammad Ali, the Egyptian Viceroy, was at odds with the Ottoman Sultan in Constantinople, and also practiced public-private contracts known as concessions with mostly European companies to build cheap infrastructure. Ali did not agree to a project linking the two seas because he did not want to cut out the duties he collected from overland trade in Egypt, but did allow Enfantin's group to work on the Delta Barrage - a type of dam - north of Cairo - with unpaid laborers - that would act to limit Nile flooding and create predictable crop yields. During his time in Egypt, Enfantine also established technical schools based on the Ecole Polytechnique model with Ali's blessing. Also in Egypt he encountered and influenced Ferdinand de Lesseps. Enfantine returned to France in 1836, lacking the patience to finish the Nile barrage project that was encountering delays.\n\nOn his return to France, he occupied minor offices. He became first a postmaster near Lyon, and in 1841 was appointed, through the influence of some of his friends who had risen to posts of power, member of a scientific commission on Algeria, which led him to engage in researches concerning North Africa and colonization in general.\n\nIn 1845 he was appointed a director of the Paris & Lyons railway. Three years later he established, in conjunction with Duveyrier, a daily journal, entitled \"Le Credit\", which was discontinued in 1850. He was afterwards attached to the administration of the railway from Lyons to the Mediterranean. \n\nFather Enfantin held fast by his ideal to the end, but he had renounced the hope of giving it a local habitation and a name in the degenerate obstinate world. His personal influence over those who associated with him was immense. \"He was a man of a noble presence, with finely formed and expressive features. He was gentle and insinuating in manner, and possessed a calm, graceful and winning delivery\" (\"Gent. M .\" Jan. 1865). His evident sincerity, his genuine enthusiasm, gave him his marvellous ascendancy. The Société d'Études du Canal de Suez was established by Enfantin in 1846 to continue study of the Suez Canal. Its members included Arlès-Dufour, Jules, Lon and Paulin Talabot, the British Robert Stephenson and Edward Starbuck, the Austrian Alois Negrelli, inspector of the Emperor Ferdinand Northern Railway, and Feronce and Sellier of Leipzig as representatives of the German interest.\n\nThe Société sent surveying teams to Egypt, developed engineering plans, determined that the elevation difference between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean Sea was negligible, but Muhammad Ali was still reticent to the idea of a canal. Upon his death in 1848, the activities of the Société were minimized until his successor was assassinated in 1854 and Ferdinand de Lesseps took up the initiative to build a canal. Lessups had corresponded at least once with the Société in the intervening years and had known the new Egyptian viceroy, Sa'id, when he was a young man. Enfantin was listed by Lessups as a founder of the Suez Canal Company.\n\nNot a few of his disciples ranked afterwards amongst the most distinguished men of France. Enfantin died suddenly at Paris on September 1, 1864.\n\nAmongst his works are: \"Doctrine de Saint-Simon\" (written in conjunction with several of his followers), published in 1830, and several times republished; \"Economie politique et politique Saint-Simonienne\" (1831); \"\" (1835–1840); \"Corresp. philos. et religieuse\" (1843–1845); and \"La Vie eternelle passee, presente, future\" (1861). A large number of articles by his hand appeared in \"Le Producteur\", \"L'Organisateur\", \"Le Globe\", and other periodicals. He also wrote in 1832 \"Le Livre nouveau\", intended as a substitute for the Christian Scriptures, but it was not published.\n\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "1927447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1927447", "title": "Coffeehouse (event)", "text": "Coffeehouse (event)\n\nA coffeehouse is a social event, often held to raise funds for and/or generate awareness of a social cause or other event.\n\nThe name \"coffeehouse\" is derived from the limited menu which is typically available at the social event: coffee is usually the featured beverage, together with other non-alcoholic beverages such as soda, juice and tea. Desserts and snack foods may round out the menu.\n\nFolk music and other acoustic concerts are the primary activity at many coffee houses. Other coffeehouses allow patrons to sing, dance, read poetry, perform stand-up comedy, or demonstrate other talents as entertainment during the event. Still other coffeehouses feature lectures and presentations to raise awareness about social issues such as political oppression, food/freshwater shortages, and/or outbreaks of disease in various countries. Some coffeehouses may facilitate other activities such as a mass letter writing campaign or signing petitions.\n\nSome coffeehouses have free admission, but others require a small entrance fee. If money is collected as an entrance fee, it is often donated in whole or in part to the social cause, after covering expenses.\n\nCoffeehouses are often sponsored by a permanent, semi-commercial coffeehouse venue, such as the well-known Club Passim and Caffe Lena. Churches, non-profits, school groups, and other private groups also sponsor coffee houses in church meeting rooms, colleges, and high schools. In particular, schools often sponsor coffeehouses to allow students to socialize in an explicitly non-alcoholic environment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14386680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14386680", "title": "Committee on the Public Understanding of Science", "text": "Committee on the Public Understanding of Science\n\nThe Committee on the Public Understanding of Science or Copus was founded in 1985 by the British Association for the Advancement of Science (BAAS), the Royal Institution and the Royal Society. Its aim was to interpret scientific advances and make them more accessible to non-scientists.\n\nIt played a part in developing the public understanding of science it establishing standards for communicating science and technology\n\nThe Copus Grant Schemes was set up in 1987 and the last round of grants was for 2003/4. The scheme was funded by the Office of Science and Technology and the Royal Society. 25 grants worth a total of over £750,000 were awarded in 2003/2004.\n\nIn 2000 The new Copus Council was formed to be a more inclusive partnership for science communication in the UK. In 2002 following a report commissioned by the Office of Science and Technology the Copus Council was discontinued.\n"}
{"id": "22082177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22082177", "title": "Consequential strangers", "text": "Consequential strangers\n\nConsequential strangers are personal connections other than family and close friends. Also known as \"peripheral\" or \"weak\" ties, they lie in the broad social territory between strangers and intimates. The term was coined by Karen L. Fingerman and further developed by Melinda Blau, who collaborated with the psychologist to explore and popularize the concept.\n\nSocial life in the 21st century includes a wide array of personal connections, not just intimates—people associated with a particular part of one’s life and daily activities, such as co-workers, neighbors, gym buddies, fellow volunteers and congregants, and providers of goods and services. Typically, peripheral ties far outnumber one’s close relations. Decades of research have shown the importance of primary relationships in both psychological and physiological well being. Yet an analysis of the broader social landscape suggests that consequential strangers provide many of the same benefits as intimates as well as many distinct and complementary functions. They are not universally beneficial—undesirable consequential strangers who cannot be avoided can be found in the workplace, neighborhoods and organizations. But to thrive in a modern society, research suggests, it is vital to have a variety of connections.\n\nThe academic underpinnings of the concept can be traced back to Mark Granovetter’s influential 1973 paper, \"The Strength of Weak Ties,\" in which the sociologist argued that job opportunities were most likely to come from people in the more distant reaches of one’s personal network—old bosses, former coworkers, college connections. Subsequent studies of social networks have shown that information, resources, and new connections—which confer social capital—are the province of weak ties in all arenas of life, not just employment. Benefits accrue to individuals, families, and the larger community as well. For example, one study found that African American mothers who made use of community ties as well as their families, were able to get their children into magnet schools and extracurricular programs that protected them from the dangers of inner city life.\n\nHistorically, relationship scholars have concentrated almost entirely on intimates: partners, children, parents, and, to a lesser extent, best friends. However, the trend toward urbanization underscored the importance of peripheral relationships. It is almost impossible to cope with the demands of modern life without weak ties. Thus, over the last several decades a handful of researchers and theorists have emphasized the important role of weak ties in anchoring individuals in the larger community. As one scholar observed in 1989, \"Social scientists have long held that close and intimate friendships are the \"sine qua non\" of personal relationships, and no doubt they are important, but ties with acquaintances are equally important.\"\n\nTechnology has played a key role in the unprecedented rise of consequential strangers. Advances in transportation and communication have always altered the ways in which people can connect—the pony express allowed the printed word to spread; the telephone made it possible to speak to distant contacts. But computers and digitalization have accelerated the process. In 1997, when Merrill Lynch asked social observer Michael Schrage to analyze how \"new\" technologies would transform businesses, he stressed that the shift did not herald an \"information revolution\" as much as a \"relationship revolution\". His predictions proved prescient. Today, at least 1.6 billion people are connected via computer and mobile devices. Various social media, such as blogs, wikis, Twitter, SMS, and networking sites like Facebook facilitate contact, coordination, and collaboration across boundaries of time and space—and at minimal cost. Most relationships—personal and business—are now conducted both on and off the Internet. As a result, the ranks of consequential strangers have grown as has the ability to keep in touch with them.\n\nConsequential strangers comprise the aggregate of personal connections outside one’s inner circles of family and close friends. Such relationship are referred to elsewhere as \"peripheral\" (versus \"core\"), \"secondary\" (versus \"primary\"), or \"weak ties\" (versus \"strong\"). Colloquially, they are also known as acquaintances. But in reality, relationships cannot be neatly classified into groups. Rather, they fall along a continuum. Consequential strangers occupy the vast territory between strangers and close (or core) ties. They are just beyond Stanley Milgrim’s conception of a familiar stranger—one frequently encountered and broadly identifiable (a woman, an Asian, a cop)—but not known in the personal sense. In contrast, a personal and repeated pattern of interaction is evident with a consequential stranger.\n\nThe field of consequential strangers encompasses a diverse assortment of relationship types. The gradations between weak ties are often blurred, among other reasons because all relationships are fluid and dynamic. Over time, some consequential stranger connections become close friends or even intimate partners, while others stay at the level of acquaintanceship—for example, those \"anchored\" to a particular place, such as a school, gym, or train station or involved in a paid service or status hierarchies (e.g., a boss and worker).\n\nAlso, the vocabulary of relationships can be confusing. Whereas some languages, such as French, have two forms of the pronoun \"you\"—using the informal \"tu\" with intimates and the formal \"vous\" with acquaintances—English has no such markers. The word \"friend\" is used to describe close \"and\" casual relations. One must inquire further to find out what the speaker means. Likewise, \"acquaintance\" can be defined either as a relationship that falls short of friendship or as a stage from which the relationship becomes more intimate. Technology further complicates the linguistic issue. For example, Japanese sociologist Hidenori Tomita coined the term \"intimate stranger\"—a person with whom one shares intimate and yet anonymous contact—to describe \"new relationships born through the new media.\"\n\nSocial scientists in the seventies observed that in order for a relationship to develop into increasing intimacy, the social partners need opportunities to get together, time with one another, and a certain degree of privacy (optimum group size for developing intimacy is small). More recent conceptualizations extend that premise, theorizing that a relationship is more than the sum of two people. Environmental, historical, and cultural factors also impinge on the course of a given relationship. Among factors cited are the partners’ other social ties, their respective positions in the life cycle, the era in which the two are embedded, and the place—home, community, country—where their liaison unfolds. Moreover, \"getting together\" nowadays often occurs in virtual, not real, space.\n\nThe \"closest\" peripheral ties involve mutual recognition and repeated interactions (in one another’s physical presence or online). A treasured accountant or a cherished priest might be among one’s closest consequential strangers. At the other extreme are relationships that are barely blips on the social radar, such as people with adjoining season seats for a game or same-time-next-year conventioneers.\n\nAnother factor that shapes a relationship is the level of investment and stability. People are committed to their intimates, less so to their consequential strangers. If one's tennis partner moves or the owner of a favorite deli retires, such individuals might be missed, but others will fill their roles. Also, weak ties often serve compartmentalized needs—for a particular kind of assistance, a leisure activity, a work project—whereas intimates are more likely to serve multiple functions.\n\nSelf-disclosure—both \"breadth\" (the variety of subjects discussed) and \"depth\" (the degree of intimate sharing)—is the engine that drives all relationships. As a rule of thumb, the closer the relationship, the more time spent together, the more likely that social partners will self-disclose. However, in all relationships, social partners strike a balance between a need to connect and a need for one’s own space. At different times of day, at different times of life, and at different points in history, people are more or less open to disclosing information about themselves. Even within a long-term relationship, partners do not always share with one another on a deep level. Thus, although lovers and best friends may be the \"likely\" recipients of confidences, they are rarely the only ones. Individuals also confide in their consequential strangers, particularly those near the intimate end of the continuum. Studies have shown, for example, that this happens frequently with certain professionals—among them, hairdressers and divorce lawyers. Likewise, gym buddies and frequent patrons at diners often share confidences with one another. In part it's the regularity of contact, in part the place itself. Under certain conditions, Zick Rubin found that people even share with complete strangers, a paradox known as the \"stranger on a train\" phenomenon.\n\nNumerous studies underscore the importance of intimate relationships—and nothing in the conceptualization of consequential strangers disputes this. However, weak ties can be similar to, different from, and supportive of close relations. Indeed, consequential strangers can provide many of the same benefits to individuals as do close relationships: companionship, a sense of belonging, and emotional support, particularly in times of crisis or emergency.\n\nBecause relationships mirror different aspects of the self, both weak and strong ties contribute to an individual’s sense of identity. In some situations, consequential strangers may allow distinct facets of identity to emerge. For example, women over fifty who join the Red Hat Society tend to express aspects of themselves in the company of other \"Hatters\" that would surprise members of their families.\n\nResearch also suggests that one can develop a greater sense of agency and mastery by stepping into multiple roles. Being with one’s poker buddies requires a different skill set than volunteering at the local hospital or conducting a meeting at work. And because of the lack of familiarity in these various situations, it is necessary to communicate in more \"elaborated\" patterns of speech with consequential strangers than with loved ones. Relating to assorted others forces an individual to \"negotiate, exercise judgment, reconcile, compromise, and take account of the intentions, purposes, motivations, and perspective\" of his or her assorted role partners.\"\n\nWeak ties also provide benefits not available in close ties: information, resources, and novelty, as well as a sense of being \"known\" in the larger community. Consequential strangers often act as \"bridges\" to new people and groups. Through them, an individual is exposed to ideas, cultures, life strategies, and diversions that are beyond the scope of their loved ones' knowledge and experience.\n\nCasual connections provide fodder for social comparison—a psychological process in which one regards another’s circumstances and feels better or worse off. In certain situations, downward comparison (feeling better than) may contribute to self-esteem. One study found that college students tend to view friends as comparable to themselves, but make downward comparisons with acquaintances. Viewing oneself as better than a close partner might jeopardize the relationships.\n\nConsequential strangers can also support intimate ties, especially in the family. In a given day, parents deal with child care providers, teachers, coaches, and other parents who can offer tangible aid, such as car pools, information about school policies, as well as emotional support to the family.\nMany peripheral relationships are satisfying, although some are also the cause of daily hassles. When a weak tie is bothersome, one can often walk away. However, there are certain consequential strangers from whom escape is impossible—a coworker, neighbor, or teacher that rankles.\n\nAnother study suggests that lying may be more frequent between consequential strangers than between intimates. Gossip, particularly among a closed system of colleagues or neighbors, spreads quickly among weak ties as well.\n\nAggression in the workplace—an arena filled mostly with consequential strangers rather than close friends—is also well documented. Researchers have even linked increases in blood pressure to the experience of working for an unfavorable supervisor. A vast literature regarding work and family further suggests that difficulties with co-workers can reverberate at home in the form of anger or withdrawal.\n\nAnother way to view the impact of consequential strangers is by pulling the camera back from the individual to the entire network. Each individual travels through life in what was first conceptualized in the 1980s as a \"social convoy\"—an entourage of people that he or she has collected along the way. This assortment of personal ties is one type of social network.Some individuals are better or less equipped for life's challenges and crises, not merely because of their strength or socio-economic status, but also because of the composition of their convoys. Research indicates that the best convoys are composed of a combination of intimates and consequential strangers—people in the community, service providers, acquaintances one encounters in leisure and volunteer activities.\n\nThe perspective of the convoy enables a different view of one's life: \"not as a string of events but as a cavalcade of people.\" Running into an old college roommate or a former employer allows an individual to revisit the past with the perspective of the present. Some close relations are part of the convoy from birth to death (parents, children), or for large portions of the journey (partners, close friends), while others (former roommates, exes) drop by the wayside. However, consequential strangers typically travel only part of the way, often for a specific function. For example, during a health crisis, medical personnel, members of support groups, and home aides might become part of an individual’s convoy for a time.\n\nThe nature of a convoy can impact well being. Epidemiological research, which has focused on both strong and weak ties, suggests that social isolation bodes badly for psychological and physiological health. In contrast, \"social integration\"—having a personal network of intimates and consequential strangers—may increase longevity and resistance to disease. For example, an ongoing series of \"viral challenge\" studies have been conducted over the last twenty years, in which subjects are quarantined and deliberately infected with a virus. Those who had contact in the prior two weeks with six or more types of relationships (based on their responses to a checklist of 12 relationship types, both weak and strong) are four times less likely to come down with a cold than volunteers who had three or fewer types of connections.\n\nA diverse social convoy is also more likely to deliver tangible and emotional support when needed. It is like having a personal \"grapevine,\" be it at work or in the community, that allows one to keep current, to find the best service provider, and to gain access to different types of resources by being a \"bridge\" between different groups. One sociologist theorizes that knowing people in a wide range of professions, across all socio-economic levels, confers \"cultural capital,\" enabling an individual to talk widely on many subjects. In this way, a diverse convoy is like a \"liberal arts program, teaching a little of almost everything.\"\n\nSimilar benefits accrue to groups and institutions. The most innovative companies are those in which executives hire a diverse workforce and are open to input from all levels of employees, not just those at the top. They seek inspiration and encourage collaboration \"outside\" their own boundaries as well, in essence drawing from the widest possible range of consequential strangers. In a similar vein, marketing experts realize that tapping into broad social networks is an effective way to promote ideas and products. The success of social movements and political campaigns also depends on peripheral connections. For example, the youthful volunteers who participated in \"Freedom Summer,\" a massive education and voter registration initiative in 1964, were drawn into the civil rights movement by people in the community, friends of friends, teachers and preachers—in short, their consequential strangers. More recently, Barack Obama's successful bid for the Presidency in 2008 exemplified a similar phenomenon, aided and accelerated by technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "8015055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8015055", "title": "Critical mass (sociodynamics)", "text": "Critical mass (sociodynamics)\n\nIn social dynamics, critical mass is a sufficient number of adopters of an innovation in a social system so that the rate of adoption becomes self-sustaining and creates further growth. The term is borrowed from nuclear physics and in that field it refers to the amount of a substance needed to sustain a chain reaction.\n\nSocial factors influencing critical mass may involve the size, interrelatedness and level of communication in a society or one of its subcultures. Another is social stigma, or the possibility of public advocacy due to such a factor.\n\nCritical mass may be closer to majority consensus in political circles, where the most effective position is more often that held by the majority of people in society. In this sense, small changes in public consensus can bring about swift changes in political consensus, due to the majority-dependent effectiveness of certain ideas as tools of political debate.\n\nCritical mass is a concept used in a variety of contexts, including physics, group dynamics, politics, public opinion, and technology.\n\nThe concept of critical mass was originally created by game theorist Thomas Schelling and sociologist Mark Granovetter to explain the actions and behaviors of a wide range of people and phenomenon. The concept was first established (although not explicitly named) in Schelling's essay about racial segregation in neighborhoods, published in 1971 in the Journal of Mathematical Sociology, and later refined in his book, \"Micromotives and Macrobehavior\", published in 1978. He did use the term \"critical density\" with regard to pollution in his \"On the Ecology of Micromotives\". Mark Granovetter, in his essay \"Threshold models of collective behavior\", published in the American Journal of Sociology in 1978 worked to solidify the theory. Everett Rogers later cites them both in his important work \"Diffusion of Innovations\", in which critical mass plays an important role.\n\nThe concept of critical mass had existed before it entered a sociology context. It was an established concept in medicine, specifically epidemiology, since the 1920s, as it helped to explain the spread of illnesses.\n\nIt had also been a present, if not solidified, idea in the study of consumer habits and economics, especially in General Equilibrium Theory. In his papers, Schelling quotes the well-known \"The Market for Lemons: Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism\" paper written in 1970 by George Akerlof. Similarly, Granovetter cited the Nash Equilibrium game in his papers.\n\nFinally, Herbert A. Simon's essay, \"Bandwagon and underdog effects and the possibility of election predictions\", published in 1954 in Public Opinion Quarterly, has been cited as a predecessor to the concept we now know as critical mass.\n\nCritical mass and the theories behind it help us to understand aspects of humans as they act and interact in a larger social setting. Certain theories, such as Mancur Olson's Logic of Collective Action or Garrett Hardin's Tragedy of the Commons, work to help us understand why humans do or adopt certain things which are beneficial to them, or, more importantly, why they do not. Much of this reasoning has to do with individual interests trumping that which is best for the collective whole, which may not be obvious at the time.\n\nOliver, Marwell, and Teixeira tackle this subject in relation to critical theory in a 1985 article published in the American Journal of Sociology. In their essay, they define that action in service of a public good as \"collective action\". \"Collective Action\" is beneficial to all, regardless of individual contribution. By their definition, then, \"critical mass\" is the small segment of a societal system that does the work or action required to achieve the common good. The \"Production Function\" is the correlation between resources, or what individuals give in an effort to achieve public good, and the achievement of that good. Such function can be decelerating, where there is less utility per unit of resource, and in such a case, resource can taper off. On the other hand, the function can be accelerating, where the more resources that are used the bigger the payback. \"Heterogeneity\" is also important to the achievement of a common good. Variations (heterogeneity) in the value individuals put on a common good or the effort and resources people give is beneficial, because if certain people stand to gain more, they are willing to give or pay more.\n\nCritical mass theory in gender politics and collective political action is defined as the critical number of personnel needed to affect policy and make a change not as the token but as an influential body. This number has been placed at 30%, before women are able to make a substantial difference in politics. However, other research suggests lower numbers of women working together in legislature can also affect political change. Kathleen Bratton goes so far as to say that women, in legislatures where they make up less than 15% of the membership, may actually be encouraged to develop legislative agendas that are distinct from those of their male colleagues. Others argue that we should look more closely at parliamentary and electoral systems instead of critical mass.\n\nWhile critical mass can be applied to many different aspects of sociodynamics, it becomes increasingly applicable to innovations in interactive media such as the telephone, fax, or email. With other non-interactive innovations, the dependence on other users was generally sequential, meaning that the early adopters influenced the later adopters to use the innovation. However, with interactive media, the interdependence was reciprocal, meaning both users influenced each other. This is due to the fact that interactive media have high network effect, where in the value and utility of a good or service increases the more users it has. Thus, the increase of adopters and quickness to reach critical mass can therefore be faster and more intense with interactive media, as can the rate at which previous users discontinue their use. The more people that use it, the more beneficial it will be, thus creating a type of snowball effect, and conversely, if users begin to stop using the innovation, the innovation loses utility, thus pushing more users to discontinue their use.\n\nIn M. Lynne Markus' essay in \"Communication Research\" entitled \"Toward a 'Critical Mass' Theory of Interactive Media\", several propositions are made that try to predict under what circumstances interactive media is most likely to achieve critical mass and reach universal access, a \"common good\" using Oliver, \"et al\".'s terminology. One proposition states that such media's existence is all or nothing, where in if universal access is not achieved, then, eventually, use will discontinue. Another proposition suggests that a media's ease of use and inexpensiveness, as well as its utilization of an \"active notification capability\" will help it achieve universal access. The third proposition states that the heterogeneity, as discussed by Oliver, et al. is beneficial, especially if users are dispersed over a larger area, thus necessitating interactivity via media. Fourth, it is very helpful to have highly sought-after individuals to act as early adopters, as their use acts as incentive for later users. Finally, Markus posits that interventions, both monetarily and otherwise, by governments, businesses, or groups of individuals will help a media reach its critical mass and achieve universal access.\n\nAn example put forth by Rogers in \"Diffusion of Innovations\" was that of the fax machine, which had been around for almost 150 years before it became popular and widely used. It had existed in various forms and for various uses, but with more advancements in the technology of faxes, including the use of existing phone lines to transmit information, coupled with falling prices in both machines and cost per fax, the fax machine reached a critical mass in 1987, when \"Americans began to assume that 'everybody else' had a fax machine\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10458499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10458499", "title": "Democratic rationalization", "text": "Democratic rationalization\n\nDemocratic rationalization is term used by Andrew Feenberg in his article \"Subversive Rationalization: Technology, Power and Democracy with technology.\" Feenberg argues against the idea of \"technological determinism\" citing flaws in its two fundamental theses.\n\nThe first is the \"thesis of unilinear progress\". This is the belief that technological progress follows a direct and predictable path from lower to higher levels of complexity and that each stage along this path is necessary for progress to occur (Feenberg 211).\n\nThe second is the \"thesis of determination by the base\". This is the concept that in a society where a technology had been introduced, that society must organize itself or adapt to the technology (Feenberg 211).\n\nIn his argument against the former thesis Feenberg says that constructivist studies of technology will lead us to realize that there is not a set path by which development of technologies occur but rather an emerging of similar technologies at the same time leading to a multiplicity of choices. These choices are made based upon certain social factors and upon examining them we will see that they are not deterministic in nature (Feenberg 212).\n\nArguing against the latter thesis, Feenberg calls to our attention social reforms that have been mandated by governments mainly in regards to the protection of its citizens and laborers. Most of the time these mandates are widely accepted after being passed through the governing body. At which point technology and industry will reform and re-evolve to meet the new standards in a way that has greater efficiency than it did so previously (Feenberg 214)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17910574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17910574", "title": "Digital ecosystem", "text": "Digital ecosystem\n\nA digital ecosystem is a distributed, adaptive, open socio-technical system with properties of self-organisation, scalability and sustainability inspired from natural ecosystems. Digital ecosystem models are informed by knowledge of natural ecosystems, especially for aspects related to competition and collaboration among diverse entities. The term is used in the computer industry, the entertainment industry, and the World Economic Forum.\n\nThe concept of Digital Business Ecosystem was put forward in 2002 by a group of European researchers and practitioners, including Francesco Nachira, Paolo Dini and Andrea Nicolai, who applied the general notion of digital ecosystems to model the process of adoption and development of ICT-based products and services in competitive, highly fragmented markets like the European one\n. Elizabeth Chang, Ernesto Damiani and Tharam Dillon started in 2007 the IEEE Digital EcoSystems and Technologies Conference (IEEE DEST). Richard Chbeir, Youakim Badr, Dominique Laurent, and Hiroshi Ishikawa started in 2009 the ACM Conference on Management of Digital EcoSystems (MEDES)\n\nThe digital ecosystem metaphor and models have been applied to a number of business areas related to the production and distribution of knowledge-intensive products and services, including higher education. The perspective of this research is providing methods and tools to achieve a set of objectives of the ecosystem (e.g. sustainability, fairness, bounded information asymmetry, risk control and gracious failure). These objectives are seen as desirable properties whose emergence should be fostered by the digital ecosystem self-organization, rather than as explicit design goals like in conventional IT.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5169750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5169750", "title": "Digital literacy", "text": "Digital literacy\n\nDigital literacy is a component of media literacy. It refers to an individual's ability to find, evaluate, produce and communicate clear information through writing and other forms of communication on various digital platforms. Digital literacy showcases an individual's grammar, computer, writing, and typing skills on platforms, such as social media and blog sites. Digital Literacy also includes other devices, such as, smartphones, tablets, laptops and desktop PCs. While digital literacy initially focused on digital skills and stand-alone computers, its focus has shifted to network devices including the Internet and use of social media. Digital literacy does not replace traditional forms of literacy, instead building upon the skills that form the foundation of traditional forms of literacy.\nPeople use digital media for a range of activities: exploring, connecting, creating, and learning. Microsoft says digital literacy helps learners develop an essential understanding of sophisticated equipment like personal computers. Courses help them to use technology in complementing their daily routine and become more productive. Technology proficiency includes social, ethical, and insightful practices inherent in education, work, leisure, and everyday routine. The International Society for Technology in Education maintains parameters for digital literacy around six benchmarks. These consist of “\"innovation, communication and cooperation, research and information, critical thinking, problem-solving and decision-making, digital citizenship, and technology concepts and operations\".”\n\nFrom a competency perspective, digital literacy is framed with literacy, fluency, and mastery of skills needed to use the internet. From an academic perspective, digital literacy is a part of the computing subject area alongside computer science and information technology. \n\nDigital literacy is a new literacy and can be decomposed into several sub-literacies. One such decomposition considers digital literacy as embracing computer literacy, network literacy, information literacy and social media literacy. Previous conceptualizations of digital literacy focused on the practical skills associated with using computers (now considered computer literacy). These include hardware skills, such as connecting devices, and software skills, such as using application packages. Contemporary conceptualizations of digital literacy add to these traditional skills, and embrace knowledge, skills, attitudes and behaviors, particularly with respect to networked devices (which include smartphones, tablets and personal computers).\nDigital literacy differs from computer literacy in a number of significant ways. While it embraces the practical skills that computer literacy incorporates, there is a much greater focus on sociological, political, cultural, economic and behavioral aspects of digital technologies.\n\nAs a pedagogical approach in curriculum design, the implementation of digital literacy affords far-reaching advantages. The internet is both a source of information and communication that has increased exponentially internationally. Subsequently, integrating technology into the classroom in a meaningful way, exposes students to a range of literacy practices called multi-literacies which broadens their outlook and widens vistas of information and knowledge which is highly constructive. This methodology embraces the constructivist theory of learning (Bruner, 1978) wherein learners draw from their existing knowledge in order to construct new learning.\n\nGiven the many varied implications that digital literacy has on students and educators, pedagogy has responded by emphasizing four specific models of engaging with digital mediums. Those four models are text participating, code breaking, text analyzing, and text using. These methods present students (and other learners) with the ability to fully engage with the media, but also enhance the way the individual is able to relate the digital text to their lived experiences.\n\nMedia literacy education began in the United Kingdom and the United States as a result of war propaganda in the 1930s and the rise of advertising in the 1960s, respectively. Manipulative messaging and the increase in various forms of media further concerned educators. Educators began to promote media literacy education in order to teach individuals how to judge and access the media messages they were receiving. The ability to critique digital and media content allows individuals to identify biases and evaluate messages independently.\n\nDanah Boyd stresses the importance of critical media literacy, especially for teens. She advocates that critical media literacy skills are the first step in identifying biases in media content, such as online or print advertising. Technical skills and knowledge of navigating computer systems further helps individuals in evaluating information on their own. Barriers in acquiring technical skills and computer knowledge set forth a limit for individuals in fully participating in the digital world.\n\nIn order for individuals to evaluate digital and media messages independently, they must demonstrate digital and media literacy competence. Renee Hobbs, professor of Communication and Media at the University of Rhode Island, developed a list of skills that demonstrate digital and media literacy competence. Digital and media literacy involves knowing how to retrieve, distribute, and understand information found in digital environments such as the internet. Digital and media literacy includes the ability to examine and comprehend the meaning of messages, judging credibility, and assessing the quality of the digital work. The individual is capable of analyzing digital and media messages by recognizing the author's perspective and overall purpose. A digital and media literate individual has the aptitude to create diverse forms of digital content and possesses technology skills to create digital content. The individual becomes a socially responsible member of their community by spreading awareness and helping others find digital solutions at home, work, or on a national platform.\n\nDigital literacy requires certain skill sets that are interdisciplinary in nature. Warschauer and Matuchniak (2010) list three skill sets, or 21st century skills, that individuals need to master in order to be digitally literate: information, media, and technology; learning and innovation skills; and life and career skills. In order to achieve information, media, and technology skills, one needs to achieve competency in information literacy, media literacy and ICT (information communicative technologies). Encompassed within Learning and Innovation Skills, one must also be able to exercise their creativity and innovation, critical thinking and problem solving, and communication and collaboration skills (the \"Four Cs of 21st century learning\"). In order to be competent in Life and Career Skills, it is also necessary to be able to exercise flexibility and adaptability, initiative and self-direction, social and cross-cultural skills, productivity and accountability, leadership and responsibility.\n\nAviram & Eshet-Alkalai contend that there are five types of literacies that are encompassed in the umbrella term that is digital literacy.\n\nSchools are continuously updating their curricula to keep up with accelerating technological developments. This often includes computers in the classroom, the use of educational software to teach curricula, and course materials being made available to students online. Students are often taught literacy skills such as how to verify credible sources online, cite web sites, and prevent plagiarism in a technological world. Google and Wikipedia are frequently used by students \"for everyday life research,\" and are just two common tools that facilitate modern education. Digital technology has impacted the way material is taught in the classroom. With the use of technology rising over the past decade, educators are enhancing traditional forms of learning with digital literacy through different platforms.. Several websites are assisting in these efforts such as Google Docs, Prezi, and, Easybib. Each service has assisted students by teaching collaboration, allowing students to use pre-made, creative presentation templates, and helping generate citations in any given format. Additionally, educators have also turned to social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, Edmodo, Schoology and even Instagram to communicate and share ideas with one another. New standards have been put into place as digital technology has augmented classrooms, with many classrooms being designed to use smartboards and audience response systems in replacement of traditional chalkboards or whiteboards.\n\nUniversity of Southern Mississippi professor, Dr. Suzanne Mckee-Waddell conceptualized the idea of digital composition as the ability to integrate multiple forms of communication technologies and research to create a better understanding of a topic. Digital composition keeps educators and students connected through modern teaching techniques. Digital writing in particular is a new type of digital composition being taught increasingly within universities. Digital writing is a pedagogy focused on the impact technology has had on various writing environments; it is not simply the process of using a computer to write. Rather than the traditional print perspective, digital writing enables students to explore modern technologies and learn how different writing spaces affect the meaning, audience, and readability of text. Educators in favor of digital writing argue that it is necessary because \"technology fundamentally changes how writing is produced, delivered, and received.\" The goal of teaching digital writing is that students will increase their ability to produce a relevant, high-quality product, instead of just a standard academic paper.\n\nOne aspect of digital writing is the use of hypertext. As opposed to printed text, hypertext invites readers to explore information in a non-linear fashion. Hypertext consists of traditional text and hyperlinks that send readers to other texts. These links may refer to related terms or concepts (such is the case on Wikipedia), or they may enable readers to choose the order in which they read. The process of digital writing requires the composer to make unique \"decisions regarding linking and omission.\" These decisions \"give rise to questions about the author's responsibilities to the [text] and to objectivity.\"\n\nDigital literacy is present within society by allowing people to communicate through the use of various digital platforms. Literacy in social network services and Web 2.0 sites helps people stay in contact with others, pass timely information, and even buy and sell goods and services. Digital literacy can also prevent people from being taken advantage of online, as photo manipulation, E-mail frauds and phishing often can fool the digitally illiterate, costing victims money and making them vulnerable to identity theft. However, those using technology and the internet to commit these manipulations and fraudulent acts possess the digital literacy abilities to fool victims by understanding the technical trends and consistencies; it becomes important to be digitally literate to always think one step ahead when utilizing the digital world. \n\nWith the emergence of social media, individuals who are digitally literate now have a major voice online. Websites like Facebook and Twitter, as well as personal websites and blogs, have enabled a new type of journalism that is subjective, personal, and \"represents a global conversation that is connected through its community of readers.\" These online communities foster group interactivity among the digitally literate. Social media also help users establish a digital identity or a \"symbolic digital representation of identity attributes.\" Without digital literacy or the assistance of someone who is digitally literate, one cannot possess a personal digital identity (this is closely allied to web literacy).\n\nResearch has demonstrated that the differences in the level of digital literacy depend mainly on age and education level, while the influence of gender is decreasing (Hargittai, 2002; van Dijk, 2005; van Dijk and van Deursen, 2009). Among young people, digital literacy is high in its operational dimension. Young people rapidly move through hypertext and have a familiarity with different kinds of online resources. However, the skills to critically evaluate content found online show a deficit (Gui and Argentin, 2011).\n\nThe 2014 Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) defines digital literacy skills as a workforce preparation activity. Those who are digitally literate are more likely to be economically secure, as many jobs require a working knowledge of computers and the Internet to perform basic tasks. \n\nWhite collar jobs are today performed primarily on computers and portable devices. Many of these jobs require proof of digital literacy to be hired or promoted. Sometimes companies will administer their own tests to employees, or official certification will be required.\n\nAs technology has become cheaper and more readily available, more blue-collar jobs have required digital literacy as well. Manufacturers and retailers, for example, are expected to collect and analyze data about productivity and market trends to stay competitive. Construction workers often use computers to increase employee safety.\n\nJob recruiters often use employment Web sites to find potential employees, thus magnifying the importance of digital literacy in securing a job. LinkedIn is one of the most popular employment sites, in which professionals can connect with others in their field, search for potential employment opportunities, or put out feelers for jobs they may need filled. \n\nPossessing advanced and capable digital literacy serves as an essential skill allowing individuals to compete in the workforce. Socially, it has become almost necessary to possess a degree of digital literacy on all job levels, as society has become a technology based one and will continue to be such.\n\nDigital literacy and digital access have become increasingly important competitive differentiators for individuals using the internet meaningfully. Bridging the economic and developmental divides is in large measure a matter of increasing digital literacy and access for peoples who have been left out of the information and communications technology (ICT) revolutions.\n\nResearch published in 2012 found that the digital divide, as defined by access to information technology, does not exist amongst youth in the United States. Young people of all races and ethnicities report being connected to the internet at rates of 94-98%. There remains, however, a civic opportunity gap, where youth from poorer families and those attending lower socioeconomic status schools are less likely to encounter opportunities to apply their digital literacies toward civic ends.\n\nCommunity informatics overlaps to a considerable degree with digital literacy by being concerned with ensuring the opportunity not only for ICT access at the community level, but also according to Michael Gurstein, that the means for the \"effective use\" of ICTs for community betterment and empowerment are available. Digital literacy is, of course, one of the significant elements in this process.\n\nThe United Nations Global Alliance for ICT and Development (GAID) seeks to address this set of issues at an international and global level. Many organizations (e.g. \"Per\" Scholas for underserved communities in the United States and InterConnection for underserved communities around the world as well as the U.S.) focus on addressing this concern at national, local and community levels.\n\nThe digital divide was first widely discussed by journalists, academics, and governmental agencies in the 1990s. The digital divide was used to distinguish between the digital accessibility of wealthy and lower-income groups. Jessamyn C. West defines the digital divide as the gap between individuals who can and cannot easily access technology, or the haves and have-nots. The digital divide highlights the privileges individuals have in accessing technology.\n\nExpanding on the definition of the digital divide, Howard Besser argues that the digital divide means more than technology access between the haves and have-nots. The digital divide encompasses aspects such as information literacy, appropriateness of content, and access to content. Beyond access, a digital divide exists between those who have the ability to apply critical thinking to technology. Language and English fluency creates a barrier in the digital divide as well, as most content online is written in English. The digital divide includes a gap between individuals who have the ability to create digital content or are merely consumers.\n\nIn 1994 the United States Department of Commerce began investigating the causes of the digital divide. The National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) conducted the survey, Falling Through the Net. The NTIA discovered that many socioeconomic factors, such as income, geographical location, age, and education were the driving forces of the digital divide. Older, less educated, and lower-income individuals were less likely to own a telephone or computer in their homes.\n\nThe NTIA conducted a second survey in 1999 and found that statistics of the digital divide improved. Computer ownership and internet access increased across every demographic group and geographic area. However, the research found that certain groups were advancing faster in regards to internet access. Those who had easy access to technology were growing more information rich than the have-not group. The research revealed that the socioeconomic factors found in the first survey are still present in growing the digital divide, although access to computers and internet use increased.\n\nMarc Prensky invented and popularized the terms digital natives and digital immigrants. A digital native, according to Marc Prensky, is an individual born into the digital age. A digital immigrant refers to an individual who adopts technology later in life. These terms aid in understanding the issues of teaching digital literacy, however, simply being a digital native does not make one digitally literate.\n\nDigital immigrants, although they adapt to the same technology as natives, possess a sort of accent which restricts them from communicating the way natives do. In fact, research shows that, due to the brain's malleable nature, technology has changed the way today's students read, perceive, and process information. This means that today's educators may struggle to find effective teaching methods for digital natives. Digital immigrants might resist teaching digital literacy because they themselves were not taught that way. Marc Prensky believes this is a problem because today's students speak a new language that educators do not understand.\n\nStatistics and popular representations of the elderly portray them as digital immigrants. For example, Canada in 2010 found that 29% of its citizens 75 years of age and older, and 60% of its citizens between the ages of 65-74 had browsed the internet in the past month. Conversely, internet activity reached almost 100% among its 15 through 24-year-old citizens. Eugene Loos identifies the most common assumptions about digital technologies and the elderly, all of which contribute to portray them as digital immigrants and to perpetuate digital ageism. Senior citizens may be regarded as a homogenous group, however, this group does not want or is not able to make use of digital information sources. Eugene Loos claims this is not a problem because as time passes, these generations will be succeeded by new generations that have no problem at all with digital technologies. Indeed, recent research has suggested much variation in the digital literacy of older adults, providing a six-fold typology: Non-Users (the smallest category), Reluctants, Apprehensives, Basic Users, Go-Getters, and Savvy Users. There does not seem to be a strong relationship between the amount of use and digital skills, although older adults tend to disparage their literacy compared to younger generations. \n\nAlthough Marc Prensky is credited as the originator of digital natives and digital immigrants because he popularized the concepts, Poet and cyberlibertarian John Perry Barlow and media theorist Douglas Rushkoff have also been cited to have coined the terms. John Perry Barlow used the concepts in his statement entitled \"A Declaration of the Independence of Cyberspace\", for the 1996 World Economic Forum in Davos. John Perry Barlow's poetry showcases the generational gap that grew with the rise of technology. John Perry Barlow metaphorically suggested that children are natives in the growing digital world and parents are fearful of the growing generational gap in regard to technology. Douglas Rushkoff employed the concepts of digital natives and digital immigrants in his book, \"Playing the Future\". Douglas Rushkoff praises children's progress and growing competence with technology and labels youth as digital natives.\n\nAccording to Ahn, Juyeon, & Jung, Yoonhyuka, a digital native is someone who has grown up with technologies. For example, a pager, the first cell-phone, and an oversized cube computer. They also have different understandings of digital use. While digital immigrants, who have been exposed to digital technology later in life. Prensky states, \"digital natives” indicates the young generation born after the 1980s, “digital immigrants” designates the parent generation of DN. Because DN have been growing with diverse digital technologies, they are inclined to adopt and be favorable to emerging technologies.\"\n\nIn contrast to Marc Prensky, David S. White has been publicizing his concept of digital visitors and residents. Briefly, the concept is that visitors leave no online social trace whereas residents live a portion of their lives online. These are not two separate categories of people, but rather a description of a continuum of behaviors. It is probable that many individuals demonstrate both visitor and residential behaviors in different contexts. Dave White has developed a mapping tool which explores this concept.\n\nMedia theorist Henry Jenkins coined the term participation gap and distinguished the participation gap from the digital divide. According to Henry Jenkins, the participation gap describes the gap in skills that emerge when individuals have different levels of access to technology. Henry Jenkins states that students learn different sets of technology skills if they only have access to the internet in a library or school. Students who have access to the internet at home have more opportunities to develop their skills and have fewer limitations, such as computer time limits and website filters commonly used in libraries. \n\nThe effects of the participation gap were studied by Danah Boyd, who observed and conducted fieldwork on teens in the United States. Danah Boyd observed privileged and disadvantaged teens' different experiences with technology. In New York, she observed a teen girl use her Android phone for texting and using mobile applications. The teen girl was able to use technology to participate in social media, but the internet was too slow on her phone to complete homework assignments. Although the teen girl had full access to the internet, the slow internet and mobile device itself limited her experience in further improving her competence with technology. The teen girl's limited access to technology highlights the participatory gap in skills that individuals experience when they have limited access to the internet and various modes of technology.\n\nGovernment officials around the world have emphasized the importance of digital literacy for their economy. According to HotChalk, an Online resource for educators: \"Nations with centralized education systems, such as China, are leading the charge and implementing digital literacy training programs faster than anyone else. For those countries, the news is good.\"\n\nMany developing nations are also focusing on digital literacy education to compete globally.\n\nEconomically, socially and regionally marginalised people have benefited from the ECDL Foundation’s ECDL / ICDL programme through funding and support from Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives, international development agency funding and non-governmental organisations.\n\nThe Philippines' Education Secretary Jesli Lapus has emphasized the importance of digital literacy in Filipino education. He claims a resistance to change is the main obstacle to improving the nation's education in the globalized world. In 2008, Lapus was inducted into Certiport's \"Champions of Digital Literacy\" Hall of Fame for his work to emphasize digital literacy.\n\nA study done in 2011 by the Southern African Linguistics & Applied Language Studies program observed some South African university students regarding their digital literacy. It was found that while their courses did require some sort of digital literacy, very few students actually had access to a computer. Many had to pay others to type any work, as they their digital literacy was almost nonexistent. Findings show that class, ignorance, and inexperience still affect any access to learning South African university students may need.\n\nIn 2011, the EU Kids Online conducted a study that examined the amount of time children in Europe spent on the computer. It was found that roughly 85% of European children use a computer without the supervision of a teacher or parent, showing that these children have acquired some form of digital literacy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4578274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4578274", "title": "Dromedary bag", "text": "Dromedary bag\n\nA dromedary bag is a collapsible plastic bladder for holding water for drinking. Backpackers carry dromedary bags in areas where water is not readily available or is not clean enough to drink. Dromedary bags are useful when traveling through the desert, but are generally too heavy for extended trips. The opening sequences of the film \"Wild\" demonstrate the heaviness of a backpack laden with water.\n\nNot to be confused with the hydration pack, dromedary bags are able to carry larger amounts of water. They are much more effective at distributing water amongst a group rather than personal use only. The dromedary bag was invented by Sir Thomas Mitchell whilst exploring South east Queensland and seeing Aborigines carrying water in kangaroo skins.\n"}
{"id": "10672320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10672320", "title": "Dropout (communications)", "text": "Dropout (communications)\n\nA dropout is a momentary loss of signal in a communications system, usually caused by noise, propagation anomalies, or system malfunctions. For analog signals, a dropout is frequently gradual and partial, depending on the cause. For digital signals, dropouts are more pronounced, usually being sudden and complete, due to the cliff effect. In mobile telephony, a dropout of more than a few seconds will result in a dropped call.\n"}
{"id": "10480045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10480045", "title": "Epidemiology of domestic violence", "text": "Epidemiology of domestic violence\n\nDomestic violence occurs across the world, in various cultures, and affects people across society, at all levels of economic status; however, indicators of lower socioeconomic status (such as unemployment and low income) have been shown to be risk factors for higher levels of domestic violence in several studies. In the United States, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics in 1995, women reported a six times greater rate of intimate partner violence than men. However, studies have found that men are much less likely to report victimization in these situations.\n\nSome studies have found that \"women are as physically aggressive or more aggressive than men in their relationships with their spouses or male partners\". However, studies have shown that women are more likely to be injured. Archer's meta-analysis found that women suffer 65% of domestic violence injuries. A Canadian study showed that 7% of women and 6% of men were abused by their current or former partners, but female victims of domestic violence were more than twice as likely to be injured as male victims, three times more likely to fear for their life, twice as likely to be stalked, and twice as likely to experience more than ten incidents of violence.\n\nWhile some sources state that gay and lesbian couples experience domestic violence at the same frequency as heterosexual couples, other sources report that domestic violence rates among gay, lesbian and bisexual people might be higher but more under-reported.\n\nAccording to various national surveys, the percentage of women who were ever physically assaulted by an intimate partner varies substantially by country: Barbados (30%), Canada (29%), Egypt (34%), New Zealand (35%), Switzerland (21%), United States (33%). Some surveys in specific places report figures as high as 50–70% of women who were ever physically assaulted by an intimate partner. Others, including surveys in the Philippines and Paraguay, report figures as low as 10%.\n\nIn India, around 20% of women are victims of domestic violence.\n\nStatistics published in 2004, show that the rate of domestic violence victimisation for Indigenous women in Australia may be 40 times the rate for non-Indigenous women.\n\nSouth Africa is said to have the highest statistics of gender-based violence in the world, including rape and domestic violence (Foster 1999; \"The Integrated Regional Network\" [IRIN], Johannesburg, South Africa, May 25, 2002). 80% of women surveyed in rural Egypt said that beatings were common and often justified, particularly if the woman refused to have sex with her husband. Up to two-thirds of women in certain communities in Nigeria's Lagos State say they are victims to domestic violence.\n\nIn Turkey 42% of women over 15 have suffered physical or sexual violence\n\nBetween 1993 and 2001, U.S. women reported intimate partner violence almost seven times more frequently than men (a ratio of 20:3). Statistics for the year 1994 showed that more than five times as many females reported being victimized by an intimate than did males.\n\nDomestic violence during pregnancy can be missed by medical professionals because it often presents in non-specific ways. A number of countries have been statistically analyzed to calculate the prevalence of this phenomenon:\n\n\nThere are a number of presentations that can be related to domestic violence during pregnancy: delay in seeking care for injuries; late booking, non-attenders at appointments, self-discharge; frequent attendance, vague problems; aggressive or over-solicitous partner; burns, pain, tenderness, injuries; vaginal tears, bleeding, STDs; and miscarriage.\n\nDomestic violence against a pregnant woman can also affect the fetus and can have lingering effects on the child after birth. Physical abuse is associated with neonatal death (1.5% versus 0.2%), and verbal abuse is associated with low birth weight (7.6% versus 5.1%).\n\nWomen's violence towards men is a serious social problem. While much attention has been focused on domestic violence against women, researchers argue that domestic violence against men is a substantial social problem worthy of attention. However, the issue of victimization of men by women has been contentious, due in part to studies which report drastically different statistics regarding domestic violence.\n\nSome studies—typically crime studies—show that men are substantially more likely than women to use violence. Other studies—typically family and domestic violence studies—show that men are more likely to inflict injuries, but also that when all acts of physical aggression or violence are considered in aggregate, women are equally violent as men, or more violent than men. \n\nIn May 2007, researchers with the Centers for Disease Control reported on rates of self-reported violence among intimate partners using data from a 2001 study. In the study, almost one-quarter of participants reported some violence in their relationships. Half of these involved one-sided (\"non-reciprocal\") attacks and half involved both assaults and counter assaults (\"reciprocal violence\"). Women reported committing one-sided attacks more than twice as often as men (70% \"versus\" 29%). In all cases of intimate partner violence, women were more likely to be injured than men, but 25% of men in relationships with two-sided violence reported injury compared to 20% of women reporting injury in relationships with one-sided violence. Women were more likely to be injured in non-reciprocal violence.\n\nStraus argues that these discrepancies between the two data sets are due to several factors. For example, Straus notes that crime studies use different methodologies than family conflict studies. Additionally, Straus notes that most studies show that while men inflict the greater portion of injuries, women are \"at least\" as likely as men to shove, punch, slap or otherwise physically assault their partner, and that such relatively minor assaults often escalate to more serious assaults. Men generally do not report such assaults if asked general questions about violence or abuse; older studies frequently failed to ask about specific actions, thus falling afoul of quite different cultural gender norms for what constitutes abuse. \"Minor\" assaults perpetrated by women are also a major problem, even when they do not result in injury, because they put women in danger of much more severe retaliation by men.\n\nThe 2000 CDC report, based on phone interviews with 8000 men and 8000 women, reported that 7.5% of men claim to have been raped or assaulted by an intimate at some time in their life (compared to 25% of women), and 0.9 percent of men claim to have been raped or assaulted in the previous 12 months (compared to 1.5% of women).\n\nA 2007–2008 online non-random, self-report survey of the experiences and health of men who sustained partner violence in the past year. The study showed that male victims of IPV are very hesitant to report the violence or seek help. Reasons given for non-reporting were they (1) may be ashamed to come forward; (2) may not be believed; and (3) may be accused of being a batterer when they do come forward. The 229 U.S. heterosexual men, between 18 and 59, had been physically assaulted by their female partner within previous year and did seek help. The researchers say their findings emphasize the need for prevention on all levels:\n\n\nSome sources state that gay and lesbian couples experience domestic violence at the same frequency as heterosexual couples, while other sources state domestic violence among gay and lesbian couples might be higher than among heterosexual couples, that gay, lesbian, and bisexual individuals are less likely to report domestic violence that has occurred in their intimate relationships than heterosexual couples are, or that lesbian couples experience domestic violence less than heterosexual couples do. By contrast, some researchers commonly assume that lesbian couples experience domestic violence at the same rate as heterosexual couples, and have been more cautious when reporting domestic violence among gay male couples. In a survey by the Canadian Government, some 19% of lesbian women reported being victimized by their partners. Other research reports that lesbian relationships exhibit substantially higher rates of physical aggression.\n\nThe U. S. Department of Health and Human Services reports that for each year between 2000 and 2005, \"female parents acting alone\" were most common perpetrators of child abuse.\n\nWhen it comes to domestic violence towards children involving physical abuse, research in the UK by the NSPCC indicated that \"most violence occurred at home\" (78 per cent). 40—60% of men and women who abuse other adults also abuse their children. Girls whose fathers batter their mothers are 6.5 times more likely to be sexually abused by their fathers than are girls from non-violent homes.\nIn China in 1989, 39,000 baby girls died during their first year of life because they didn't receive the same medical care that would be given to a male child.\n\nIn Asia alone, about one million children working in the sex trade are held in slavery-like conditions.\n\nTeen dating violence is a pattern of controlling behavior by one teenager over another teenager who are in a dating relationship. While there are many similarities to \"traditional\" domestic violence there are also some differences. Teens are much more likely than adults to become isolated from their peers as the result of controlling behavior by their boyfriend/girlfriend. Also, for many teens the abusive relationship may be their first dating experience and have never had a \"normal\" dating experience with which to compare it. While teenagers are trying to establish their sexual identities, they are also confronting violence in their relationships and exposure to technology. Studies document that teenagers are experiencing significant amounts of dating or domestic violence. Depending on the population studied and the way dating violence is defined, between 9 and 35% of teens have experienced domestic violence in a dating relationship. When a broader definition of abuse that encompasses physical, sexual, and emotional abuse is used, one in three teen girls is subjected to dating abuse.\"\n\nAdditionally, a significant number of teens are victims of stalking by intimate partners. Although involvement with romantic relationships is a critical aspect of adolescence, these relationships also present serious risks for teenagers. Unfortunately, adolescents in dating relationships are at greater risk of intimate partner violence than any other age group. Approximately one third of adolescent girls are victims of physical, emotional, or verbal abuse from a dating partner. Estimates of sexual victimization range from 14% to 43% of girls and 0.3% to 36% for boys. According to the Center for Disease Control, in 2009, nearly 10% of students nationwide had been intentionally hit, slapped, or physically hurt by their boyfriend or girlfriend. Twenty-six percent of girls in a relationship reported being threatened with violence or experiencing verbal abuse; 13% reported being physically hurt or hit.\n\nMeasures of the incidence of violence in intimate relationships can differ markedly in their findings depending on the measures used. Care is needed when using domestic violence statistics to ensure that both gender bias and under-reporting issues do not affect the inferences that are drawn from the statistics.\n\nSome researchers, such as Michael P. Johnson, suggest that where and how domestic violence is measured also affects findings, and caution is needed to ensure statistics drawn from one class of situations are not applied to another class of situations in a way that might have fatal consequences. Other researchers, such as David Murray Fergusson, counter that domestic violence prevention services, and statistics that they produce, target the extreme end of domestic violence and preventing child abuse rather than domestic violence between couples.\n\nSurvey approaches to gathering domestic violence statistics have shown inconsistent results with regard to gender differences. Some surveys have shown comparable levels of violence by both men and women against partners, while other surveys have shown higher levels of violence by men. Approaches using data from reports of domestic violence offenses, for example, agency or hospital samples, tend to show women experiencing violence from male partners as the majority of cases (80–90%).\n\nResearch based on the survey-based Conflict Tactics Scale, a measure of intrafamily conflict and violence focusing on the adults in the family developed by Murray Straus (1979), includes national surveys on the prevalence of domestic violence in the United States and other countries. These include the two U.S. National Family Violence Surveys (1975 and 1985) and the National Violence Against Women Survey (2000) (Tjaden & Thoennes, 2000). The National Violence Against Women Survey (2000) found that women experience more intimate partner violence than do men, women experience more chronic and injurious physical assaults at the hands of intimate partners than do men, and that violence perpetrated against women by intimates is often accompanied by emotionally abusive and controlling behavior (Tjaden & Thoennes, 2000).\n\nResearch based on reported domestic violence or on police records show men to be the perpetrators, and women the victims, of most reported domestic violence. However, the intervention of police may introduce a degree of gender bias into reporting. When faced with an uncertain domestic violence situation, removing one party will often defuse an altercation. Police officers may find it easier to take action against a man. This may be due to gender expectations, reinforced by previous incidents. . Additionally, removing the woman may entail involving other social services to care for any existing children for a time, something that may not be in the children's best interests, or may cause a significant delay. The fact that non-domestic offending is often committed by males may also influence an officer's decision.\n\nPolice responding to a complaint may act more favorably to the complainant than other parties (though some researchers report instances where men were attacked, called the police instead of fighting back, yet were arrested themselves). Some researchers have found that women are more likely to report domestic violence to police than men are. In Ireland, 29% of female victims and 5% of male victims of domestic abuse reported the abuse to the police. In the United States, male victims are less likely than female victims to report rape, physical assault, or stalking.\n\nInjury and hospital admission statistics suggest that males are more frequently the perpetrators of injury causing violence. However, both the difference in likelihood of reporting noted above, and the relative strength difference between males and females, could be factors in this reporting bias, as males may be more likely to injure females in otherwise equivalent circumstances.\n\nThe problem of under-reporting to police is believed to be substantial. However, estimates about how much domestic violence is not reported vary widely. It must also be remembered that a significant amount of non-domestic violence crime is also not reported to police. Depending on what statistics are chosen, anywhere between a tenth of incidents and nothing significantly less than what would be expected for any other incident are reported to police.\n\nMany crime victimization surveys, from many countries, do show that there is a correlation between the under-reporting of crime and the degree of intimacy between the victim and the offender. The degree of seriousness of offending also affects reporting, with less serious offending less likely to be reported to police. Also the nature of the offending affects reporting, with sexual offenses far less likely to be reported, even when they are serious.\n\nThe World Conference on Human Rights, held in Vienna in 1993, and the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women in the same year, concluded that civil society and governments have acknowledged that violence against women is a public health and human rights concern. Work in this area has resulted in the establishment of international standards, but the task of documenting the magnitude of violence against women and producing reliable, comparative data to guide policy and monitor implementation has been exceedingly difficult.\n\nThe World Health Organisation Multi-country Study on Women's Health and Domestic Violence against Women 2005 is a response to this difficulty. Published in 2005 it is a groundbreaking study which analysed data from 10 countries and sheds new light on the prevalence of violence against women. It seeks to look at violence against women a public health policy perspective. The findings will be used to inform a more effective response from government, including the health, justice and social service sectors, as a step towards fulfilling the state's obligation to eliminate violence against women under international human rights laws.\n\nA 1992 Council of Europe study on domestic violence against women found that 1 in 4 women experience domestic violence over their lifetimes and between 6 and 10% of women suffer domestic violence in a given year.\n\nIn the European Union, DV is a serious problem in the Baltic States. These three countries – Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania – have also lagged behind most post-communist countries in their response to DV. The problem in these countries is very severe, and in 2013 a DV victim won a European Court of Human Rights case against Lithuania.\n\nThe \"British Crime Survey\" for 2006–2007 reported that 0.5% of people (0.6% of women and 0.3% of men) reported being victims of domestic violence during that year and 44.3% of domestic violence was reported to the police. According to the survey, 312,000 women and 93,000 men were victims of domestic violence.\n\nThe \"Northern Ireland Crime Survey\" for 2005 reported that 13% of people (16% of women and 10% of men) reported being victims of domestic violence at some point in their lives.\n\nThe \"National Study of Domestic Abuse\" for 2005 reported that 213,000 women and 88,000 men reported being victims of domestic violence at some point in their lives. According to the study, one in seven women and one in sixteen men were victims of severe physical abuse, severe emotional abuse, or sexual abuse.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the police estimate that around 35% of domestic violence against women is actually reported. A 2002 Women's Aid study found that 74% of separated women suffered from post-separation violence.\n\nIn Canada, the Assembly of First Nations evaluation of the Canada Prenatal Nutrition Program conducted by CIET offers an inclusive and relatively unbiased national estimate. It documented domestic violence in a random sample of 85 First Nations across Canada: 22% (523/2359) of mothers reported suffering abuse in the year prior to being interviewed; of these, 59% reported physical abuse.\n\nResults of studies which estimate the prevalence of domestic violence vary significantly, depending on specific wording of survey questions, how the survey is conducted, the definition of abuse or domestic violence used, the willingness or unwillingness of victims to admit that they have been abused and other factors. For instance, Straus (2005) conducted a study which estimated that the rate of minor assaults by women in the United States was 78 per 1,000 couples, compared with a rate for men of 72 per 1,000 and the severe assault rate was 46 per 1,000 couples for assaults by women and 50 per 1,000 for assaults by men. Neither difference is statistically significant. He claimed that since these rates were based exclusively on information provided by women respondents, the near-equality in assault rates could not be attributed to a gender bias in reporting.\n\nOne analysis found that \"women are as physically aggressive or more aggressive than men in their relationships with their spouses or male partners\". However, studies have shown that women are more likely to be injured. Archer's meta-analysis found that women in the United States suffer 65% of domestic violence injuries. A Canadian study showed that 7% of women and 6% of men were abused by their current or former partners, but female victims of spousal violence were more than twice as likely to be injured as male victims, three times more likely to fear for their life, twice as likely to be stalked, and twice as likely to experience more than ten incidents of violence. However, Straus notes that Canadian studies on domestic violence have simply excluded questions that ask men about being victimized by their wives.\n\nAccording to a 2004 survey in Canada, the percentages of males being physically or sexually victimized by their partners was 6% versus 7% for women. However, females reported higher levels of repeated violence and were more likely than men to experience serious injuries; 23% of females versus 15% of males were faced with the most serious forms of violence including being beaten, choked, or threatened with or having a gun or knife used against them. Also, 21% of women versus 11% of men were likely to report experiencing more than 10 violent incidents. Women who often experience higher levels of physical or sexual violence from their current partner, were 44%, compared with 18% of men to suffer from an injury. Cases in which women are faced with extremely abusive partners, results in the females having to fear for their lives due to the violence they had faced. In addition, statistics show that 34% of women feared for their lives, and 10% of men feared for theirs.\n\nSome studies show that lesbian relationships have similar levels of violence as heterosexual relationships.\n\nApproximately 1.3 million women and 835,000 men report being physically assaulted by an intimate partner annually in the United States. In the United States, domestic violence is the leading cause of injury to women between the ages of 15 and 44.\n\nVictims of DV are offered legal remedies, which include the criminal law, as well as obtaining a protection order. The remedies offered can be both of a civil nature (civil orders of protection and other protective services) and of a criminal nature (charging the perpetrator with a criminal offense). People perpetrating DV are subject to criminal prosecution, most often under assault and battery laws.\n\nIn Russia, according to a representative of the Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs one in four families experiences domestic violence. Domestic violence is not a specific criminal offense, but it can be charged under various crimes of the criminal code (e.g. assault), but in practice cases of domestic violence turn into criminal cases only when they involve severe injuries, or the victim has died. For more details see Domestic violence in Russia.\n\nIn Turkey 42% of women over 15 have suffered physical or sexual violence.\n\nFighting the prevalence of domestic violence in Kashmir has brought Hindu and Muslim activists together. According to some Islamic clerics and women's advocates, women from Muslim-majority cultures often face extra pressure to submit to domestic violence, as their husbands may manipulate Islamic law to exert their control.\n\nOne study found that half of Palestinian women have been the victims of domestic violence.\n\nA study on Bedouin women in Israel found that most have experienced DV, most accepted it as a decree from God, and most believed they were to blame themselves for the violence. The study also showed that the majority of women were not aware of existing laws and policies which protect them: 60% said they did not know what a restraining order was.\n\nIn Iraq husbands have a legal right to \"punish\" their wives. The criminal code states at Paragraph 41 that there is no crime if an act is committed while exercising a legal right; examples of legal rights include: \"The punishment of a wife by her husband, the disciplining by parents and teachers of children under their\nauthority within certain limits prescribed by law or by custom\".\n\nIn Jordan, part of article 340 of the Penal Code states that \"he who discovers his wife or one of his female relatives committing adultery and kills, wounds, or injures one of them, is exempted from any penalty.\" This has twice been put forward for cancellation by the government, but was retained by the Lower House of the Parliament, in 2003: a year in which at least seven honor killings took place. Article 98 of the Penal Code is often cited alongside Article 340 in cases of honor killings. \"Article 98 stipulates that a reduced sentence is applied to a person who kills another person in a 'fit of fury'\".\n\nThe Human Rights Watch found that up to 90% of women in Pakistan were subject to some form of maltreatment within their own homes. Honor killings in Pakistan are a very serious problem, especially in northern Pakistan.\nIn Pakistan, honour killings are known locally as \"karo-kari\". Karo-kari is a compound word literally meaning \"black male\" (Karo) and \"black female (Kari).\n\nDomestic violence in India is widespread, and is often related to the custom of dowry. Although not as common as in other parts of Asia, honor killings do occur in some regions of India, particularly in northern regions of the country. Honor killings have been reported in the states of Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and Bihar, as a result of people marrying without their family's acceptance, and sometimes for marrying outside their caste or religion.\n\nA UN report compiled from a number of different studies conducted in at least 71 countries found domestic violence against women to be most prevalent in Ethiopia.\n\nUp to two-thirds of women in certain communities in Nigeria's Lagos State say they are victims to domestic violence.\n\n80% of women surveyed in rural Egypt said that beatings were common and often justified, particularly if the woman refused to have sex with her husband.\n\nStatistics published in 2004, show that the rate of domestic violence victimisation for Indigenous women in Australia may be 40 times the rate for non-Indigenous women.\n\nFindings from the 2006 Australian Bureau of Statistics Personal Safety Survey show that among the female victims of physical assault, 31 percent were assaulted by a current or previous partner. Among male victims, 4.4 percent were assaulted by a current or previous partner. Thirty per cent of people who had experienced violence by a current partner since the age of 15 were male, and seventy per cent were female.\n\n"}
{"id": "1704142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704142", "title": "Escalation of commitment", "text": "Escalation of commitment\n\nEscalation of commitment is a human behavior pattern in which an individual or group facing increasingly negative outcomes from some decision, action, or investment nevertheless continues the same behavior rather than alter course. The actor maintains behaviors that are irrational, but align with previous decisions and actions.\n\nEconomists and behavioral scientists use a related term, \"sunk-cost fallacy\", to describe the justification of increased investment of money, time, lives, etc. in a decision, based on the cumulative prior investment (\"sunk cost\") despite new evidence suggesting that the cost, beginning immediately, of continuing the decision outweighs the expected benefit.\n\nIn sociology, \"irrational escalation of commitment\" or \"commitment bias\" describe similar behaviours. The phenomenon and the sentiment underlying it are reflected in such proverbial images as \"throwing good money after bad\", \"in for a penny, in for a pound\", and \"if at first you don't succeed, try, try again\".\n\nEscalation of commitment was first described by Barry M. Staw in his 1976 paper, \"Knee deep in the big muddy: A study of escalating commitment to a chosen course of action\".\n\nResearchers, inspired by the work of Staw, conducted studies that tested factors, situations and causes of escalation of commitment. The research introduced other analyses of situations and how people approach problems and make decisions. Some of the earliest work stemmed from events in which this phenomenon had an effect and help explain the phenomenon.\n\nOver the past few decades, researchers have followed and analyzed many examples of the escalation of commitment to a situation. The heightened situations are explained in three elements. Firstly, a situation has a costly amount of resources such as time, money and people invested in the project. Next, past behavior leads up to an apex in time where the project has not met expectations or could be in a cautious state of decline. Lastly, these problems all force a decision-maker to make choices that include the options of continuing to pursue a project until completion by adding additional costs, or canceling the project altogether.\n\nResearchers have also developed an argument regarding how escalation of commitment is observed in two different categories. Many researchers believe that the need to escalate resources is linked to expectancy theory. \"According to such a viewpoint, decision makers assess the probability that additional resource allocations will lead to goal attainment, as well as the value of goal attainment (i.e., rewards minus costs), and thereby generate a subjective expected utility associated with the decision to allocate additional resources.\" The next phase of the escalation process is self-justification and rationalizing if the decision the leader made used resources well, if the resources being used were used to make positive change, and assuring themselves that the decision they chose was right. Leaders must balance costs and benefits of any problem to produce a final decision. What matters most often in assuring the leader that they made the right choice regardless of the final outcome is if their decision is what others believed in.\n\nResearch conducted on the topic has been taken from many other forms and theories of psychology. Many believe that what researchers have done thus far to explain this behavior is best analyzed and tested through situational development and resource allocation.\n\nOther research has identified circumstances that lead to the opposite of escalation of commitment, namely deescalation of commitment. This research explains the factors that influence whether escalation or deescalation of commitment is more likely to occur through the role of budgeting and mental accounting.\n\nEscalation of commitment can many times cause behavior change by means of locking into resources. One of the first examples of escalation of commitment was described by George Ball, who wrote to President Lyndon Johnson to explain to him the predictions of the war outcome:\n\nSelf-justification thought process is a part of commitment decisions of leaders and managers of a group and can therefore cause a rise in commitment levels. This attitude provides \"one explanation for why people escalate commitment to their past investments.\" Managers make decisions that reflect previous behavior. Managers tend to recall and follow information that is aligned to their behavior to create consistency for their current and future decisions. If a group member or outside party recognizes inconsistent decision making, this can alter the leadership role of the manager. Managers have external influence from society, peers, and authority, which can significantly alter a manager's perception on what factors realistically matter when making decisions.\n\nProspect theory helps to describe the natural reactions and processes involved in making a decision in a risk-taking situation. Prospect theory makes the argument for how levels of wealth, whether that is people, money, or time, affect how a decision is made. Researchers were particularly interested in how one perceives a situation based on costs and benefits. The framing to how the problem is introduced is crucial for understanding and thinking of the probability that the situation will either work in favor or against you and how to prepare for those changes. \"Whyte (1986) argued that prospect theory provides the psychological mechanism by which to explain escalating commitment to a failing course of action without the need to invoke self-justification processes. (Fiegenbaum & Thomas, 1988: 99)\" Prospect theorists believe that one's use of this process is when there is a negative downfall in the stakes that will affect the outcome of the project. To ensure they will not fail, the individual may add more resources to assure them that they will succeed. Although this theory seems realistic, researchers \"Davis and Bobko (1986) found no effect of personal responsibility on continued commitment to the previous course of action in the positive frame condition.\" Which means that escalation of commitment will be lower in the higher responsibility situation.\n\nThe attribution theory, originating from Fritz Heider, \"attempts to find causal explanations for events and human behaviors.\" This theory approaches two methods of inquiry including locus of causality and stability. Locus of causality reflects on internal characteristics of an individual, such as intelligence levels and attention seeking, with the relationship of the external space such as weather forecasts and task difficulty. Aspects of control become a significant factor in how a manager justifies a decision made. Managers will use the relationship between internal and external factors to describe why they made a decision to a single point of view. Managers may justify their actions by explaining that this was out of their personal control of the event, or they could believe that the decision could not be controlled by anyone else. Research suggests that \"the type of attribution made by an employee across these dimensions is likely to impact an employee's tendency to engage in the negative emotional activity referred to as escalation of commitment.\"\n\nIdentity is a large part of how we move through the world. Private thoughts and opinions as well as the effect of others create the social identity theory. People make connections between their use of groups and their own view of themselves, which researchers have discovered motivates people to keep their social status and to defend it whenever it is endangered.\n\nGroups engage in temporal comparisons, which means that you compare actions and behaviors at \"different points in time.\" This is a form of social identity scenario. This type of comparison can be made when a decision seems unproductive and forces team members to consider any threat to the group.\n\n\"The aggregate model's emphasis is upon the accumulation and balance of forces rather than the ordering of effects over time.\" The model is general and can provide an ideal view as to how. The effects whether positive or negative are defined by micro and macro forces. This model goes by situation rather than what researchers have defined as the norm. There is no process to follow, which makes it very useful for researchers because they can understand a situation more clearly as well as see the bigger picture of the situation.\n\nThe main drivers of the tendency to continue investing in losing propositions are project, psychological, social, and structural.\n\nProject determinants are those that refer to the original commitments and decisions made at a project's beginning. This includes general project characteristics and initial financial costs. Among them, decision risk, opportunity cost information, and information acquisition have been found to have negative relationships with escalation of commitment. Decision uncertainty, positive performance trend information, and expressed preference for initial decision have been found to have positive relationships.\n\nHigh costs of ending a project or changing its course, potential financial gain upon completion, and extensive structure can factor in to escalation of commitment, making it difficult to walk away from the project. Preventing future monetary loss, potential savings, and having clearly available alternatives can allow for avoidance of the behavior. In studies by Teger and later Ross and Staw, situations where ending an action costs more than completing it resulted in decision makers being trapped in their current, costly behaviors.\n\nPsychological determinants are those that refer to internal views on the actions and information involved in a project. This can include cognitive factors, personality, and emotions as they relate to project elements. Of these, sunk costs, time investment, decision maker experience and expertise, self-efficacy and confidence, personal responsibility for the initial decision, ego threat, and proximity to project completion have been found to have positive relationships with escalation of commitment, while anticipated regret and positive information framing have been found to have negative relationships.\n\nOptimism and belief that one has control over what will still be positive outcomes lead to continued self-justification of commitment to actions. People add to their initial personal investments in the hope they will overcome currently negative results. This was illustrated in a case study by Staw, where providing business students with manipulated responsibilities for initial decisions and their outcomes resulted in the greatest commitment to increased actions and resources when the initial decision assigned was made directly by the student with poor outcomes. In these instances, people take further risk in an attempt to avoid further problems. This is even more likely when subjects view current issues as having unstable reasoning rather than stable reasoning, or when the individual is unwilling to admit mistakes. They then believe the situation will stabilize or turn around. Confirmation bias can also lead to escalation of commitment as individuals are then less likely to recognize the negative results of their decisions. On the other hand, if the results are recognized, they can be blamed on unforeseeable events occurring during the course of the project.\n\nThe effect of sunk costs is often seen escalating commitment. When the amount of investment is greater and can not be recovered, the desire to avoid complete loss of those resources and keeping with impression management prompts continued investment over pulling out. Relatedly, as invested resources can include time, closeness to completion of a project yields similar results. More value is placed on project when they are early or late in their process due to the clarity of completion goals at those points. It's more likely that risks will be taken at these points than in a project closer to a visible midpoint.\n\nSocial determinants are those that refer to the expectations and influence of other individuals or groups on project actions. Included in these, group identity or cohesive strength has been found to have the most influence on escalation of commitment while public evaluation of decision and resistance to decision from others has little significance in relation.\n\nIndividuals present themselves cautiously to others in the environment. They don't concentrate on themselves and what they believe is accurate and competent—they are only interested in their organization appearing competent. Escalation of commitment is about decision making that usually comes in a form of a group or individual deciding a course of action. Managers have a responsibility to choose the fate of what a group of people have been working on. A manager who decides to back a team out of a project isn't concerned that the project failed, they are concerned that team members may think the manager is incompetent. Studies that tested this phenomenon included factors such as policy resistance, job insecurity (Fox & Staw 1979), and audience size (Rubin & Lang 1981). All showed a spike in commitment when these realistic factors are present. This mental and emotional response is referred to as the face-saving effect. Individuals who are responsible for others are constantly checking themselves to assure that their actions and beliefs are parallel to the expectations for their viewers. One's social identity to the public can decide your fate. For example, a team can identify a level of commitment and personal connection to an idea or project. Team members consistently use statements like \"that project is Bob's baby,\" or \"oh, we had the same idea.\" Both ends of the spectrum are crucial to how others view and analyze a situation, especially something that failed.\n\nLeaders are responsible for guiding a team through the difficult problems into a solution. Although many times, the negative aspects of commitments can discussed in more detail and importance, there are many social rewards that are positive. One example of this phenomenon is persistence. A project on the verge of failure is a manager's responsibility to revive, but with persistence, a manager can get rewarded to turning a bad project into something great. Rewards are earned for turning around a team to produce something successful. When managers stick to their goals, and get their team to produce responsibly.\n\nStructural determinants are those that refer to the cultural and environmental features and resources of the project's overall organization. The minimal research available on them indicates that agency problems most influence escalation of commitment.\n\nThere are macro-level variables that affect the organizational structure of a team and how the make decisions. Decisions are made based on individuals in a group setting with specific roles and responsibilities and effect decisions that are a product of interaction in the team. The determinant that affects escalation of commitment is institutional inertia. This phenomenon is used to describe how individual attitudes and behavior changes frequently, so therefore, a group's stature is also unpredictable and controllable. \"Organizations have very imperfect sensory systems, making them relatively impervious to changes in their environments.\"\n\nThis is one factor that plays a role in how issues are addressed. When there are a group of individuals involved in communication, decisions, and change, with the lack of consistency in the group, most of the tasks fail to complete. This phenomenon occurs in situations such as policy change, rulings and procedures.\n\nThis issue can also cause havoc for an organization when they are too attached to a policy, thought process or identity because they are not free to change. \"On occasion, a project, product, or policy can become so closely tied to the values and purposes of the organization that it becomes almost unthinkable to consider withdrawal.\" One primary example of this phenomenon is the downfall of the Pan American World Airways company, commonly known as Pan Am. Pan Am was a well known airlines and hotel with hundreds of employees. With the turn of industry, airline policies were deregulated and caused financial downfall for Pan Am. The company over time made cuts to their company to stay afloat. The company believed that their image of being an airline was more important than being a successful company that they removed all of the assets that were in fact making them the largest amount of revenue only to save the image they thought they needed to remain to be Pan Am.\n\nIn groups, it can be more difficult to attribute issues to a single, simpler determinant. While determinants are still applicable, oftentimes there are more complex factors when organizational goals and actions misalign. Groups, especially as they grow larger, can be resistant to changing course.\n\nEven if the need to change course or cease action is recognized, communication speed, policies, and business politics can be hindrances. A larger organization, especially one with a spread of subgroups, has to communicate the argument and decision to go against previous actions across the appropriate levels. If this communication does not occur in a timely manner or is blocked, the final decision may not be made and acted upon. A decision that goes against existing rules and processes may also reach resistance even with support from those within the organization. Individuals and groups that are directly employed due to a project, have financial stake in it may provide enough opposition to prevent changes from being made as well. They feel personally responsible for the parts they've worked on and can also feel that they too are being replaced or terminated. Escalation of commitment can then occur in any of these situations. External groups can play an even larger part in escalating commitment if their power is greater than that of the group taking action and they use that power to directly lead and influence.\n\nWith a larger number of decision makers included, groups have the opportunity for greater productivity than single individuals, but they also have the opportunity for greater losses and escalation. Members can eliminate some of the escalation potential if they come to a better decision earlier on in the process and avoid the need to change course dramatically. Yet they can also hold onto a larger base of support for their initial actions to the point where escalation potential is increased. In this case, groupthink assists in keeping with the original decision and pressures towards conformity rather than dividing the group with other options. Also, a group whose members are not cohesive can have decreased escalation potential due to conflicts and varying levels of inclusion in the process.\n\nOrganizations that are family businesses are especially prone to escalation of commitment due to the added level of going through the family structure in addition to the business structure, allowing for further conflicts between the two. Business reputation, customer and share loss, and financial loss become risks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49451268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49451268", "title": "Father absence", "text": "Father absence\n\nParental separation affects a child's development. Early parental divorce (during primary school) has been associated with greater internalising and externalising behaviour problems in the child, while divorce later in childhood or adolescence may dampen academic performance. Children of unmarried parents tend to suffer greater emotional and social difficulties than others do.\n\nWhilst father absence mainly results from parental divorce and separation, other factors such as family poverty, developmental difficulties have been associated with father absence, the effects of which have been explained by various theoretical approaches.\n\nDespite limited agreement among researchers regarding the exact significance of fathering, fathers are traditionally deemed a provider of protection and support for the child's development. Through a number of pathways, father absence may influence child behaviour, especially in early and middle childhood. These include a decline in household income and ineffective parenting arising from continued conflicts and psychological distress.\n\nThe issue of divorce is a crucial aspect in the society in relations to the life of children. The separation of a married couple due to irreconcilable differences is a matter that is common in the society and its effects on children is negative. It will impact negatively on the education of the children, health conditions of the children, children's relation with their parents as well as the future well-being of the children (Amato, 2000). Therefore, the area relating to the effects of divorce on children is significant for academic inquiry. It makes sense to research on this particular area since it will help learn on the effects that comes with divorce, how children adjust and adapt to divorce and how they are being treated. It is also worth to mention that, parents who divorce have their minds lingering on how their actions will affect their children's happiness as well as health.\n\nIn attempting to explain how divorce will affect children, it is necessary for a research to first examine and categorize children in groups which will make it easy to carry out the study. This is because children will be affected differently by divorce depending on the age factor. It becomes even wise for a researcher to adopt the following groups: pre-schoolers (nine years and below), adolescents (9–13 years) and youths/young adults (14–25 years). The research will become more attainable if carried out using learning institutions which will include pre-schools, secondary schools and colleges. Therefore, a city within a state is selected where the research will be conducted and a preschool, one secondary school and one college is selected within the city where respondents (children) are found.\nObjectives becomes necessary for the study. This will allow a research to focus on certain areas and completely address the matter at hand without leaving gaps in the area of research. In addressing the topic, ‘The effect on children of an absent parent following divorce,’ the following research objectives can be used:\nResearch questions are also vital in this study. They offer guidelines on realizing the objectives of the study. At the conclusion, a researcher will review the research questions and establish whether they have been answered or not. The topic under study here will encompass the following research questions:\nIt is also necessary that significance of the study be stated by a researcher which will make the research meaningful. In line with this topic, parents will be informed of the underlying behaviours of children as a result of absence of parent following divorce. The study will also enlighten parents on the roles they play to shape their children when they live as a couple, therefore, parents will try to their best to reconcile their differences and live as one. The challenges that young adults at the age of 14 to 25 years and whose parents divorced faces as they enter into romantic relationships are revealed. The aim of the study is to explore knowledge relating to counselling of such cases.\nThe study will be easier when the scope is mentioned. This is the area the study will cover or rather the number of respondents. The study on ‘The effect on children of an absent parent following divorce,’ will be focus on pre-schoolers, adolescents as well as young adults in a particular area which can be certain learning institutions within a specific city. There are also certain assumptions which a researcher will have to make in this study. For example, it will be assumed that at the time the research will be done. All the learning institutions will be on session and can be accessed and that the respondents will be willing to share the information required.\n\nAs part of the research, a literature review is necessary. This will involve carrying out various theoretical reviews to examine various theories related to the topic under study. Such theories will include attachment theory, social learning theory, among many others. The theories will lay a foundation to the topic. Moreover, empirical review is another part of literature review where various literary works carried out by other researchers relating to the topic of study are examined in detail.\n\nResearch methodology will consist of the research design suitable for the topic of study, the target population, the sampling design, data collection and data analysis. The research design in relation to the topic of this study will be descriptive survey design. The target population will consist of all the students in the learning institutions selected that will be used for the research. Stratified sampling design is suitable for the study since data will be collected and based on three strata; pre-schoolers, secondary and college. Data collection will be by use of questionnaires and finally, data analysis will be both quantitative and qualitative. The quantitative will encompass such descriptive statistics as mean and standard deviation while the qualitative will take into account attaching significance to the themes as well as the patterns observed (Bryman, 2008).\nThe results and findings will be finally presented summarizing the information obtained from data collection and analysed. The summary of the findings will provide answers to the research questions, reveal the challenges experienced throughout the research and expose gabs that can aid in further research concerning the topic.\nThe research especially when administering questionnaires and interviews if any should be carried out in a manner which is within two key aspects: conforming to ethical practices and adhering to approved protocol. Ethical practices in research are very vital and plays a very important role in protecting the rights and privacy of the respondents. The use of human subjects is a critical ethical consideration. This study will have to adhere to the guidelines set by Institutional Review Board of the schools which data will be collected. The board is composed of people who will check to ensure that the information gathered from the respondents are safe and that human rights of the respondents are not violated in any case. The ethical considerations that are relevant to this study will involve voluntary participation by the respondents and the informed consent (Vanclay, 2013).\nIt is important to note that ethical standards very important roles in this research work. They guarantee that all human subjects that become respondents in the study accepted freely and willfully to participate and that they have been fully updated on the purpose of the research. Moreover, the subjects’ confidentiality and anonymity is highly protected.\n\nIn regard to the effects of father absence, a recent British study assessed child problem behaviour in over 15,000 families using the clinical cut-offs of the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ), controlling for household factors such as resources, parental mental health and inter-parental relationship. The study found that father absence at a given age, similar to poverty and parental psychological distress, predicted a high probability of the child scoring above the cut-off score for total difficulties two years later. Likewise, father absence predicted several specific difficulties including borderline personality disorder, severe hyperactivity and abnormal emotional problems. Reciprocally, a child's severe externalising and social during their preschool years were also associated with a greater probability of the father being absent two years later. The authors concluded that father absence seemed to be more of a cause than a consequence of child problem behaviour.\n\nThrough direct interaction, fathers’ involvement in children's development has a positive influence on their social, behavioural and psychological outcomes. In general, engagement of a fatherly figure reduces the frequency of behavioural problems and delinquency in sons and psychological problems in daughters, all the while facilitating children's cognitive development.\n\nEvolutionary life-history theory postulates that women may invest more in their offspring than the opposite gender due to a slower rate of reproduction in females. Some theorists add that the assured maternal relatedness to one's offspring may also make women invest more than men. This is because some men may have variable paternity confidence that the child is his offspring. In light of this, some researchers argue that assured maternal relatedness, together with the lower variance in female reproductive success, may lead parents to bias investment towards female offspring under less favourable household conditions. In other words, father absence and the associated socioeconomic constraints it puts on the household may pose a greater risk to sons’ rather than daughters’ survival.\n\nThe psychodynamic approach posits that behaviour is motivated by basic needs, and drives and is sometimes shaped by unconscious childhood experiences. It is implicated that for a child to develop a “normal” gender identity, they will have to be raised in a conventional family where there is a father and a mother. Freud believed that being parented by a single mother could confuse the child's identity or lead them to become homosexual. Father absence may hinder the son's acquisition of the traditional masculine role, as he is not able to model his own behaviour and attitude on his fathers’. Along similar lines, sons with absent fathers could have confused gender identities – if the son was separated from his father by age four, he would be less assertive, less involved in sport, less masculine than other boys and more dependent on his peers. Nevertheless, findings of certain empirical studies on psychosexual gender identification have been deemed contradictory and inconclusive. A number of studies have highlighted such negative consequences of the two-parent heterosexual household on children. Contrarily, others have pointed out that being reared in lesbian and single-parent households where the father was absent did not affect the psychosexual development of children, despite higher aggressiveness and submissiveness and lower assertiveness.\n\nGenes and hormones may account for the tendency of fathers to be absent. Certain DNA patterns have been shown to affect an individual's degree of fidelity and investment in their offspring. In particular, a study in prairie voles indicates that the gene AVPR1A affects the activity of vasopressin receptors in brain regions and thus predicts less cheating on their partners. Similar to oxytocin, the hormone vasopressin can facilitate trust, empathy and social bonding. Injection of vasopressin in polygamous montane voles significantly increased their likelihood of becoming monogamous. This may in turn decrease their likelihood of being an absent father.\n\nA meta-analysis based on 56 twin and adoption studies totalling over 200,000 families has revealed that genetic makeup significantly affects the individual's parenting behaviour. Genes in the father reliability predict up to 40% of his positive or negative emotions towards his children. In this sense, genes contribute to a father's liking or repulsion for his children, the latter of which may result in father absence.\n\nThere is mixed empirical evidence on the relative impact of father absence on the development of male and female offspring. A recent study in rural Ethiopia, where father absence could mean a significant drop in household income, revealed a considerable difference between the wellbeing of male and female offspring. In particular, the author found that a male infant's risk of dying per month was doubled if the biological father was absent – a 30% greater risk than that for females. For female infants, father absence (as opposed to presence) was associated with a lower risk of dying, as well as higher nutritional status. That is to say, father absence was only a statistical predictor of infant death only for male infants. Such a gender difference has been observed despite a strong cultural preference for sons in the area. On the other hand, in developed countries such as the United Kingdom where father absence may not inflict as much harm on the family's income, the effects of father absence are not noticeably gendered.\n\nEarly pubertal timing – precocious puberty – is associated with negative outcomes in both genders. Early maturing girls have been found to be at risk for teenage pregnancy, drinking and weight problems, and giving birth to low birth weight infants. Early maturing boys are at risk for sexual promiscuity and delinquency and testicular and prostate cancer. Individual difference in pubertal timing may be influenced by weight, physical activity and genetics.\n\nA central event of female puberty – menarche – is associated with father absence. According to the evolutionary explanation, an unstable home environment (e.g. father absence) discourages a long-term mating life history, leading girls to adopt a short-term reproductive strategy, such as early menarche. This is because they perceive resources they have as scarce and, possibly, their lifespan to be shorter, under the influence of father absence. An early menarche can increase the chance of fertility, while other short-term reproductive strategies can diversify the genes inherited in offspring. These could lift up a higher success rate of rearing children to adolescence. Moreover, the stress of father absence prompts girls to develop a variety of internalising disorders, such as bulimia and depression, which may lower the person's metabolism leading to excessive weight gain which precipitates early menarche. A study shows that there are fewer monitored meals in the father-absent household. Having meals in the family is arguably more beneficial to children than is eating alone (i.e. solitary eating), as the former lowers the chance of obesity.\n\nHowever, it has been disputed whether the environmental stress of father absence stimulates weight gain, and thus accelerates early puberty. Likewise, the stress arisen from the absence of mother has been shown to have little influence on the child's body weight. Since mother absence does not predict weight gain in children, it seems that the increase in the child's body weight observed is due to the isolated genetic influence of an absent father, rather than the global environmental stress cause by the absence of either parent. This is possibly because in ancestral times the survival rate of children with mother being absent was extremely low. A specialised mechanism to deal with mother absence has never been developed.\n\nIn addition, recent findings seem to regard genes, rather than the environment, as the mechanism underlying the positive correlation between high body mass index and earlier first menarche onset. Androgen receptor gene may predispose a father to impulsive and externalising behaviours (e.g. family abandonment) and his offspring to early puberty. The essentialness of androgen receptor to female fertility and ovary development has been proven by rodent studies.\n\nFather absence in a household can result in children (of both sexes) having earlier average ages of first sexual intercourse than those raised in father present households. There is also the effect of increased rates of teenage pregnancy. Some evolutionary theories propose that early childhood is vital for encoding information that shapes future reproductive strategies in regulating physical and motivational pathways of sexual behaviour. Conflicting and stressful parental relationships can lead children to believe that resources are limited, people are untrustworthy, and relationships are opportunistic. As they replicate their parents’ mating-oriented reproductive behaviour, they tend to have multiple sexual partners and erratic relationships. Children implicitly and explicitly model their sexual attitudes and behaviours on their parents, see engagement in non-marital sex as normative. Father absence however can be a byproduct of initial social and economic strain within the household (e.g. violence, lack of educational opportunities and cumulative life exposure to poverty can increase the likelihood of early sexual endeavours and pregnancy). The timing of first intercourse can be heritable - shorter alleles of the X-linked androgen receptor (AR) gene has been associated with aggression, impulsivity, high number of sexual partners, divorce in males and earlier ages of physical maturation in females.\n\nDespite being poorer overall, widowed and divorced women are on average 2.4 kg heavier than women whose children's fathers are present. Widowed and divorced mothers as well as their daughters are reported to have substantially improved nutritional status which could be explained by them having greater access to the mother's relatives (matrilateral kin). Furthermore, proximity to a mother's relatives can dramatically improve female children's height for age, an indicator of good nutrition. Women who return to their village of birth following marital dissolution are seen to benefit from extra matrilateral kin support, which replaces the help of the missing husband. Female headed families are found to be similar to traditional families regarding a range of measures such as quality of parenting and young adult's psychological adjustment. Children were also found to have more positive family relationships and greater psychological wellbeing as young adults. Children without their biological fathers present can also grow up in same sex parent households, where they can experience far more interaction with their mothers and be more likely to perceive them as available and dependent compared to peers from father present homes. there were no negative effect on social and emotional development or differences in parenting or children development. Although boys showed more feminine characteristics this did not mean they showed less masculine characteristics. Father absence here can influence adolescents relationships with their mothers but no negative consequences for children. No significant differences are found regarding families of heterosexual and homosexual mothers for boys, there was no influence over sexual identity conflict or even peer group stigmatisation.It is also necessary that significance of the study be stated by a researcher which will make the research meaningful. In line with this topic, parents will be informed of the underlying behaviours of children as a result of absence of parent following divorce. The study will also enlighten parents on the roles they play to shape their children when they live as a couple, therefore, parents will try to their best to reconcile their differences and live as one. The challenges that young adults at the age of 14 to 25 years and whose parents divorced faces as they enter into romantic relationships are revealed. The aim of the study is to explore knowledge relating to counselling of such cases.\nThe study will be easier when the scope is mentioned. This is the area the study will cover or rather the number of respondents. The study on ‘The effect on children of an absent parent following divorce,’ will be focus on pre-schoolers, adolescents as well as young adults in a particular area which can be certain learning institutions within a specific city. There are also certain assumptions which a researcher will have to make in this study. For example, it will be assumed that at the time the research will be done. All the learning institutions will be on session and can be accessed and that the respondents will be willing to share the information required.\n\nAs part of the research, a literature review is necessary. This will involve carrying out various theoretical reviews to examine various theories related to the topic under study. Such theories will include attachment theory, social learning theory, among many others. The theories will lay a foundation to the topic. Moreover, empirical review is another part of literature review where various literary works carried out by other researchers relating to the topic of study are examined in detail.\n\nThe research design in relation to the topic of this study will be descriptive survey design. The target population will be all the students in the learning institutions selected that will be used for the research. Stratified sampling design is suitable for the study since data will be collected and based on three strata; pre-schoolers, secondary and college. Data collection will be by use of questionnaires and finally, data analysis will be both quantitative and qualitative. The quantitative will encompass such descriptive statistics as mean and standard deviation while the qualitative will take into account attaching significance to the themes as well as the patterns observed (Bryman, 2008).\nThe results and findings will be finally presented summarizing the information obtained from data collection and analysed. The summary of the findings will provide answers to the research questions, reveal the challenges experienced throughout the research and expose gabs that can aid in further research concerning the topic.\n\nThe research especially when administering questionnaires and interviews if any should be carried out in a manner which is within two key aspects: conforming to ethical practices and adhering to approved protocol. Ethical practices in research are very vital and plays a very important role in protecting the rights and privacy of the respondents. The use of human subjects is a critical ethical consideration. This study will have to adhere to the guidelines set by Institutional Review Board of the schools which data will be collected. The board is composed of people who will check to ensure that the information gathered from the respondents are safe and that human rights of the respondents are not violated in any case. The ethical considerations that are relevant to this study will involve voluntary participation by the respondents and the informed consent (Vanclay, 2013).\nIt is important to note that ethical standards very important roles in this research work. They guarantee that all human subjects that become respondents in the study accepted freely and wilfully to participate and that they have been fully updated on the purpose of the research. Moreover, the subjects’ confidentiality and anonymity is highly protected.\n\nIn light of certain research, father absence can be disadvantageous; certain evidence suggests stepfather presence does not reduce these disadvantages but in fact has a worsening effect on such issues. For example, the Cinderella effect, which refers to the observation that stepchildren are at a dramatically increased risk of physical abuse and homicide than children living with their biological parents. Although there researchers have found a negative relationship between stepmothers and food expenditure, this effect is not observed with stepfathers and their stepchildren. Ellis and Garber (2000) and Ellis (2004) suggest that stepfather presence is a better predictor of age of menarche than father absence, as it indicates lower quality paternal investment. In accordance with their findings, results show that girls raised in families with stepfathers exhibit a significantly earlier age of menarche than girls raised without stepfathers.\n\nRelative to other groups, children with a constantly absent biological father but a stepfather present reported more frequent incidences of sexual intercourse, as well as an earlier onset of sexual behaviour. The mean age of children with their biological father absent or partially absent is approximately 15. A higher percentage of children with a constantly absent biological father reported having sexual intercourse than those in the partially absent group. Those with a stepfather present and those with a biological father always absent have the earliest first time experiences of sexual intercourse at on average 15.11 years old, whereas children without a stepfather or their biological father partially absent at the age of 15.38 experience their first encounter of sexual intercourse. The effect of having a partially absent biological father with stepfather absence and the effect both stepfather or biological father absence are the same. This study indicated that the presence of a stepfather is not compensating to the disadvantages of a biological father being absent. In some situations, it can cause an even bigger negative effect on children.\n\nChoice of effective treatment can be greatly varied and thus can be affected by many factors such as age, one's ability to understand and deal with emotionally heavy material, family members involvement and the family and child's priorities and needs. In treating some of the negative effects that young girls may have, transference to a male therapist could help facilitate the opportunity to fill any emotional void created through father absence. On the other hand, simply through the existence of a connection with a consistent and empathetic adult can provide some paternal function, regardless of gender.\n"}
{"id": "29931264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29931264", "title": "Gustav Lilienthal", "text": "Gustav Lilienthal\n\nGustav Lilienthal (October 9, 1849 – February 1, 1933) was a German social reformer, a pioneer in building and construction technology (Prefabricated buildings), inventor of different Construction sets (e. g. Anchor Stone Blocks) and involved in the pioneering work of his brother, Otto Lilienthal in aviation.\n\n"}
{"id": "31313908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31313908", "title": "Henry Thompson (veterinary surgeon)", "text": "Henry Thompson (veterinary surgeon)\n\nHenry Thompson (MRCVS) (Member of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons, 1836–1920) was a founder member of the Aspatria Agricultural Society, the Aspatria Agricultural Cooperative Society and the Aspatria Agricultural College.\n\nHenry Thompson was born at Allonby, Cumberland, on 9 September 1836, the youngest of seven children, his father a poor country tailor, earned 9s (45p) per week. At the age of thirteen Thompson became apprentice to Joseph Slee, a Maryport druggist, working from four in the morning to nine in the evening. He later moved to Whitehaven to learn veterinary practice under John Fisher, the most qualified veterinary surgeon in Cumberland. After a further two years learning the basic practical skills associated with the equerry business at Carlisle, he enrolled at the Edinburgh Veterinary College, where he studied under Professor William Dick (1793–1866), the founder of the Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies. After five years of intensive study he graduated with several coveted qualifications; the Diploma of the Highland and Agricultural Society, the examination of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons, and the Royal Diploma. He became one of only two veterinary surgeons in Cumberland, to hold both Diploma's by examination. He obtained many academic distinctions including two silver medals for Anatomy and Physiology, and both first and second class certificates for Chemistry, Histology and Pathology.\n\nOn 4 June 1860, he arrived at Aspatria with ‘half-a-crown’ (12.5p) in his pocket to take up the position of junior partner in the towns veterinary practice. He befriended Sir Wilfrid Lawson, 2nd Baronet of Brayton and together they became two of the prominent members of the Wigton, and later Aspatria Farmers Club. In 1869, along with William Norman and John Twentyman, the ‘dauntless three’ as they became known, he organised the annual Aspatria Agricultural Show. In the following year the trio founded the Aspatria Agricultural Cooperative Society and in 1874 they established the Aspatria Agricultural and Commercial School, later renamed the Aspatria Agricultural College. In 1893, after the sale of the Agricultural School the outgoing directors and shareholders acknowledged his many hours of unpaid tuition with the presentation of a piano, and a gold watch.\n\nHe had many professional triumphs. He was one of the first to experiment with salt as a dressing on the land as a means of destroying insect pests. During his experiments he also discovered that salt acted as a deterrent to other parasitic and microbial diseases, such as ‘red water’ in cattle. He also anticipated the cure of milk fever in cattle, a discovery later attributed to the Danish biologist Karl Schmidt. In 1895 he enjoyed a degree of success in the treatment of foot and mouth, having seen many cases of the disease, and noted the heavy loss of cattle particularly when calving.\nAs a writer he was an authority on veterinary and agricultural matters. For over forty years he edited the periodical, ‘North British Agriculturist’. His book entitled, Elementary Veterinary Science for Agricultural Students, Farmers, and Stock-Keepers, remains an authoritative text book 120 years after its first publication (1895) and is available in paperback form today. It went into seven editions, and was translated and referred to by all sides in the Great War. ‘Greens’ encyclopaedia (the leading authority of the day), contained thirty-six articles appearing under his name.\n\nThere were many examples of his civic work. He was a member of the Aspatria Urban District Council, the Wigton Board of Guardians; a Director of the West Cumberland Dairy Company, and the Aspatria Gas Works. He was president of the Aspatria RUFC, a trustee of the Aspatria National Schools; a founder member of the Aspatria Volunteer Fire Brigade. He was also a collector of public subscriptions initiated to erect the districts first footpaths. He was secretary of the Aspatria Agricultural College, the Cumberland Steam Ploughing Society and the Aspatria Model Building Society. He was also a member of the Council of Veterinary Associations, and the secretary to the Aspatria Agricultural Cooperative Society, for over fifty years. He was also an authority on the Cumbrian dialect.\n\nHarry Thompson preached the gospel of cooperation at every available opportunity and never tired of demonstrating its value to farmers. He succeeded in combating their apathy and their individuality, and worked for the society with a singleness and purpose that no monetary value ever did or could compensate. After the death of the ‘Grand Old Man of Cumberland Farming’ the following tribute appeared in the pages of the ‘Wheatsheaf’ magazine. \n"}
{"id": "18292460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18292460", "title": "Hush money", "text": "Hush money\n\nHush money is a slang term for a form of bribery in which one person or party offers another an attractive sum of money or other enticement, in exchange for remaining silent about some illegal, stigmatic, or shameful behavior, action, or other fact about the person or party who has made the offer.\n\nAlternatively it can be money paid to placate a disgruntled adversary who may disclose embarrassing information, even if untrue. This is to save the intended person the harm and hassle of dealing with defamation.\n\nThe person or party who presents the hush money may be attempting to avoid criminal prosecution, a lawsuit (as sometimes in the case of an out-of-court settlement), a leak of information to the news media, or silence about a stigmatic issue within one's own community. The information being covered up may include illegal activity, such as drug dealing, or some personal secret, such as an extramarital affair. In some cases, a government agency may be involved in the offer of hush money in order to protect the agency's employees, politicians and their appointees, or a national government in its standing among other nations in the world. It is usually given under the table.\n\nHush money can refer to money paid for an agreement of confidentiality, which can be breached under court order. It can also refer to an agreement to say a thing didn't happen that did happen, even in court testimony. The latter type of agreement can be a criminal act itself as an obstruction of justice.\n\nThe Oxford English Dictionary traces published use of the term to Sir Richard Steele in 1709.\n\n"}
{"id": "53747014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53747014", "title": "Interaction cost", "text": "Interaction cost\n\nInteraction cost are work, costs, and other expenses, sometime dues to complete a task or interaction. This applies to several like:\n\n"}
{"id": "35604930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35604930", "title": "International Science Festival in Gothenburg", "text": "International Science Festival in Gothenburg\n\nThe International Science Festival in Gothenburg (Swedish: Vetenskapsfestivalen) is an annual festival in Gothenburg with science activities.\n\nThe International Science Festival in Gothenburg took place for the first time in April 1997 and is since then an annual recurrent event.\nThe purpose is to communicate science to the public and schools in an easy accessible and in a thought provoking manner. Another objective is to create a positive attitude to research and science which is intended to encourage higher education.\n\nAbout come each year. This makes it the largest popular science event in Sweden and one of the largest popular science events in Europe.\n\nUniversity of Gothenburg and Chalmers University of Technology contributes with the knowledge.\n\nThe International Science Festival in Gothenburg is a member of the \"European Science Events Association\", EUSCEA.\n\nEach year a special theme that the festival focuses on is chosen: (translated)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "387790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=387790", "title": "Intimate media", "text": "Intimate media\n\nIntimate media are media artifacts created and collected by individuals, friends, and families to capture and commemorate aspects of family and intimate relationships. Intimate media includes such things as personal and family photo collections, home videos and films, diaries and journals, and letters. Depending on the meaning and values attributed to an object, anything could be considered intimate media. Great value is placed on intimate media possessions due to its ability to serve as \"proof\" that an event or memory actually occurred.\n\n\"Our memory and the stories we create, share, retell and live are a powerful way in which we determine and express who we are.\"\n\nIn their chapter of \"The New Everyday: Views on Ambient Intelligence\", entitled Intimate Media: Emotional Needs and Ambient Intelligence, John Cass, Lorna Goulden, and Slava Kozlov discuss the ways in which humans, as they \"become familiar with the potential of new technologies in their workplaces...find ways to re-use what they have encountered there and find benefits in other parts of their lives.\" This process has led to the onset of digital and social media-based \"intimate media,\" such as digital scrapbooks, email, text messaging, Pinterest pages, blogs, the \"messages\" portion of Facebook, online photo-sharing websites such as Flickr, and websites like YouTube. Human memory and computer memory are quite different in terms of their accuracy and durability. Storing intimate media on a computer mechanism helps to preserve the accuracy of the memory and lengthens its life as well. One potential problem with fusing intimate media and technology is that most technological intimate media is stored rather than displayed—it lives on hard drives, CDs, and the internet. The decorative nature of non-technological intimate media allows a person to imbue their living space with memories, triggers of happy moments, sentimental objects, and the like. The onset of technologies such as digital photo-frames, however, has begun to solve these technological deficiencies. This new virtual digital domain opens up a whole world of possibilities.\nWith intimate media now becoming increasingly digitalized, its potential for mobility, sharing, and copying is increasing drastically. Not only can a person transfer intimate media from one person or household to another, but the same intimate media can also be viewed simultaneously in a limitless number of locations. This opens up a new realm: ambient intelligence. Now intimate media is no longer confined to bookshelves, mantles, closets, and coffee tables. It can travel with a person in her/his pocket, via cell phone or other digital device, wherever s/he goes.\n"}
{"id": "17007089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17007089", "title": "Joan Jacobs Brumberg", "text": "Joan Jacobs Brumberg\n\nJoan Jacobs Brumberg (born April 29, 1944) is an American social historian and writes and lectures in the fields of women's history and medical history. Her first appointment at Cornell University (1979) was in Women's Studies and Human Development. From that point, her research, teaching and writing have been interdisciplinary and focused on gender. She is a Professor Emerita of Cornell University, and lectures and writes about the experiences of adolescents through history until the present day. In the subject area of Gender Studies, she has written about boys and violence, and girls and body image.\n\nHer 1987 book, Fasting Girls: The Emergence of Anorexia Nervosa as A Modern Disease won four major disciplinary awards: the Berkshire Book Prize (in women's history); the John Hope Franklin Prize ( in American Studies), the Eileen Basker Prize (in medical anthropology) and the Watson Davis Prize (in history of Science writing). Book Riot included it as one of the 100 best books in the history of medicine.\n\nThe Body Project: A History of American Girls (1997) was based on diaries written by adolescents from the pre Civil War Era until 1980s. Although the author admired certain Victorian protections for girls, she also urged a new code of sexual ethics for a post virginal age. The book received special recognition from Voice of Youth Advocates. Brumberg has also worked collaboratively with photographer Lauren Greenfield on Girl Culture (2002) and Thin (2006).\n\nIn light of the contemporary debates over the juvenile death penalty, she wrote Kansas Charley: The Boy Murderer (2004) which explored the case of an immigrant adolescent murderer who was hanged in Cheyenne, Wyoming in 1898. Brumberg research shows boys in early adolescence are not psychologically developed enough to be liable for their actions to the extent of an adult. Her work was used in arguments against the juvenile death penalty.\n\nHer first book, Mission for Life: The Judson Family and American Evangelical Culture (1978) won Honorable Mention from The Society of Church History.\n\nBrumberg was a John Simon Guggenheim Fellow and also had awards from the Rockefeller Foundation and the National Endowment for the Humanities. She was twice a fellow at the MacDowell Colony and is a fellow of the Society for American Historians. Brumberg was named a Stephen Weiss Presidential Fellow and Professor, an award given for excellence in undergraduate teaching.\n"}
{"id": "33996477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33996477", "title": "Juan Roque (Zape Confraternity)", "text": "Juan Roque (Zape Confraternity)\n\nJuan Roque was an African living in colonial Mexico City. He died in 1623, leaving behind one of very few wills and testaments of African residents of colonial Latin America. His daughter Ana María, and the confraternity to which he belonged in the hospital of the \"Limpia Concepción\", also left behind documents describing a court battle which detail the final requests made by Juan Roque concerning a house “in the neighborhood of San Hipólito in the lane next to the College of San Juan where it meets the open air market of San Hipólito, bordering the houses of the marshals and those of Don Ángel de Villasaña.”\n\nAfricans played a notable role in the Spanish Conquest. As the Spanish and Portuguese control in colonial Latin America spread, Africans were stereotyped as slaves. However, there were exceptions. Africans and mulattos played active roles in the early 16th century, acting as conquistadors. Juan Garrido, Juan García, and Juan Valiente were all successful conquistadors, who became part of the Spanish communities as the conquest was completed.\n\nBy the 17th century, Africans lived in colonial Latin America, with distinctive organizations and communities that blended African culture with the laws and social expectations of the Spaniards. In New Spain, Africans, who originated from modern day coastal Sierra Leone, founded a brotherhood in Mexico City,\nwhich became the \"Zape\" Confraternity. Documents describe how Africans rose from slavery to become influential members of the community.\n\nBrought to New Spain as a slave before 1600, Juan Roque left a comprehensive will and testament at his death. It reveals the importance of 'confraternities' to the African community in Mexico City, as well as the prominence some Africans were able to achieve. \n\nWritten before his death in 1623, this last will and testament provided for a lavish and expensive funeral and lists profitable real estate that helped ensure the survival of the \"Zape\" Confraternity in Mexico City for several decades after his death. Both expensive and Catholic, Juan Roque’s funeral provides evidence that Africans could establish themselves within communities in colonial Latin America. He requested that he be buried either in the church of the Hospital of Our Lady of Immaculate Conception or the Santísma Veracruz Church of which he was a parishioner. \n\nIn addition, Juan Roque asked that the brotherhoods to which he belonged, like the \"Zape\" Confraternity, accompany his body to the burial and that fifty-five Masses be sung for his soul at different churches around Mexico City, as well as twenty Masses sung for his deceased wife, Isabel de Herrera. \n\nIn her essay analyzing confraternities in New Spain, Nicole von Germeten points out that as a prominent and wealthy African in Mexico City, Juan Roque's lavish funeral “with all the trappings of baroque religiosity” and membership in a confraternity like that of the Zape nation demonstrates the respectability of men of African descent in colonial Latin America. \n\nHe stated that his deceased wife was a free black woman, and when bequeathing his profitable real estate in the neighborhood of San Hipólito, Juan Roque pointed to the status of his daughter, Ana María, as a legitimate daughter from his marriage “according to the Most Holy Church” to Isabel de Herrera and therefore a free black woman. Designating these Africans as free, gave them status within the community and helped the \"Zape\" Confraternity, as it made its case to regain the income from houses around San Hipólito, following Ana María dying childless.\n\nBefore her death, Ana María spoke to members of the \"Zape\" Confraternity confirming that her father had wished the brotherhood to receive the income from the real estate in San Hipólito.\n\nIn colonial Latin America, confraternities were organizations that allowed Africans to achieve a sense of community after being taken from their homeland through the slave trade. These brotherhoods also facilitated the Africans’ conversion to Catholicism: by providing a place of worship, a Christian community, and financial support for members' funerals. The confraternities provided social welfare for Africans in New Spain and limited health care, when Africans were denied access to other assistance.\n\nThe importance of the confraternity’s ability to aid its members monetarily, is clearly evident In the court documents detailing the Zape Confraternity’s battle to receive the income of Juan Roque’s houses in San Hipólito. Juan Roque’s exact description of the location of the houses, in his last will and testament, attempted to ensure that his daughter. and eventually the confraternity, received the benefits of the properties.\n\nSeveral witnesses said that Ana María was adamant that her father wished the houses to go to the brotherhood, should she die without children. Even when one of the elder members of the confraternity urged her to agree with her husband and sell the houses, Ana María refused, because her father “charged her that if she did not have children she should not dispose of the houses, but give them the Brotherhood of the Immaculate Conception (the \"Zape\" Confraternity), of which he was a member and founder, so that the blacks of the Zape nation would administer them and take care of their earnings.”\n"}
{"id": "5221143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5221143", "title": "Leave the gate as you found it", "text": "Leave the gate as you found it\n\nLeave the gate as you found it (or leave all gates as found) is an important rule of courtesy in rural areas throughout the world. If a gate is found open, it should be left open, and if it is closed, it should be left closed. If a closed gate absolutely must be traversed, it should be closed again afterwards. It applies to visitors travelling onto or across farms, ranches, and stations.\n\nIn low-rainfall areas, closing gates can cut livestock off from water supplies. For example, most of the land used for grazing in Australia has no natural water supplies, so drinking water for the stock must be supplied by the farmer or landowner, often by using a windmill to pump groundwater. Even visitors who know how a stock water system works may be unaware of breakdowns. During hot weather, cattle require large quantities of water to drink and can die in less than a day if they don't get it. Sheep need less water and can survive longer without it, but will die if cut off from water for several hot days.\n\nIn all agricultural areas, farmers need to keep groups of livestock separate, for reasons including breeding for disease resistance and increased production, pest control, and controlling when ewes deliver their lambs. Unwanted mingling of flocks or herds can deprive a farmer of significant income.\n\nThe original versions of the United Kingdom's Country Code advised visitors to always close gates. The revised Countryside Code now suggests that gates should be left as found.\n\n"}
{"id": "46550108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46550108", "title": "Legal technology", "text": "Legal technology\n\nLegal technology, also known as Legal Tech, refers to the use of technology and software to provide legal services. Legal Tech companies are generally startups founded with the purpose of disrupting the traditionally conservative legal market. According to TechCrunch, as of December 2014, \"legal technology is booming, with companies attempting to disrupt the legal space at every level and from every angle\" and Forbes noted in February 2015 that there were “hundreds of legal startups popping up all over the US and Europe”.\n\nLegal technology traditionally referred to the application of technology and software to help law firms with practice management, document storage, billing, accounting and electronic discovery. Since 2011, Legal Tech has evolved to be associated more with technology startups disrupting the practice of law by giving people access to online software that reduces or in some cases eliminates the need to consult a lawyer, or by connecting people with lawyers more efficiently through online marketplaces and lawyer-matching websites.\n\nThe legal industry is widely seen to be conservative and traditional, with Law Technology Today noting that \"in 50 years, the customer experience at most law firms has barely changed\". Reasons for this include the fact law firms face weaker cost-cutting incentives than other professions (since they pass disbursements directly to their client) and are seen to be risk averse (as a minor technological error could have significant financial consequences for a client).\n\nHowever, the growth of the hiring by businesses of in-house counsel and their increasing sophistication, together with the development of email, has led to clients placing increasing cost and time pressure on their lawyers. In addition, there are increasing incentives for lawyers to become technologically competent, with the American Bar Association voting in August 2012 to amend the Model Rules of Professional Conduct to require lawyers to keep abreast of \"the benefits and risks associated with relevant technology\", and the saturation of the market leading many lawyers to look for cutting-edge ways to compete. The exponential growth in the volume of documents (mostly email) that must be reviewed for litigation cases has greatly accelerated the adoption of technology used in eDiscovery, with elements of machine language and artificial intelligence being incorporated and cloud-based services being adopted by law firms.\n\nInvestment in Legal Tech is predominantly focused in the United States with more than $254 million invested in 2014 in the United States, however there is significant growth worldwide.\n\nStanford Law School has started CodeX, the Center for Legal Informatics, an interdisciplinary research center, which also incubates companies started by law students and computer scientists. Some companies that have come out of the program include Lex Machina and Legal.io.\n\nTraditional areas of Legal Tech include:\n\nMore recent areas of growth in Legal Tech focus on:\n\nLegal research:\n\n\nSeed round:\nSeries A and beyond:\n\nOther legal technology companies:\n\n"}
{"id": "28180054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28180054", "title": "List of active separatist movements in North America", "text": "List of active separatist movements in North America\n\nThis is a list of currently active separatist movements in North America. Separatism includes autonomism and secessionism. What is and is not considered an autonomist or secessionist movement is sometimes contentious. Entries on this list must meet three criteria:\n\nUnder each region listed is one or more of the following:\n\n Alberta \n\n\n\nBritish Columbia + Pacific Northwestern US \n\n\n\n\n\n\nInuit autonomist movements: \n\nGreenland is geographically part of North America, but is politically connected to Europe.\n\n\n Zapatista (Chiapas)\n\n Mosquito\n\n California\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Puerto Rico\n\n Confederate States of America\n\n\n Martinique\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1583078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1583078", "title": "List of gairaigo and wasei-eigo terms", "text": "List of gairaigo and wasei-eigo terms\n\nThis is a selected list of \"gairaigo\", Japanese words originating or based on foreign language (generally Western) terms, including \"wasei-eigo\" (Japanese pseudo-Anglicisms).\n\nMany of these words derive from Portuguese, due to Portugal's early role in Japanese-Western interaction; Dutch, due to the Netherlands' relationship with Japan amidst the policy of \"sakoku\" during the Edo period; and from French and German, due to France and Germany's cultural and scientific prominence during Japan's modernization in the Meiji period.\n\nHowever, most come from English, the dominant world language today. Due to the large number of western concepts imported into Japanese culture during modern times, there are thousands of these English borrowings. These English words are informally referred to as having been \"Nipponized\". \n\nJapanese vocabulary also includes large numbers of words from Chinese, borrowed at various points throughout history. However, since the Japanese language has such strong historical ties to the Chinese language, these loans are not generally considered \"gairaigo\". \nMany loan words are in fact \"pseudo-borrowings\": despite their links to foreign language words, the word forms as used in modern Japanese are not used in the same way in their languages of origin. In fact, many such terms, despite their similarity to the original foreign words, are not easily understood by speakers of those languages (e.g. \"left over\" as a baseball term for a hit that goes over the left-fielder's head, rather than uneaten food saved for a later meal as in English—or \"famikon\" ファミコン from \"Family computer\", which actually refers to the Nintendo Entertainment System).\n\nSee the list of Japanese terms mistaken for gairaigo for details of words or terms mistaken for foreign loan words and false cognates.\n\nDue to the extent of Japanese borrowings, particularly from English, this list focuses mainly on pseudo-borrowings and commonly used loan words from languages other than English (which are often mistaken for English words in Japan). Most loan words (and all modern loans) are transcribed in Katakana, a kana (Japanese syllabary) whose usage approximates English italics. Older loans may be written using Ateji, with Kanji used to represent their phonetic readings without necessarily inheriting their meaning. In words composed of both a loan and native Japanese, the Japanese can function as a morpheme within a compound (and would generally be written in Kanji if possible), or can be attached to the foreign word to inflect or otherwise modify it, as if it were okurigana (which is written in Hiragana).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13502171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13502171", "title": "Local history", "text": "Local history\n\nLocal history is the study of history in a geographically local context and it often concentrates on the local community. It incorporates cultural and social aspects of history. Local history is not merely national history writ small but a study of past events in a given geographical but one that is based on a wide variety of documentary evidence and placed in a comparative context that is both regional and national. Historic plaques are one form of documentation of significant occurrences in the past and oral histories are another. \n\nLocal history is often documented by local historical societies or groups that form to preserve a local historic building or other historic site. Many works of local history are compiled by amateur historians working independently or archivists employed by various organizations. An important aspect of local history is the publication and cataloguing of documents preserved in local or national records which relate to particular areas.\n\nIn a number of countries a broader concept of local lore is known, which is a comprehensive study of everything pertaining to a certain locality: history, ethnography, geography, natural history, etc. \n\nLocal history tends to be less documented than other types, with fewer books and artifacts than that of a country or continent. Many local histories are recorded as oral tales or stories and so are more vulnerable than more well known issues. Artifacts of local history are often collected in local history museums, which may be housed in a historic house or other building. Individual historic sites are inherently local, although they may have national or world history importance as well. Many however have little overall historical impact but add depth to the local area.\n\nIn Australia, local history is focussed on specific cities and suburbs or country towns and regions. In cities, local history might concentrate on a CBD and its bordering suburbs, on a specific suburb or municipality, or on an agglomeration of suburbs and municipalities (because local government boundaries have changed over time). Outside the larger cities, local history often examines regional towns and surrounding areas.\n\nRecords are typically stored at state libraries, municipal libraries, historical societies and public record offices. For example, the State Library of Victoria holds extensive local history records for Melbourne and other places in Victoria. Many other Melbourne libraries have local history collections, along with the Public Record Office Victoria and the Royal Historical Society of Victoria. In New South Wales, the Royal Australian Historical Society has studied local history as part of its remit since its founding in 1901. It holds local history records along with the State Library of NSW and other state and local libraries and archives.\n\nHistorians have examined the ways local history has been written in Australia since the nineteenth century. Early on, the emphasis was on pioneer and settler history. The creative ways that local history contributed to making community has also been argued. Subsequently, local history, urban history, public history and heritage were closely connected in Australia.\n\nThe British Association for Local History in the United Kingdom encourages and assists in the study of local history as an academic discipline and as a leisure activity by both individuals and groups. Most historic counties in England have record societies and archaeological and historical societies which coordinate the work of historians and other researchers concerned with that area.\n\nLocal history in the UK took a long time to be accepted as an academic discipline. In the 18th and 19th centuries, it was widely regarded as an antiquarian pursuit, suitable for country parsons. The Victoria History of the Counties of England project begun in 1899 in honour of Queen Victoria with the aim of creating an encyclopaedic history of each of the historic counties of England. The project is coordinated by the Institute of Historical Research at the University of London. The first academic post related to local history was at Reading University which appointed a research fellow in local history in 1908. There was a department of local history (but without a professor) at Leicester University from 1947. H. P. R. Finberg was the first Professor of English Local History. He was appointed by Leicester in 1964. Local history continues to be neglected as an academic subject within universities. Academic local historians are often found within a more general department of history or in continuing education.\n\nLocal history is rarely taught as a separate subject in British schools. In 1908, a Board of Education circular had urged that schools should pay attention \"to the history of the town and district\" in which they were situated. In 1952, the Ministry of Education suggested schools should use local material to illustrate national themes. Within the current National Curriculum, pupils at level 4 are expected to \"show their knowledge and understanding of local, national and international history\".\n\nThe Alan Ball Local History Awards were established in the 1980s to recognize outstanding contributions in local history publishing in the UK (both in print and in new media), and to encourage the publishing of such works by public libraries and local authorities.\n\nLocal history can become a crucial component to policy-making and serve as a marketable resource and this is demonstrated in the case of Northern Ireland. Aside from its contribution to local development, local history is being used as a non-contentious meeting ground in addressing conflicting traditions by reinforcing shared past rather than adversarial political history.\n\nIn the United States, local history is usually concentrated on any history of the place and people from a particular village or township. Several villages and townships would comprise one county or county history. Library records are often divided by State, then county, then township/local history. The American Local History Network (ALHN) in the United States provides a focus for accessing independent genealogical and historical resources.\n\nIn the United States, 79,000 historic sites are identified as listings on its National Register of Historic Places. State and local municipalities often have additional landmark designations to cover sites of more purely local interest.\n\nIn addition, many regional and state historical societies maintain regional history and actively seek out missing historical collections.\n\nA new form of local history is the movement of \"If This House Could Talk\" projects in various urban neighborhoods in the United States. These small scale locally generated history events encourage an interest in history and provide for open ended participation by the general public. However, there is often no vetting or third party review of the factual evidence that is presented, and therefore such presentations may require oversight by professional third party history organizations if they are to be transcribed into ongoing collections of local history.\n\nIn several Slavic countries there is a related study which may be translated from the local languages as \"country lore\" or \"local lore\". In addition to history, it also incorporates other local studies, such as local geography, nature, and ethnography.\n\nIn the USSR, Russia and Russian-speaking post-Soviet states local lore is known as \"krayevedenie\" (). It is taught in primary schools. There are also local lore museums known as \"krayevedcheskie muzei\". In modern Russia the concept of \"regional studies\" ( Регионоведение) is also considered.\n\nIn Ukraine, the study of local history and regional ethnography is known as \"krayeznavstvo\" (. The National Union of Local Lore Researchers of Ukraine is a professional society for researchers of ethnology and local studies in Ukraine. It was founded in 1925 and has 3,000 members in 17 chapters. The society has published its journal \"Краєзнавство\" since 1927.\n\nIn Poland, the corresponding concept is called \"\", the term known since 1902. In modern Poland various organized \"krajoznawstwo\" activities are carried out by Polskie Towarzystwo Turystyczno-Krajoznawcze, ineptly translated as \"Polish Tourist and Sightseeing Society\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54250721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54250721", "title": "Louisa Morton Greene", "text": "Louisa Morton Greene\n\nLouisa Morton Greene (née Louisa Morton Willard; May 23, 1819 - March 5, 1900) was a 19th-century American reformer, writer, abolitionist, suffragist, women's rights worker, temperance worker, and Civil War relief worker, from Massachusetts. Though she had limited schooling, she was the first American woman to rebel against discrimination towards women in industry, refusing to accept a woman's pay rate after doing a man's job. Greene was also an early champion of the temperance and suffrage causes in her writing and speaking engagements. She died in 1900.\n\nLouisa Morton Willard was born in Ashburnham, Massachusetts, May 23, 1819. She is a descendant from sturdy New England ancestors. Her father, Henry Willard. blacksmith and farmer, removed from Vermont and settled in Ashburnham in the early years of the present century. Bereft of both parents in early childhood, she was deprived of schooling and thrown upon her own resources at the age of 13. \n\nShe obtained employment in a woolen factory in Dedham, Massachusetts, and worked for several years for the pittance of US$1.00 to $2.00 per week and board, working 14 hours a day. There, upon the heads of bobbins, she learned to write. Notwithstanding her long hours of labor, she found time for constant improvement by reading and study. Her habits of strict economy enabled her to save a portion of her wages, and at the age of 17 she had $150.00 in the bank. Then came her first revolt against the injustice shown to women in industrial pursuits. Gross discrimination in the matter of wages was made, simply on the ground of sex. Called upon at one time to take a man's place at a spindle, she performed her duties well and to the satisfaction of her employer. When pay-day came around and she demanded the same compensation that the man had been securing, her request was received with amazement. The plucky young girl stood her ground and refused to return to the spindle unless paid at the same rate as the man whose place she was filling. She was promptly dismissed from the factory, to be recalled a few weeks later at a higher rate of pay. \n\nIn 1840, she taught school near Portsmouth, New Hampshire. There, she formed the acquaintance of Jonas Greene, of Maine, and they married in 1841. Mr. Greene subsequently became a prominent politician, representing his district in each branch of the State legislature for several successive terms. His success in life he ascribed largely to the cooperation and support of his wife. Removing with her husband to the then somewhat sparsely settled Oxford County, Maine, a new and active life opened for her. While performing faithfully her duties, she found time to enter into the philanthropic and reform work of the times. Early becoming a convert to the Water cure system of treating the sick, she familiarized herself with it and soon developed a remarkable ability for the care and treatment of the sick. Physicians and medicines were unknown in her household, and her skill was in demand in the community. \n\nIn 1850, Greene began to espouse the anti-slavery cause. She and others gathered women together and organized anti-slavery societies. Literature was distributed, \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" was read, and she wrote many articles for the local papers. During the American Civil War, Greene's patriotic labors were untiring. When hospital supplies were needed, she collected, prepared and forwarded them. Greene's newspaper contributions for years covered a wide range of subjects. She was an early champion of the temperance and suffrage causes in her writing and speaking engagements. In 1869, she removed with her family to Manassas, Virginia, where her husband died in 1873. With advancing years, Greene withdrew from active philanthropic work. She died March 5, 1900.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33742208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33742208", "title": "Models of communication", "text": "Models of communication\n\nModels of communication are conceptual models used to explain the human communication process. The first major model for communication was developed in 1948 by Claude Elwood Shannon and published with an introduction by Warren Weaver for Bell Laboratories. Following the basic concept, communication is the process of sending and receiving messages or transferring information from one part (sender) to another (receiver).\n\nIn 1960, David Berlo expanded the linear transmission model with the Sender-Message-Channel-Receiver(SMCR) Model of Communication. Later, Wilbur Schramm introduced a model that identified multiple variables in communication which includes the transmitter, encoding, media, decoding, and receiver. \n\nElwood Shannon and Warren Weaver were engineers that worked for Bell Telephone Labs in the United States. Their goal was to make sure that the telephone cables and radio waves were working at the maximum efficiency. Therefore, they developed the Shannon-Weaver model which had an intention to expand a mathematical theory of communication. The Shannon–Weaver model was developed in 1949 which is referred as the 'mother of all models'. The model is well accepted as a main initial model for Communication Studies which has grown since then.\n\nAs well, the Shannon-Weaver model was designed to mirror the functioning of radio and telephone technology. Their initial model consisted of four primary parts: sender, message, channel, and receiver. The sender was the part of a telephone a person speaks into, the channel was the telephone itself, and the receiver was the part of the phone through which one can hear the person on the other end of the line. Shannon and Weaver also recognized that there may often be static or background sounds that interfere with the process of the other partner in a telephone conversation; they referred to this as noise. Certain types of background sounds can also indicate the absence of a signal.\n\nThe original model of Shannon and Weaver has five elements: information source, transmitter, channel, receiver, and destination. To illustrate the process of the communication the first step is the information source where the information is stored. Next, in order to send the information, the message is encoded into signals, so it can travel to its destination. After the message is encoded, it goes through the channel which the signals are adapted for the transmission. In addition, the channel carried the noise course which is any interference that might happen to lead to the signal receive a different information from the source. After the channel, the message arrives in the receiver step where the message reconstruct (decode) from the signal. Finally, the message arrives at the destination.\n\nIn a simple model, often referred to as \"the transmission model\" or \"standard view of communication\", information or content (e.g. a message in natural language) is sent in some form (as spoken language) from an emissor/ sender/ encoder to a destination/ receiver/ decoder. According to this common communication-related conception, communication is viewed as a means of sending and receiving information. The strengths of this model are its simplicity, generality, and quantifiability. The mathematicians Claude Shannon and Warren Weaver structured this model on the basis of the following elements:\n\n\nShannon and Weaver argued that this concept entails three levels of problems for communication:\n\n\nDaniel Chandler criticizes the transmission model in the following terms:\n\n\nIn 1960, David Berlo expanded Shannon and Weaver's 1949 linear model of communication and created the Sender-Message-Channel-Receiver (SMCR) Model of Communication. The SMCR Model of Communication separated the model into clear parts and has been expanded upon by other scholars.\n\nThe Berlo's communication process is a simple application for communication of person-to-person which include communication source, encoder, message, channel, decoder, and communication receiver. In addition, David Berlo presented some factors that influence the communication process between two people. The factors include communication skills, awareness level, social system, cultural system, and attitude.\n\nThe Berlo's Model of Communication process starts at the source. This is the part where determine the communication skills, attitude, knowledge, social system, and culture of the people involved in the communication. After the message is developed which is elements in a set of symbols. Then the encoder step beginning. The encoder process is where the motor skills take place by speaking or writing. The message goes through the channel which carries the message by hearing, seeing, touching, smelling, or tasting. Then the decoder process takes place. In this process, the receiver interpreter the message with her or him sensory skills. Finally, the communication receiver gets the whole message understood.\n\nCommunication is usually described along a few major dimensions: Message (what type of things are communicated), source / emissor / sender / encoder (by whom), form (in which form), channel (through which medium), destination / receiver / target / decoder (to whom), and Receiver. Wilbur Schramm (1954) also indicated that we should also examine the impact that a message has (both desired and undesired) on the target of the message. Between parties, communication includes acts that confer knowledge and experiences, give advice and commands, and ask questions. These acts may take many forms, in one of the various manners of communication. The form depends on the abilities of the group communicating. Together, communication content and form make messages that are sent towards a destination. The target can be oneself, another person or being, another entity (such as a corporation or group of beings).\n\nCommunication can be seen as processes of information transmission governed by three levels of semiotic rules:\n\nTherefore, communication is social interaction where at least two interacting agents share a common set of signs and a common set of semiotic rules. This commonly held rule in some sense ignores autocommunication, including intrapersonal communication via diaries or self-talk, both secondary phenomena that followed the primary acquisition of communicative competences within social interactions.\n\nIn light of these weaknesses, Barnlund (1970) proposed a transactional model of communication. The basic premise of the transactional model of communication is that individuals are simultaneously engaging in the sending and receiving of messages.\n\nIn a slightly more complex form, a sender and a receiver are linked reciprocally. This second attitude of communication, referred to as the constitutive model or constructionist view, focuses on how an individual communicates as the determining factor of the way the message will be interpreted. Communication is viewed as a conduit; a passage in which information travels from one individual to another and this information becomes separate from the communication itself. A particular instance of communication is called a speech act. The sender's personal filters and the receiver's personal filters may vary depending upon different regional traditions, cultures, or gender; which may alter the intended meaning of message contents. In the presence of \"noise\" on the transmission channel (air, in this case), reception and decoding of content may be faulty, and thus the speech act may not achieve the desired effect. One problem with this encode-transmit-receive-decode model is that the processes of encoding and decoding imply that the sender and receiver each possess something that functions as a [code-book], and that these two code books are, at the very least, similar if not identical. Although something like code books is implied by the model, they are nowhere represented in the model, which creates many conceptual difficulties.\n\nTheories of co-regulation describe communication as a creative and dynamic continuous process, rather than a discrete exchange of information. Canadian media scholar Harold Innis had the theory that people use different types of media to communicate and which one they choose to use will offer different possibilities for the shape and durability of society. His famous example of this is using ancient Egypt and looking at the ways they built themselves out of media with very different properties stone and papyrus. Papyrus is what he called 'Space Binding'. it made possible the transmission of written orders across space, empires and enables the waging of distant military campaigns and colonial administration. The other is stone and 'Time Binding', through the construction of temples and the pyramids can sustain their authority generation to generation, through this media they can change and shape communication in their society.\n\nThere is an additional working definition of communication to consider that authors like Richard A. Lanham (2003) and as far back as Erving Goffman (1959) have highlighted. This is a progression from Lasswell's attempt to define human communication through to this century and revolutionized into the constructionist model. Constructionists believe that the process of communication is in itself the only messages that exist. The packaging can not be separated from the social and historical context from which it arose, therefore the substance to look at in communication theory is style for Richard Lanham and the performance of self for Erving Goffman.\n\nLanham chose to view communication as the rival to the over encompassing use of CBS model (which pursued to further the transmission model). CBS model argues that clarity, brevity, and sincerity are the only purpose to prose discourse, therefore communication. Lanham wrote: \"If words matter too, if the whole range of human motive is seen as animating prose discourse, then rhetoric analysis leads us to the essential questions about prose style\" (Lanham 10). This is saying that rhetoric and style are fundamentally important; they are not errors to what we actually intend to transmit. The process which we construct and deconstruct meaning deserves analysis.\n\nErving Goffman sees the performance of self as the most important frame to understand communication. Goffman wrote: \"What does seem to be required of the individual is that he learn enough pieces of expression to be able to 'fill in' and manage, more or less, any part that he is likely to be given\" (Goffman 73), highlighting the significance of expression.\n\nThe truth in both cases is the articulation of the message and the package as one. The construction of the message from social and historical context is the seed as is the pre-existing message is for the transmission model. Therefore, any look into communication theory should include the possibilities drafted by such great scholars as Richard A. Lanham and Goffman that style and performance is the whole process. lun\n\nCommunication stands so deeply rooted in human behaviors and the structures of society that scholars have difficulty thinking of it while excluding social or behavioral events. Because communication theory remains a relatively young field of inquiry and integrates itself with other disciplines such as philosophy, psychology, and sociology, one probably cannot expect a consensus conceptualization of communication across disciplines.\n\nCommunication Model Terms as provided by Rothwell (11-15):\n\nHumans act toward people or things on the basis of the meanings they assign to those people or things.\n-\"Language is the source of meaning\". \n-Meaning arises out of the social interaction people have with each other.\n\n-Meaning is not inherent in objects but it is negotiated through the use of language, hence the term symbolic interactionism.\nAs human beings, we have the ability to name things.\nSymbols, including names, are arbitrary signs.\nBy talking with others, we ascribe meaning to words and develop a universe of discourse\nA symbol is a stimulus that has a learned/shared meaning and a value for people\nSignificant symbols can be nonverbal as well as linguistic.\n\n-Negative responses can consequently reduce a person to nothing.\n-Our expectations evoke responses that confirm what we originally anticipated, resulting in a self-fulfilling prophecy.\n\nThis is a one-way model to communicate with others. It consists of the sender encoding a message and channeling it to the receiver in the presence of noise. In this model there is no feedback or response which may allow for a continuous \nexchange of information (F.N.S. Palma, 1993).\n\nThe linear model was first introduced by Shannon & Weaver in 1949. In the linear communication model, the message travels one direction from the start point to the endpoint. In other words, once the sender sends the message to the receiver the communication process ends. Many communications online use the linear communication model. For example, when you send an email, post a blog, or share something on social media. However, the linear model does not explain many other forms of communication including face-to-face conversation.\n\nIt is two linear models stacked on top of each other. The sender channels a message to the receiver and the receiver then becomes the sender and channels a message to the original sender. This model has added feedback, indicating that communication is not a one way but a two way process. It also has \"field of experience\" which includes our cultural background, ethnicity geographic location, extent of travel, and general personal experiences accumulated over the course of your lifetime. Draw backs – there is feedback but it is not simultaneous.\n\n\nCommunication theory can be seen from one of the following viewpoints:\n\n\nInspection of a particular theory on this level will provide a framework on the nature of communication as seen within the confines of that theory.\n\nTheories can also be studied and organized according to the ontological, epistemological, and axiological framework imposed by the theorist.\n\nOntology essentially poses the question of what, exactly, the theorist is examining. One must consider the very nature of reality. The answer usually falls in one of three realms depending on whether the theorist sees the phenomena through the lens of a realist, nominalist, or social constructionist. Realist perspective views the world objectively, believing that there is a world outside of our own experience and cognitions. Nominalists see the world subjectively, claiming that everything outside of one's cognitions is simply names and labels. Social constructionists straddle the fence between objective and subjective reality, claiming that reality is what we create together.\n\nEpistemology is an examination of the approaches and beliefs which inform particular modes of study of phenomena and domains of expertise. In positivist approaches to epistemology, objective knowledge is seen as the result of the empirical observation and perceptual experience. In the history of science, empirical evidence collected by way of pragmatic-calculation and the scientific method is believed to be the most likely to reflect truth in the findings. Such approaches are meant to predict a phenomenon. Subjective theory holds that understanding is based on situated knowledge, typically found using interpretative methodology such as ethnography and also interviews. Subjective theories are typically developed to explain or understand phenomena in the social world.\n\nAxiology is concerned with how values inform research and theory development. Most communication theory is guided by one of three axiological approaches. The first approach recognizes that values will influence theorists' interests but suggests that those values must be set aside once actual research begins. Outside replication of research findings is particularly important in this approach to prevent individual researchers' values from contaminating their findings and interpretations. The second approach rejects the idea that values can be eliminated from any stage of theory development. Within this approach, theorists do not try to divorce their values from inquiry. Instead, they remain mindful of their values so that they understand how those values contextualize, influence or skew their findings. The third approach not only rejects the idea that values can be separated from research and theory, but rejects the idea that they should be separated. This approach is often adopted by critical theorists who believe that the role of communication theory is to identify oppression and produce social change. In this axiological approach, theorists embrace their values and work to reproduce those values in their research and theory development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33545180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33545180", "title": "Open-access repository", "text": "Open-access repository\n\nAn open-access repository or open archive is a digital platform that holds research output and provides free, immediate and permanent access to research results for anyone to use, download and distribute. To facilitate open access such repositories must be interoperable according to the Open Archives Initiative Protocol for Metadata Harvesting (OAI-PMH). Search engines harvest the content of open access repositories, constructing a database of worldwide, free of charge available research.\n\nAs opposed to a simple institutional repository or disciplinary repository, open-access repositories provide free access to research for users outside the institutional community and are one of the recommended ways to achieve the open access vision described in the Budapest Open Access Initiative definition of open access. This is sometimes referred to as the self-archiving or \"green\" route to open access.\n\nThe benefits of open-access repositories, as opposed to conventional digital institutional repositories, are:\n\nThe most frequently used repository software for open-access repositories according to OpenDOAR are Digital Commons, DSpace and EPrints.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59121875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59121875", "title": "Potted History", "text": "Potted History\n\nPotted History: The Story of Plants in the Home is a 2007 book on social history and horticulture and gardening in the historical domestic setting by author and journalist Catherine Horwood. It was first published in hardback by the British publisher Frances Lincoln Publishers. \n\n\"Potted History: The Story of Plants in the Home\" was published in an illustrated, hardback edition.\n\nRather than focusing on the more usual subject matter of how to look after and rear houseplants, Horwood instead traces the historical and sociological reasons why houseplants but Catherine Horwood came to be found in our homes. She writes how potted plants and domestic horticulture are as subject to fashion as pieces of furniture, from the Victorian's use of the aspidistra in their front parlour to the contemporary of the orchid in the designer loft. The book also covers the influence of indoor horticulture on period design, finding that Wedgwood created a market for special bulb pots and that some of Terence Conran's early designs were for houseplant containers.\n\n"}
{"id": "11022357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11022357", "title": "Problematic integration theory", "text": "Problematic integration theory\n\nProblematic integration theory is a theory of communication that addresses the processes and dynamics of how people receive, evaluate, and respond to information and experiences. The premises of PI are based on the view that message processing, specifically the development of probabilistic and evaluative orientations (our perceptions of something's likelihood of occurring and its value, respectively), is a social and cultural construction. In situations where there is agreement between probabilistic orientation (a person's constructed belief about an object's likelihood, i.e., how likely something is to occur) and evaluative orientation (a person's constructed belief about an object's value), integration is in harmony, i.e., not problematic. However, when there is disagreement between these orientations about an object (i.e., an event, thing, person, idea, outcome, etc.), then integration becomes problematic. This disharmony leads to conflict and discomfort, which can manifest itself as cognitive, communicative, affective, and/or motivational.\n\nAustin Babrow first introduced the theory of Problematic Integration (PI) in 1992. Babrow brought together a diverse and interdisciplinary literature (from the field of communication and related disciplines, like psychology, sociology, and philosophy) to serve as building blocks for his new theory. Among the theoretical underpinnings that support PI are: uncertainty reduction theory; the theory of belief in a just world; analysis of decision-making; the theory of and motivation and self-esteem; and cognitive dissonance. However, despite integrating elements from these theories, PI has striking differences (e.g., unlike URT, PI does not assume that uncertainty is an undesirable situation, nor does it suggest that resolution of uncertainty is always necessary or desirable).\n\nProblematic Integration is a type of message-processing communication theory that relates to theories of decision making and persuasion. Problematic Integration Theory (PI) proposes that: (1) people orient themselves to the world by forming both probabilistic and evaluative orientations; (2) that probability and evaluation are not independent from one another; (3) that probability and evaluation are socially based and socially constructed, and that probability and evaluation are integral to our daily experience; and, (4) that integration of these orientations can be problematic. Probabilistic orientation is an assessment of the likelihood of an event or outcome. Evaluative orientation is an assessment of the favorability of an outcome. Often, assessments of probability and value are cooperative and easily integrated. However, as the theory's title implies, there are occasions when integration becomes problematic. PI proposes that integration becomes more difficult as:\n\nEssentially, problematic integration is what we experience when our probabilistic and evaluative orientations conflict with one another, causing instability and disharmony. Conflict arising from problematic integration may or may not be significant. The more important a value and the more central an issue (or object, to use PI terminology) is to one's beliefs or cultural values, the more likely that problematic integration will cause greater discomfort.\n\nBabrow identified four distinct manifestations, or forms, of problematic integration:\n\nThe first of these integrative predicaments, divergence, arises when there is a discrepancy between what we believe to be true or to be likely to occur and what we want to be true (the desired outcome). Ambiguity arises when the probability or value of an object (i.e., situation, outcome, thing, etc.) is unclear or highly uncertain. Babrow explained, that “in ambiguous situations, neither the outcome, nor the probability of the outcome is known, though the latter has restrictions” (Babrow, 1992, p. 112). Uncertainty occurs when an unknown factor obscures or complicates the development of one's orientation (probability and evaluation) toward an outcome. Ambiguity has also been described as uncertainty about what is unknown. Ambivalence is borne from one of two conditions: (1) an individual is forced to choose between two similarly valued alternatives; or (2) an individual is forced to choose between mutually exclusive alternatives. The last form of PI, impossibility, occurs upon the realization or belief that an outcome is will not happen. Impossibility is recognized as different from a form of divergence, because only impossibility denotes a sense of certainty. Responses to impossibility can range from a sense of futility, to one of increased motivation to deny the impossibility. All of these situations give rise to conflict.\n\nCommunication is both a source of, a medium, and a method for resolving conflict. Communication is a source of problematic integration in that knowledge and evaluative orientations are the result of communication, probabilistic and evaluative orientations are based on and developed through message and meaning-making (forms of communication), and communication is itself \"an object of thought\" and is therefore an object \"of probabilistic and evaluative orientations.\" It is also possible that a person experiencing problematic integration will seek new information or new sources of information to bolster or reinforce a desired probabilistic or evaluative orientation. This could also be seen engaging in as a form of cognitive dissonance. Communication is seen as a medium of problematic integration because communication inherently involves or is based on probabilistic and evaluative orientations, or communication is about probability and value. Communication is influenced by and formed from culture; thus, communication is a medium of PI, as and the formation of probabilistic and evaluative orientations derives from cultural frameworks. Lastly, communication is a resource for PI as we try to resolve and manage conflict caused by problematic integration through communication (internal, interpersonal, etc.).\n\nBecause communication may be a source, medium, and/or method for resolving problematic integration, it is possible for conflict to manifest as \"extended chains\" of problematic integration. Such extended chains occur through forms, foci, and layers of experience. By extended chains, it is meant that experiences of problematic integration and efforts to resolve problematic integration may lead to development of a new form of PI. As conflict between probability and value develops around a focal point (or topic), it can lead to conflict regarding a new topic (e.g., stress and anxiety about earning an end-of-year bonus at work can lead to new worries about personal finances, sense of self-worth, and/or one's status and career prospects at work). Problematic integration becomes shared (or chained) through layers of experience when people discuss and relate their struggles with others. In this process of communicating our conflicts, others may share in our problematic integration through empathy and sympathy. Babrow proposed that communication becomes more important to resolve problematic integration as the conflict or integration becomes more difficult.\n\nAs mentioned above, Problematic Integration Theory is a type of communication theory that examines how we make meaning of information and experiences, and how we handle uncertainty. PI differs from Uncertainty Reduction Theory and other axiomatic and predictive communication theories in a number of ways. PI proposes that there are numerous and varied meanings of the term uncertainty. Unlike URT, PI predicts that experiencing uncertainty does not automatically lead to a desire to reduce the uncertainty. Further, PI proposes that: (1) uncertainty is not always \"bad; (2) uncertainty has a single or narrow meaning; (3) reduction of uncertainty is not always possible; (4) any resolution of uncertainty is not necessarily final; and, (5) integrative dilemmas do not necessarily have an identifiable or singular cause.\n\nProblematic Integration Theory (PI) falls under the socio-psychological and socio-cultural communication traditions. PI began with a focus on intra- and inter-personal contexts, but has been applicable in many contexts, including interpersonal, small group, and organizational; thus, it has a broad scope of application. PI is considered an interpretive/hermeneutic approach of theory rather than positivistic/empirical (i.e., predictive) or critical.\n\nBabrow's theory shares some common ideas with Uncertainty Management Theory (UMT), which was developed by Dale Brashers (2007, A theory of communication and uncertainty management. In B. Whaley & W. Samter (Eds.), Explaining communication theory (pp. 201–218). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum). For a comparison of the perspectives, see Bradac (2001).\n\nThe complexity of PI and the multiplicity of its manifestations makes it difficult to operationalize, measure, and apply. However, this breadth of scope also indicates that it may have extremely wide-ranging applications and opportunities for research. Because the concepts within PI are based on cultural definitions, PI is seen as being overly responsive to external conceptual influences; thus, making it potentially falsifiable.\n\nPI has been used within the realm of Health Communication studies in order to assess methods of educating, and communicating with, patients facing a variety chronic or life-threatening conditions. In 2003, Babrow received the prestigious Woolbert Award for scholarship of exceptional originality and influence from the National Communication Association for his work with PI.\n\nPI has been used extensively in analysis of the health care system, particularly in regard to communication between health care providers and patients. The health-care system inherently involves communication between health-care providers (e.g., doctors, nurses, various therapists, dietitians, social workers, counselors, etc.), patients, and members of the patient's social and support network (e.g., family members, friends, members of support groups, etc.). Because understanding and communicating diagnoses, prognoses, treatment plans, expectations, and more can be complicated and because this communication relies on the communication skills of the various people involved, health-care situations offer ample opportunity to examine problematic integration. Research in this area has revealed that information is used to decrease and increase uncertainty, depending on the situation. In some cases, patients may seek information to reduce stressful uncertainty. However, in other cases, the care team and the patient may need to increase uncertainty in order to increase optimism and allow for re-evaluation of a given situation. PI has been used to study communication involving various medical issues, including breast cancer, the treatment of diabetes in the elderly, end-of-life issues, and pregnancy.\n\nProblematic Integration has also been used to evaluate organizational communication. Organizations, comprising networks and hierarchies of individuals, by their very nature, create complex webs of various dynamic social and cultural relationships. Moreover, most organizations do not exist for themselves, but for an external audience, client, or consumer; thereby, increasing the nature, types, and numbers of relationships. Communication within these relationships will very likely give rise to instances of uncertainty. In the context of such complex systems of communication, PI takes on a much different appearance than intrapersonal situations. An organization's structure, system design, and strategy can create, maintain, or help reduce problematic integration.\n\nOne area of this study has been problematic integration arising from internal bureaucracy or organizational rules or objectives and how this conflict involves matters of formal rationality (a quantitative calculation of an action or choice) or substantive rationality (a value judgment of consequences of an action or choice).\n\nIn examining marketing strategies for tourism, PI has been used to suggest methods for decreasing uncertainty for potential customers and thereby increasing transactions from the on-line shoppers for the related retail businesses (\"converting lookers to bookers\").\n\nAs mentioned above, PI lends itself to application to a broad scope of issues. A few other examples of areas of interest to which PI has been applied include:\n\nBabrow, Austin S. (1992). Communication and problematic integration: Understanding and diverging probability and value, ambiguity, ambivalence, and impossibility. \"Communication Theory\", 2(2), 95-130.\n\nBerger, C. R. (1986). Uncertain outcome values in predicted relationships: Uncertainty reduction theory then and now. \"Human Communication Research\", 13, 34-38.\n\nBerger, C. R. (1987). Communicating under uncertainty. In M. E. Roloff & G. R. Miller (Eds.), \"Interpersonal processes: New directions in communication research\". Beverly Hills, CA: Sage.\n\nBerger, C. R., & Calabrese, R. J. (1975). Some explorations in initial interaction and beyond: Toward a developmental theory of interpersonal communication. \"Human Communication Research\", 1, 99-112.\n\nEinhorn, H. J., & Hogarth, R. M. (1987). Decision making under ambiguity. In R. M. Hogarth & M. W. Reder (Eds.), \"Rational choice: The contrast between economics and psychology\" (pp. 41–66). Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.\n\nFestinger, L. (1957). \"A theory of cognitive dissonance\". Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.\n\nHines, S.C., Babrow, A.S., Badzek, L., & Moss, A. (2001). From coping with life to coping with death: Problematic integration for the seriously ill elderly. \"Health Communication\", 13(3), 327-342.\n\nLerner, M. J. (1980). \"The belief in a just world: A fundamental delusion\". New York: Plenum.\n\nRaynor, J. O., & McFarlin, D. B. (1986). Motivation and self-esteem. In R. M. Sorrentino & E. T. Higgins (Eds.), \"Handbook of motivation and cognition: Foundations of social behavior\" (pp. 315–349). New York: Guilford.\n\nWest, Richard and Turner, Lynn; \"Introducing Communication Theory: Analysis and Application\", McGraw Hill, 2010, Print.\n"}
{"id": "26438513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26438513", "title": "Program book", "text": "Program book\n\nA program book is a printed schedule of meeting events, locations of function rooms, location of exhibitors, and other pertinent information pertaining to a convention or conference. It is customary in many cases to sell advertising in program books to cover part of the costs of operation.\n"}
{"id": "9283828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9283828", "title": "Public aquarium", "text": "Public aquarium\n\nA public aquarium (plural: \"public aquaria\" or \" public aquariums\") is the aquatic counterpart of a zoo, which houses living aquatic animal and plant specimens for public viewing. Most public aquariums feature tanks larger than those kept by home aquarists, as well as smaller tanks. Since the first public aquariums were built in the mid-19th century, they have become popular and their numbers have increased. Most modern accredited aquariums stress conservation issues and educating the public.\n\nThe first public aquarium was opened in London Zoo in May 1853; the \"Fish House\", as it came to be known, was constructed much like a greenhouse. P.T. Barnum quickly followed in 1856 with the first American aquarium as part of his established Barnum's American Museum, which was located on Broadway in New York City before it burned down. In 1859, the Aquarial Gardens were founded in Boston. A number of aquariums then opened in Europe, such as the Jardin d'Acclimatation in Paris and the Viennese Aquarium Salon (both founded 1860), the Marine Aquarium Temple as part of the Zoological Garden in Hamburg (1864), as well as aquariums in Berlin (1869) and Brighton (1872).\n\nThe old Berlin Aquarium opened in 1869.\nThe building site was to be \"Unter den Linden\" (along a major avenue), in the centre of town, not at the Berlin Zoo.\nThe aquarium's first director, Alfred Brehm, former director of the Hamburg Zoo from 1863 to 1866, served until 1874.\nWith its emphasis on education, the public aquarium was designed like a grotto, part of it made of natural rock. The \"Geologische Grotte\" depicted \"the strata of the earth's crust\". The grotto also featured birds and pools for seals.\nThe Aquarium \"Unter den Linden\" was a three-story building. Machinery and water tanks were on the ground floor, aquarium basins for the fish on the first floor. Because of Brehm's special interest in birds, a huge aviary, with cages for mammals placed around it, was located on the second floor.\nThe facility closed in 1910.\n\nThe Artis aquarium at Amsterdam Zoo was constructed inside a Victorian building in 1882, and was renovated in 1997.\nAt the end of the 19th century the Artis aquarium was considered state-of-the-art, as it was again at the end of the 20th century.\n\nPrior to its closing on September 30, 2013, the oldest American aquarium was the National Aquarium in Washington, D.C., founded in 1873. This was followed by the opening of other public aquariums: San Francisco (Woodward's Gardens, 1873–1890), Woods Hole (Woods Hole Science Aquarium, 1885), New York (New York Aquarium, 1896–present), La Jolla (Scripps, 1903), Honolulu (Waikiki Aquarium, 1904–present), Detroit (Belle Isle Aquarium, 1904–2005, 2012–Present), Philadelphia (Philadelphia Aquarium, 1911–1962), San Francisco (Steinhart Aquarium, 1923), Chicago (Shedd Aquarium, 1929). For many years, the Shedd Aquarium was the largest aquarium in the United States until the Georgia Aquarium in Atlanta opened 2005. \nEntertainment and aquatic circus exhibits were combined as themes in Philadelphia's Aquarama Aquarium Theater of the Sea (1962–1969) and Camden's re-invented Adventure Aquarium 2005, formerly the New Jersey State Aquarium (1992).\n\nThe first Japanese public aquarium, a small freshwater aquarium, was opened at the Ueno Zoo in 1882.\n\nIn 2005, the Georgia Aquarium, with more than 8 million U.S. gallons (6.7 million imp gal; 30 million L) of marine and fresh water, and more than 100,000 animals of 500 different species opened in Atlanta, Georgia. The aquarium's notable specimens include whale sharks and beluga whales.\n\nModern aquarium tanks can hold millions of litres of water and can house large species, including dolphins, sharks or beluga whales. This is accomplished through thick, clear acrylic glass windows. Aquatic and semiaquatic mammals, including otters, and seals are often cared for at aquariums. Some establishments, such as the Oregon Coast Aquarium or the Monterey Bay Aquarium, have aquatic aviaries.\nModern aquariums also include land animals and plants that spend time in or near the water.\n\nFor marketing purposes, many aquariums promote special exhibits, in addition to their permanent collections. Some have aquatic versions of a petting zoo. The Monterey Bay Aquarium has a shallow tank filled with common types of rays which visitors are encouraged to touch. The South Carolina Aquarium lets visitors feed the rays in their Saltmarsh Aviary exhibit.\n\nMost public aquariums are located close to the ocean, for a steady supply of natural seawater. An inland pioneer was Chicago's Shedd Aquarium that received seawater shipped by rail in special tank cars. The early (1911) Philadelphia Aquarium, built in the city's disused water works, had to switch to treated city water when the nearby river became too contaminated. Similarly, the recently opened Georgia Aquarium filled its tanks with fresh water from the city water system and salinated its salt water exhibits using the same commercial salt and mineral additives available to home aquarists. The South Carolina Aquarium pulls the salt water for their exhibits right out of the Charleston harbor.\n\nIn January 1985, Kelly Tarlton began construction of the first aquarium to include a large transparent acrylic tunnel, Kelly Tarlton's Underwater World in Auckland, New Zealand. Construction took 10 months and cost NZ$3 million. The tunnel was built from one-tonne (2,200-lb) slabs of German sheet plastic that were shaped locally in an oven. A moving walkway now transports visitors through, and groups of school children occasionally hold sleepovers there beneath the swimming sharks and rays.\n\nPublic aquariums are often affiliated with oceanographic research institutions or conduct their own research programs, and sometimes specialize in species and ecosystems that can be found in local waters. For example, the Vancouver Aquarium in Vancouver, BC is a major center for marine research, conservation, and marine animal rehabilitation, particularly for the rich ecosystem of the Pacific Northwest. The Vancouver Aquarium was the first aquarium to capture and display an orca whale, Moby Doll, for three months in 1964; as well as belugas, narwhals and dolphins. The Monterey Bay Aquarium was the first public aquarium to display a great white shark. Beginning in September 2004, the Outer Bay exhibit (now the Open Sea galleries) was the home to the first in a series of great white sharks. The shark was at the aquarium for 198 days (the previous record was 16 days). The shark was released on March 31, 2005. The Adventure Aquarium in New Jersey has hippos. The Aquarium du Quebec houses polar bears.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "410685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410685", "title": "Public diplomacy", "text": "Public diplomacy\n\nIn international relations, public diplomacy or people's diplomacy, broadly speaking, is the communication with and dissemination of propaganda to the general public of foreign nations to establish a dialogue designed to inform and influence. As the international order has changed over the 20th century, so has the practice of public diplomacy. Its practitioners use a variety of instruments and methods ranging from personal contact and media interviews to the Internet and educational exchanges.\n\nIn his essay \"'Public Diplomacy' Before Gullion: The Evolution of a Phrase,\" Nicholas J. Cull of the USC Center on Public Diplomacy writes, \"The earliest use of the phrase 'public diplomacy' to surface is actually not American at all but in a leader piece from the London Times in January 1856. It is used merely as a synonym for civility in a piece criticizing the posturing of President Franklin Pierce.\" Cull writes that Edmund Gullion, dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University and a distinguished retired foreign service officer, \"was the first to use the phrase in its modern meaning.\" In 1965, Gullion founded the Edward R. Murrow Center of Public Diplomacy, and Cull writes \"An early Murrow Center brochure provided a convenient summary of Gullion's concept\":\n\nPublic diplomacy... deals with the influence of public attitudes on the formation and execution of foreign policies. It encompasses dimensions of international relations beyond traditional diplomacy; the cultivation by governments of public opinion in other countries; the interaction of private groups and interests in one country with another; the reporting of foreign affairs and its impact on policy; communication between those whose job is communication, as diplomats and foreign correspondents; and the process of intercultural communications.\n\nOver time, the concept and definition has evolved by various practitioners\n\nThe most important roles public diplomacy will have to play for the United States in the current international environment will be less grand-strategic and more operational than during the Cold War. Support of national policy in military contingencies is one such role, and probably the most important.\n— Carnes Lord (former Deputy Director USIA), Professor of Statecraft and Civilization, October 1998\n\nPublic diplomacy – effectively communicating with publics around the globe – to understand, value and even emulate America's vision and ideas; historically one of America's most effective weapons of outreach, persuasion and policy.\n— Jill A. Schuker (former Senior Director for Public Affairs at the National Security Council) July 2004\n\nPublic diplomacy's 21st century trend is dominated by fractal globalization, preemptive military invasion, information and communication technologies that shrink time and distance, and the rise of global non-state actors (terror networks, bloggers) that challenge state-driven policy and discourse on the subject.\n— (Nancy Snow, \"Routledge Handbook of Public Diplomacy\", \"2009\")\nPublic diplomacy may be defined, simply, as the conduct of international relations by governments through public communications media and through dealings with a wide range of nongovernmental entities (political parties, corporations, trade associations, labor unions, educational institutions, religious organizations, ethnic groups, and so on including influential individuals) for the purpose of influencing the politics and actions of other governments.\n\n— Alan K. Henrikson, Professor of Diplomatic History, April 2005.\n\nPublic diplomacy that traditionally represents actions of governments to influence overseas publics within the foreign policy process has expanded today – by accident and design – beyond the realm of governments to include the media, multinational corporations, NGO's and faith-based organizations as active participants in the field. \n— Crocker Snow Jr., Acting Director Edward R. Murrow Center, May 2005.\n\n\"PUBLIC DIPLOMACY refers to government-sponsored programs intended to inform or influence public opinion in other countries; its chief instruments are publications, motion pictures, cultural exchanges, radio and television.\" (U.S. Department of State, Dictionary of International Relations Terms, 1987, p. 85)\n\nThe United States Information Agency (USIA), which was the main government agency in charge of Public Diplomacy until it merged with the Department of State in 1999, described it as:\n\nPublic diplomacy seeks to promote the national interest and the national security of the United States through understanding, informing, and influencing foreign publics and broadening dialogue between American citizens and institutions and their counterparts abroad.\n\nFor The Planning Group for Integration of USIA into the Dept. of State (June 20, 1997), public diplomacy is defined as follows: \"Public Diplomacy seeks to promote the national interest of the United States through understanding, informing and influencing foreign audiences.\"\n\nAccording to Hans N. Tuch, author of Communicating With the World (St. Martin's Press, NY, 1990), public diplomacy is defined as: \n\"Official government efforts to shape the communications environment overseas in which American foreign policy is played out, in order to reduce the degree to which misperceptions and misunderstandings complicate relations between the U.S. and other nations.\"\n\nStandard diplomacy might be described as the ways in which government leaders communicate with each other at the highest levels, the elite diplomacy we are all familiar with. Public diplomacy, by contrast focuses on the ways in which a country (or multi-lateral organization such as the United Nations) communicates with citizens in other societies. A country may be acting deliberately or inadvertently, and through both official and private individuals and institutions. Effective public diplomacy starts from the premise that dialogue, rather than a sales pitch, is often central to achieving the goals of foreign policy: public diplomacy must be seen as a two-way street. Furthermore, public diplomacy activities often present many differing views as represented by private American individuals and organizations in addition to official U.S. Government views.\n\nTraditional diplomacy actively engages one government with another government. In traditional diplomacy, U.S. Embassy officials represent the U.S. Government in a host country primarily by maintaining relations and conducting official USG business with the officials of the host government whereas public diplomacy primarily engages many diverse non-government elements of a society.\n\nFilm, television, music, sports, video games and other social/cultural activities are seen by public diplomacy advocates as enormously important avenues for otherwise diverse citizens to understand each other and integral to the international cultural understanding, which they state is a key goal of modern public diplomacy strategy. It involves not only shaping the message(s) that a country wishes to present abroad, but also analyzing and understanding the ways that the message is interpreted by diverse societies and developing the tools of listening and conversation as well as the tools of persuasion.\n\nOne of the most successful initiatives which embodies the principles of effective public diplomacy is the creation by international treaty in the 1950s of the European Coal and Steel Community which later became the European Union. Its original purpose after World War II was to tie the economies of Europe together so much that war would be impossible. Supporters of European integration see it as having achieved both this goal and the extra benefit of catalysing greater international understanding as European countries did more business together and the ties among member states' citizens increased. Opponents of European integration are leery of a loss of national sovereignty and greater centralization of power.\n\nPublic diplomacy has been an essential element of American foreign policy for decades. It was an important tool in influencing public opinion during the Cold War with the former Soviet Union. Since the attacks of September 11, 2001, the term has come back into vogue as the United States government works to improve their reputation abroad, particularly in the Middle East and among those in the Islamic world. Numerous panels, including those sponsored by the Council on Foreign Relations, have evaluated American efforts in public diplomacy since 9/11 and have written reports recommending that the United States take various actions to improve the effectiveness of their public diplomacy.\n\nThe United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy was established in the late 1940s to evaluate American public diplomacy effort. The Commission is a seven-member bipartisan board whose members are nominated by the President and confirmed by the United States Senate. William Hybl is the current chair, and other members include former Ambassadors Lyndon Olson and Penne Percy Korth Peacock, as well as Jay Snyder, John E. Osborn and Lezlee Westine.\n\nThis traditional concept is expanded on with the idea of adopting what is called \"population-centric foreign affairs\" within which foreign populations assume a central component of foreign policy. Since people, not just states, are of global importance in a world where technology and migration increasingly face everyone, an entire new door of policy is opened.\n\nThere are many methods and instruments that are used in public diplomacy. Nicholas J. Cull divides the practice into five elements: listening, advocacy, cultural diplomacy, exchange diplomacy and international broadcasting (IB).\n\nInternational broadcasting remains a key element in public diplomacy in the 21st century, with traditionally weaker states having the opportunity to challenge the hegemony and monopoly of information provided by more powerful states.\n\nMethods such as personal contact, broadcasters such as the Voice of America, Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty exchange programs such as Fulbright and the International Visitor Leadership program, American arts and performances in foreign countries, and the use of the Internet are all instruments used for practicing public diplomacy depending on the audience to be communicated with and the message to be conveyed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48563218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48563218", "title": "Public hypersphere", "text": "Public hypersphere\n\nPublic hypersphere is a new kind of public sphere that has come into existence globally through the use of modern information technology, digital media, and computer networks.\n\nSwedish writer Karl-Erik Tallmo used the corresponding Swedish term \"hyperoffentlighet\" in an article in the daily \"Sydsvenska Dagbladet\" in 1999 and the same year also the English expression \"public hypersphere\" in an article in the journal \"Human IT\".\n\nThe term is derived from Jürgen Habermas and his thoughts concerning a \"bourgeois public sphere\". The public hypersphere, however, is not limited to publishing or the European café culture, not even to the Internet but includes the larger part of human relations, mediated or not. It encompasses both voluntary participation as well as involuntary, through mass surveillance: \"The electronic traces we leave constantly write our autobiographies ... [The public hypersphere is] a gas that fills the entire available space, it is 'the place that doesn't exist'.\" The public hypersphere is \"not just public or transparent to a higher degree than the regular public sphere; it has a whole new structure. Mathematicians talk about \"hyperspheres\" when they want to describe a sphere of higher dimensionality, where normal geometric rules don't apply – here, the shortest path between two points is not necessarily a straight line.\"\n\nThe French philosopher and media scholar Pierre Lévy used the expression \"l'hypersphère publique\" in an article in 2011 in the journal \"Medium\". He describes the combined effect of social media, real time functions, and wireless technology. He mentions API programming as important when it comes to connecting various databases with different interfaces. He writes that traditional information monopolies are dissolved and a kind of \"digital ecosystem\" has evolved, where old and new media interact. Citizens gain new liberties in expressing and retrieving information but also new ways to establish personal contacts. All these new phenomena \"contribute in building a ubiquitous medium, hypercomplex and fractal, that everyone, \"nolens volens\", partake in designing, directing and using ...\" Lévy has also written about the transformation of the public sphere in his book \"Cyberdémocratie\" (2002).\n\nIn German, the word \"Hyperöffentlichkeit\" has been used by sociologist Udo Thiedeke in his characterization of Howard Rheingold's ideas concerning the virtual community, that is a high degree of participation and interactivity.\n"}
{"id": "6705582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6705582", "title": "Race of the future", "text": "Race of the future\n\nThe race of the future is a theoretical composite race which will result from ongoing racial admixture.\n\nRichard von Coudenhove-Kalergi in 1925 in \"Practical Idealism\" predicted: \"The man of the future will be of mixed race. Today's races and classes will gradually disappear owing to the vanishing of space, time, and prejudice. The Eurasian-Negroid race of the future will replace the diversity of peoples with a diversity of individuals.\" The same scenario had been envisaged, with rather less enthusiasm, by Madison Grant in his 1916 \"The Passing of the Great Race\", calling for a eugenics program to prevent this development, and in a similar ideological context in Lothrop Stoddard's \"The Rising Tide of Color Against White World-Supremacy\" in 1920.\n\nGottfried de Purucker was an author and theosophist who, when asked about intermarriage in 1930, said \"In answering your question very briefly, I can say simply this, that the time has not come when I would willingly suggest intermarriage; but I am in honesty bound to qualify that by saying that the race of the future will be a composite, composed of the many different races on earth today. Let us also remember that all men are ultimately of one blood.\"\n\nThe word \"miscegenation\" was used in an anonymous propaganda pamphlet printed in New York City in late 1863, entitled \"Miscegenation: The Theory of the Blending of the Races, Applied to the American White Man and Negro\". The pamphlet purported to be in favor of interbreeding of whites and blacks until the races were indistinguishably mixed as mulattos, claiming that this was the goal of the United States Republican Party. The real authors were David Goodman Croly, managing editor of the \"New York World\", a Democratic Party paper, and George Wakeman, a \"World\" reporter. The pamphlet soon was exposed as an attempt to discredit the Republicans, the Lincoln administration, and the abolitionist movement by exploiting the fears and racial biases common among whites. Nonetheless, this pamphlet and variations on it were reprinted widely in communities on both sides of the American Civil War by opponents of Republicans.\n\nThe British colony of Maryland was the first to pass an anti-miscegenation law (1664). In the 18th, 19th, and early 20th century, many American states passed anti-miscegenation laws, often based on controversial interpretations of the Bible, particularly the story of Phinehas. Typically a felony, these laws prohibited the solemnization of weddings between persons of different races and prohibited the officiating of such ceremonies. Sometimes the individuals attempting to marry would not be held guilty of miscegenation itself, but felony charges of adultery or fornication would be brought against them instead. Connecticut, New Hampshire, New York, New Jersey, Vermont, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Alaska, Hawaii, and the federal District of Columbia did not pass anti-miscegenation laws. In 1883, the constitutionality of anti-miscegenation laws was upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Pace v. Alabama\".\n\nIn 1948, the California Supreme Court in \"Perez v. Sharp\" effectively repealed the California anti-miscegenation statutes, thereby making California the first state in the twentieth century to do so. In 1967, the remaining anti-miscegenation laws in 16 states were declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in \"Loving v. Virginia\".\n\nIn Brazil, as much as 44% of the population classify themselves as Pardo (multiracial). They are typically a mix of White, Black and Native American.\n\nWilliam Quan Judge was a 19th century theosophist who wrote in his book Echoes from the Orient; \"We are preparing here in America a new race which will exhibit the perfection of the glories that I said were being slowly brought to the surface from the long forgotten past ... Here, and nowhere else, are to be found men and women of every race living together, being governed together, attacking nature and the problems of life together, and bringing forth children who combine, each one, two races. This process will go on until in the course of many generations there will be produced on the American continents an entirely new race; new bodies; new orders of intellect; new powers of the mind.\"\n\nIn the United States, the proportion of multiracial American children is growing. Interracial partnerships are rising, as are transracial adoptions. In 1990, about 14% of 18- and 19-year-olds, 12% of 20- and 21-year-olds, and 7% of 34- and 35-year-olds were involved in interracial relationships (Joyner and Kao, 2005). In 2010 in the United States, 15% of new marriages were interracial, with 9% of whites, 17% of blacks, 26% of Hispanics and 28% of Asians married outside of their race. Of the 275,000 new interracial marriages in 2010, 43% were white-mestizo, 14.4% were white-Asian, 11.9% were white-black and the rest were other combinations.\n\nAccording to anthropologist Henry Harpending, human populations are actually diverging from one another, as opposed to melding into a single population. Harpending stated \"Human races are evolving away from each other ... Genes are evolving fast in Europe, Asia and Africa, but almost all of these are unique to their continent of origin. We are getting less alike, not merging into a single, mixed humanity.\" <br>\n\n"}
{"id": "57785214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57785214", "title": "Refutational preemption", "text": "Refutational preemption\n\nIn inoculation theory, refutational preemption consists of “specific content that receivers can employ to strengthen attitudes against subsequent change.” Drawing on McGuire & Papageorgis, Pfau, et al. define the refutational preemption, or pretreatment, step of the inoculation process: \"The theory posits that refutational pretreatments, which raise the specter of content potentially damaging to the receiver’s attitude while simultaneously providing direct refutation of that content in the presence of a supportive environment, threaten the individual. This triggers the motivation to bolster arguments supporting the receiver’s attitudes, thus conferring resistance\".\n\nInstead of providing the receiver with additional supporting evidence why their held beliefs are true, the receiver is provided counterarguments they may encounter in the future that might challenge their held belief. The effectiveness of this inoculation falls off as the level of effort required by the receiver to defend the belief increases.\n\n"}
{"id": "2796342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2796342", "title": "Renaissance Weekend", "text": "Renaissance Weekend\n\nRenaissance Weekend is an American retreat for leaders in business and finance, government, the media, religion, medicine, science, technology and the arts. Conversations are off the record and subject matter ranges widely, tending to focus heavily on policy and business issues.\n\nFounded in 1980 on Hilton Head Island, South Carolina by Linda LeSourd Lader and her husband Philip Lader, the former U.S. Ambassador to the Court of St. James's, Renaissance Weekends, now held in several locations each year, are structured to encourage the transcendence of political, economic, and religious differences by bringing together distinguished participants from a wide range of fields, including CEOs, venture capitalists and entrepreneurs, Nobel Laureates and Pulitzer Prize-winners, artists and scientists, astronauts and Olympians, judges, diplomats and Presidents, Prime Ministers, professors and priests, Republicans, Democrats and Independents. The Weekends are geared towards the establishment of an environment free of partisanship and commercialism, where \"civility prevails.\" Membership is by invitation only.\n\nSixty families pioneered the Lader's 1980 New Year's house party. The result has been a cross-generational \"continuing conversation\" of individuals with broadly divergent perspectives, no political agenda, but a legacy of ideas and friendships.\n\nThe mission is \"To build bridges among innovative leaders with exceptionally diverse perspectives.\" Each Renaissance Weekend seeks to build bridges across traditional divides of professions, politics, geography, age, religions, philosophies, religion, and race. For over 25 years, these family retreats' objective has been to encourage personal and national renewal.\n\nThrough hundreds of panels, seminars and workshops each Weekend, participants themselves address such public policy and personal concerns as \"America's Responsibility to the World,\" \"Investment Perspectives,\" \"How the Media has Covered the War Against Terrorism,\" \"Corporate Governance After Enron,\" \"Beating Cancer,\" \"My Family's Legacies for Life,\" and \"Christianity, Judaism & Islam - Eternal Truths & Current Myths.\"\n\n\"More than 1,000 participants will take part in 500 lectures, seminars, discussions and performances during the four-day event.\" The Clinton family attended Renaissance Weekend for 13 years. Some former attendees of Renaissance Weekend, listed by the year(s) of attendance have included;\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1026695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1026695", "title": "Retirement age", "text": "Retirement age\n\nThis article lists the statutory retirement age in different countries. In some contexts, the retirement age is the age at which a person is expected or required to cease work and is usually the age at which they may be entitled to receive superannuation or other government benefits, like a state pension. Policy makers usually consider the demography, fiscal cost of ageing, health, life expectancy, nature of profession, supply of labour force etc. while deciding the retirement age.\n\nMany of the countries listed in the table below are in the process of reforming the ages (see the notes in the table for details). The ages in the table show when an individual retires if they retire/have retired in the year given in the table; the trend in some countries is that in the future the age will increase gradually (where available, explanations are given in the section on notes), therefore one's year of birth determines when one has the age of retirement (e.g. in Romania women born in January 1955 had the retirement age in January 2015 at age 60; those born in January 1958 will retire in January 2019 at age 61; those born in January 1961 will retire in January 2023 at age 62; those born in January 1967 will retire in January 2030 at age 63).\n\nThe average of statutory retirement age in the 34 countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in 2014 was males 65 years and females 63.5 years, but the tendency all over the world is to increase the retirement age. This is also reflected by the findings that just over half the Asian investors surveyed region-wide said they agreed with raising the retirement age, with a quarter disagreeing and the remainder undecided.\n\nReforms tend to be phased-in slowly when the retirement age (or pension age) is increased, with grandfathering ensuring a gradual change. In contrast, when the age of retirement is decreased, changes are often brought about rapidly.\n\nOne such example of grandfathering are the transitional pension rules which were applied for staff aged 54 years or older, and to some extent for all staff in place, when in 2014 the retirement age of European civil servants was increased to 66 years of age.\n\nMen either retire later than women or at the same time. This is being addressed in some countries where the retirement ages are being equalised.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1737582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1737582", "title": "School violence", "text": "School violence\n\nSchool violence encompasses physical violence, including student-on-student fighting and corporal punishment; psychological violence, including verbal abuse; sexual violence, including rape and sexual harassment; many forms of bullying, including cyberbullying; and carrying weapons in school. It is widely held to have become a serious problem in recent decades in many countries, especially where weapons such as guns or knives are involved. It includes violence between school students as well as physical attacks by students on school staff.\n\nA distinction is made between internalizing and externalizing behavior. Internalizing behaviors reflect withdrawal, inhibition, anxiety, and/or depression. Internalizing behavior has been found in some cases of youth violence although in some youth, depression is associated with substance abuse. Because they rarely act out, students with internalizing problems are often overlooked by school personnel. Externalizing behaviors refer to delinquent activities, aggression, and hyperactivity. Unlike internalizing behaviors, externalizing behaviors include, or are directly linked to, violent episodes. Violent behaviors such as punching and kicking are often learned from observing others. Just as externalizing behaviors are observed outside of school, such behaviors also observed in schools.\n\nA number of other individual factors are associated with higher levels of aggressiveness. Compared to children whose antisocial conduct begins in adolescence, early starters have a worse prognosis in terms of future aggression and other antisocial activities. Lower IQ is related to higher levels of aggression. Other findings indicate that in boys early problematic motor skills, attentional difficulties, and reading problems predict later persistent antisocial conduct.\n\nThe home environment is thought to contribute to school violence. The Constitutional Rights Foundation suggests long-term exposure to gun violence, parental alcoholism, domestic violence, physical abuse of the child, and child sexual abuse teaches children that criminal and violent activities are acceptable. Harsh parental discipline is associated with higher levels of aggressiveness in youth. There is some evidence indicating that exposure to television violence and, to a lesser extent, violent video games is related to increased aggressiveness in children, which, in turn, may carry over into school.\n\nStraus adduced evidence for the view that exposure to parental corporal punishment increases the risk of aggressive conduct in children and adolescents. Straus's findings have been contested by Larzelere and Baumrind. A meta-analysis of the vast literature on corporal punishment, however, indicates that corporal punishment is related to poorer outcomes in children and youth. The methodologically soundest studies indicate \"positive, moderately sized associations between parental corporal punishment and children’s aggression.\" Gershoff found that the trajectory of mean effect sizes (the size of the effect of corporal punishment on children's problem behavior) was curvilinear with the largest mean effect size in middle school (\"M\" = 0.55; on average the mean of corporal punishment group was more than half a standard deviation higher than the mean of the non-punishment group) and slightly smaller effect sizes in grade school (\"M\" = 0.43) and high school (\"M\" = 0.45).\n\nGerald Patterson's social interactional model, which involves the mother's application and the child's counterapplication of \"coercive\" behaviors, also explains the development of aggressive conduct in the child. In this context, coercive behaviors include behaviors that are ordinarily punishing (e.g., whining, yelling, hitting, etc.). Abusive home environments can inhibit the growth of social cognitive skills needed, for example, to understand the intentions of others. Short-term longitudinal evidence is consistent with the view that a lack of social cognitive skills mediates the link between harsh parental discipline and aggressive conduct in kindergarten. Longer-term, follow-up research with the same children suggests that partial mediating effects last until third and fourth grade. Hirschi's (1969) control theory advances the view that children with weak affective ties to parents and school are at increased risk of engaging in delinquent and violent behavior in and out of school. Hirschi's cross-sectional data from northern California high-school students are largely consistent with this view. Findings from case-control and longitudinal studies are also consistent with this view.\n\nNeighbourhoods and communities provide the context for school violence. Communities with high rates of crime and drug use teach youth the violent behaviors that are carried into schools. Children in violent neighborhoods tend to perceive that their communities are risky, and that these feelings of vulnerability carry over to the school environment. Dilapidated housing in the neighbourhood of the school has been found to be associated with school violence. Teacher assault was more likely to occur in schools located in high-crime neighbourhoods. Exposure to deviant peers is a risk factor for high levels of aggressivity. Research has shown that poverty and high population densities are associated with higher rates of school violence. Well controlled longitudinal research indicates that children's exposure to community violence during the early elementary school years increases the risk of aggression later in elementary school, as reported by teachers and classmates. Other, well controlled longitudinal research that utilized propensity score matching indicates that exposure to gun violence in early adolescence is related to the initiation of serious physical violence in later adolescence. Neighbourhood gangs are thought to contribute to dangerous school environments. Gangs use the social environment of the school to recruit members and interact with opposing groups, with gang violence carrying over from neighbourhoods into some schools. Alternatively, many children who grow up in violent neighborhoods learn to deliberately find and make \"street-oriented\" friends as an instrumental tactic used to avoid being victimized. Without the threat of violence, children more commonly develop friendships based on homophily, or shared traits.\n\nRecent research has linked the school environment to school violence. Teacher assaults are associated with a higher percentage male faculty, a higher proportion of male students, and a higher proportion of students receiving free or reduced cost lunch (an indicator of poverty). In general, a large male population, higher grade levels, a history of high levels of disciplinary problems in the school, high student to teacher ratios, and an urban location are related to violence in schools. In students, academic performance is inversely related to antisocial conduct. The research by Hirschi and others, cited above in the section on the home environment, is also consistent with the view that lack of attachment to school is associated with increased risk of antisocial conduct.\n\nThe goal of prevention and intervention strategies is to stop school violence from occurring. According to the CDC, there are at least four levels at which violence-prevention programs can act: at the level of society in general, the school community, the family, and the individual.\n\n\n\nResearch on violence affecting children in schools is challenging for a variety of reasons.\n\nWhen trying to measure the scope of violence in schools and to find out about the types of violence experienced by students, some key issues include: from what categories of the school community to collect the data; what data should be collected from each categories; and using which methods. For example, should there be studies or surveys where researchers ask students directly about violence in school, through self-reports about the violence they experienced as targets or perpetrators? Or should they be asked about incidents of violence that they have witnessed as bystanders? Should any of these questions be asked via self-administered questionnaires or questionnaires administered by researchers in schools? Does it make more sense to collect this data outside of schools, for example, through household surveys? Or through online surveys where students have access to the internet? Or is it better to rely on mechanisms for reporting incidents of violence in educational institutions when they are available, either in the schools themselves or outside schools (governmental hotlines, internet-based reporting systems, police and justice sectors, etc.)? What questions can be asked of children, using terminology that is easy to understand, age-appropriate and culturally sensitive?\n\nIn most countries there are strict rules related to research involving children, as they are under the age of consent. Therefore, requesting informed consent from the children in a study involves their parents and guardians. Asking children about violence, and particularly violence they have experienced themselves, can be traumatic. Finally, researching issues related to sexual orientation and gender identity/orientation in education and in relation to children has additional challenges. In some contexts it is not legal to discuss these issues either in schools or even outside of schools. Where it is legal, it may be considered as a very sensitive topic to be discussed with children and young people. Asking children and young people questions related to their sexual orientation and gender identity in the school setting is ethically questionable, as it could embarrass them and expose them to stigma and discrimination, unless questions are asked in strict confidence and anonymity is granted by independent researchers external to schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "53733087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53733087", "title": "Sender-Message-Channel-Receiver Model of Communication", "text": "Sender-Message-Channel-Receiver Model of Communication\n\nIn 1960, David Berlo expanded Shannon and Weaver's linear model of communication and created the Sender-Message-Channel-Receiver (SMCR) Model of Communication, which separated the model into clear parts and has been expanded upon by other scholars. Berlo described factors affecting the individual components in the communication making the communication more efficient.\n\nThe Berlo’s Model of Communication has developed from Claude Shannon and Warren Weaver’s mathematical model, which was first published in “Bell System Technical Journal” in 1948. The model was primary designed to improve the technical communication, but was later widely applied in different fields of communication. According to the Shannon-Weaver Model, communication includes the following concepts: sender, encoder, channel, decoder, receiver and feedback. Furthermore, there is also concept of “noise”, which affects the communication process going through the channel and makes the message more difficult to understand by the receiver. Each of those concepts are defined as follows:\nSender: the originator of message.\nEncoder: the transmitter which converts the message into signals (the way message is changed into signals, for example sound waves).\nDecoder: the reception place of the signal which converts signals into message. Decoding is done by the receiver when he gets the message.\nReceiver: the recipient of the message from the sender. He usually gives feedback to the sender in order to make sure that the message was properly received.\nNoise: the message is transferred through a channel, which can be interrupted by external noise like horn sounds, thunder and crowd noise. Thus, the receiver can get an inaccurate message. This is why feedback from the receiver is important in case the message is not properly received. Furthermore, the noise can also affect the decoding of the message by the receiver.\nPractical Example of Shannon-Weaver model of communication : \nThomson made call to his assistant “come here I want to see you”. During his call, noise appeared (transmission error) and his assistant received “I want” only. Again Assistant asked Thomson (feedback) “what do you want Thomson”.\nBerlo's Model was first published in 1960 in the book entitled El Proceso de la Comunicación or the process of communication. The model includes four components to describe the communication process: sender, message, channel and receiver, each of the them are affected by many factors. The model also focuses on encoding and decoding, which happens before sender sends the message and before receiver receives the message respectively.\n\nThe main feature from the previous Shannon-Weaver model is the focus on the purpose and objectives of communication. Berlo's model also includes verbal and non-verbal communications, it considers the emotional aspects of the message.\n\nDavid Berlo's Model of Communication explains the various components in the communication process. The four basic components are sender (or source), message, channel and receiver.\n\nSender is the source of the message or the person who originates the message and sends it to the receiver. The sender transfers the information by using following factors: \nAn individual must possess excellent communication skills to make his communication effective and create an impact on the listeners. He should know how to speak and how pronounce a word correctly, where to take pauses and where to repeat and so on. Similarly, to the receiver. If he can not understand the message, the communication will be ineffective. \nThe attitude of the sender and the receiver effects of the message. The person's attitude towardsl the receiver and the environment changes the meaning and effect of the message.\nIn this context knowledge is not the level of education. It is the clarity of the information which sender wants to convey to the receiver. Familiarity with the subject of the message makes it easier to understand it.\nValues, beliefs, religion, laws, rules and general understanding of society affect the sender's way of communicating the message.\nCulture refers to the cultural background of the sender or receiver.\n\nThe step of creating a message (also called encoding) is the transformation of thoughts into words that sender sends to receiver. It can be in the form of voice, audio, text, video or other media. Any message comprises the following elements:\n\nChannel refers to the medium used to send the message. In mass communication technical machines might be used as a channel like telephone, internet, etc. But in general communication, the five senses of a human being is the channel for the communication flow and it affects the effectiveness of the channel:\n\nReceiver is the person who gets the message and tries to understand what the sender actually wants to convey and then responds accordingly. This is also called as decoding. Berlo's model believes that the effective communication can be achieved if the sender and the receiver are on the same level. The message might not have the same effect as intended if the receiver and sender are not similar.\n\nThe receiver must also have a very good listening skill. Other factors are similar to that of the sender:\n\nBerlo's model was further developed in 1973 by W. Schramm, who used relational model instead of linear. Schramm also used the effects and effects analysis components from Berlo's model and suggested Interaction component in relation with active, selective and manipulative audience. He argued that the most dramatic change in the communication theory in the last 40 years has been the abandonment of the idea of passive audience. Audience is a full partner in the process of communication.\n"}
{"id": "43129012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43129012", "title": "Social Science History Association", "text": "Social Science History Association\n\nThe Social Science History Association, formed in 1976, brings together scholars from numerous disciplines interested in social history.\n\nSocial Science History is a quarterly, peer-reviewed academic journal. It is the official journal of the Social Science History Association. Its articles bring an analytic, theoretical, and often quantitative approach to historical evidence. The journal's founders intended to \"improve the quality of historical explanation\" with \"theories and methods from the social science disciplines\" and to make generalizations across historical cases. The first issue came out in the fall of 1976. The journal's articles that are most-accessed and cited through JSTOR are about social and political movements and associated narratives.\n\nThe \"Social Science History Association\" was formed in 1976 as an interdisciplinary group with a journal \"Social Science History\" and an annual convention. The goal was to incorporate in historical studies perspectives from all the social sciences, especially political science, sociology and economics. The pioneers shared a commitment to quantification. However, by the 1980s the first blush of quantification had worn off, as critics complained that quantification undervalued the role of contingency, and warned against a naive positivism. Meanwhile quantification became well-established inside economics, in the field of cliometrics, as well as in political science. In history, quantification remained central to demographic studies, but slipped behind in political and social history.\n\n\nSSHA Networks are special interest groups that generate ideas and help coordinate sessions at conferences. These are the network topics for 2013:\n"}
{"id": "1805271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1805271", "title": "Social construction of technology", "text": "Social construction of technology\n\nSocial construction of technology (also referred to as SCOT) is a theory within the field of Science and Technology Studies. Advocates of SCOT—that is, social constructivists—argue that technology does not determine human action, but that rather, human action shapes technology. They also argue that the ways a technology is used cannot be understood without understanding how that technology is embedded in its social context. SCOT is a response to technological determinism and is sometimes known as technological constructivism.\n\nSCOT draws on work done in the constructivist school of the sociology of scientific knowledge, and its subtopics include actor-network theory (a branch of the sociology of science and technology) and historical analysis of sociotechnical systems, such as the work of historian Thomas P. Hughes. Its empirical methods are an adaptation of the Empirical Programme of Relativism (EPOR), which outlines a method of analysis to demonstrate the ways in which scientific findings are socially constructed (see strong program). Leading adherents of SCOT include Wiebe Bijker and Trevor Pinch.\n\nSCOT holds that those who seek to understand the reasons for acceptance or rejection of a technology should look to the social world. It is not enough, according to SCOT, to explain a technology's success by saying that it is \"the best\"—researchers must look at how the criteria of being \"the best\" is defined and what groups and stakeholders participate in defining it. In particular, they must ask who defines the technical criteria success is measured by, why technical criteria are defined this way, and who is included or excluded. Pinch and Bijker argue that technological determinism is a myth that results when one looks backwards and believes that the path taken to the present was the only possible path.\n\nSCOT is not only a theory, but also a methodology: it formalizes the steps and principles to follow when one wants to analyze the causes of technological failures or successes.\n\nAt the point of its conception, the SCOT approach was partly motivated by the ideas of the strong programme in the sociology of science (Bloor 1973). In their seminal article, Pinch and Bijker refer to the \"Principle of Symmetry\" as the most influential tenet of the Sociology of Science, which should be applied in historical and sociological investigations of technology as well. It is strongly connected to Bloor's theory of social causation.\n\nThe \"Principle of Symmetry\" holds that in explaining the origins of scientific beliefs, that is, assessing the success and failure of models, theories, or experiments, the historian/sociologist should deploy the same \"kind\" of explanation in the cases of success as in cases of failure. When investigating beliefs, researchers should be impartial to the (\"a posteriori\" attributed) truth or falsehood of those beliefs, and the explanations should be unbiased. The strong programme adopts a position of relativism or neutralism regarding the arguments that social actors put forward for the acceptance/rejection of any technology. All arguments (social, cultural, political, economic, as well as technical) are to be treated equally.\n\nThe symmetry principle addresses the problem that the historian is tempted to explain the success of successful theories by referring to their \"objective truth\", or inherent \"technical superiority\", whereas s/he is more likely to put forward sociological explanations (citing political influence or economic reasons) only in the case of failures. For example, having experienced the obvious success of the chain-driven bicycle for decades, it is tempting to attribute its success to its \"advanced technology\" compared to the \"primitiveness\" of the Penny Farthing, but if we look closely and symmetrically at their history (as Pinch and Bijker do), we can see that at the beginning bicycles were valued according to quite different standards than nowadays. The early adopters (predominantly young, well-to-do gentlemen) valued the speed, the thrill, and the spectacularity of the Penny Farthing – in contrast to the security and stability of the chain-driven Safety Bicycle. Many other social factors (e.g., the contemporary state of urbanism and transport, women's clothing habits and feminism) have influenced and changed the relative valuations of bicycle models.\n\nA weak reading of the \"Principle of Symmetry\" points out that there often are many competing theories or technologies, which all have the potential to provide slightly different solutions to similar problems. In these cases, sociological factors tip the balance between them: that's why we should pay equal attention to them.\n\nA strong, social constructivist reading would add that even the emergence of the questions or problems to be solved are governed by social determinations, so the Principle of Symmetry is applicable even to the apparently purely technical issues.\n\nThe following concepts and 'stages' of SCOT are adapted from the Empirical Programme of Relativism (EPOR).\n\n\"Interpretative flexibility\" means that each technological artifact has different meanings and interpretations for various groups. Bijker and Pinch show that the air tire of the bicycle meant a more convenient mode of transportation for some people, whereas it meant technical nuisances, traction problems and ugly aesthetics to others. In racing air tires lent to greater speed.\n\nThese alternative interpretations generate different \"problems\" to be solved. How should aesthetics, convenience, and speed be prioritized? What is the \"best\" tradeoff between traction and speed?\n\nThe most basic relevant groups are the \"users\" and the \"producers\" of the technological artifact, but most often many subgroups can be delineated – users with different socioeconomic status, competing producers, etc. Sometimes there are relevant groups who are neither users, nor producers of the technology, for example, journalists, politicians, and civil organizations. Trevor Pinch has argued that the salespeople of technology should also be included in the study of technology. The groups can be distinguished based on their shared or diverging interpretations of the technology in question.\n\nJust as technologies have different meanings in different social groups, there are always multiple ways of constructing technologies. A particular design is only a single point in the large field of technical possibilities, reflecting the interpretations of certain relevant groups.\n\nThe different interpretations often give rise to conflicts between criteria that are hard to resolve technologically (e.g., in the case of the bicycle, one such problem was how a woman could ride the bicycle in a skirt while still adhering to standards of decency), or conflicts between the relevant groups (the \"Anti-cyclists\" lobbied for the banning of the bicycles). Different groups in different societies construct different problems, leading to different designs.\n\nThe first stage of the SCOT research methodology is to reconstruct the alternative interpretations of the technology, analyze the problems and conflicts these interpretations give rise to, and connect them to the design features of the technological artifacts. The relations between groups, problems, and designs can be visualized in diagrams.\n\nOver time, as technologies are developed, the interpretative and design flexibility collapse through closure mechanisms. Two examples of closure mechanisms:\n\n\nClosure is not permanent. New social groups may form and reintroduce interpretative flexibility, causing a new round of debate or conflict about a technology. (For instance, in the 1890s automobiles were seen as the \"green\" alternative, a cleaner environmentally-friendly technology, to horse-powered vehicles; by the 1960s, new social groups had introduced new interpretations about the environmental effects of the automobile, eliciting the opposite conclusion.)\n\nThe second stage of the SCOT methodology is to show how closure is achieved.\n\nThis is the third stage of the SCOT methodology, but the seminal article of Pinch and Bijker does not proceed to this stage. Many other historians and sociologists of technology nevertheless do. For example, Paul N. Edwards shows in his book \"The Closed World: Computers and the Politics of Discourse in Cold War America\" the strong relations between the political discourse of the Cold War and the computer designs of this era.\n\nIn 1993, Langdon Winner published an influential critique of SCOT entitled \"Upon Opening the Black Box and Finding it Empty: Social Constructivism and the Philosophy of Technology.\" In it, he argues that social constructivism is an overly narrow research program. He identifies the following specific limitations in social constructivism:\nOther critics include Stewart Russell with his letter in the journal \"Social Studies of Science\" titled \"The Social Construction of Artifacts: A Response to Pinch and Bijker\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "473321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=473321", "title": "Spiral of silence", "text": "Spiral of silence\n\nThe spiral of silence theory is a political science and mass communication theory proposed by the German political scientist Elisabeth Noelle-Neumann, which stipulates that individuals have a fear of isolation, which results from the idea that a social group or the society in general might isolate, neglect, or exclude members due to the members' opinions. This fear of isolation consequently leads to remaining silent instead of voicing opinions. Media is an important factor that relates to both the dominant idea and people's perception of the dominant idea. The assessment of one's social environment may not always correlate with reality.\n\nAccording to Shelly Neill, \"Introduced in 1974, the Spiral of Silence Theory [...] explores hypotheses to determine why some groups remain silent while others are more vocal in forums of public disclosure.\" The spiral of silence theory suggests that \"people who have believed that they hold a minority viewpoint on a public issue will remain in the background where their communication will be restrained; those who believe that they hold a majority viewpoint will be more encouraged to speak.\"\n\nThe theory explains the formation of social norms at both the micro and macro level. \"As a micro-theory, the spiral of silence examines opinion expression, controlling for people's predispositions – such as fear of isolation, and also demographic variables that have been shown to influence people's willingness to publicly express opinions on issues, such as agricultural biotechnology.\" The spiral of silence occurs on a macro level if more and more members of the perceived minority fall silent. This is when public perceptions of the opinion climate begin to shift. \"In other words, a person's individual reluctance to express his or her opinion, simply based on perceptions of what everyone else thinks, has important implications at the social level.\" As one opinion gains the interest of the majority, the minority faces threat and fear of isolation from society. As the opinion gains momentum by the majority, the minority continues to be threatened and falls deeper into their silence. It continues until the minority no longer speaks out against it, and the opinion of the perceived majority ultimately becomes a social norm.\n\nThe spiral model is an analogy used to visually describe the theory. The end of the spiral refers to the number of people who are not publicly expressing their opinions, due to the fear of isolation. An individual is more likely to go down the spiral if his or her opinion does not conform with the perceived majority opinion. The following steps summarize how the process works:\n\nThis is a process of formation, change and reinforcement of public opinion. The tendency of the one to speak up and the other to be silent starts off a spiraling process which increasingly establishes one opinion as the dominant one. Over time, these changing perceptions establish one opinion as predominant one and they change from the liquid state to a solid norm.\n\nFurther, Noelle-Neumann describes the spiral of silence as a dynamic process, in which predictions about public opinion become fact as mass media's coverage of the majority opinion becomes the status quo, and the minority becomes less likely to speak out.\n\nScholars have long argued over the concept of \"public\" within \"public opinion\". The use of \"public\" and \"the public\" betrays multiple competing meanings. There are three meanings of public. One meaning is the legal sense of public that focuses on openness. For example, a public place or path. A second meaning for the term emphasizes public rights. Lastly, within the phrase public opinion, public is said to have a related but different definition. Public, in this sense, could be characterized as social psychology. Scholars have marveled in amazement at the power public opinion has in making regulations, norms, and moral rules triumph over the individual self without ever troubling legislators, governments or courts for assistance.\n\n\"Common Opinion\" is what the Scottish social philosopher David Hume called it in his 1739 published work \"A Treatise of Human Nature\". Agreement and a sense of the common is what lay behind the English and French \"opinion.\" In researching the term opinion, \"meinung\" in German, researchers were led back to Plato's \"Republic\". In Plato's \"Republic\", a quote from Socrates conclude that opinion takes the middle position. Immanuel Kant considered opinion to be an \"insufficient judgement, subjectively as well as objectively.\" How valuable opinion may be was left out; however, the fact that it is suggested to be unified agreement of a population, or segment of the population, was still considered.\n\nThe term public opinion first emerged in France during the eighteenth century. The definition of public opinion has been debated over time. There has not been much progress in locking in one classification of the phrase \"public opinion.\" Hermann Oncken, a German historian, stated Whoever desires to grasp and define the concept of public opinion will recognize quickly that he is dealing with a Proteus, a being that appears simultaneously in a thousand guises, both visible and as a phantom, impotent and surprisingly efficacious, which presents itself in innumerable transformations and is forever slipping through our fingers just as we believe we have a firm grip on it... That which floats and flows cannot be understood by being locked up in a formula... After all, when asked, everyone knows exactly what public opinion means. It was said to be a \"fiction that belonged in a museum of the history of ideas; it could only be of historical interest.\"\n\nIn contradiction to that quote, the term public opinion seemed to not cease. During the early 1970s, Elisabeth Noelle-Neumann was creating the theory of the spiral of silence. She was making an effort to clarify the 1965 finding of which voting intentions would not change but yet expectations that one side would win continued to increase. Noelle-Nuemann began to question if she was indeed grabbing a handle on what public opinion actually was. \"The spiral of silence might be one of the forms in which public opinion appeared; it might be a process through which a new, youthful public opinion develops or whereby the transformed meaning of an old opinion spreads.\"\n\nThe American sociologist Edward Ross described public opinion in 1898 using the word \"cheap\". \"The equation of 'public opinion' with 'ruling opinion' runs like a common thread through its many definitions. This speaks to the fact that something clinging to public opinion sets up conditions that move individuals to act, even against their own will.\"\n\nMany possible meanings and definitions of the term have been explored. Scholars have considered the content of public opinion, assumed to consist of public affairs issues. Scholars point out that the emergence of the public opinion depends on an open public discourse rather than \"on the discipline imposed by an apparent majority dominant enough to intimidate but whose views may or may not support actions that are in the common interest.\"\n\nThey have also considered whose opinion establishes public opinion, assumed to be persons of a community who are ready to express themselves responsibly about questions of public relevance. Scholars have also looked into the forms of public opinion, said to be those that are openly expressed and accessible; opinions that are made public, especially in the mass media. Controversy surrounding this term spiraled around both words combining to form the phrase.\n\nMass media's effects on both public opinion and the perception of the public opinion are central to the Spiral of Silence Theory. One of the earliest works that called attention to the relationship between media and the formation of public opinion was Walter Lippmann's book \"Public Opinion,\" published in 1923. Ideas of Lippmann regarding the effects of media influenced the emergence of the Spiral of Silence Theory. As she is building the spiral theory, Noelle-Neumann states \"the reader can only complete and explain the world by making use of a consciousness which in large measure has been created by the mass media.\"\n\nAgenda-setting theory is another work that Noelle-Neumann builds on as she is characterizing media's effect on the public opinion. Agenda-setting theory describes the relationship between media and public opinion by asserting that the public importance of an issue depends on its salience in the media. Along with setting the agenda, the media further determines the salient issues through a constant battle with other events attempting to gain place in the agenda. The media battles with these news alternatives by creating \"pseudo-crises\" and \"pseudo-novelties.\"\n\nMedia's characteristics as a communication tool further affect people's perception of their own ideas in regard to the public opinion. According to Noelle-Neumann, the media is a \"one-sided, indirect, public form of communication, contrasting threefold with the most natural form of human communication, the conversation.\" These characteristics of the media in particular further overwhelm one's individual ideas.\n\nWhile some media communication theories assume a passive audience, such as the Hypodermic Needle model, the spiral model assumes an active audience \"who consumes media products in the context of their personal and social goals.\" Knowledge \"gained from the mass media may offer ammunition for people to express their opinions and offer a rationale for their own stance.\" Ho et al. point out that \"among individuals who paid high amount of media attention, those who have a low fear of isolation were significantly more likely to offer a rationale for their own opinion than were those who have a high fear of isolation.\"\n\nNoelle-Neuman regards media central to the formulation of the Spiral of Silence Theory, whereas some scholars argue whether the dominant idea in one's social environment overwhelms the dominant idea that media proposes as the perceived social norm. Some empirical research align with this perspective; suggesting that the \"micro-climate\" of an individual overwhelms the effects of the media. Other articles further suggest that talking with others is the primary way of understanding the opinion climate.\n\nThe fear of isolation is the centrifugal force that accelerates the spiral of silence. Essentially, people fear becoming social isolates and thus take measures to avoid such a consequence, as demonstrated by psychologist Solomon Asch in the Asch conformity experiments. People feel more comfortable by agreeing with opinions that they know are wrong instead of telling others their ideas.\n\nThis assumption proposes that in order to avoid becoming isolated and in order not to lose popularity and esteem, people constantly observe their environment very closely. They try to find out which opinions and modes of behaviour are prevalent, and which opinions and modes of behaviour are becoming more popular. They behave and express themselves accordingly in public. Then, they try to determine whether they are in the majority: whether the public opinion tends to agree with them. If they feel they are in the minority, they tend to remain silent.\n\nIndividuals use what is described as \"an innate ability\" or quasi-statistical sense to gauge public opinion. People assume they can sense and figure out what others are thinking.\nPluralistic ignorance may occur in some cases, leading to the minority opinion to be accepted as a norm. Group members may be privately rejecting a norm, but may falsely assume that other group members accept it. This phenomenon may cause a group to hold on to a norm.\n\nOur evaluation of a public opinion has an effect on our decision to speak up. Where opinions are relatively definite and static – customs, for example – one has to express or act according to this opinion in public or run the risk of becoming isolated. In contrast, where opinions are in flux, or disputed, the individual will try to find out which opinion he can express without becoming isolated. Individuals tend to publicly express their opinions and attitudes when they perceive their view to be dominant or on the rise. Conversely, when individuals perceive that their opinion is less popular or losing popularity, they are less likely to voice it in public. What one individual decides to do affects all of society around them.\n\nThe theory explains a \"vocal minority\" (the complement of the \"silent majority\") by stating that people who are highly educated, or who have greater affluence, and the few other cavalier individuals who do not fear isolation, are likely to speak out regardless of public opinion. It further states that this minority is a necessary factor of change while the compliant majority is a necessary factor of stability, with both being a product of evolution. There is a vocal minority, which remains at the top of the spiral in defiance of threats of isolation.\n\nThis theory calls these vocal minorities the hardcore nonconformist or the avant-garde. Hardcore nonconformists are \"people who have already been rejected for their beliefs and have nothing to lose by speaking out.\" The hardcore has the ability to reconfigure majority opinion. While the avant-garde are \"the intellectuals, artists, and reformers in the isolated minority who speak out because they are convinced they are ahead of the times.\"\n\nThe spiral of silence has brought insight regarding diverse topics, ranging from speaking about popular culture phenomena, to smoking. Considering that the spiral of silence is more likely to occur in controversial issues and issues with a moral component, many scholars have applied the theory to controversial topics, such as abortion, affirmative action, and capital punishment.\n\nExisting literature prior to the spiral of silence theory suggest a relationship between social conformity and culture, motivating communication scholars to conduct cross-cultural analysis of the theory. Scholars in the field of psychology in particular previously addressed the cultural variance involved in the conformity to the majority opinion. More recent studies confirm the link between conformity and culture: a meta-analysis regarding Asch conformity experiments, for example, suggest that collectivist cultures are more likely to exhibit conformity than the individualistic cultures.\n\n\"A Cross Cultural Test of the Spiral of Silence\" by Huiping Huang analyzes the results of a telephone survey done in Taiwan and the United States. The hypotheses tested were the beliefs that the United States is an \"individualistic\" society, while Taiwan is a \"collectivist\" society. This suggested that the spiral of silence is less likely to be activated in the United States, because individuals are more likely to put emphasis on their personal goals. They put the \"I\" identity over the \"we\" identity, and strive for personal success. Therefore, it was hypothesized that they would be more likely to speak out, regardless of if they are in the minority. On the other hand, it was predicted that individuals in Taiwan put more emphasis on the collective goal, so they would conform to the majority influence in hopes of avoiding tension and conflict. The study also tested the effect of motives, including self-efficacy and self-assurance.\n\nTelephone surveys were conducted; the citizens of the United States were questioned in regards to American involvement in Somalia, and the citizens of Taiwan about the possibility of a direct presidential election. Both issues focused on politics and human rights, and were therefore comparable. Respondents were asked to choose \"favor,\" \"neutral\" or \"oppose\" in regards to the categories of themselves, family and friends, the media, society, and society in the future about the given issue. Measurements were also taken regarding the individualism and collectivism constructs, and the \"motives of not expressing opinion\" based on a 1–10 and 1–5 scale respectively, in approval of given statements.\n\nResults showed support for the original hypothesis. Overall, Americans were more likely to speak out than Taiwanese. Being incongruous with the majority lessened the motivation of the Taiwanese to speak out (and they had a higher collectivist score), but had little effect on the Americans. In Taiwan, future support and belief of society played a large role in likeliness to voice an opinion, and support that the activation of the spiral of silence is in effect. In the United States, it was hypothesized that because they were more individualistic, they would be more likely to speak out if in the minority, or incongruous group. However, this was not true, but Huang suggests that perhaps the issue chosen was not directly prevalent, and therefore, they found it \"unnecessary to voice their objections to the majority opinion.\" Lack of self-efficacy led to lack of speaking out in both countries.\n\n\"Basque Nationalism and the Spiral of Silence\" is an article by Spencer and Croucher that analyzes the public perception of ETA (Euskadi Ta Askatasuna, a militant separatist group) in Spain and France. This study was conducted in a similar way as above, with Basque individuals from Spain and France being questioned about their support of ETA. They were asked questions such as \"How likely would you be to enter into a conversation with a stranger on a train about ETA?\" Taken into consideration were the cultural differences of the two different regions in which ETA existed.\n\nThe results supported the theory of the spiral of silence. While there was a highly unfavorable opinion of the group, there was a lack of an outcry to stop it. Individuals claimed that they were more likely to voice their opinions to non-Basques, suggesting that they have a \"fear of isolation\" in regards to fellow Basques. Furthermore, the Spanish individuals questioned were more likely to be silent because of their greater proximity to the violent acts.\n\nOne study, by Henson and Denker \"investigates perceptions of silencing behaviors, political affiliation, and political differences as correlates to perceptions of university classroom climates and communication behaviors.\" They looked at whether students' view of the classroom changes whether they perceive the instructor and other classmates with a different political affiliation, with the instructor and other classmates communicating using silencing behaviors. The article stated that little has been investigated into student-teacher interactions in the classroom, and how the students are influenced. The goal of the article was to \"determine how political ideas are expressed in the university classrooms, and thus, assess the influence of classroom communication on the perceptions of political tolerance.\"\n\nThe article claimed that university classrooms are an adequate place to scrutinize the spiral of silence theory because it is a place that has interpersonal, cultural, media, and political communication. Henson and Denker said, \"Because classroom interactions and societal discourse are mutually influential, instructors and students bring their own biases and cultural perspectives into the classroom.\"\n\nThe study researched whether there was a correlation between students' perception that they were being politically silenced and their perceived differences in student-instructor political affiliation. The study also questioned whether there was any connection between the perceived climate and the similarity of the student and instructor on their political affiliations. The researchers used participants from a Midwestern university's communication courses. The students answered a survey over their perceptions of political silencing, classroom climate, and the climate created by the instructor. The results of this research found that there is a positive relationship of the perceived similarities in political party and ideological differences of the student and instructor to perceived greater political silencing.\n\nWhile the studies regarding the spiral of silence theory focused on face-to-face interaction before 2000, the theory was later applied to a computer-mediated communication environment. The first study in this context analyzed communication behaviors in online chat rooms regarding the issue of abortion, and revealed that minority opinion holders were more likely to speak out, whereas their comments remained neutral. Another study focused on the Korean bulletin board postings regarding the national election, and found a relationship between online postings and the presentation of candidates in the mainstream media. The third study focuses on the online review system, suggesting that the fear of isolation tend to reduce the willingness of members to voice neutral and negative reviews. The Spiral of Silence Theory is extended \"into the context of non-anonymous multichannel communication platforms\" and \"the need to consider the role of communicative affordances in online opinion expression\" is also addressed.\n\nCurrent literature suggests that the spiral model can be applied to the social media context. Gearhart and Zhang conduct a study to examine whether or not the use of social media will increase people's motivation to express their opinions about political issues. The results suggest that social media users \"who have received a strong negative reaction to their politically related posts are likely to censor themselves, exemplifying the spiral of silence effect\". Another research confirms the positive relationship between speaking out and issue importance on the social media context as well: individuals who view gay bullying as a significant social issue are more likely to comment on Facebook.\n\nThe spiral of silence theory can be also applied to social capital context. Recent studies see social capital as \"a variable that enables citizens to develop norms of trust and reciprocity, which are necessary for successful engagement in collective activities\". One study examines three individual-level indicators of social capital--civic engagement, trust and neighborliness, and the relationship between these indicators and people's willingness to express their opinions and their perception of support for one's opinions. The results suggest that civic engagement has a direct effect on people's willingness to express their opinions and neighborliness and trust had direct positive effects on people's perception of support for one's opinions. Also, the study shows that \"only a direct (but not indirect) effect of civic engagement on opinion expression further highlights a potential difference between bonding and bridging social capital\".\n\nThe concept of isolation has a variety of definitions, dependent upon the circumstances it is investigated in. In one instance the problem of isolation has been defined as social withdrawal, defined as low relative frequencies of peer interaction. Other researchers have defined isolation as low levels of peer acceptance or high levels of peer rejection. Research that considers isolation with regard to the Internet either focuses on how the Internet makes individuals more isolated from society by cutting off their contact from live human beings or how the Internet decreases social isolation of people by allowing them to expand their social networks and giving them more means to stay in touch with friends and family. Since the development of the Internet, and in particular the World Wide Web, a wide variety of groups have come into existence, including Web and Internet Relay Chat (IRC), newsgroups, multiuser dimensions (MUDs), and, more recently, commercial virtual communities. The theories and hypotheses about how Internet-based groups impact individuals are numerous and wide-ranging. Some researchers view these fast growing virtual chat cliques, online games, or computer-based marketplaces as a new opportunity, particularly for stigmatized people, to take a more active part in social life.\n\nTraditionally, social isolation has been represented as a one-dimensional construct organized around the notion of a person's position outside the peer group and refers to isolation from the group as a result of being excluded from the group by peers. From children to adults, literature shows that people understand the concept of isolation and fear the repercussions of being isolated from groups of which they are a member. Fearing isolation, people did not feel free to speak up if they feel they hold dissenting views, which means people restrict themselves to having conversation with like-minded individuals, or have no conversation whatsoever. Witschge further explained, \"Whether it is fear of harming others, or fear to get harmed oneself, there are factors that inhibit people from speaking freely, and which thus results in a non-ideal type of discussion, as it hinders diversity and equality of participants and viewpoints to arise fully.\"\n\nThe medium of the Internet has the power to free people from the fear of social isolation, and in doing so, shuts down the spiral of silence. The Internet allows people to find a place where they can find groups of people with like mindsets and similar points of view. Van Alstyne and Brynjolfsson stated that \"Internet users can seek out interactions with like-minded individuals who have similar values, and thus become less likely to trust important decisions to people whose values differ from their own.\" The features of the Internet could not only bring about more people to deliberate by freeing people of psychological barriers, but also bring new possibilities in that it \"makes manageable large-scale, many-to-many discussion and deliberation.\" Unlike traditional media that limit participation, the Internet brings the characteristics of empowerment, enormous scales of available information, specific audiences can be targeted effectively and people can be brought together through the medium.\n\nThe Internet is a place where many reference and social groups are available with similar views. It has become a place where it appears that people have less of a fear of isolation. One research article examined individuals' willingness to speak their opinion online and offline. Through survey results, from 305 participants, a comparison and contrast of online and offline spiral of silence behaviors was determined. Liu and Fahmy stated that \"it is easy to quit from an online discussion without the pressure of complying with the majority group.\" This is not to say that a spiral of silence does not occur in an online environment. People are still less likely to speak out, even in an online setting, when there is a dominant opinion that differs from their own. But people in the online environment will speak up if someone has a reference group that speaks up for them. In an online situation, just having one person be there to encourage a minority point of view can put an end to a spiral of silence. Another reason for why the spiral of silence theory has less of an effect online could be that studies do not acknowledge whether the person is more likely to speak out against dominant views offline as well. The person might have characteristics that make him comfortable speaking out against dominant views offline, which make them just as comfortable speaking out in an online setting. Even though research suggests that there is a chance people will speak out with their opinions more often in an online setting, silencing of views can still occur. Another research article examined the influence of different opinion climates in online forums (opinion congruence with the majority of forum participants vs. website source) and found personal opinion congruence was more influential than the online site in which the forum is situated in. Gonzenbach and Nekmat said it might be worth researching whether the factors in these studies or other factors cause people to be more comfortable when it comes to speaking their mind while online.\n\nThe nature of the Internet facilitates not only the participation of more people, but also a more heterogeneous group of people. Page stated, \"The onward rush of electronic communications technology will presumably increase the diversity of available ideas and the speed and ease with which they fly about and compete with each other.\" The reason people engage in deliberations is because of their differences, and the Internet allows differences to be easily found. The Internet seems the perfect place to find different views of a very diverse group of people who are at the same time open to such difference and disagreement needed for deliberation. Noelle-Neumann's initial idea of cowering and muted citizens is difficult to reconcile with empirical studies documenting uninhibited discussion in computer-mediated contexts such as chat rooms and newsgroups.\n\nThe Internet provides an anonymous setting, and it can be argued that in an anonymous setting, fears of isolation and humiliation would be reduced. Wallace recognized that when people believe their actions cannot be attributed to them personally, they tend to become less inhibited by social conventions and restraints. This can be very positive, particularly when people are offered the opportunity to discuss difficult personal issues under conditions in which they feel safer.\n\nThe groups' ability to taunt an individual is lessened on the Internet, thus reducing the tendency to conform. Wallace goes on to summarize a number of empirical studies that do find that dissenters feel more liberated to express their views online than offline, which might result from the fact that the person in the minority would not have to endure taunts or ridicule from people that are making up the majority, or be made to feel uncomfortable for having a different opinion. Stromer-Galley considered that \"an absence of non-verbal cues, which leads to a lowered sense of social presence, and a heightened sense of anonymity\" frees people from the psychological barriers that keep them from engaging in a face-to-face deliberation.\n\nThe crux of the spiral of silence is that people believe consciously or subconsciously that the expression of unpopular opinions will lead to negative repercussions. These beliefs may not exist on the Internet for several reasons. First, embarrassment and humiliation depends on the physical presence of others. In computer-mediated communication, physical isolation often already exists and poses no further threat. Second, a great deal of normative influence is communicated through nonverbal cues, such as eye contact and gestures, but computer-mediated communication typically precludes many of these cues. Third, Keisler, Siegel, and McQuire observe that nonverbal social context cues convey formality and status inequality in face-to-face communication. When these cues are removed, the importance of social status as a source of influence recedes. Group hierarchies that develop in face-to-face interaction emerge less clearly in a mediated environment. The form and consequences of conformity influence should undergo significant changes given the interposition of a medium that reduces the social presence of participants. Social presence is defined as the degree of salience of the other person in the interaction or the degree to which the medium conveys some of the person's presence.\n\nAn important issue in obtaining heterogeneity in conversation is equal access for all the participants and equal opportunities to influence in the discussion. When people believe they are ignorant about a topic, incapable to participate in a discussion or not equal to their peers, they tend to not even become involved in a deliberation. When people do decide to participate, their participation might be overruled by dominant others, or their contribution might be valued less or more, depending on their status. Dahlberg praises the Internet for its possibility to liberate people from the social hierarchies and power relations that exist offline: \"The 'blindness' of cyberspace to bodily identity... [is supposed to allow] people to interact as if they were equals. Arguments are said to be assessed by the value of the claims themselves and not the social position of the poster\".\n\nGastil sees this feature as one of the strongest points of the Internet: \"if computer-mediated interaction can consistently reduce the independent influence of status, it will have a powerful advantage over face-to-face deliberation\". While status cues are difficult to detect, perceptions about the status converge, and this lessens stereotyping and prejudice.\n\nIt may be that people do feel more equal in online forums than they feel offline. Racism, ageism, and other kinds of discrimination against out groups \"seems to be diminishing because the cues to out-group status are not as obvious\". Next to this, the Internet has rapidly and dramatically increased the capacities to develop, share and organize information, realizing more equality of access to information.\n\nThe relationship between the perception of public opinion and willingness to speak-up is mainly measured through surveys In surveys, respondents are often asked whether they would reveal their opinions given a hypothetical situation, right after their opinions about the public opinion and their opinion is received. Whether asking hypothetical questions can reflect real life cases was questioned by some communication scholars, leading to a criticism of this methodology as not being able to capture what the respondent would do in a real-life situation. A research study addressed this criticism by comparatively testing a spiral model both in a hypothetical survey and in a focus group. The findings are in line with the critic of hypothetical survey questions, demonstrating a significant increase in the spiral of silence in focus groups.\n\nAmong different approaches to survey methodology, cross-sectional study design is the leading method employed to analyze and test the theory. Cross-sectional design involves the analysis of the relationship between public opinion and willingness to speak at one point in time.\n\nWhile many of the researchers employ cross-sectional design, some scholars employed panel data. Under this methodology, three specific approaches have been used. Noelle-Neumann herself tested the theory from the aggregate level. Using this approach, the change process is \"observed by comparing the absolute share of people perceiving a majority climate with people willing to express their views over time.\" The second approach that has been used in Spiral of Silence research is conducting separate regressions for each panel survey wave. The drawback for this approach is that the individual change of climate and opinions perception is ignored. The last approach a few scholars used in conducting Spiral of Silence researches is to use changed scores as dependent variables. However, as intuitive as this approach may be, it \"leads to well-documented difficulties with respect to statistical properties, such as regression to the mean or the negative correlation of the change score with the time one state\".\n\nThe critics of this theory most often claim that individuals have different influences that affect whether they speak out or not.\n\nResearch indicates that people fear isolation in their small social circles more than they do in the population at large. Within a large nation, one can always find a group of people who share one's opinions, however people fear isolation from their close family and friends more in theory. Research has demonstrated that this fear of isolation is stronger than the fear of being isolated from the entire public, as it is typically measured.\n\nScholars have also argued that both personal characteristics and various culture among different groups will have influences on whether a person will willingly speak out. If one person \"has a positive self-concept and lacks a sense of shame, that person will speak out regardless of how she or he perceives the climate of public opinion.\" Another influence critics give for people choosing not to speak out against public opinion is culture. Open expression of ideas is forbidden in some of the cultures. Some cultures are more individualistic, which would support more of an individual's own opinion, while collectivist cultures support the overall group's opinion and needs. Gender can be also considered as a cultural factor. In some cultures, women's \"perception of language, not public opinion, forces them to remain quiet.\" Scheufele & Moy, further assert that certain conflict styles and cultural indicators should be used to understand these differences.\n\nAnother criticism of the spiral of silence research is that the research designs do not observe the movement in the spiral over time. Critics propose that Noelle-Neumann's emphasis on time in the formation of the spiral should reflect on the methodology as well, and the dynamic nature of the spiral model should be acknowledged. They argue that the spiral of silence theory involves a \"time factor\", considering that the changes in public opinion eventually lead to change in people's assessments of the public opinion. Also, according to Spilchal, the spiral of silence theory \"ignores the evidence of the historical development of public opinion, both in theory and practice, through the extension of suffrage, organisation of political propaganda groups, the establishment of pressure groups and political parties, the eligibility of ever wider circles of public officials and, eventually, the installation of several forms of direct democracy.\"\n\nSome scholars also provide understandings of the theory in the contemporary society by pointing out that \"it is not so much the actual statistical majority that generates pressure for conformity as it is the climate of opinion conveyed in large measure by the media.\" Under the great influence by the media coverage, the climate of opinion \"is not invariably an accurate reflection of the distribution of opinions within the polity.\"\n\nFurther, Scheufele & Moy find problems in the operationalization of key terms, including willingness to speak out. This construct should be measured in terms of actually speaking out, not voting or other conceptually similar constructs. Conformity experiments have no moral component, yet morality is a key construct in the model. These conformity experiments, particularly those by Asch, form part of the base of the theory. Scholars question whether these conformity experiments are relevant to the development of the Spiral of Silence.\n\nResearch indicates that while the existence of groups with other opinions than those that are supposed to be dominant in a society opens a possibility for some people to express some different opinions, fallacy assumptions in such groups that criticism of particular aspects of that group's program is support for society's mainstream views is a source of false dilemmas. This research indicates that such false dilemmas, especially when there are inconsistencies both in mainstream views and in organized opposition views, causes a spiral of silence that specifically silences logically consistent third, fourth or higher number viewpoint criticism. The research in question does not find a solution in many approaches of \"recognizing cognitive bias\" but instead indicate that such assumptions are part of the problem by promoting the myth of one's own group having overcome its bias by institutional means and allegations of rational critical arguments being due to bias in the minds of critics, citing evolutionary research that shows that not only would any predisposition for justification of views be selected against due to costing nutrients without improving adaptivity of behavior, but that the claim that most adult humans are irrational due to missing stimulation of rationality in early childhood is also evolutionarily indefensible as genes for potential rationality would have been totally eliminated by selection before reaching significant population fraction if they needed a society already promoting rationality to manifest themselves adaptively. The research indicates that humans are not inherently irrational but are forced to pretend irrationality by false dilemmas that claim rational criticism to be justifications for irrational resentment, and suggest that openly expressed rationality can be promoted by discussions in which no exclusion based on traditional political scales or beneficiary classifications exist but all allegations of irrational motives as well as assumptions that some opinions are linked or that criticism of one view is defence of another specific view are excluded.\n\n"}
{"id": "1129421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1129421", "title": "Use of torture since 1948", "text": "Use of torture since 1948\n\nTorture, the infliction of severe physical or psychological pain upon an individual to extract information or a confession, or as an illicit extrajudicial punishment, is prohibited by international law and is illegal in most countries. However, it is still used by many governments. The subject of this article is the use of torture since the adoption of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), which prohibited it.\n\nTorture is widely practiced worldwide: Amnesty International received reports of torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment in more than 150 countries during the four-year period from 1997 to 2000. These accusations concerned acts against political prisoners in 70 countries and other prisoners and detainees in more than 130 countries. State torture has been extensively documented and studied, often as part of efforts at collective memory and reconciliation in societies that have experienced a change in government. Surveys of torture survivors reveal that torture \"is not aimed primarily at the extraction of information ... Its real aim is to break down the victim's personality and identity.\" When applied indiscriminately, torture is used as a tool of repression and deterrence against dissent and community empowerment.\n\nWhile many states use torture, few wish to be described as doing so, either to their own citizens or to international bodies. So a variety of strategies are used to circumvent their legal and humanitarian duties, including plausible deniability, secret police, \"need to know\", denial that certain activities constitute torture, appeal to various laws (national or international), use of a jurisdictional argument, claim of \"overriding need\", the use of torture by proxy, and so on. Almost all regimes and governments engaging in torture (and other crimes against humanity) consistently deny engaging in it, in spite of overwhelming hearsay and physical evidence from the citizens they tortured. Through both denial and avoidance of prosecution, most people ordering or carrying out acts of torture do not face legal consequences for their actions. UN Special Rapporteur for the Commission on Human Rights, Sir Nigel Rodley, believes that \"impunity continues to be the principal cause of the perpetuation and encouragement of human rights violations and, in particular, torture.\"\n\nWhile states, particularly their prisons, law enforcement, military and intelligence apparatus, are major perpetrators of torture, many non-state actors also engage in it. These include paramilitaries and guerrillas, criminal actors such as organized crime syndicates and kidnappers.\n\nA recent approach to interrogations has been to use techniques such as waterboarding, sexual humiliation and sexual abuse, and dogs to intimidate or pressure prisoners in a manner claimed to be legal under national or international law. Electric shock techniques such as the use of stun belts and tasers have been considered appropriate provided that they are used to \"control\" prisoners or suspects, even non-violent ones, rather than to extract information. These techniques have been widely criticized as torture.\n\nWhile methods of torture are often quite crude, a number of new technologies of control have been used by torturers in recent years. The Brazilian government devised a number of new electrical and mechanical means of torture during the military dictatorship from 1964 to 1985, and proceeded to train military officials from other right-wing Latin American countries in their techniques. One is the use of tasers and electro-shock devices now widely sold to prison authorities around the world. Minor refinements of ancient techniques--including tearing out fingernails and toenails with iron tools, burning the soles of the feet with clothes irons, and probing between the toes with electric wood-burning pencils--are also widely applied. Some African nations employ an iron foot-squeezing device patterned after the medieval French boot.\n\nSubstantial cooperation between states in the methods and coordination of torture has been documented. Through the Phoenix Program, the United States helped South Vietnam co-ordinate a system of detention, torture and assassination of suspected members of the National Liberation Front, or Viet Cong. During the 1980s wars in Central America, the U.S. government provided manuals and training on interrogation that extended to the use of torture (see U.S. Army and CIA interrogation manuals). The manuals were also distributed by Special Forces Mobile Training teams to military personnel and intelligence schools in Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Peru. The manuals have a chapter devoted to \"coercive techniques\".\n\nThe southern cone governments of South America – Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, Bolivia, Paraguay and Brazil – involved in Operation Condor co-ordinated the disappearance, torture and execution of dissidents in the 1970s. Hundreds were killed in coordinated operations, and the bodies of those recovered were often mutilated and showed signs of torture. This system operated with the knowledge and support of the United States government through the State Department, Central Intelligence Agency and the Defense Department.\n\nThe United States government has, at least since the Bush administration, used the tactic of legal rendition in which suspected terrorists were extradited to countries where they were to be prosecuted for crimes allegedly committed. In the \"war on terror\" this has evolved into extraordinary rendition, the delivery of prisoners or others recently captured, including terrorism suspects, to foreign governments known to practice torture are Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, and Afghanistan. Human rights activists have alleged that the practice amounts to kidnapping for the purpose of torture, or torture by proxy. A related practice is the operation of facilities for imprisonment, and it is widely believed torture, in foreign countries. In November 2005, the Washington Post reported —- citing administration sources —- that such facilities are operated by the CIA in Thailand (until 2004), Afghanistan, and several unnamed Eastern European countries. Human Rights Watch reports that planes associated with rendition have landed repeatedly in Poland and Romania.\n\nThe use of torture is geographically widespread. A review by Amnesty International, which did not use the United Nations Convention Against Torture as its definition of torture, of its case files found \"reports of torture or ill-treatment by state officials in more than 150 countries from 1997 to 2000\". These reports described widespread or persistent patterns of abuse in more than 70 countries and torture-related deaths in more than 80.\n\nTorture has been reported in Afghanistan under each of its recent governments. Under Najibullah's Soviet-backed regime, beating and electric shocks were widely reported. After the mujahidin victory, Afghanistan fell into a state of chaos, and, according to Amnesty International, \"Torture of civilians in their homes has become endemic ... In almost every jail run by the armed political groups, torture is reported to be a part of the daily routine\". The Taliban are likewise reported to have engaged in torture. Since the U.S. overthrow of the Taliban, torture has been reported on several occasions, both by Afghan groups and by U.S. troops. In the Herat region, dominated by the warlord Ismail Khan, Human Rights Watch reported extensive torture in 2002. Torture by US troops has been alleged in news reports by the New York Times. In March 2008 the UK Ministry of Defence claimed that they and the Afghan army had uncovered a Taliban torture chamber where two individuals were believed to have been beaten.\n\nUnder Enver Hoxha's People's Socialist Republic of Albania, torture was widely used. Since its fall, Amnesty International has reported police abuses amounting to torture; the government says it has \"made efforts to punish all acts of torture under the Albanian criminal justice system\".\n\nAccording to Pierre Vidal-Naquet in \"Torture; Cancer of Democracy\" and \"Les Damnees de la Terre\" by Franz Fanon, torture was practiced endemically by the French forces, commanded by General Jacques Massu, bringing together the experience of \"Les Paras\" in the Indo-China War and German troops in the French Foreign Legion.\n\nIn Angola's 27-year civil war, according to Amnesty International, \"many were tortured\" by both sides.<ref name=\"E/CN.4/1994/31\">\"Report of the Special Rapporteur on torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment\", U.N. Commission on Human Rights.</ref> Since that time, AI has also reported that \"unarmed civilians are being extrajudicially executed and tortured\" in Angola's war against Cabindan separatists.\n\nDuring the so-called \"Dirty War\" carried out in the 1970s, in particular, but not only, by the military dictatorship from 1976 to 1983, tens of thousands of Argentines were \"disappeared\" by the junta, many never to be seen again. The National Commission on the Disappearance of Persons concluded:\n\nIn nearly all the cases brought to the attention of the Commission, the victims speak of acts of torture. Torture was an important element in the methodology of repression. Secret torture centres were set up, among other reasons, to enable the carrying out of torture to be carried out undisturbed.\n\nTorture has been used frequently by the Bahraini government in the 20th century. Notable cases include that of Ian Henderson, a former colonial officer employed in Bahrain who was accused by multiple witnesses of torturing prisoners. Adel Flaifel, a notorious security officer identified by many detainees as having overseen torture, was given immunity under Royal Decree 56 of 2002. Between 1980 and 1998, nine people died in detention as a result of torture, with five more dying shortly after being released as a result of injuries sustained from torture. Reports released by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch in the 1990s point to the widespread use of torture in Bahraini prisons.\n\nDuring the Bahraini uprising, torture was described by many human rights reports as widespread and systematic. Up to 1866 who make up 64% of detainees reported cases of torture. Three government agencies, namely the Ministry of Interior, the National Security Agency and the Bahrain Defence Force, were involved in interrogating detainees in relation to the events of the uprising. The NSA and MoI followed a systematic practice of physical and psychological mistreatment, which in many cases amounted to torture. Only four of the individuals who alleged torture were arrested by the BDF. The Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry have attributed the deaths of five individuals to torture.\n\nTorture was used regularly by the Brazilian dictatorship regime from 1964 to 1977 against dissidents. It included torturing their children, some of whom were less than 2 years old at the time.\n\nThe regime of Augusto Pinochet in Chile in the 1970s used torture extensively against political opponents. Chile's National Commission on Political Imprisonment and Torture (Comisión Nacional sobre Prisión Política y Tortura) concluded in 2004 that torture had been a systematically implemented policy of the government, and recommended reparations. The commission heard the testimony of more than 35,000 witnesses, whose testimonies are to be kept secret for fifty years. Among those tortured were future president Michelle Bachelet, who was held along with her mother at the notorious Villa Grimaldi detention center in the capital Santiago.\n\nAlthough torture was outlawed in China in 1996, a UN investigator found torture to still be widespread in 2005, particularly because the narrow definition of the law, leaving a mark, does not comply with the UN definition.\n\nPeople imprisoned by the communist regime are reportedly tortured.\n\nIn the socialist German Democratic Republic of divided Germany, torture and inhumane and degrading treatment were systematically used by security forces, including the Stasi secret police, against suspected opponents of the regime.\n\nDuring the Algerian War of Independence (1954–1962), the French military used torture against the National Liberation Front and the civilian population. The French interrogators were notorious for the use of man-powered electrical generators on suspects: this form of torture was called \"(la) gégène\".\n\nThat France has provided a pivotal role in the evolution of western torture practices is the central thesis of the French film \"Death Squadrons: The French School\" by Monique Robin.\nThe French had themselves developed practices in defence of its declining empire through the 20th century, setting up torture \"universities\" at \"Poulo Condor\" (now \"Côn Sơn\") – an island off Vietnam (then French Indo-China, subsequently taken over by the United States) and at Philippeville (now \"Skikda\") in Algeria.\n\nPolice abuse remains a reality in France today, while France has been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) for the conditions of detention in prisons, including the use of torture on detainees. Although the law and the Constitution prohibits any kind of torture, such practices happen. In 2004, the Inspector General of the National Police received 469 registered complaints about illegitimate police violence during the first 11 months of the year, down from 500 during the same period in 2003. There were 59 confirmed cases of police violence, compared to 65 in the previous year. In April 2004, the ECHR condemned the government for \"inhumane and degrading treatments\" in the 1997 case of a teenager beaten while in police custody. The court ordered the government to pay Giovanni Rivas $20,500 (15,000 euros) in damages and $13,500 (10,000 euros) in court costs. The head of the police station in Saint-Denis, near Paris, has been forced to resign after allegations of rape and other violence committed by the police force under his orders. Nine investigations concerning police abuse in this police station were carried out in 2005 by the IGS inspection of police. These repeated abuses are said to be one of the causes of the 2005 civil unrest. Conditions in detention centers for illegal aliens have also been widely criticized by human rights NGOs. In 2006 a young 20-year-old Serbian girl accused a policeman of attempting to rape her in such a centre in Bobigny, in the suburbs of Paris, the year before.\n\nDuring the Guatemalan civil war and the repression by the army against civilians and suspected opponents of the military dictatorship, murder (even genocide), torture, rape and inhumane and degrading treatment was systematically used by the Guatemalan armed forces and police. There is evidence that the CIA, in anticommunist campaigns during the 1980s, was involved in these tortures (in Latin America the threat of communism was often used as justification for dictatorship during the Cold War). Thousands of victims were tortured and murdered. For example, Dianna Ortiz, an American nun who was teaching poor Mayan children in the Guatemala highlands, claims that U.S. personnel were present in interrogation and torture rooms in Guatemala City in 1989 when she was kidnapped, taken to a secret prison and repeatedly raped and tortured by Guatemalan right-wing forces. Ortiz survived because of her American citizenship. Sister Ortiz chronicled her experiences and recovery in a book, \"The Blindfold's Eyes\". \"There were other people in the clandestine cell, the clandestine prison, as well, and I could hear terrible screams. Many were killed. I saw some bodies. There were children, as well\", wrote Dianna Ortiz.\n\nIndia has not ratified the UN Convention against Torture. Custodial deaths and extrajudicial killings are on the rise. The Asian Centre for Human Rights released its report, Torture in India 2010, at a press conference in New Delhi. The report stated that, taking 2000 as the base year, custodial deaths have decreased by 41.66% government between 2004–2005 to 2007–2008. This includes 70.72% increase of deaths in prison and 12.60% increase while in police custody.\nThe government has stated that it intends to pass the Anti Torture Act 2010 so it can ratify the UN convention against torture. The bill provides up to a 10-year sentence for physical or mental torture by the police.\n\nArticle 38 of the constitution of the Islamic Republic forbids \"all forms of torture for the purpose of extracting confession or acquiring information\" and the \"compulsion of individuals to testify, confess, or take an oath.\" It also states that \"any testimony, confession, or oath obtained under duress is devoid of value and credence.\" The Islamic Republic itself vehemently denies the existence of torture by the government.\n\nNonetheless, human rights groups and observers, such as Amnesty International, the United Nations, and Human Rights Watch, have complained that torture is frequently used on political prisoners in Iran.\n\nA substantial number of Iranians have been tortured and imprisoned by the religious police. Arya Aramnejad, a singer, was jailed for his song \"Ali Barkhiz\" where he denounces the Islamic regime's crimes during the 2009 Ashura protests. During his time in prison, he was reportedly tortured (sexually humiliated – photographed naked, laughed at, obliged to walk barefooted on aids' patients blood). Farzad Kamangar was repeatedly tortured in prison. Amnesty International reports that Kamangar was repeatedly beaten, flogged, and electrocuted, and that he now suffers from spasms in his arms and legs as a result of the torture. After she died in the custody of Iranian officials, Zahra \"Ziba\" Kazemi-Ahmadabadi, an Iranian-Canadian freelance photographer, was found to show obvious signs of torture, including a skull fracture, broken nose, signs of rape and severe abdominal bruising. Ehsan Fatahian, an Iranian Kurdish activist, was tortured for confession before being executed. Zeynab Jalalian, also a Kurdish activist, is currently ill due to prison conditions and torture. She has been sentenced to death. Other notable victims include Behrouz Javid Tehrani, Habibollah Latifi, Houshang Asadi, Saeed Malekpour, Shirkoh (Bahman) Moarefi, Hossein Khezri, and Akbar Mohammadi.\n\nIn a study of torture in Iran published in 1999, Iranian-born political historian Ervand Abrahamian included Iran along with \"Stalinist Russia, Maoist China, and early modern Europe\" of the Inquisition and witch hunts, as societies that \"can be considered to be in a league of their own\" in the systematic use of torture.\n\nTorture techniques used in the Islamic Republic include:\n\nwhipping, sometimes of the back but most often of the feet with the body tied on an iron bed; the qapani; deprivation of sleep; suspension from ceiling and high walls; twisting of forearms until they broke; crushing of hands and fingers between metal presses; insertion of sharp instruments under the fingernails; cigarette burns; submersion under water; standing in one place for hours on end; mock executions; and physical threats against family members. Of these, the most prevalent was the whipping of soles, obviously because it was explicitly sanctioned by the sharia.\n\nChronicle of Higher Education International, reports that the widespread practice of raping women imprisoned for engaging in political protest has been effective in keeping female college students \"less outspoken and less likely to take part\" in political demonstrations. The journal quotes an Iranian college student as saying, \"most of the girls arrested are raped in jail. Families can't cope with that.\"\n\nSeveral bills passed the Iranian Parliament that would have had Iran joining the international convention on banning torture in 2003 when reformists controlled Parliament, but were rejected by the Guardian Council.\n\nThe government headed by Baathist Saddam Hussein made extensive use of torture, including at the notorious Abu Ghraib prison.\n\nThe post-invasion Iraqi government holds thousands of people in prison. After investigating from July to October 2004, Human Rights Watch found that torture was \"routine and commonplace.\" According to their report,\n\nDespite apparently credible claims that people were fed into Saddam Hussein's plastic shredder (most likely within Abu Ghraib) prior to the 2003 invasion of Iraq, no such device was found after the war. In October 1990, it was alleged that Iraqi soldiers had \"thrown babies from incubators\" during the invasion of Kuwait. This story was supposed to have come from the 'eye-witness testimony' of a 15-year-old Kuwaiti girl, Nurse Nayirah. Years later it emerged that she was the daughter of Saud bin Nasir Al-Sabah, Kuwait's ambassador to the United States, and that the story was the creation of the Hill & Knowlton public relations firm employed by the Kuwaitis.\n\nAfter investigation of continued allegations of torture, the Supreme Court ruled in 1999 that all torture - even moderate physical pressure - was illegal. This decision was praised by human-rights organizations. Despite this reform of the law, Amnesty International continues to express concerns to Israel about treatment which amounts to torture, and remains unhappy about the steps taken by Israel to eliminate torture. Amnesty International stated in 2002:\n\nThe human rights group B'Tselem estimated that 85% of all Palestinian detainees suspected of terrorism are subject to prolonged sleep deprivation; prolonged sight deprivation or sensory deprivation; forced, prolonged maintenance of body positions that grow increasingly painful; confinement in tiny, closet-like spaces; exposure to temperature extremes, such as in deliberately overcooled rooms; prolonged toilet and hygiene deprivation; and degrading treatment, such as forcing detainees to eat and use the toilet at the same time. Allegations have been made of frequent beatings. Such acts violate Article 16 of the United Nations Convention Against Torture. In January 2000, B'Tselem claimed that the Israeli General Security Service's (GSS) methods of interrogation amounted to the five techniques: \"[The] GSS used methods comparable to those used by the British in 1971, viz. sleep deprivation, infliction of physical suffering, and sensory isolation. But the GSS used them for much longer periods, so the resulting pain and suffering were substantially greater. In addition, the GSS used direct violence... Thus... in practice, the GSS methods were substantially more severe than those used by the British in 1971...\"\n\nMau Mau inflicted torture and death on 1,819 Kikuyu during their uprising in the 1950s, along with 58 people of European and Asian descent.\n\nSuspected Hezbollah guerrillas, their families and Lebanese civilian internees were previously detained in the South Lebanon Army (SLA) prison at Khiam in the then Israeli-occupied Southern Lebanon. Torture, including electric shock torture, by the SLA was routine. This was detailed after the end of the occupation in 2000, when Lebanese who freed the prisoners found instruments of torture.\n\nIn 2005, Human Rights Watch documented that Nigerian police in the cities of Enugu, Lagos and Kano routinely practice torture. Dozens of witnesses and survivors stepped forward to testify to repeated, severe beatings, abuse of sexual organs, rape, death threats, injury by shooting, and the denial of food and water. These abuses were used in campaigns against common crime.\n\nSystematic torture was used in conjunction with military occupation in an attempt to quell anti-oil protests by the Ogoni people in the Niger Delta, according to a World Council of Churches report.\n\nChristian pastors in Nigeria have been involved in the torturing and killing of children accused of witchcraft. Church pastors, in an effort to distinguish from the competition, establish their credentials by accusing children of witchcraft. When repeatedly asked to comment about the matter, the Church has refused to comment.\n\nFrom 1961 to 1973, the North Vietnamese and Vietcong held hundreds of Americans captive. Hanoi's Ministry of Public Security's Medical Office (MPSMO) was responsible for \"preparing studies and performing research on the most effective Soviet, French, Communist Chinese and other ...techniques...\" of extracting information from POWs. The MPSMO \"...supervised the use of torture and the use of drugs to induce [American] prisoners to cooperate.\" Its functions also \"...included working with Soviet and Communist Chinese intelligence advisors who were qualified in the use of medical techniques for intelligence purposes.\"\n\nSee Con Son Island for accounts of US torture practices.\n\nThe Palestinian Authority has reportedly practiced torture in the occupied territories over the years. Amnesty International found: \"Torture [by the Palestine Authority] of detainees remained widespread. Seven detainees died in custody. Unlawful killings, including possible extrajudicial executions, continued to be reported.\"\n\nIn 1995, Azzam Rahim, a naturalized American citizen, was arrested by the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank. He was subsequently taken to a prison in Jericho where he was tortured and killed. Rahim's family attempted to sue the PA and the Palestinian Liberation Organization, but the Supreme Court ultimately ruled against them.\n\nMore than 100 cases of torture by Palestinian security services were reported in 2010. Joe Stork, deputy Middle East director at Human Rights Watch, said: \"The reports of torture by Palestinian security services keep rolling in. President Abbas and Prime Minister Fayyad are well aware of the situation. They need to reverse this rampant impunity and make sure that those responsible are prosecuted.\"\n\nAt least six Palestinians have died under torture in PA prisons. According to a report by the Arab Organization for Human Rights in Britain, the PA has used torture on a systematic basis for years. Methods include beatings with cables, pulling out nails, suspension from the ceiling, flogging, kicking, cursing, electric shocks, sexual harassment and the threat of rape. The report went on to say \"Every one of those detainees has been subject to humiliating and degrading treatment and stayed in cells for more than 10 days. The analysis shows that an astonishing 95 percent of the detainees were subjected to severe torture, others feeling the detrimental effects on their health for varying periods.\" The \"Shabeh\", which involves detainees being handcuffed and bound in stress positions for longs stretches of time, is the most widely used form of torture.\n\nIn 2012, after allegedly selling a house in Hebron to a Jewish family, Muhammad Abu Shahala was arrested by the Palestinian Authority, tortured into a confession, and sentenced to death.\n\nHuman Rights Watch reported 147 cases of torture by Hamas in the West Bank during 2011 and that none of the perpetrators had been prosecuted \"despite consistent allegations of severe abuse.\" It further stated that \"Some men said they had needed medical care due to torture and sought to obtain medical records as evidence that they had been tortured, but that hospital officials refused to provide them. Hamas’s rival in the West Bank, the Fatah-dominated Palestinian Authority, arrests and detains Palestinians arbitrarily, including Hamas members or sympathizers, and similarly subjects detainees to torture and abuse.\"\n\nIn another report, Human Rights Watch \"documents cases in which [Palestinian] security forces tortured, beat, and arbitrarily detained journalists, confiscated their equipment, and barred them from leaving the West Bank and Gaza.\" HRW also reported an incident in which \"the Hamas Ministry of Interior summoned a journalist who published an article on torture by Hamas authorities in secret detention facilities, threatened to take legal action against him if he did not publish an apology for the article, and warned him to correct his 'biased' reporting.\"\n\nThe Constitution of Russia forbids arbitrary detention, torture and ill-treatment. Part 2 of Article 21 of the Constitution states that \"no one may be subjected to torture, violence or any other harsh or humiliating treatment or punishment…\". However Russian police are regularly observed practicing torture – including beatings, electric shocks, rape, asphyxiation – in interrogating arrested suspects.\n\nTorture and humiliation, or \"dedovshchina\", are also widespread in Russian's military, according to Human Rights Watch. This is essentially the Russian version of bullying or hazing that is practiced in the American military, however it is often much more brutal. Many young men are killed or commit suicide every year because of it. Amnesty International reported on allegations of Chechen locals, that Russian military forces in Chechnya rape and torture local women with electric shocks, when electric wires are connected to the straps of their bra on their chest.\n\nIn the most extreme cases, hundreds of innocent people from the street were arbitrarily arrested, beaten, tortured, and raped by special police forces (\"Red Terror\"). Such incidents took place not only in Chechnya, but also in the Russian towns of Blagoveshensk, Bezetsk, and Nefteyugansk.\n\nSaudi Arabia officially considers torture illegal under Islamic Law; however, it is widely practiced, as in the case of William Sampson. According to a 2003 report by Amnesty International, \"torture and ill-treatment remained rife.\" Hanny Megally, Executive director of the Middle East and North Africa division of Human Rights Watch, stated in 2002 \"The practice of torture in Saudi Arabia is well documented\", According to the Human Rights Watch \"World Report 2003\", \"Torture under interrogation of political prisoners and criminal suspects continued\", and the 2006 report notes that \"Arbitrary detention, mistreatment and torture of detainees, restrictions on freedom of movement, and lack of official accountability remain serious concerns\".\n\nTorture was widely practiced by the brutal Soviet secret police during the Stalinism era to extract (often false) confessions from suspects often called enemies of the people. One of the most prevalent and effective types of torture was sleep deprivation, nicknamed \"conveyor\" due to interrogators replacing one another to keep the inmate from sleeping. The use of torture was authorized by the Central Committee of the Communist Party and personally by Joseph Stalin. During the Doctor's Plot, Stalin ordered falsely accused physicians to be tortured \"to death\". Torture was still used after Stalin by the KGB but not on the same extent and level.\n\nThe Spanish kingdom categorically denies the existence of torture.\n\nHowever, the Spanish authorities consistently fail to implement recommendations by the Council of Europe's Committee for the Prevention of Torture and the UN Committee Against Torture to combat the use of torture in detention. The UN committee expressed its concern \"about the length of judicial procedures and made reference to reports that indicated that five years had sometimes passed between crime and sentence. The Committee warned that this problem reduces the effect of penal action and discourages people to file complaints.\" It further indicated that \"all members of the Committee were also deeply concerned about the legal practice of five days incommunicado detention\" (since October 2003, a reform of the Criminal Procedure Code has extended that period to a maximum of 13 days).\n\nTorture has reportedly been used in the Adra Prison near Damascus. In 2010, the prison held 7,000 prisoners. The Tadmor Prison in Palmyra was known for harsh conditions, extensive human rights abuse, torture and summary executions. It was closed in 2001 and all remaining political detainees were transferred to other prisons in Syria. However, Tadmor Prison was reopened on 15 June 2011 and 350 individuals arrested for participation in anti-regime demonstrations were transferred there for interrogation and detainment.\n\nA number of captured Israelis have been tortured in Syria. This includes Eli Cohen, who was executed in 1965. In 1955, five Israeli soldiers were captured in a covert operation on the Golan Heights and brutally tortured in a Syrian prison. One of the soldiers, Uri Ilan, committed suicide when falsely informed by his captors that his comrades had been killed. Ilan became a symbol of courage and patriotism in Israel. During the Yom Kippur War, many Israeli prisoners said that they had been tortured by Syrians, and one POW, Avraham Lanir, was tortured to death.\n\nDuring the Syrian Civil War, reports have been made of widespread and systematic torture used by Syrian security forces. This includes electrocution, brutal beatings and sexual assault. Amnesty said of the situation : \"Torture and other ill-treatment in Syria form part of a widespread and systematic attack against the civilian population, carried out in an organized manner and as part of state policy and therefore amount to crimes against humanity.\"\n\nIn April 2009 a video emerged of a United Arab Emirates Royal Sheik, Sheik Issa bin Zayed Al Nahyan (a son of Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan) directing the torture of an Afghan grain dealer Mohammed Shah Poor The video includes the man being tortured with a cattle prod to his genitals, sand in his mouth and being run over by a Mercedes SUV. A man in a UAE police uniform is seen on the tape tying the victim's arms and legs, and later holding him down. The official response of the UAE government was that Sheik Issa is the man shown in the video but he did nothing wrong. The incidents depicted in the videotapes were not part of a pattern of behaviour, the Ministry of the Interior said.\n\nDuring the Mau Mau uprising of the 1950s, British colonial forces rounded up more than a million of Kikuyu people — most of them innocent victims of collective punishment — and imprisoned them in concentration camps in order to flush out the Mau Mau insurgency. In order to extract information about the insurgency and terrorize the enemy, the British used brutal methods to force Kenyans to confess and repudiate the Mau Mau oath. Under slogans like \"labor and freedom\" and other variations on \"Arbeit macht frei,\" inmates were worked to death as slave labor filling in mass graves under cruel conditions. Some men were anally raped with knives. Some women had their breasts mutilated and cut off. Eyes were gouged out and ears cut off and skin lacerated with coiled barbed wire. Interrogation involved stuffing a detainee’s mouth with mud and stamping on his throat until he passed out or died. Survivors were sometimes burned alive, while British guards and interrogators took joy and laughed. British troops denying access to medical aid to the detainees were widespread. A former British officer described a British detention camp in Kenya in 1954: \"Short rations, overwork, brutality, humiliating and disgusting treatment, flogging — all in violation of the UN Declaration of Human Rights.\" According to Canon Bewes, a British missionary, there was a \"constant stream of reports of brutalities by police, military and home guards. Some of the people had been using castration instruments and two men had died under castration.\"\n\nAmong the detainees who suffered severe mistreatment was Hussein Onyango Obama, the grandfather of U.S. President Barack Obama. According to his widow, British soldiers forced pins into his fingernails and buttocks and squeezed his testicles between metal rods and two others were castrated. One British settler described the typical British interrogation:\n\nOn 22 November 1954, Colonel Arthur Young sent a letter to Governor Evelyn Baring about the \"inhumanity\" of various parts of the security forces amid his investigations of wrongdoing:\n\nIn January 1955, Baring sent a telegram to Alan Lennox-Boyd, the Secretary of State for the Colonies and a cabinet minister, and told them that eight white European officers who had been accused of serious crimes, including accessory to murder, would be given immunity from prosecution. One district officer was accused of the \"beating up and roasting alive of one African\". A Kenyan Regiment Sergeant and a field intelligence assistance had been implicated in the burning of two further suspects \"during screening operations\". \"I had not myself realised until today that the extension of the principle of clemency to all members of the security forces involved so many cases with Europeans as principals,\" wrote Baring.\n\nIn 1956, Baring's administration devised the \"dilution technique\" — a system of assaults and psychological shocks to detainees, to force the compliance of the toughest Mau Mau supporters. Lennox-Boyd was told that one commander, Terrence Gavaghan, had developed the techniques at the Mwea camps in central Kenya - and he needed permission to treat the worst detainees in a \"rough way\". Baring telegrammed the Colonial Secretary in London asking for his approval to use \"overpowering\" force, and the cabinet minister's approval came within weeks. A ministerial delegation saw firsthand prisoners beaten for refusing to don camp clothes. Ringleaders of the \"Mau Mau moan\" - a chant of defiance - were singled out for special punishment. They were beaten and forced to the ground. Once there, a boot was placed on their throat while mud was forced into their mouths. Gavaghan also explained how difficult detainees would be subjected to the \"third degree\". \"The measures adopted were to be kept awake all night, having water thrown at him and to be beaten up on a variety of pretexts.\"\n\nOne Hanslope Park document is a letter between Kenyan Special Branch police officers about treatment of \"fanatical\" detainees at the Mwea camps.\n\nIn June 1957, Eric Griffith-Jones, the attorney general of the British administration in Kenya, wrote to Baring, detailing the way the regime of abuse at the colony's detention camps was being subtly altered. He said that the mistreatment of the detainees is \"distressingly reminiscent of conditions in Nazi Germany or Communist Russia\". Despite this, he said that in order for abuse to remain legal, Mau Mau suspects must be beaten mainly on their upper body, \"vulnerable parts of the body should not be struck, particularly the spleen, liver or kidneys\", and it was important that \"those who administer violence ... should remain collected, balanced and dispassionate\". He also agreed to draft legislation that sanctioned beatings, as long as the abuse was kept secret, and reminded the governor that \"If we are going to sin,\" he wrote, \"we must sin quietly.\"\n\nDuring the Troubles, members of the British Army and the British security forces had routinely used torture on Irish Republican Army (IRA) suspects in Northern Ireland, a part of the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 1971, as part of Operation Demetrius, fourteen arrested men were subjected to a program of \"deep interrogation\" at a secret interrogation centre. The interrogation methods involved sensory deprivation and were referred to as the \"five techniques\". The European Court of Human Rights defined them as \"wall-standing, hooding, subjection to noise, deprivation of sleep, and deprivation of food and drink\". For seven days, when not being interrogated, the detainees were kept hooded and handcuffed in a cold cell and subjected to a continuous loud hissing noise. Here they were forced to stand in a stress position for many hours and were deprived of sleep, food and drink. They were also repeatedly beaten, and some reported being kicked in the genitals, having their heads banged against walls and being threatened with injections. The effect was severe pain, severe physical and mental exhaustion, severe anxiety, depression, hallucinations, disorientation and repeated loss of consciousness.\n\nThe fourteen so-called \"Hooded Men\" were the only detainees subjected to all five techniques together. Some other detainees were subjected to at least one of the five techniques, along with other interrogation methods. These allegedly included waterboarding, electric shocks, burning with matches and candles, forcing internees to stand over hot electric fires while beating them, beating and squeezing of the genitals, inserting objects into the anus, injections, whipping the soles of the feet, and psychological abuse such as Russian roulette.\n\nDetails of the \"deep interrogation\" program became known to the public, sparking outrage. In response, the British Government commissioned an inquiry, under Lord Parker, to look into the five techniques. In 1972 the 'Parker Report' concluded that the five techniques were illegal under domestic law. British Prime Minister, Edward Heath, then announced that the five techniques would no longer be used under his government. However, he said that if a future British government decided to reintroduce them, it would need to be approved by Parliament.\n\nThe Irish Government had begun international legal action against the British Government over the Hooded Men in 1971. In 1976, the European Commission of Human Rights ruled that the program of deep interrogation, using the five techniques, amounted to \"torture\". The case was then referred to the European Court of Human Rights. In 1978 it ruled that the program amounted to \"inhuman and degrading treatment\" which breached the European Convention on Human Rights, but did not amount to torture. In 2014, evidence emerged that the British Government had withheld information from the Court. Following these revelations, the Irish Government announced in December 2014 that it would be asking the Court to review its judgement and acknowledge the five techniques as torture.\n\nThe Court's ruling, that the five techniques did not amount to torture, was later cited by the United States and Israel to justify their own interrogation methods.\n\nOn 23 February 2005, British soldiers were found guilty of abuse of Iraqi prisoners arrested for looting at a British Army camp called Bread Basket, in Basra, during May 2003. The judge at the military court, Judge Advocate Michael Hunter, said of photographs and the soldier's behaviour:\n\nAt the court martial, the prosecution alleged that in giving the order to \"work [the prisoners] hard\", Captain Dan Taylor had broken the Geneva Conventions. Neither Taylor, nor his commanding officer Lt-Col Paterson (who was briefed on the operation \"Ali Baba\" by Taylor), was sanctioned and, indeed, during the period of time between the offence and the trial, both were given promotions. All the leaders of the major British political parties condemned the abuse. Tony Blair, British Prime Minister, declared that the pictures were \"shocking and appalling\". After sentencing, the Chief of the General Staff, General Sir Mike Jackson, made a statement on television and said that he was \"appalled and disappointed\" when he first saw photographs of the Iraqi detainees and that\n\nOn 7 December 2005, the House of Lords reversed the deportations of Muslims convicted on \"evidence procured by torture inflicted by foreign officials\", and cited the 1978 case in ruling that centuries of common law and recent international conventions made torture anathema in the country's courts. Lord Bingham said it was \"clear that from its very earliest days the common law of England set its face firmly against the use of torture\"; Lord Nicholls said \"Torture is not acceptable. This is a bedrock moral principle in this country\"; Lord Hoffman said \"The use of torture is dishonourable. It corrupts and degrades the state which uses it and the legal system which accepts it.\"; Lord Hope said it was \"one of most evil practices known to man\"; Lord Rodgers said \"the unacceptable nature of torture ... has long been unquestioned in this country.\"; Lord Carswell referred to the \"abhorrence felt by civilised nations for the use of torture\"; and Lord Brown said that \"torture is an unqualified evil. It can never be justified. Rather it must always be punished.\".\n\nOn 13 March 2007, the six-month court martial of the seven soldiers – including Colonel Jorge Mendonca and Major Michael Peebles – over the detention of Iraqi prisoners in Basra during May 2003 ended with all but one, Corporal Donald Payne, being acquitted. On 30 April 2007, Payne, Britain's first convicted war criminal found guilty under the provisions of the International Criminal Court Act 2001, who had pleaded guilty to mistreating prisoners, was jailed for a year and dishonourably discharged from the army.\n\nIn March 2008, the Ministry of Defence admitted breaching the human rights of Baha Mousa, who died in British custody in Basra, and of eight other Iraqi men held at the same facility, opening the way for a multimillion-pound compensation package for the relatives of Baha Mousa and the other men injured during illegal interrogations. On 14 May 2008, Defence Secretary Des Browne announced in the House of Commons that there would be a public inquiry into the death of Baha Mousa in which \"no stone [will be left] unturned in investigating his tragic death.\"\n\nOn 26 July 2008, the Joint Committee on Human Rights accused Armed Forces Minister Adam Ingram in 2004 and Lieutenant-General Robin Brims, Commander Field Army, in 2006 of misleading the committee when they declared that conditioning practices (based on the five techniques, banned since their use in Northern Ireland in the 1970s) were not being used. It has now emerged that such techniques were being used by some troops deployed abroad. The BBC reported that \"Labour MP Andrew Dismore, chairman of the committee, said he hoped the public inquiry [into the death of Baha Mousa] would give some indications as to why they were given 'wrong evidence'. Earlier this month, the MoD agreed to pay almost £3m in compensation to Mr Mousa's family and nine Iraqi men after admitting breaching human rights\".\n\nWhile the United States is a party to international conventions against torture, a proponent of human rights treaties and a critic of torture by other countries, torture has taken place within its borders and on its government's behalf outside of its borders.\n\nOn 13 December 1999, NYPD officer Justin Volpe was sentenced to thirty years in prison for sodomizing detainee Abner Louima with the handle of a bathroom plunger.\n\nThe Chicago Police Department's Area 2 unit under Commander Jon Burge repeatedly used electroshock, near-suffocation by plastic bags and excessive beating on suspects in the 1970s and 1980s. The City of Chicago's Office of Professional Standards (OPS) concluded that the physical abuse was systematic and, \"The type of abuse described was not limited to the usual beating, but went into such esoteric areas as psychological techniques and planned torture.\" The Supermax facility at the Maine State Prison has been the scene of video-taped forcible extractions that Lance Tapley in the Portland Phoenix wrote \"look[ed] like torture.\"\n\nIn 2003 and 2004 there was substantial controversy over the \"stress and duress\" methods that were used in the U.S. War on Terrorism that had been sanctioned by the U.S. Executive branch of government at Cabinet level.\n\nAmnesty International and numerous commentators have accused the Military Commissions Act of 2006 of approving a system that uses torture, destroying the mechanisms for judicial review created by the Supreme Court ruling in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, and creating a parallel legal system below international standards.\n\nIn an interview with the \"Washington Post\", the convening authority of the Guantanamo military commissions, Susan J. Crawford, a retired judge, who was responsible for reviewing practices at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp, said of one Guantanamo Bay detainee, \"his treatment met the legal definition of torture, and that is why I did not refer the case\" for prosecution. The U.S. Government denies that torture is being conducted in the detention camps at Guantanamo Bay.\n\nIt was reported in June 2008 that, according to human rights lawyers, the USA was \"operating floating prisons to house those arrested in its war on terror\":\n\"According to research carried out by Reprieve, the US may have used as many as 17 ships as 'floating prisons' since 2001. Detainees are interrogated aboard the vessels and then rendered to other, often undisclosed, locations, it is claimed. Ships that are understood to have held prisoners include the USS Bataan and USS Peleliu. A further 15 ships are suspected of having operated around the British territory of Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean, which has been used as a military base by the UK and the Americans.\n\n... The Reprieve study includes the account of a prisoner released from Guantánamo Bay, who described a fellow inmate's story of detention on an amphibious assault ship. 'One of my fellow prisoners in Guantánamo was at sea on an American ship with about 50 others before coming to Guantánamo ... he was in the cage next to me. He told me that there were about 50 other people on the ship. They were all closed off in the bottom of the ship. The prisoner commented to me that it was like something you see on TV. The people held on the ship were beaten even more severely than in Guantánamo.'\"\n\nAfter an investigating visit to Uzbekistan, United Nations Special Rapporteur on Torture Theo van Boven concluded:\n\nForms of torture frequently cited include immersion in boiling water, exposure to extreme heat and cold, \"the use of electric shock, temporary suffocation, hanging by the ankles or wrists, removal of fingernails, punctures with sharp objects, rape, the threat of rape, and the threat of murder of family members.\" (For example, see Muzafar Avazov.)\n\nIn 2003, Britain's Ambassador for Uzbekistan, Craig Murray, said that information was being extracted under extreme torture from dissidents in that country, and that the information was subsequently being used by Britain and other western, democratic countries which disapproved of torture.\n\n"}
{"id": "50206441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50206441", "title": "Welcome", "text": "Welcome\n\nA welcome is a kind of greeting designed to introduce a person to a new place or situation, and to make them feel at ease. The term can similarly be used to describe the feeling of being accepted on the part of the new person.\n\nIn some contexts, a welcome is extended to a stranger to an area or a household. \"The concept of welcoming the stranger means intentionally building into the interaction those factors that make others feel that they belong, that they matter, and that you want to get to know them\". It is also noted, however, that \"[i]n many community settings, being welcoming is viewed as in conflict with ensuring safety. Thus, welcoming becomes somewhat self-limited: 'We will be welcoming unless you do something unsafe'\". A variety of different practices can go into an effort to welcome:\n\nIndications that visitors are welcome can occur at different levels. For example, a welcome sign, at the national, state, or municipal level, is a road sign at the border of a region that introduces or welcomes visitors to the region. A welcome sign might also be present for a specific community, or an individual building. One architect suggests that \"[a] primary distinction between a gateway and a Welcome sign is that the gateway is usually designed and built by an outsider, a developer or architect, while the Welcome sign has been designed and built by an inside member of the community\". A welcome mat is a doormat that welcomes visitors to a house or other building by providing them with a place to wipe their feet before entering.\n\nAnother community tradition, the welcome wagon, is traditionally a wagon containing a collection of useful gifts collected from residents of an area to welcome new people moving to that area.\n\n"}
