{"id": "2559736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2559736", "title": "Animal studies", "text": "Animal studies\n\nAnimal studies is a recently recognized field in which animals are studied in a variety of cross-disciplinary ways. Scholars who engage in animal studies may be formally trained in a number of diverse fields, including geography, art history, anthropology, biology, film studies, geography, history, psychology, literary studies, museology, philosophy, communication, and sociology. They may engage with questions about literal animals, or about notions of \"animality\" or \"brutality,\" employing various theoretical perspectives, including feminism, Marxist theory, and queer theory. Using these perspectives, those who engage in animal studies seek to understand both human-animal relations now and in the past, and to understand animals as beings-in-themselves, separate from our knowledge of them. Because the field is still developing, scholars and others have some freedom to define their own criteria about what issues may structure the field.\n\nAs an interdisciplinary subject, animal studies exists at the intersection of a number of different fields of study. Different fields began to turn to animals as an important topic at different times and for various reasons, and these separate disciplinary histories shape how scholars approach animal studies.\n\nIn part, animal studies developed out of the animal liberation movement and was grounded in ethical questions about co-existence with other species: whether it is moral to eat animals, to do scientific research on animals for human benefit, and so on. Animal studies scholars who explore the field from an ethical perspective frequently cite Australian philosopher Peter Singer's 1975 work, \"Animal Liberation\", as a founding document in animal studies. Singer's work followed Jeremy Bentham's by trying to expand utilitarian questions about pleasure and pain beyond humans to other sentient creatures.\n\nTheorists interested in the role of animals in literature, culture, and Continental philosophy also consider the late work of Jacques Derrida a driving force behind the rise of interest in animal studies in the humanities. Derrida's final lecture series, \"The Animal That Therefore I Am\", examined how interactions with animal life affect human attempts to define humanity and the self through language. Taking up Derrida's deconstruction and extending it to other cultural territory, Cary Wolfe published \"Animal Rites\" in 2003 and critiqued earlier animal rights philosophers such as Peter Singer and Thomas Regan. Wolfe's study points out an insidious humanism at play in their philosophies and others. Recently also the Italian philosopher Giorgio Agamben published a book on the question of the animal: \"The Open. Man and Animal\".\n\nResearchers in animal studies examine the questions and issues that arise when traditional modes of humanistic and scientific inquiry begin to take animals seriously as subjects of thought and activity. Students of animal studies may examine how humanity is defined in relation to animals, or how representations of animals create understandings (and misunderstandings) of other species. In order to do so, animal studies pays close attention to the ways that humans anthropomorphize animals, and asks how humans might avoid bias in observing other creatures. For instance, Donna Haraway's book, \"Primate Visions\", examines how dioramas created for the American Museum of Natural History showed family groupings that conformed to the traditional human nuclear family, which misrepresented the animals' observed behavior in the wild. Critical approaches in animal studies have also considered representations of non-human animals in popular culture, including species diversity in animated films.\n\nBy highlighting these issues, animal studies strives to re-examine traditional ethical, political, and epistemological categories in the context of a renewed attention to and respect for animal life. The assumption that focusing on animals might clarify human knowledge is neatly expressed in Claude Lévi-Strauss's famous dictum that animals are \"good to think.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49823773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49823773", "title": "Archaeo-optics", "text": "Archaeo-optics\n\nArchaeo-optics, or archaeological optics, is the study of the experience and ritual use of light by ancient peoples. Archaeological optics is a branch of sensory archaeology, which explores human perceptions of the physical environment in the remote past, and is a sibling of archaeoastronomy, which deals with ancient observations of celestial bodies, and archaeological acoustics, which deals with applications of sound.\n\nResearch by several investigators around the world has uncovered how ancient peoples encountered and used the camera obscura principle for a variety of purposes. In a darkened chamber, light passing through a small opening can create haunting and ephemeral moving images, which could have triggered and reinforced ground breaking modes of thought, forms of representation, and belief in otherworldly realms.\n\nVisible light, a small portion of the electromagnetic spectrum, encompasses wavelengths between 380-750 nanometers, which humans perceive as the colors of the spectrum: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet. Light behaves according to a well-defined set of rules: it travels in straight lines, unless otherwise refracted or reflected by another object, or curved by gravity.\n\nAn eye is essentially a darkened chamber with a small hole in front that allows light to enter. The lens, just behind the pupil’s aperture, is perfectly clear but appears black because the interior space behind it is dark. Rays of light pass through the lens, producing an upside-down image on the retina. The brain reorients the image. This optical process of projecting an inverted image is known as a camera obscura (from the Latin, meaning dark room). The first pinhole/camera obscura eyes evolved about 540 million years ago on a sea mollusk, known as a nautilus, during the Cambrian period. The camera obscura principle is primordial, and life on earth has evolved to take advantage of it.\n\nThe camera obscura principle is not limited to eyes, or even lenses, but works with a small hole, or aperture, and any darkened space of whatever size or shape. In modern times, camera obscuras have been fashioned from shoeboxes, oatmeal boxes, soda cans, cookie containers, seashells, eggshells, refrigerators, tents, trucks, airplane hangars, and even hollowed out forms of snow and dirt. A camera obscura can also be produced by a small hole in a roof, wall, or window-shutter through which the view of the outside is projected onto a wall inside a darkened room. Biologist Donald Perry went on an expedition into the rain forest of Costa Rica where he climbed into the cavity of a large hollow tree, and discovered a small hole that projected an upside-down image of the outside world onto the opposite interior wall of the trunk. This sort of experience is available across time.\n\nThe image created appears like an upside-down movie. A camera obscura relies on the contrast between the bright exterior world and a dim interior space, so that a greater contrast produces a more obvious projected image. Absolute darkness in the interior is not necessary, but there must be a significant difference between the two illumination levels.\n\nThe archaeological record is replete with excavations of built structures across time, but due to the natural decay of materials and the vagaries of preservation, the further backward in time, the less likely it is for artifacts to have survived. For example, Paleolithic shelter constructions from the Lower Paleolithic (c. 2,600,000 - 300,000 BP) and Middle Paleolithic (c. 300,000 - 45,000 BP) are generally less complete and thus subject to interpretation, while those dating to the Upper Paleolithic (c. 45,000- 10,000 BP) are both more numerous and better preserved. Paleolithic structures generally have no remaining superstructure, and must be inferred from a footprint of artifacts.\n\nBy contrast, some Neolithic structures retain above ground elements. The Neolithic saw the rise of agriculture and the establishment of settlements, which produced a surplus of foodstuffs and an increase in population density. A large, coordinated labor force enabled the process of hauling enormous stones to build large, permanent structures. By about 5000 BP, many groups of people over a widespread area were erecting large timbers and stones, or megaliths, to enclose communal spaces. Into historical times, the development of writing offered another layer of information, with descriptions of the physical appearance, materials, design, use, and events related to structures. This combination of remnants and records enhances the accuracy of archaeo-optical analysis.\n\nThere is some evidence that prehistorical structures oriented upon the sun's position on the horizon also created camera obscura situations. Examples in Western Europe include midwinter sunrise at Newgrange, midwinter sunset at Maeshowe, and midsummer sunrise at Bryn Celli Ddu.\n\nWhile archaeoastronomical studies have traditionally discussed these kinds of monument as observatories, fieldwork conducted in the 1990s at Balnuaran of Clava by Ronnie Scott and Tim Phillips suggests the midwinter sunset would have cast images inside two passage tombs. By temporarily reconstructing the collapsed roofs of these monuments, they noted that the act of viewing the sun along their passageways was not only potentially blinding but could only be clearly viewed by one person at a time. In contrast, an audience of over twenty people could stand with their backs to the opening to observe the effects of sunlight falling upon deliberately patterned stonework built into walls of both chambers. These observations inspired Scott to speculate that these structures were camera obscuras, and that an optical projection of the sun’s disc would reproduce the movements of the sun through the sky for many people to see at once.\n\nArchaeological optics contributes to a wider discipline, the archaeology of the senses. Rather than just recording the remains of the past such as standing stones or built walls, this wider discipline emphasizes how the spaces in-between these features could have been arenas for sensory experiences, even if parts of the original structures have disappeared. Among the senses, vision has been a major consideration, including studies of visibility between sites, interactions with geology and topography, archaeoastronomical alignment, or color symbolism. At the same time, anthropology has revealed societies that emphasize the other senses including qualities such as scent and smell. The social significance of the sensory of food and drink, and touch and texture can also be considered.\n\nOther studies have examined archaeomusicology and archaeoacoustics. Palaeolithic bone artifacts have been interpreted as musical instruments, or ‘sound producing devices’, while some natural features within caves have been found to emit unusual sounds. There have also been suggestions that Paleolithic cave art clusters in locations where caverns have especially resonant properties. In the 1990s the sonic properties of built architecture came under increasing scrutiny with investigations into vocally induced resonances inside chambered Neolithic sites, as well as the wider acoustic phenomenon within a variety of megalithic structures.\n\nAn archaeology of the senses, including archaeological optics, emphasizes that the past was inhabited by living people whose experiences were inherently partial and subjective. Indeed, this subjectivity might have lent both meaning and mystery to events occurring within ancient structures. This acknowledges that the senses were likely to have been used and understood in very different ways by people through time.\n\nThe study of ancient perceptions of light developed from many disparate sources — archaeologists, artists, antiquarians, and astronomers — with precursors reaching back at least a millennium. In 1998, archaeologist Ronnie Scott speculated that Neolithic passage tombs in Scotland might have been used as camera obscuras. In 2000, Robert Temple published an investigation into crystal lenses that date to antiquity.\n\nArchaeo-optics, as yet unnamed, arose as a formal line of inquiry beginning in 2005, with a presentation by Matt Gatton and his colleagues of “The Camera Obscura and the Origin of Art” at the University of Louisville, Kentucky. They made subsequent presentations at the University of Lisbon in 2006, and Archaeology Institute at Oxford University in 2007. A small number of researchers independently began to undertake archaeological optics fieldwork at Neolithic passage tombs. In 2011, Morgan Saletta published a paper noting camera obscura projections at two sites in the south of France. In 2011, Gatton began documenting optical projections at sites in Denmark. Aaron Watson, in collaboration with Ronnie Scott, began to record the archaeo-optic properties of monuments in Scotland in 2012, and Wales in 2014.\n\nSince 2011, the concept of archaeological optics as a broader academic field has coalesced with Constantinos Papadopoulos and Holley Moyes’s planning of the Oxford Handbook of Light in Archaeology, which brought researchers working along similar lines into contact.\n\nThe Lower Paleolithic was a time of early humans such as Homo habilis and Homo erectus. Possible indications of the early development of shelter construction during the Lower Paleolithic come from excavations at Olduvai Gorge, Melka Kunturé, Pont-de-Lavaud, Isernia La Pineta, Maozhushan, Bilzingsleben, and Terra Amata.\n\nThe Middle Paleolithic saw Homo erectus decline as Homo neanderthalensis developed in Eurasia, and Homo sapiens developed in Africa. Possible evidence of shelter construction in the Middle Paleolithic can be found at sites such as Port-Pignot, Saint-Vaast-la-Hougue, Le Lazaret, La Baume des Peyrards, Combe Grenal, La Butte d’Arvigny, La Folie, La Ferrassie, Biśnek, Vilas Ruivas, Ripiceni-Izvor, and Molodava I.\n\nThe Upper Paleolithic saw the expansion of Homo sapiens and the dwindling and ultimate extinction of Homo neanderthalensis. The best examples of Upper Paleolithic shelter practices come from excavations at such places as Kostienki, Cueva Morín, Grotte du Renne, Vigne-Brune, Dolní Věstonice, Les Peyrugues, Mezin, Ohalo II, Mal'ta, Le Cerisier, Plateau Perrain, Gontsy, Mezhirich, Gönnersdorf, Pincevent, and Borneck.\n\nThe actual physical evidence of Paleolithic shelters is limited to permanent materials like stone and bone. No wooden post or animal hide has been found, because these materials disintegrate over the course of time. But the existence of the perishable elements can be established. Postholes prove the existence of the wooden supports. The alignment of the holes or a circle of support stones describes a footprint of a framework. The area covered by flint scattered from blade work, and other household activities, further demarcates the interior shape of the structure.\n\nThe types of stones, bones, and minerals found at the campsites further describe the use of animal hides as tent covering. Butchered and burned animal bones found around the fire pit show which types of animals were hunted and eaten. Stone tools such as hide scrapers and deposits of minerals employed in preparing skins show the routine use of animal hides. In addition, there are a host of ethnographic parallels, as indigenous cultures throughout the world relied on animal hides as a shelter covering material until the onset of the modern era.\n\nThe people of the Paleolithic existed prior to agriculture and the domestication of animals, and they would have lived as small bands of hunter-gatherers, moving from place to place, exploiting plant, animal, and mineral resources. Two of the factors that influenced choice of location were proximity to fresh water and animal migration routes. Paleolithic foragers would also set up camp overlooking fields inhabited by herds of hoofed herbivores.\n\nPaleolithic campsites were characterized by repeated, seasonal, short-term occupation. While the inhabitants were quite mobile, without beasts of burden, shelters were not transported. A tent might stand at its location for a few years before it deteriorated and had to be rebuilt. The archaeological record describes shelters rebuilt over-and-over on roughly the same spot. Bands of Paleolithic hunter-gatherers followed an annual circuit with shelters built at strategic points along the way.\n\nPaleolithic campsites were dotted with external fire pits and internal hearths. The internal hearths were not open-burning fires, but were hollow areas that held heated stones and charcoal. The hearths acted as heat sinks, or heat traps, where thermal energy was stored and released slowly over time, to keep the dwelling warm. Hot stones and charcoals would be rolled, with sticks or bones, onto a thick animal hide and conveyed a couple of meters from the fire pit to the hearth. The next day the task would be repeated: hearths were taken apart and reassembled routinely. Frequent heating caused the rocks to discolor and crumble. Once a rock was no longer effective at holding heat, it was thrown in a nearby refuse pit along with animal bones and other household waste. An internal stone hearth is an effective strategy for staying warm, but it did not provide any light. The interiors of the tents were then dim places, where ancient people would have witnessed the camera obscura effect.\n\nPaleolithic archaeological optics involves investigations into the image projection capacities of Paleolithic tent reconstructions.\n\nThe suitability of Paleolithic tents/shelters for coincidental camera obscura formation was explored during a set of experiments under the direction of Matt Gatton in 2005 and 2006. The first set of experiments took place on a bison ranch in Oldham County, Kentucky, where a small, rudimentary bison hide teepee was erected next to a pasture, and images of the bison were cast through a hole in the hides and projected into the tent. The second set of experiments occurred at a rock shelter outside of Irvine, Estill County, Kentucky, where the investigators leaned a framework of tree branches against a rock wall and covered it with bison hides. The image of a horse outside was projected through a rough hole in the hides and into the interior space. The third set of experiments took place at the Musée du Malgré-Tout in Belgium, where archaeologists Pierre Cattelain and Claire Bellier reconstructed a variety of Paleolithic structures in several places in France, Germany and Ukraine. A smattering of holes was present in the hide coverings of each tent. At the German site, images were projected inside the reconstruction onto a rabbit hide.\n\nThe tent reconstructions established some plausibility of accidental camera obscura formation during the Paleolithic, but plausibility is not probability, so the question of the probable frequency of projected images was explored by Bayesian statistical modeling.\n\nTo evaluate the probability of an unknown event a series of conditional probabilities were used to create a chance tree using TreeAge Pro 2011 (Williamstown, MA). The conditions affecting the appearance of projected images are the general context of the shelter, aperture existence, aperture size, sunlight exposure, weather, occupancy, and the specific context of the dwelling. Given the different situations regarding variables; the probability of a person observing a projected image inside a Palaeolithic dwelling ranged from 1% to 8% per day, or 4 to 29 times per year. Multiplying the yearly occurrences by the range of years and the estimated human population; camera obscura images could have been observed anywhere from 54.8 billion to 4.38 trillion times (5.48x10 to 4.38x10) over the course of prehistory.\n\nThe likely prevalence of prehistoric camera obscuras throughout the human experience suggests several important implications for the development of art, religious beliefs, philosophy and existing cave art.\n\nThe origins of art have been a significant mystery, because art, as a form of communication, is largely a social construct. The core issue is that there can be no intention to represent an object or scene without first knowing that such a depiction is possible. Researchers have encountered great difficulty coming up with explanations of how prehistoric people first stumbled upon the idea of the possibility of representation. The archaeo-optical explanation is that images projected inside a dwelling space provided, according to Cambridge professor Nigel Spivey, “… a prototypical visual experience that triggers the concept of representation…” In addition, the images would be shared experiences, visible by everyone in the tent or structure at the same time. The group could thus collectively experience, discuss, verify, confirm, investigate, and interpret the images projected on the surfaces before them. It is the communal aspect of the images that makes the development of visual art socially feasible.\n\n“A randomly projected image stands for a real object; it says bison without being a flesh and blood bison, planting the idea of a referent, the conceptual beginning of art.” -Matt Gatton\n\nIt is also possible that camera obscura images could have fostered religious belief. A broad definition of religion is a belief in an alternative realm that influences physical reality. Theologian Rudolf Otto held that the origins of religion are to be found in the concept of the sacred, the divine presenting itself as something “wholly other” (ganz andere). The images projected in Paleolithic tents would have offered an early gateway to the concept of an alternative realm, a glimpse of an \"other\", that initiated a belief in something that was not seen moment to moment. The images, once seen, lingered in the mind, and took root in the culture.\n\n“The camera’s image instantly splits a quasi-reality away from reality, peeling off an ‘other’ from the ‘is’; instilling the very idea that animals, plants, and humans have existences in other forms, spirits, on other planes.” - Matt Gatton\n\nOnce the concept of an alternative realm had taken root, it would have provided a domain for agents of an \"other\" world to intervene in human affairs. The notion of spirit forms is the very root of animism, the oldest known, and perhaps first, form of religion. The incidental image is possibly the first glimpse of the \"divine\".\n\nThe core issue of metaphysics is the investigation of the nature of reality. The images in a Paleolithic tent would trigger a cascade of thoughts about the essence of reality: What is \"that\" plane of existence? And reflexively, what is \"this\" plane? Only by glimpsing an alternative reality does this reality become open to question — the very start of abstract examination.\n\nThe projections by camera obscura can also explain some common features among cave paintings of animals and people. Paleolithic cave art is well known for iconic, schematicized figures, usually with extremely small heads and enormous, often bowed, bodies. Examples of the core elements of some Paleolithic cultures’ visual lexicon — repetition, disconnection, movement, superimposition, and distortion — are expressed in engravings on flat stones and bones within the habitation sites and also on the walls of deep caves.\n\nIn May 2005, Matt Gatton, Walter Brock, and Dylan Brock set up a room-sized camera obscura on a farm in Harrodsburg, Kentucky. The image of a horse was projected on to a small flat stone. It was natural for the artist to catch the image with his torso, the engraving stone secured against the body, and the eyes looking down on the inverted image. In this scenario it was advantageous to tilt the stone slightly. The more the stone was tilted the more the image of the animal distorted, the animal’s head reducing in size and the stomach bowing downward, quite like the distortions seen in some deep cave art. This distortion is known as the keystone effect. Gatton proposed that the deep cave distortions may have resulted from the camera obscura effects within the tents.\n\nThe hypothesis that paleolithic people would have seen camera obscura effects within their shelters—Gatton’s Paleolithic Camera Obscura Theory—has gained wider exposure in the last several years, including specific references in the following venues.\n\n\n\nThe Neolithic period offers the possibility to explore optical image projections within built architecture. Neolithic structures range from modest houses to enormous enclosures and mounds, and were constructed using combinations of earth, timber and stone. Archaeo-optic fieldwork has focused upon megalithic monuments.\n\nMegaliths, or large stones, come in two main types of architectural presentations: freestanding and earth-covered. Individual and groupings of standing stones — in formations of circles, lines, ovals, ‘U’-shapes, or rectangles — were not employed to support the weight of soil above them, but served as markers. Megalithic chambers designed to bear the weight of a mound of earth, turf, rubble or stone have been classified into groups, including dolmens, portal dolmens, gallery graves, wedge tombs, passage tombs, and court tombs. The term \"dolmen\" describes groupings of erected stones supporting one large, flat roof stone, like an oversized rudimentary table. \"Portal dolmens\" have an angled stone slab supported by uprights that define a chamber, often with an entrance. \"Gallery\" graves are elongated dolmens consisting of two rows of upright stones (orthostats) supporting a series of flat roof stones (lintels). \"Wedge\" tombs are wider at the mouth, and narrower as they recede inward. \"Passage tombs\" have a long boulder-built passage that leads to a buried chamber. \"Court\" tombs are so-named because they have what appears to be a courtyard encircled by standing stones in front of the tomb chamber. Although many of these structures now appear as freestanding monuments, their stones were often the skeletal substructures of mounds removed by erosion or human action.\n\nA major focus for megalithic chambers is in western Europe: Scandinavia, the British Isles, France, and Iberia. Their origin, chronology and purpose is a subject of ongoing research and debate. In fact, they are not limited to Europe, and are found across Eurasia and the entire globe. Their significance in past cultures is suggested by the labor and resources required to create them. The painstakingly and intricately constructed mounds were significant feats, requiring tens of thousands of hours to construct. For example, it has been speculated that a workforce of 400 working continuously for two months every year would have taken around 16 years to construct the 200,000 tonne cairn at Newgrange.\n\nIn the British Isles and Ireland it is possible that many different kinds of chambered monument, including those constructed from timber, may have been suited to the creation of optical phenomenon. Recent studies have focused upon one format in particular: the megalithic passage tomb.\n\nPassage tombs comprise a single stone-built passageway that gives access to a central chamber, and there may be adjoining chambers or cells. This structure is entirely covered by a mound that might consist of earth, rubble, turf or clay. Their distribution extends across the west of Europe. Determining the exact numbers of these sites is problematic due to the poor preservation of many. There are over one hundred and fifty proven passage tombs in Ireland, with an overall estimate of over three hundred in total, roughly five hundred in Denmark, and over 250 in Scotland. Their classification has been further divided into groups such as the Orkney-Cromarty, Maeshowe and Clava traditions, but all retain the same fundamental format. Their construction likely began in the earlier Neolithic soon after 5600 BP and extends to around 4000 BP at excavated examples of Clava Cairn passage tombs, but this need not imply that they were constructed or used throughout this time.\n\nThe survival of passage tombs is variable and dependent upon many factors. The excavation of two later Neolithic passage graves at Balnuaran of Clava demonstrated that their architecture was inherently unstable and would have likely collapsed within decades of their construction. Earlier examples, including the Orkney-Cromarty format, appear to generally have been more robust. Passage tombs could also be reused in later times, including the Iron Age and early Medieval, and their Neolithic content was sometimes removed. Some were destroyed when new structures were built upon them. Most have required consolidation, reconstruction or strengthening to allow public access. In the Boyne Valley, Newgrange and Knowth have undergone significant excavation and restoration. In Orkney, the roof of the chamber within Maeshowe has been restored following damage caused by Vikings in the twelfth century. In some cases, recent building work has significantly altered their appearance, a critical factor that has to be taken into account when observing and interpreting optical phenomena within their passages and chambers.\n\nPassage tombs across Europe have long been a focus for myths and legends. Medieval lore has it that wizards, giants, witches, or demons erected the great stones, and that the mounds were the homes of gnomes, elves, faeries, and goblins. In Denmark, passage graves are still referred to as jættestuer (troll houses). An analysis of Irish folk tales revealed that megalithic mounds both served as the burial places of ancient heroes, and were the abodes of supernatural beings.\n\nMany passage tombs do indeed contain the remains of the dead—sometimes in significant quantities. For example, excavations at Quanterness revealed the bones of 157 individuals of various ages, but the total number held within the tomb may have been nearer to 400. Animal remains and artifacts are also found at some sites, including beads, stone balls and pottery.\n\nIt appears that burial was not the sole function of passage \"tombs\". Some sites contain little evidence of human remains, although this could reflect their subsequent histories, while others have evidence for activities by the living. Fires were burnt within sites in Orkney and at Knowth, Dowth and Newgrange in Ireland there are examples where images were carved in situ upon stones within their interiors. The passages at a number of sites align with sunrise or sunset at pivotal times of the year causing their otherwise darkened chambers to be illuminated. Many demonstrate extraordinary acoustic properties. Together, these factors suggest that passage tombs might be interpreted as venues for diverse activities that involved both the living and the dead.\n\nThe principal fieldwork exploring the optical properties of passage tombs has been conducted by Matt Gatton in Denmark, Morgan Saletta in France, Aaron Watson in Wales, Aaron Watson and Ronnie Scott in Scotland, and Eva Bosch in Spain.\n\nThe format of passage tombs is uniquely suited to the creation and control of optical projections. These structures reproduce the fundamental format of a camera obscura and fieldwork has demonstrated that they can indeed have remarkable projection capabilities. The chamber offers a dark space while the single passageway enables the movement of light to be closely controlled. In some cases their basic configuration alone is sufficient to cast a projection, and a small number offer mechanisms through which light can be closely controlled. For example, the roof-box at Newgrange has evidence for the repeated relocation of quartz blocks that could have been used to manipulate optical projections. In the majority of cases, however, additional apertures were required.\n\nThe entrances at many passage tombs appear to have been temporarily sealed in a variety of ways: boulders, slabs, blocks, planks or wooden frameworks, as evidenced by postholes by the entrance. Maeshowe has a recess near to the passage entrance that holds a carefully balanced portal stone that can be pivoted into place. This leaves a narrow gap between the top of this block and the passage lintels, thereby allowing light to enter even when the passageway is impassable to people. In contrast, the roof box at Newgrange is situated above the passageway, as is a comparable feature within Cairn G at Carrowkeel. These apertures could be operated independently to the passages. Even in the absence of such devices only minor additions - stone blocks, a hole in a wooden plank, or an animal hide hung between posts at the entrance - are required to convert the monument into an operational camera obscura. The passage serves as a conduit for light and the rear of the chamber acts as a projection surface.\n\nThe character of optical projections within passage tombs is determined by a number of interconnected factors. Lighting inside the monument needs to be low but total darkness is not always required, depending on the relative brightness outside. Observations at the Grey Cairns of Camster by Aaron Watson and Ronnie Scott showed that it was possible to cast projections in fog, rain and under heavy cloud, but that such conditions significantly impaired their clarity. The size and brightness of projections can be adjusted both by modifying the size of the aperture and moving the aperture plane itself in relation to the focal plane, which is frequently the wall of the chamber aligned with the passageway. Increasing the focal distance by moving the aperture along the passage increases the size of the projection but also reduces its brightness. Reducing the aperture diameter results in a more focused, but increasingly dark, image. A further contributing factor is the texture of the surface upon which the image is projected. For example, observations by Aaron Watson have revealed that the slab that constitutes the back wall of the chamber at Bryn Celli Ddu is smooth enough to carry a detailed image. In contrast, projections inside Cuween Hill fall upon rough stone walling, requiring the distance between the aperture and focal plane to be increased, thereby enlarging the image in order to render it visible.\n\nWhen aligned upon the sun, a properly configured passage tomb is capable of casting an enlarged image of the solar disc. As long as the aperture remains static this projected solar disc will move along the wall as the sun moves across the sky. During sunrise, for example, the sun’s image will appear to travel across the chamber and then out along the walls of the passageway. Gatton has suggested that images carved upon the chamber walls of Cairn T at Loughcrew may reproduce these movements of the sun’s disc.\n\nIn 2011, archaeologist Morgan Saletta reported solar projections within the sites of Grotte de Bounias and Grotte de la Source during equinoctial sunsets. These were a result of the architectural format of these monuments creating sufficiently restricted apertures to cast a distinct, though unfocused, projection.\n\nDuring the time of midsummer sunrise in 2014 and 2015, Aaron Watson documented solar projections within Bryn Celli Ddu. By locating the aperture close to the chamber it was possible to cast a distinct image of nearby trees and the rising sun, together framed by the outline of the passage. In contrast, relocating the aperture to the passage entrance significantly enlarged the sun’s disc to a diameter of 10 cm.\n\nIf a passage tomb is aligned upon another monument, the camera obscura method can be used to project recognisable images of that monument into the chamber. For example, while the setting sun shines directly into Maeshowe’s chamber when the sun is at its southwestern extreme (winter solstice sunset), there is also a reverse alignment (summer solstice sunrise) when the sun is at its northeastern extreme. This will illuminate the distant Barnhouse Stone such that its image could be projected inside Maeshowe’s chamber.\n\nAt Balnuaran of Clava, two neighbouring passage tombs share a south-westerly axis in order that their passageways open towards the midwinter sunset. Not only does the cairn to the south-west appear centrally framed when looking down the passage from that to the north-east, but fieldwork by Ronnie Scott and Tim Phillips has documented how the midwinter setting sun appears to descend directly into the apex of its roof.\n\nMany passage tombs are set in elevated situations with extensive views, or even focused upon distinctive topographic features. These would therefore appear within optical projections inside their chambers. Aaron Watson has documented optical projections inside Cuween Hill, Orkney, that feature expansive views across the Bay of Firth. Inside the Dwarfie Stane, also in Orkney, it is possible to cast a panoramic image of the uplands of Hoy.\n\nWhile the majority of passage tombs may have lost their lintels and roofs it is possible to consider the views that may originally have been projected into their chambers. For example, the ruinous site of Badnabay, north-west Scotland, appears to be aligned upon a mountain with a distinctive profile.\n\nReflected sunlight can illuminate people located within passage tomb forecourts, creating what Gatton has described as \"spirit\" projections due to their ephemeral, spectral qualities. When backlit these figures appear as dark silhouettes, but at those times when the sun is behind the monument, and the forecourt area brightly lit, they are enhanced in color and detail. Aaron Watson has photographed optical projections of people inside Cuween Hill, Wideford Hill, Vinquoy Hill, the Dwarfie Stane and the Grey Cairns of Camster.\n\nCamera obscura projections are animated in a manner akin to cinematography and, while projected human figures appear upside down and back to front, they move in real time. This creates distinctive illusions where individuals, or even groups of people, can appear to emerge from the chamber wall. As the angles between the external subject and the aperture become increasingly oblique, projections can also be cast upon the floor, walls and ceiling of a monument. This can create the illusion of a human shadow moving through the passage tomb.\n\nPassage tomb architecture spatially constrains the number of people who can simultaneously occupy their chambers, effectively restricting access to specialist kinds of knowledge and unusual combinations of sensory experience. Whether these sites embody astronomical orientations, occupy special places in the landscape, or acted as the receptacles for ancestral remains, the camera obscura theory expands the significance and meaning of light entering these monuments.\n\nInverted images of the outside world, viewed by people located in the depths of a megalithic cairn, would very effectively generate a sense of \"otherness\". Furthermore, people in the Neolithic did not share present-day knowledge of optical physics, and would have had their own understandings. Even from a scientific perspective, however, the act of witnessing the projection of the sun’s disc, or human figures emerging from a stone wall, is rather suggestive of an encounter with the supernatural. It has been suggested that projections of the sun may have been interpreted as the manifestation of a Neolithic solar deity.\n\nFinally, optical projections converge with other sensory qualities of these places, potentially including the presence of the remains of the dead, rock art, and dynamic archaeo-acoustic sound effects. There is also a possibility that these kinds of experiences were combined and choreographed in order to maximize their theatrical impact upon an audience. Rather than silent places of the death, passage tombs may have acted as places where people could engage with powerful multi-sensory experiences that transported their occupants to other dimensions, or brought them into the presence of forces that are difficult to imagine in the present day.\n\nThe Ancient Egyptians may have also witnessed—and recorded—camera obscura effects. Ancient Egyptian texts, known collectively as the Books of the Netherworld, describe pharaonic funerary complexes as sun-powered resurrection machines that somehow affected a merger of the pharaoh's soul with the sun god. The continuation of the entire cosmos was dependent upon the sun god who was regenerated in darkness.\n\nThe ancient Egyptian concept of the pharaonic soul was complicated and divided into several aspects. The \"ka\" aspect was a spirit double, created at birth, with the physical appearance of the person. After death, the \"ka\" would leave the body and travel through the underworld at night and return to its physical representation (the mummy, statue, or artworks) each morning. Pharaonic mortuary temples, which faced east toward the dawn sun and were affixed to the side of pyramids during the pyramid building era, featured a darkened inner sanctuary with a \"ka\" statue of the pharaoh. When the sun rose on the horizon, its rays would travel down the central passageway of the temple, and project the image of the sun onto the \"ka\" and, conversely, reflect the \"ka\" back to the sun, uniting the two. This is the conceptual leap that underpins Ancient Egyptian culture — the pharaoh’s soul road on a beam of light.\n\nMystery religions dominated the Mediterranean sphere during classical antiquity. The foremost Mystery sect was the hallowed rite of the Goddess Persephone at Eleusis, Greece, which held sway for nearly two thousand years (from at least 1500 BCE until the end of fourth century CE). The Eleusinian Mysteries started out as a small localized religion, grew steadily, and were adopted as part of the state religion of nearby Athens around 600 BCE.\n\nInside the dark cavernous temple was a sacred smaller building that held cult objects, normally sculptural idols, and a very bright fire. In the temple, the initiates had a direct face-to-face experience with the gods, who appeared as phantoms of light. Plato describes initiates experiencing “perfect, simple, calm, and blissful apparitions [eudaímona phásmata] in a pure light …” (Phaedrus 250c).\n\nThe optical principle of the camera obscura — an image cast into a dark area from an adjacent bright area via a small aperture — works irrespective of the scale of the dark and light areas. If the inside of a room is made very bright and the outside is very dark then a hole will cast the image from the smaller space to the larger, rather like a movie projector in a theater. Matt Gatton has proposed the priests (or priestesses) at Eleusis had operated a rudimentary projection booth, an \"Eleusinian Projector\", where the priest’s holy fire-room acted as the box of light and the dark cavernous space crowded with initiates was the theater.\n\n“The initiates were not directing their attention toward the priest or the sacred house, but looking the other direction at spectral images that they believed were gods, shining and moving about…” -Matt Gatton\n\nPapadopoulos C. and Moyes, H., eds. (2016). The Oxford Handbook of Light in Archaeology. Oxford: Oxford University Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "31765330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31765330", "title": "Art Historical Photo Archives", "text": "Art Historical Photo Archives\n\nArt historical photo archives (or photoarchives) are collections of reproductions of works of art that document paintings, drawings, prints, sculpture, architecture and sometimes installation photos. They are essential resource tools for the study of art history. Image collections deepen understanding of specific objects of art and the careers of individual artists as they also provide the means for a comparative approach to the study of artists’ works, national schools and period styles. The documentation that accompanies the images can also reveal patterns of art collecting, art market fluctuations and the changeable nature of public opinion. Photo archives build their collections and gather documentation for the works of art they record through purchases, gifts and photography campaigns. Information about ownership, condition, attribution, and subject identification is recorded at the time of acquisition and is frequently updated.\n\nThe founders of important art historical photo archives believed that a deep and broad visual knowledge was necessary for the study of art history. These pioneers, including Richard Hamann, Aby Warburg, Sir Robert Witt, William Martin Conway, Bernard Berenson, Cornelis Hofstede de Groot and Helen Clay Frick, were the first to realize the potential of photography as a means to provide researchers with materials that strengthen the documentation and interpretation of works of art. The photo archives they founded in the first half of the 20th century, now part of FotoMarburg, the Warburg Institute, the Witt Library, Villa I Tatti, the Rijksbureau voor Kunsthistorische Documentatie, and the Frick Art Reference Library Photoarchive, are still used by countless researchers in the first half of the 21st century.\n\n\nIn 2009 the Courtauld Institute in collaboration with the Kunsthistorisches Institut in Florenz organized a series of conferences that were held in London, Florence and New York to discuss the future of photo archives. They felt that an examination of the origins of photo archives can help guide and shape their future and, at the same time, convey to the uninitiated how image resources continue to be used as essential elements for art historical research. Few doubt that if Helen Frick, Robert Witt, or W.M. Conway had lived to see the potential of digitizing the photo archives they established in the 1920s, they would have dedicated enormous resources and careful thought to realizing the digital future. However, there is a problem for photo archives in that currently they have no copyright claim to the majority of the images in their collection and thus they are unable to display them on the web. It is therefore now their task to develop and promote a new model for access and use of these extraordinary resources that will maximize the opportunities of current and future technical advances in a way that suits the demands of today’s scholars. This selection process, which is implicit in digitization projects and will inevitably exclude some images, renders the analog archive as indispensable as ever in the digital era. Whatever the method of delivery, whether the photograph itself or its digital surrogate, photo archives remain essential to the study of art history. The conferences produced the Florence Declaration, which made several recommendations for the preservation of analogue photo archives. As of May 2011, nearly 500 scholars had signed the Declaration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46994286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46994286", "title": "Beyond Boundaries: Religion, Region, Language and the State", "text": "Beyond Boundaries: Religion, Region, Language and the State\n\nBeyond Boundaries: Religion, Region, Language and the State is a project funded by the European Research Council with research carried out at the British Museum, the British Library, SOAS, University of London, and Leiden University. The leading researchers are Dr. Michael Willis, Dr. Sam van Schaik, Dr. Nathan W. Hill and Dr. Peter Bisschop. The project was one of thirteen synergy grants awarded in 2013 and the only synergy grant in the humanities for that year. The project will run from 2014 to 2020.\n\nThe project is focussing on the history and culture of early medieval India, specifically the period of the Gupta dynasty (\"circa\" 320-510 CE). Although characterised as a ‘golden age’ in modern scholarship — and marked by developments that shaped South Asia for more than a thousand years — research on this pivotal moment is fragmented and compartmentalised. The purpose of the project is to move beyond these limitations and to recover a more compelling picture of this influential period and its impact on India and her neighbours. The project achieves this aim through the development of online research tools, a series of workshops, and publications.\n\nThe project is interdisciplinary in design and aims to: \n\nConcerns about prevailing 'silos of knowledge' emerged primarily in management studies in the 1990s. This analysis has had little impact beyond the commercial sector, however, especially in cultural and historical research where modern nation states, regional languages, and established disciplinary protocols have reinforced the status quo. In moving beyond these constraints, three research themes have been developed to cross the disciplines and regions covered by the project. The project design involves making all core data and analysis freely available online.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36523419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36523419", "title": "Bongo-Bongo (linguistics)", "text": "Bongo-Bongo (linguistics)\n\nBongo-Bongo in linguistics is used as a name for an imaginary language. It is most commonly invoked in etymological studies to conceptualize random similarities between unrelated languages. It has also been used as a name for a constructed language invented by John Lyons as a teaching tool in linguistics.\n\nRandom similarities occur between related and unrelated languages and these are commonly disregarded in the academic study of etymology. The widespread habit of unscientific researches to look for such coincidental similarities and proclaim them as proof of genetic relationship has given rise to the term \"Bongo-Bongo approach\" or \"Bongo-Bongo effect\". For example, when comparing random surface forms in Basque and Hungarian (which are known to be unrelated languages), \"pairings\" such as \"hegi\" (Basque for \"ridge\") and \"hegy\" (Hungarian for \"hill\") are easily found but ultimately meaningless in terms of etymology without additional historical linguistic research and data.\n\nThe concept can also be found occasionally in anthropology where the \"Bongo-Bongo\" are sarcastically used as an imaginary tribe or ethnicity (or by extension, Bongo Bongo Land).\n\n"}
{"id": "33184014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33184014", "title": "Cannibalization of fiction", "text": "Cannibalization of fiction\n\nCannibalization of fiction refers to adapting, borrowing or stealing plots, characters, themes or ideas from one story for use in another or from one medium to another, such as a film adaptation of a book.\n\nAuthors Michael Baigent and Richard Leigh alleged that fellow author Dan Brown had cannibalised their book \"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail\" in writing \"The Da Vinci Code\".\n\nThe \"Doctor Who\" television episode \"Dalek\" is an example of legitimate cannibalisation, the writer having adapted elements of the \"Doctor Who\" audio drama \"Jubilee\" for this television episode.\n\n"}
{"id": "1874535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1874535", "title": "Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies", "text": "Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies\n\nThe Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies (CCCS) was a research centre at the University of Birmingham, England. It was founded in 1964 by Richard Hoggart, its first director. From 1964 to 2002, the Centre played a major role in developing the field of cultural studies.\n\nThe Centre was the focus for what became known as the Birmingham School of Cultural Studies, or, more generally, 'British cultural studies'. After its first director, Richard Hoggart departed in 1968, the Centre was led by Stuart Hall (1969-1979). He was succeeded by Richard Johnson (1980-1987). The Birmingham CCCS approach to culture and politics evolved from a complex moment within British post-war history: the rise of the anti-Stalinist New Left; the promotion of adult education in Britain after World War II; the \"Americanization\" of British popular culture and the growth of mass communication in the decades after 1945; the growing multiculturalism of British society; and, the eventual influence within British academia of new critical methods like semiotics and structuralism. Drawing on a variety of influences (feminism, structuralism, Marxism - - especially the work of Louis Althusser and Antonio Gramsci, sociology, critical race theory, and post-structuralism), over the course of several decades the Centre pioneered a variety of approaches to the study of culture, including: ideological analysis; studies of working-class cultures and subcultures; the role of media audiences; feminist cultural research; hegemonic struggles in state politics; and the place of race in social and cultural processes. The history of this development can be found in the series of stencilled occasional papers the Centre published between 1973 and 1988. \nThe Centre produced many key studies and developed the careers of prominent researchers and academics. Stuart Hall, who became the centre's director in 1968, developed his seminal \"Encoding/Decoding\" model here. Of special importance is the collective research that led to Policing the Crisis (1978), a study of law and order campaigns that focused on \"mugging\" (a code for street violence). This anticipated many of the law and order themes of Margaret Thatcher's Conservative government in the 1980s. Other noted Centre books include 'Off-Centre: Feminism and Cultural Studies'; 'Resistance through Rituals'; 'The Empire Strikes Back'; 'Border Patrols: Policing the Boundaries of Heterosexuality'.\n\nRichard Johnson was later director and encouraged research in social and cultural history. The centre staff included Maureen McNeil, noted theorist of culture and science, Michael Green who focused on media, cultural policy and regional cultures in the midlands, and Ann Gray, culture and media.\n\nGraduates and associates of the Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies and the Department of Cultural Studies include: Paul Gilroy (King's College London) theorist of culture and race, Angela McRobbie (Goldsmiths) theorist of consumption, femininity and popular culture, Celia Lury (Goldsmiths) feminist theory and consumption, Jackie Stacey (University of Manchester), film, cancer culture and science in culture, Sarah Franklin (LSE) science as culture, Debbie Epstein (University of Cardiff), education, childhood and youth studies, sexuality and popular culture, Peter Redman (The Open University) masculinities, psychoanalytic theory, Mary Jane Kehily (The Open University) childhood and youth studies, Joyce Canaan (City University, Birmingham) cultures of higher education, Anoop Nayak (Newcastle University) geographies of race, Deborah Lynn Steinberg (Warwick University) science cultures, sexuality and popular culture, Hilary Pilkington (Warwick University) Russia and youth subcultures, Sue Wright (Danish Pedagogic University) cultures of higher education, Hazel Carby (Yale) race and literature, David Parker (Nottingham University), Mica Nava (University of East London) media studies, Graham Dawson (University of Brighton) historical cultural studies, Chris Griffin (Bath University) girls and youth cultures, and Adrian Kear (Aberystwith University) performance studies and psychoanalysis, Kevin J. Brehony (Roehampton University) historical studies of educational ideologies.\n\nEmpirical researchers included David Morley and Charlotte Brunsdon, who produced \"The Nationwide Project\" at the Centre. Dorothy Hobson's research about the reception of \"Crossroads\" was based on her MA dissertation. Another important empirical researcher is Paul Willis, who received his PhD from the CCCS in 1972 and stayed as a researcher there until 1981.\n\nIn later years, on the dissolution of the Centre and formation of the Department of Cultural Studies and Sociology (CSS), Sadie Plant, noted cybertheorist and feminist (author of \"Zeroes + Ones: Digital Women and the New Technoculture\"), taught there, as did Jorge Larrain, the well-known Chilean sociologist and cultural historian, author of \"Identity and Modernity in Latin America\" and John Gabriel, sociologist of race. Frank Webster, a Sociologist with interests in Information Society issues and sympathy for the 'cultural turn', joined the newly formed Department of Cultural Studies and Sociology in 1999, but left for City University London when the department was abruptly closed in 2002.\n\nThe new Department of Cultural Studies and Sociology was unexpectedly and abruptly closed in 2002, a move the university's senior management described as 'restructuring'. The immediate reason given for disestablishment of the new department was an unexpectedly low result in the UK's Research Assessment Exercise of 2001, though a dean from the university described the decision as a consequence of \"inexperienced 'macho management.'\" Four of the department's fourteen members of staff were to be \"retained\" and its hundreds of students (nearly 250 undergraduates and postgraduates at that time, many from abroad) to be transferred to other departments. In the ensuing dispute most department staff left. There were protests against the decision to close Cultural Studies and Sociology from around the world and the University received much adverse criticism.\n\nIn April 2002, according to student testimonies, rumors began to circulate that the Department was going to be closed down because it had received a \"very bad\" 3a mark in a recent Research Assessment Exercise (RAE). Despite assurances as to the contrary, on June 21, 2002, right after the end of term, staff members received emails informing them of a decision that had already been taken to close down the Department. The decision was to be ratified on June 26.\n\nStudents and staff began a campaign to save the school, which gained considerable attention in the national press (see links below) and sparked numerous letters of support from former alumni all over the world. The main argument of the campaigners was that the Department was being closed down because of economic pressures relating to the public funding of British universities in accordance with RAE marks. The Department of Cultural Studies was a top money-making unit inside the School of Social Sciences.\n\nAdditionally, concerns were expressed that the Department was being \"belatedly punished\" for its political radicalism, as one journalist put it. Indeed, the unreservedly leftwing Department's long history of conflict with the University's administration was well known to all who had studied at the University of Birmingham between the 1960s and the 1980s.\n\nOf the four staff members who were \"retained\", one was attached to the Department of Social Policy, one to the Department of English, and one to the Institute of European Studies. The remaining ten staff members were invited to retire voluntarily in return for a severance package (one year's pay).\n\nProfessor David Marsh, a political sociologist from the Department of Political Science and International Studies (POLSIS), was drafted in as temporary head of a new Department of Sociology, with Cultural Studies dropped from the title. Further posts were created in Sociology during 2003.\n\nThe Department had been top of the Guardian league table for Sociology before its closure and it continues to excel in this poll. The Department was recently ranked fourth in Guardian league tables for Sociology.\n\nThe 50th anniversary of the establishment of CCCS came in 2014. To mark this occasion, academics at the University of Birmingham– in collaboration with former members of staff at the Centre, including Richard Johnson, Stuart Hall and Michael Green, created an archive of CCCS-related material at the Cadbury Research Library at Birmingham.\n\nAlec Gordon, The Genesis of Radical Cultural Studies: Contribution to a Reconstruction of Cultural Studies as Counter-Intellectual Critique [The Intellectual History of the Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies, University of Birmingham, England, 1963-1975]\nUnpublished Ph.D thesis, University of Leeds, June 1988. \n\n"}
{"id": "2684375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2684375", "title": "Character flaw", "text": "Character flaw\n\nIn the creation and criticism of fictional works, a character flaw is a limitation, imperfection, problem, phobia, or deficiency present in a character who may be otherwise very functional. The flaw can be a problem that directly affects the character's actions and abilities, such as a violent temper. Alternatively, it can be a simple foible or personality defect, which affects the character's motives and social interactions, but little else.\n\nFlaws can add depth and humanity to the characters in a narrative. For example, the sheriff with a gambling addiction, the action hero who is afraid of heights, or a lead in a romantic comedy who must overcome his insecurity regarding male pattern baldness are all characters whose flaws help provide dimension. Perhaps the most widely cited and classic of character flaws is Achilles' famous heel.\n\nIn general, flaws can be categorized as \"minor\", \"major\", or \"tragic\".\n\nA minor character flaw is an imperfection which serves to distinguish the character in the mind of the reader / viewer / player / listener, making them memorable and individual, but otherwise does not affect the story in any way.\n\nExamples of this could include a noticeable scar, a thick accent or a habit such as cracking their knuckles.\n\nProtagonists and other major characters may (and usually do) have multiple minor flaws, making them more accessible, and enabling the reader / viewer / listener to relate to the character (in the case of a sympathetic character) or otherwise influence the audience's opinions of the character.\n\nMany insignificant or archetypal characters which are encountered only once or rarely are defined solely by a single minor flaw, differentiating them from the stock character or archetype that they adhere to.\n\nA major character flaw is a much more noticeable and important hindrance which actually impairs the individual, whether physically, mentally or morally. Sometimes major flaws are not actually negative per se (such as devout religious beliefs or a rigid code of honor), but are classified as such in that they often serve to hinder or restrict the character in some way.\n\nExamples of this type of flaw could include blindness, amnesia or greed.\n\nUnlike minor flaws, major flaws are almost invariably important to either the character's, or the story's development.\n\n\nThis is a specific sort of flaw, also known as \"Hamartia\", which is possessed by Aristotelian tragic heros. It is a flaw which causes an otherwise noble or exceptional character to bring about their own downfall and, often, their eventual death.\n\nExamples of this could include hubris, misplaced trust, excessive curiosity, pride and lack of self-control.\n\nThis fall usually occurs at the beginning of a story, with the story itself concentrates on the consequences or attempted redemption of the fall.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1551204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1551204", "title": "Chiastic structure", "text": "Chiastic structure\n\nChiastic structure, or chiastic pattern, is a literary technique in narrative motifs and other textual passages. An example of chiastic structure would be two ideas, A and B, together with variants A' and B', being presented as A,B,B',A'. Alternative names include ring structure, because the opening and closing 'A' can be viewed as completing a circle, palistrophe, or symmetric structure. It may be regarded as chiasmus scaled up from clauses to larger units of text.\n\nThese often symmetrical patterns are commonly found in ancient literature such as the epic poetry of the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\". Classicist Bruno Gentili describes this technique as \"the cyclical, circular, or 'ring' pattern (\"ring composition\"). Here the idea that introduced a compositional section is repeated at its conclusion, so that the whole passage is framed by material of identical content\". Meanwhile in classical prose, scholars often find chiastic narrative techniques in the \"Histories\" of Herodotus: \"Herodotus frequently uses ring composition or ‘epic regression’ as a way of supplying background information for something discussed in the narrative. First an event is mentioned briefly, then its precedents are reviewed in reverse chronological order as far back as necessary; at that point the narrative reverses itself and moves forward in chronological order until the event in the main narrative line is reached again.\" Various chiastic structures are also seen in the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament, and the Quran. \n\nChiastic structures also appear in Ancient Greek sculpture. The contrapposto technique of sculpture in Ancient Greek sculpture often lead to this chiastic structure, such as in the Diadumenos of Polykleitos.\n\nThe term \"chiastic\" derives from the mid-17th century term chiasmus, which refers to a \"crosswise arrangement\" of concepts or words that are repeated in reverse order. \"Chiasmus\" derives from the Greek word \"khiasmos\", a word that is \"khiazein\", marked with the letter \"khi\". From \"khi\" comes \"chi\".\n\n\"Chi\" is made up of two lines crossing each other as in the shape of an \"X\". The line that starts leftmost on top, comes down, and is rightmost on the bottom, and vice versa. If one thinks of the lines as concepts, one sees that concept A, which comes first, is also last, and concept B, which comes after A, comes before A. If one adds in more lines representing other concepts, one gets a chiastic structure with more concepts.\nSee Proverbs 1:20-33; vs 20-21=A, v 22=B, v 23=C, vs 24-25=D, vs 26-28=E, vs 29-30=D', v 31=C', v 32=B', v 33=A'.\n\nOral literature is especially rich in chiastic structure, possibly as an aid to memorization. In his study of the Iliad and the Odyssey, Cedric Whitman, for instance, finds a chiastic structure \"of the most amazing virtuosity\" that simultaneously performed both aesthetic and mnemonic functions, permitting the oral poet to easily recall the basic formulae of the composition during performances.\n\nIn 1986, William H. Shea proposed that the Book of Daniel is composed of a \"double-chiasm\". He argued that the chiastic structure is emphasized by the two languages that the book is written in: Aramaic and Hebrew. The first chiasm is written in \"Aramaic\" from chapters 2-7 following an ABC...CBA pattern. The second chiasm is in \"Hebrew\" from chapters 8-12, also using the ABC...CBA pattern. However, Shea represents Daniel 9:26 as \"D\", a break in the center of the pattern.\n\nGordon Wenham has analyzed the Genesis Flood narrative and has shown that it is essentially an elaborate chiasm. Based on the earlier study of grammatical structure by F. I. Andersen, Wenham illustrated a chiastic structure as displayed in the following two tables.\n\nWithin this overall structure, there is a numerical mini-chiasm of 7s, 40s, and 150s:\nThe two mentions of the 150 days refer to the same period, and the first 40 days (7:13,17) are part of the 150 days. All this is consistent with the date in 8:4. There was no compelling reason to repeat the first 7-day figure of waiting to enter the Ark except for the corresponding two 7-day figures for the dove. The second mention of the 150 days was also because of the chiasmus. The chiastic structure explains the repetition of these figures. Before these ancient literary conventions were recognized, followers of the Documentary Hypothesis explained the repetition by hypothesizing two different authors or redactors (J or Jahwist and P or Priestly sources). The repetition may also show the literary artistry of a single author or editor, either working from one tradition or weaving together the J and P sources in chiastic fashion.\n\nWhile there are many examples of chiastic structure in the Quran, perhaps the most well known is in the 'Verse of the Throne' or 'Ayat al-Kursi'. The verse contains 9 sentences which exhibit chiasmus, but perhaps more interesting is that it is found in the longest chapter of the Quran, Al-Baqara, which itself contains a fractal chiastic structure in its 286 verses, i.e. where each (outer) chiasm is composed of (inner) chiastic structures reflected in some sense in the analogue outer chiasm. One such analysis of the chapter is shown below (from ; alternate and/or more detail analyses can be found in , , ).\n\nMuhammad Rizvi, an undergraduate student at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, has identified chapter-wide chiastic structures in Sura al-Yasin, Sura al-Zukhruf, Sura al-Faatir, Sura al-Qalam, Sura al-Muzammil, and other chapters of the Quran .\n\nChaism in 3 Nephi 5 - Covenant Promises of Jacob\n\nA: as surely as the Lord liveth (3 Nephi 5:24)\n\nB: gather in from the four quarters of the earth (3 Nephi 5:24)\n\nC: restoring all the house of Jacob unto the knowledge of the covenant (3 Nephi 5:25)\n\nC': then shall they know their Redeemer, who is Jesus Christ (3 Nephi 5:26)\n\nB': gathered in from the four quarters of the earth unto their own land (3 Nephi 5:26)\n\nA': as the Lord liveth (3 Nephi 5:26)\n\nChaism in Alma 36 - The Conversion of Alma\n\nA: inasmuch as ye shall keep the commandments of God ye shall prosper in the land (Alma 36:1)\n\nB: remembering the captivity of our fathers (Alma 36:2)\n\nC: whosoever shall put their trust in God shall be supported in their trials (Alma 36:3)\n\nD: \n\nI racked, even with the pains of a damned soul (Alma 36:12)\n\nI remembered...the coming of one Jesus Christ, a Son of God, to atone for the sins of the world (Alma 36:17)\n\nO Jesus, thou Son of God, have mercy on me (Alma 36:19)\n\nI could remember my pains no more (Alma 36:19)\n\nD': \n\nC': I have been supported under trials (Alma 36:27)\n\nB': delivered them out of bondage and captivity (Alma 36:29)\n\nA': inasmuch as ye shall keep the commandments of God ye shall prosper in the land (Alma 36:30)\n\nIn literary texts with a possible oral origin, such as \"Beowulf\", chiastic or ring structures are often found on an intermediate level, that is, between the (verbal and/or grammatical) level of chiasmus and the higher level of chiastic structure such as noted in the Torah. John D. Niles provides examples of chiastic figures on all three levels. He notes that for the instances of ll. 12–19, the announcement of the birth of (Danish) Beowulf, are chiastic, more or less on the verbal level, that of chiasmus. Then, each of the three main fights are organized chiastically, a chiastic structure on the level of verse paragraphs and shorter passages. For instance, the simplest of these three, the fight with Grendel, is schematized as follows:\n\nA: Preliminaries\nA': Aftermath\n\nFinally, Niles provides a diagram of the highest level of chiastic structure, the organization of the poem as a whole, in an introduction, three major fights with interludes before and after the second fight (with Grendel's mother), and an epilogue. To illustrate, he analyzes Prologue and Epilogue as follows:\n\nPrologue<br>\nA: Panegyric for Scyld<br>\n\nEpilogue<br>\nA': Eulogy for Beowulf\n\nThe overall chiastic structure of John Milton's \"Paradise Lost\" is also of the ABC…CBA type:\n\nA: Satan's sinful actions (Books 1–3)<br>\nA': Humankind's sinful actions (Books 10–12)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40097", "title": "Collecting", "text": "Collecting\n\nThe hobby of collecting includes seeking, locating, acquiring, organizing, cataloging, displaying, storing, and maintaining items that are of interest to an individual \"collector\". Collections differ in a wide variety of respects, most obviously in the nature and scope of the objects contained, but also in purpose, presentation, and so forth. The range of possible subjects for a collection is practically unlimited, and collectors have realised a vast number of these possibilities in practice, although some are much more popular than others.\n\nIn collections of manufactured items, the objects may be antique or simply collectable. Antiques are collectable items at least 100 years old, while other collectables are arbitrarily recent. The word \"vintage\" describes relatively old collectables that are not yet antiques. Previously commonplace items that are now rare are called ephemera.\n\nCollecting is a childhood hobby for some people, but for others a lifelong pursuit or something started in adulthood. Collectors who begin early in life often modify their aims when they get older. Some novice collectors start purchasing items that appeal to them then slowly work at learning how to build a collection, while others prefer to develop some background in the field before starting to buy items. The emergence of the internet as a global forum for different collectors has resulted in many isolated enthusiasts finding each other.\n\nThe most obvious way to categorise collections is by the type of objects collected. Most collections are of manufactured commercial items, but natural objects such as birds' eggs, butterflies, rocks, and seashells can also be the subject of a collection. For some collectors, the criterion for inclusion might not be the type of object but some incidental property such as the identity of its original owner.\n\nSome collectors are generalists with very broad criteria for inclusion, while others focus on a subtopic within their area of interest. Some collectors accumulate arbitrarily many objects that meet the thematic and quality requirements of their collection, others—called \"completists\" or \"completionists\"—aim to acquire all items in a well-defined set that can in principle be completed, and others seek a limited number of items per category (e.g. one representative item per year of manufacture or place of purchase). The monetary value of objects is important to some collectors but irrelevant to others. Some collectors maintain objects in pristine condition, while others use the items they collect.\n\nAfter a collectable has been purchased, its retail price no longer applies and its value is linked to what is called the secondary market. There is no secondary market for an item unless someone is willing to buy it, and an object's value is whatever the buyer is willing to pay. Depending on age, condition, supply, demand, and other factors, individuals, auctioneers, and secondary retailers may sell a collectable for either more or less than what they originally paid for it. A \"price guide\" is a resource such as a book or website that lists typical selling prices.\n\nProducts often become more valuable with age. The term \"antique\" generally refers to manufactured items made over 100 years ago, although in some fields, such as antique cars, the time frame is less stringent. For antique furniture, the limit has traditionally been set in the 1830s. Collectors and dealers may use the word \"vintage\" to describe older collectables that are too young to be called antiques, including Art Deco and Art Nouveau items, Carnival and Depression glass, etc. Items which were once everyday objects but may now be collectable, as almost all examples produced have been destroyed or discarded, are called \"ephemera\".\n\nPsychological factors can play a role in both the motivation for keeping a collection and the impact it has on the collector's life. These factors can be positive or negative.\n\nThe hobby of collecting often goes hand-in-hand with an interest in the objects collected and what they represent, for example collecting postcards may reflect an interest in different places and cultures. For this reason, collecting can have educational benefits, and some collectors even become experts in their field.\n\nMaintaining a collection can be a relaxing activity that counteracts the stress of life, while providing a purposeful pursuit which prevents boredom. The hobby can lead to social connections between people with similar interests and the development of new friendships, it has also been shown to be particularly common among academics. \n\nCollecting for most people is a choice, but for some it can be a compulsion, sharing characteristics with obsessive hoarding. When collecting is passed between generations, it might sometimes be that children have inherited symptoms of obsessive–compulsive disorder. Collecting can sometimes reflect a fear of scarcity, or of discarding something then later regretting it. Certain patterns of collection are common among people who have lived through poverty or war.\n\nIt has been speculated that the widespread appeal of collecting is connected to the hunting and gathering that was once necessary for human survival. Collecting is also associated with memory by association and the need for the human brain to catalogue and organise information and give meaning to ones actions.\n\nCollecting is a practice with a very old cultural history. In Mesopotamia, collecting practices have been noted among royalty and elites as far back as the third millennium, B.C.E. The Egyptian Ptolemaic dynasty collected books from all over the known world at the Library of Alexandria. The Medici family, in Renaissance Florence, made the first effort to collect art by private patronage, this way artists could be free for the first time from the money given by the Church and Kings; this citizenship tradition continues today with the work of private art collectors. Many of the world's popular museums—from the Metropolitan in New York City to the Thyssen in Madrid or the Franz Mayer in Mexico City—have collections formed by the generous collectors that donated them to be seen by the general public.\n\nThe collecting hobby is a modern descendant of the \"cabinet of curiosities\" which was common among scholars with the means and opportunities to acquire unusual items from the 16th century onwards. Planned collecting of ephemeral publications goes back at least to George Thomason in the reign of Charles I and Samuel Pepys in that of Charles II. Collecting engravings and other prints by those whose means did not allow them to buy original works of art also goes back many centuries. The progress in 18th-century Paris of collecting both works of art and of \"curiosité\", dimly echoed in the English \"curios\", and the origins in Paris, Amsterdam and London of the modern art market have been increasingly well documented and studied since the mid-19th century.\n\nThe involvement of larger numbers of people in collecting activities comes with the prosperity and increased leisure for some in the later 19th century in industrial countries. That is when collecting such items as antique china, furniture and decorative items from oriental countries becomes established. The first price guide was the Stanley Gibbons catalogue issued in November 1865.\n\nThe Internet offers many resources to any collector: personal sites presenting one's collection, online collectable catalogs, dealer/shops websites displaying their merchandise, Internet trading platforms, collector clubs, autograph club, collector forums and collector mailing lists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16300571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16300571", "title": "Computational creativity", "text": "Computational creativity\n\nComputational creativity (also known as artificial creativity, mechanical creativity, creative computing or creative computation) is a multidisciplinary endeavour that is located at the intersection of the fields of artificial intelligence, cognitive psychology, philosophy, and the arts.\n\nThe goal of computational creativity is to model, simulate or replicate creativity using a computer, to achieve one of several ends:\n\n\nThe field of computational creativity concerns itself with theoretical and practical issues in the study of creativity. Theoretical work on the nature and proper definition of creativity is performed in parallel with practical work on the implementation of systems that exhibit creativity, with one strand of work informing the other.\n\nAs measured by the amount of activity in the field (e.g., publications, conferences and workshops), computational creativity is a growing area of research. But the field is still hampered by a number of fundamental problems. Creativity is very difficult, perhaps even impossible, to define in objective terms. Is it a state of mind, a talent or ability, or a process? Creativity takes many forms in human activity, some \"eminent\" (sometimes referred to as \"Creativity\" with a capital C) and some \"mundane\".\n\nThese are problems that complicate the study of creativity in general, but certain problems attach themselves specifically to \"computational\" creativity:\n\n\nIndeed, not all computer theorists would agree with the premise that computers can only do what they are programmed to do—a key point in favor of computational creativity.\n\nBecause no single perspective or definition seems to offer a complete picture of creativity, the AI researchers Newell, Shaw and Simon developed the combination of novelty and usefulness into the cornerstone of a multi-pronged view of creativity, one that uses the following four criteria to categorize a given answer or solution as creative:\n\n\nWhereas the above reflects a \"top-down\" approach to computational creativity, an alternative thread has developed among \"bottom-up\" computational psychologists involved in artificial neural network research. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, for example, such generative neural systems were driven by genetic algorithms. Experiments involving recurrent nets were successful in hybridizing simple musical melodies and predicting listener expectations.\n\nConcurrent with such research, a number of computational psychologists took the perspective, popularized by Stephen Wolfram, that system behaviors perceived as complex, including the mind's creative output, could arise from what would be considered simple algorithms. As neuro-philosophical thinking matured, it also became evident that language actually presented an obstacle to producing a scientific model of cognition, creative or not, since it carried with it so many unscientific aggrandizements that were more uplifting than accurate. Thus questions naturally arose as to how \"rich,\" \"complex,\" and \"wonderful\" creative cognition actually was.\n\nBefore 1989, artificial neural networks have been used to model certain aspects of creativity. Peter Todd (1989) first trained a neural network to reproduce musical melodies from a training set of musical pieces. Then he used a change algorithm to modify the network's input parameters. The network was able to randomly generate new music in a highly uncontrolled manner. In 1992, Todd\nextended this work, using the so-called distal teacher approach that had been developed by\nPaul Munro, Paul Werbos, D. Nguyen and Bernard Widrow, Michael I. Jordan and David Rumelhart. In the new approach there are two neural networks, one of which is supplying training patterns to another. \nIn later efforts by Todd, a composer would select a set of melodies that define the melody space, position them on a 2-d plane with a mouse-based graphic interface, and train a connectionist network to produce those melodies, and listen to the new \"interpolated\" melodies that the network generates corresponding to intermediate points in the 2-d plane.\n\nMore recently a neurodynamical model of semantic networks has been developed to study how the connectivity structure of these networks relates to the richness of the semantic constructs, or ideas, they can generate. It was demonstrated that semantic neural networks that have richer semantic dynamics than those with other connectivity structures may provide insight into the important issue of how the physical structure of the brain determines one of the most profound features of the human mind – its capacity for creative thought.\n\nSome high-level and philosophical themes recur throughout the field of computational creativity.\n\nMargaret Boden refers to creativity that is novel \"merely to the agent that produces it\" as \"P-creativity\" (or \"psychological creativity\"), and refers to creativity that is recognized as novel \"by society at large\" as \"H-creativity\" (or \"historical creativity\"). Stephen Thaler has suggested a new category he calls \"V-\" or \"Visceral creativity\" wherein significance is invented to raw sensory inputs to a Creativity Machine architecture, with the \"gateway\" nets perturbed to produce alternative interpretations, and downstream nets shifting such interpretations to fit the overarching context. An important variety of such V-creativity is consciousness itself, wherein meaning is reflexively invented to activation turnover within the brain.\n\nBoden also distinguishes between the creativity that arises from an exploration within an established conceptual space, and the creativity that arises from a deliberate transformation or transcendence of this space. She labels the former as \"exploratory creativity\" and the latter as \"transformational creativity\", seeing the latter as a form of creativity far more radical, challenging, and rarer than the former. Following the criteria from Newell and Simon elaborated above, we can see that both forms of creativity should produce results that are appreciably novel and useful (criterion 1), but exploratory creativity is more likely to arise from a thorough and persistent search of a well-understood space (criterion 3) -- while transformational creativity should involve the rejection of some of the constraints that define this space (criterion 2) or some of the assumptions that define the problem itself (criterion 4). Boden's insights have guided work in computational creativity at a very general level, providing more an inspirational touchstone for development work than a technical framework of algorithmic substance. However, Boden's insights are more recently also the subject of formalization, most notably in the work by Geraint Wiggins.\n\nThe criterion that creative products should be novel and useful means that creative computational systems are typically structured into two phases, generation and evaluation. In the first phase, novel (to the system itself, thus P-Creative) constructs are generated; unoriginal constructs that are already known to the system are filtered at this stage. This body of potentially creative constructs are then evaluated, to determine which are meaningful and useful and which are not. This two-phase structure conforms to the Geneplore model of Finke, Ward and Smith, which is a psychological model of creative generation based on empirical observation of human creativity.\n\nA great deal, perhaps all, of human creativity can be understood as a novel combination of pre-existing ideas or objects . Common strategies for combinatorial creativity include:\nThe combinatorial perspective allows us to model creativity as a search process through the space of possible combinations. The combinations can arise from composition or concatenation of different representations, or through a rule-based or stochastic transformation of initial and intermediate representations. Genetic algorithms and neural networks can be used to generate blended or crossover representations that capture a combination of different inputs.\n\nMark Turner and Gilles Fauconnier propose a model called Conceptual Integration Networks that elaborates upon Arthur Koestler's ideas about creativity as well as more recent work by Lakoff and Johnson, by synthesizing ideas from Cognitive Linguistic research into mental spaces and conceptual metaphors. Their basic model defines an integration network as four connected spaces:\n\n\nFauconnier and Turner describe a collection of optimality principles that are claimed to guide the construction of a well-formed integration network. In essence, they see blending as a compression mechanism in which two or more input structures are compressed into a single blend structure. This compression operates on the level of conceptual relations. For example, a series of similarity relations between the input spaces can be compressed into a single identity relationship in the blend.\n\nSome computational success has been achieved with the blending model by extending pre-existing computational models of analogical mapping that are compatible by virtue of their emphasis on connected semantic structures. More recently, Francisco Câmara Pereira presented an implementation of blending theory that employs ideas both from GOFAI and genetic algorithms to realize some aspects of blending theory in a practical form; his example domains range from the linguistic to the visual, and the latter most notably includes the creation of mythical monsters by combining 3-D graphical models.\n\nLanguage provides continuous opportunity for creativity, evident in the generation of novel sentences, phrasings, puns, neologisms, rhymes, allusions, sarcasm, irony, similes, metaphors, analogies, witticisms, and jokes. Native speakers of morphologically rich languages frequently create new word-forms that are easily understood, although they will never find their way to the dictionary. The area of natural language generation has been well studied, but these creative aspects of everyday language have yet to be incorporated with any robustness or scale.\n\nSubstantial work has been conducted in this area of linguistic creation since the 1970s, with the development of James Meehan's TALE-SPIN\n\nThe company Narrative Science makes computer generated news and reports commercially available, including summarizing team sporting events based on statistical data from the game. It also creates financial reports and real estate analyses.\n\nExample of a metaphor: \"She was an ape.\"\n\nExample of a simile: \"Felt like a tiger-fur blanket.\"\nThe computational study of these phenomena has mainly focused on interpretation as a knowledge-based process. Computationalists such as Yorick Wilks, James Martin, Dan Fass, John Barnden, and Mark Lee have developed knowledge-based approaches to the processing of metaphors, either at a linguistic level or a logical level. Tony Veale and Yanfen Hao have developed a system, called Sardonicus, that acquires a comprehensive database of explicit similes from the web; these similes are then tagged as bona-fide (e.g., \"as hard as steel\") or ironic (e.g., \"as hairy as a bowling ball\", \"as pleasant as a root canal\"); similes of either type can be retrieved on demand for any given adjective. They use these similes as the basis of an on-line metaphor generation system called Aristotle that can suggest lexical metaphors for a given descriptive goal (e.g., to describe a supermodel as skinny, the source terms \"pencil\", \"whip\", \"whippet\", \"rope\", \"stick-insect\" and \"snake\" are suggested).\n\nThe process of analogical reasoning has been studied from both a mapping and a retrieval perspective, the latter being key to the generation of novel analogies. The dominant school of research, as advanced by Dedre Gentner, views analogy as a structure-preserving process; this view has been implemented in the structure mapping engine or SME, the MAC/FAC retrieval engine (Many Are Called, Few Are Chosen), ACME (Analogical Constraint Mapping Engine) and ARCS (Analogical Retrieval Constraint System). Other mapping-based approaches include Sapper, which situates the mapping process in a semantic-network model of memory. Analogy is a very active sub-area of creative computation and creative cognition; active figures in this sub-area include Douglas Hofstadter, Paul Thagard, and Keith Holyoak. Also worthy of note here is Peter Turney and Michael Littman's machine learning approach to the solving of SAT-style analogy problems; their approach achieves a score that compares well with average scores achieved by humans on these tests.\n\nHumour is an especially knowledge-hungry process, and the most successful joke-generation systems to date have focussed on pun-generation, as exemplified by the work of Kim Binsted and Graeme Ritchie. This work includes the JAPE system, which can generate a wide range of puns that are consistently evaluated as novel and humorous by young children. An improved version of JAPE has been developed in the guise of the STANDUP system, which has been experimentally deployed as a means of enhancing linguistic interaction with children with communication disabilities. Some limited progress has been made in generating humour that involves other aspects of natural language, such as the deliberate misunderstanding of pronominal reference (in the work of Hans Wim Tinholt and Anton Nijholt), as well as in the generation of humorous acronyms in the HAHAcronym system of Oliviero Stock and Carlo Strapparava.\n\nThe blending of multiple word forms is a dominant force for new word creation in language; these new words are commonly called \"blends\" or \"portmanteau words\" (after Lewis Carroll). Tony Veale has developed a system called ZeitGeist that harvests neological headwords from Wikipedia and interprets them relative to their local context in Wikipedia and relative to specific word senses in WordNet. ZeitGeist has been extended to generate neologisms of its own; the approach combines elements from an inventory of word parts that are harvested from WordNet, and simultaneously determines likely glosses for these new words (e.g., \"food traveller\" for \"gastronaut\" and \"time traveller\" for \"chrononaut\"). It then uses Web search to determine which glosses are meaningful and which neologisms have not been used before; this search identifies the subset of generated words that are both novel (\"H-creative\") and useful. Neurolinguistic inspirations have been used to analyze the process of novel word creation in the brain, understand neurocognitive processes responsible for intuition, insight, imagination and creativity and to create a server that invents novel names for products, based on their description. Further, the system Nehovah blends two source words into a neologism that blends the meanings of the two source words. Nehovah searches WordNet for synonyms and TheTopTens.com for pop culture hyponyms. The synonyms and hyponyms are blended together to create a set of candidate neologisms. The neologisms are then scored based on their word structure, how unique the word is, how apparent the concepts are conveyed, and if the neologism has a pop culture reference. Nehovah loosely follows conceptual blending.\n\nLike jokes, poems involve a complex interaction of different constraints, and no general-purpose poem generator adequately combines the meaning, phrasing, structure and rhyme aspects of poetry. Nonetheless, Pablo Gervás has developed a noteworthy system called ASPERA that employs a case-based reasoning (CBR) approach to generating poetic formulations of a given input text via a composition of poetic fragments that are retrieved from a case-base of existing poems. Each poem fragment in the ASPERA case-base is annotated with a prose string that expresses the meaning of the fragment, and this prose string is used as the retrieval key for each fragment. Metrical rules are then used to combine these fragments into a well-formed poetic structure. Racter is an example of such a software project.\n\nComputational creativity in the music domain has focused both on the generation of musical scores for use by human musicians, and on the generation of music for performance by computers. The domain of generation has included classical music (with software that generates music in the style of Mozart and Bach) and jazz. Most notably, David Cope has written a software system called \"Experiments in Musical Intelligence\" (or \"EMI\") that is capable of analyzing and generalizing from existing music by a human composer to generate novel musical compositions in the same style. EMI's output is convincing enough to persuade human listeners that its music is human-generated to a high level of competence.\n\nIn the field of contemporary classical music, Iamus is the first computer that composes from scratch, and produces final scores that professional interpreters can play. The London Symphony Orchestra played a piece for full orchestra, included in Iamus' debut CD, which \"New Scientist\" described as \"The first major work composed by a computer and performed by a full orchestra\". Melomics, the technology behind Iamus, is able to generate pieces in different styles of music with a similar level of quality.\n\nCreativity research in jazz has focused on the process of improvisation and the cognitive demands that this places on a musical agent: reasoning about time, remembering and conceptualizing what has already been played, and planning ahead for what might be played next. The robot Shimon, developed by Gil Weinberg of Georgia Tech, has demonstrated jazz improvisation. Virtual improvisation software based on machine learning models of musical style include OMax, SoMax and PyOracle, are used to create improvisations in real-time by re-injecting variable length sequences learned on the fly from live performer.\n\nIn 1994, a Creativity Machine architecture (see above) was able to generate 11,000 musical hooks by training a synaptically perturbed neural net on 100 melodies that had appeared on the top ten list over the last 30 years. In 1996, a self-bootstrapping Creativity Machine observed audience facial expressions through an advanced machine vision system and perfected its musical talents to generate an album entitled \"Song of the Neurons\"\n\nIn the field of musical composition, the patented works by René-Louis Baron allowed to make a robot that can create and play a multitude of orchestrated melodies so-called \"coherent\" in any musical style. All outdoor physical parameter associated with one or more specific musical parameters, can influence and develop each of these songs (in real time while listening to the song). The patented invention \"Medal-Composer\" raises problems of copyright.\n\nComputational creativity in the generation of visual art has had some notable successes in the creation of both abstract art and representational art. The most famous program in this domain is Harold Cohen's AARON, which has been continuously developed and augmented since 1973. Though formulaic, Aaron exhibits a range of outputs, generating black-and-white drawings or colour paintings that incorporate human figures (such as dancers), potted plants, rocks, and other elements of background imagery. These images are of a sufficiently high quality to be displayed in reputable galleries.\n\nOther software artists of note include the NEvAr system (for \"Neuro-Evolutionary Art\") of Penousal Machado. NEvAr uses a genetic algorithm to derive a mathematical function that is then used to generate a coloured three-dimensional surface. A human user is allowed to select the best pictures after each phase of the genetic algorithm, and these preferences are used to guide successive phases, thereby pushing NEvAr's search into pockets of the search space that are considered most appealing to the user.\n\nThe Painting Fool, developed by Simon Colton originated as a system for overpainting digital images of a given scene in a choice of different painting styles, colour palettes and brush types. Given its dependence on an input source image to work with, the earliest iterations of the Painting Fool raised questions about the extent of, or lack of, creativity in a computational art system. Nonetheless, in more recent work, The Painting Fool has been extended to create novel images, much as AARON does, from its own limited imagination. Images in this vein include cityscapes and forests, which are generated by a process of constraint satisfaction from some basic scenarios provided by the user (e.g., these scenarios allow the system to infer that objects closer to the viewing plane should be larger and more color-saturated, while those further away should be less saturated and appear smaller). Artistically, the images now created by the Painting Fool appear on a par with those created by Aaron, though the extensible mechanisms employed by the former (constraint satisfaction, etc.) may well allow it to develop into a more elaborate and sophisticated painter.\n\nThe artist Krasimira Dimtchevska and the software developer Svillen Ranev have created a computational system combining a rule-based generator of English sentences and a visual composition builder that converts sentences generated by the system into abstract art. The software generates automatically indefinite number of different images using different color, shape and size palettes. The software also allows the user to select the subject of the generated sentences or/and the one or more of the palettes used by the visual composition builder.\n\nAn emerging area of computational creativity is that of video games. ANGELINA is a system for creatively developing video games in Java by Michael Cook. One important aspect is Mechanic Miner, a system which can generate short segments of code which act as simple game mechanics. ANGELINA can evaluate these mechanics for usefulness by playing simple unsolvable game levels and testing to see if the new mechanic makes the level solvable. Sometimes Mechanic Miner discovers bugs in the code and exploits these to make new mechanics for the player to solve problems with.\n\nIn July 2015 Google released \"DeepDream\" – an open source computer vision program, created to detect faces and other patterns in images with the aim of automatically classifying images, which uses a convolutional neural network to find and enhance patterns in images via algorithmic pareidolia, thus creating a dreamlike psychedelic appearance in the deliberately over-processed images.\n\nIn August 2015 researchers from Tübingen, Germany created a convolutional neural network that uses neural representations to separate and recombine content and style of arbitrary images which is able to turn images into stylistic imitations of works of art by artists such as a Picasso or Van Gogh in about an hour. Their algorithm is put into use in the website DeepArt that allows users to create unique artistic images by their algorithm.\n\nIn early 2016, a global team of researchers explained how a new computational creativity approach known as the Digital Synaptic Neural Substrate (DSNS) could be used to generate original chess puzzles that were not derived from endgame databases. The DSNS is able to combine features of different objects (e.g. chess problems, paintings, music) using stochastic methods in order to derive new feature specifications which can be used to generate objects in any of the original domains. The generated chess puzzles have also been featured on YouTube.\n\nCreativity is also useful in allowing for unusual solutions in problem solving. In psychology and cognitive science, this research area is called creative problem solving. The Explicit-Implicit Interaction (EII) theory of creativity has recently been implemented using a CLARION-based computational model that allows for the simulation of incubation and insight in problem solving. The emphasis of this computational creativity project is not on performance per se (as in artificial intelligence projects) but rather on the explanation of the psychological processes leading to human creativity and the reproduction of data collected in psychology experiments. So far, this project has been successful in providing an explanation for incubation effects in simple memory experiments, insight in problem solving, and reproducing the overshadowing effect in problem solving.\n\nSome researchers feel that creativity is a complex phenomenon whose study is further complicated by the plasticity of the language we use to describe it. We can describe not just the agent of creativity as \"creative\" but also the product and the method. Consequently, it could be claimed that it is unrealistic to speak of a \"general theory of creativity\". Nonetheless, some generative principles are more general than others, leading some advocates to claim that certain computational approaches are \"general theories\". Stephen Thaler, for instance, proposes that certain modalities of neural networks are generative enough, and general enough, to manifest a high degree of creative capabilities. Likewise, the Formal Theory of Creativity is based on a simple computational principle published by Jürgen Schmidhuber in 1991. The theory postulates that creativity and curiosity and selective attention in general are by-products of a simple algorithmic principle for measuring and optimizing learning progress.\n\nTraditional computers, as mainly used in the computational creativity application, do not support creativity, as they fundamentally transform a set of discrete, limited domain of input parameters into a set of discrete, limited domain of output parameters using a limited set of computational functions . As such, a computer cannot be creative, as everything in the output must have been already present in the input data or the algorithms . For some related discussions and references to related work are captured in some recent work on philosophical foundations of simulation.\n\nMathematically, the same set of arguments against creativity has been made by Chaitin. Similar observations come from a Model Theory perspective. All this criticism emphasizes that computational creativity is useful and may look like creativity, but it is not real creativity, as nothing new is created, just transformed in well defined algorithms.\n\nThe International Conference on Computational Creativity (ICCC) occurs annually, organized by The Association for Computational Creativity. Events in the series include:\n\nPreviously, the community of computational creativity has held a dedicated workshop, the International Joint Workshop on Computational Creativity, every year since 1999. Previous events in this series include:\n\n\nThe 1st Conference on Computer Simulation of Musical Creativity will be held\n\nDesign Computing and Cognition is one conference that addresses computational creativity. The ACM Creativity and Cognition conference is another forum for issues related to computational creativity. Journées d'Informatique Musicale 2016 keynote by Shlomo Dubnov was on Information Theoretic Creativity.\n\nA number of recent books provide either a good introduction or a good overview of the field of Computational Creativity. These include:\n\n\nIn addition to the proceedings of conferences and workshops, the computational creativity community has thus far produced these special journal issues dedicated to the topic:\n\n\nIn addition to these, a new journal has started which focuses on computational creativity within the field of music.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33962158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33962158", "title": "Context art", "text": "Context art\n\nThe term Context art () was introduced through the seminal exhibition and an accompanying publication \"Kontext Kunst. The Art of the 90s\" curated by Peter Weibel at the Neue Galerie im Künstlerhaus Graz (Austria) in 1993 (02.10.–07.11.1993).\n\nBoth exhibition and publication aimed to establish grounds for recognizing a new form of artistic practice emerging in the early 1990s. The presentation displayed different approaches though all shared an interest in the use of methods of contextualization to reveal connections between the art works and their conditions of production, whether these were formal, social, or ideologically defined. Institutional critique, feminist positions, later also critiques of precarious economic conditions and issues of globalization, all closely related to social and political changes, became relevant subjects of artistic production.\n\n“It is no longer purely about critiquing the art system, but about critiquing reality and analyzing and creating social processes. In the ’90s, non-art contexts are being increasingly drawn into the art discourse. Artists are becoming autonomous agents of social processes, partisans of the real. The interaction between artists and social situations, between art and non-art contexts has led to a new art form, where both are folded together: Context art. The aim of this social construction of art is to take part in the social construction of reality.” \n\nIt might be due to the fact that the term was introduced under the German translation \"KontextKunst\" instead of \"Context Art\" or its likewise politically tended orientation (see Maria Lind’s reference), but it never spread far beyond Europe’s language based barriers. Instead vaguely similar strategies were labeled as \"Models of Participatory Practice\" in 1998 by Christian Kravagna’s attempt to define the field or the later appearing and quite moderate Relational Art based on the 2002 book \"Relational Aesthetics\" by Nicolas Bourriaud. \n\nThe accompanying catalog is described to document ”a wide-ranging exhibition designed to illustrate the emergence over the past decade of a new international art movement, .. “ featuring “… an anthology of 22 substantial essays (some reprinted) discussing from diverse perspectives the artistic issues and social and political themes that distinguish \"Context Art\" from related forms of conceptual and installation art…. “.\n\nFareed Armaly, Cosima von Bonin, Tom Burr, Clegg & Guttmann, Meg Cranston, Mark Dion, Peter Fend, Andrea Fraser, Inspection Medhermeneutics, Ronald Jones, Louise Lawler, Thomas Locher, Dorit Margreiter, Kasimir Malewitsch, Katrin von Maltzahn, Regina Möller, Reinhard Mucha, Christian Philipp Müller, Anton Olschwang, Hirsch Perlman, Dan Peterman, Adrian Piper, Mathias Poledna, Stephan Prina, Florian Pumhösl, Gerwald Rockenschaub, Julia Scher, Oliver Schwarz, Jason Simon, Rudolf Stingel, Lincoln Tobier, Olga Tschernyschewa, Christopher Williams, Peter Zimmermann, Heimo Zobernig \n"}
{"id": "491865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=491865", "title": "Dichotomy", "text": "Dichotomy\n\nA dichotomy is a partition of a whole (or a set) into two parts (subsets). In other words, this couple of parts must be\n\nSuch a partition is also frequently called a bipartition.\nThe two parts thus formed are complements. In logic, the partitions are opposites if there exists a proposition such that it holds over one and not the other.\n\nTreating continuous variables or multicategorical variables as binary variables is called dichotomization. The discretization error inherent in dichotomization is temporarily ignored for modeling purposes.\n\nThe term \"dichotomy\" is from the Greek language \"dichotomía\" \"dividing in two\" from δίχα \"dícha\" \"in two, asunder\" and τομή \"tomḗ\" \"a cutting, incision\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31260737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31260737", "title": "Digital Humanities Quarterly", "text": "Digital Humanities Quarterly\n\nDigital Humanities Quarterly is a peer-reviewed open-access academic journal covering all aspects of digital media in the humanities. The journal is also a community experiment in journal publication.\n\nThe journal is funded and published by the Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations and its editor-in-chief is Julia Flanders.\n\n\"Digital Humanities Quarterly\" has been noted among the \"few interesting attempts to peer review born-digital scholarship.\" Having emerged from a desire to disseminate digital humanities practices to the wider arts and humanities community and beyond, the journal is committed to open access and open standards to deliver journal content, publishing under a Creative Commons license. It develops translation services and multilingual reviews in keeping with the international character of the Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations.\n\nThe journal aims to heighten the visibility and acceptance of digital humanities with reviews that are modeled on traditional book reviews but focus on digital projects, providing assessments of \"software tools, sites, other kinds of innovations that need the same kind of critical scrutiny and benefit from the same kind of contextualizing review that a traditional book review offers.\"\n"}
{"id": "4861797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4861797", "title": "Dramatistic pentad", "text": "Dramatistic pentad\n\nThe dramatistic pentad forms the core structure of dramatism, a method for examining motivations that the renowned literary critic Kenneth Burke developed. Dramatism recommends the use of a metalinguistic approach to stories about human action that investigates the roles and uses of five rhetorical elements common to all narratives, each of which is related to a question. These five rhetorical elements form the \"dramatistic pentad.\" Burke argues that an evaluation of the relative emphasis that is given to each of the five elements by a human drama enables a determination of the motive for the behaviour of its characters. A character's stress on one element over the others suggests their world view.\n\nBurke introduced the pentad in his 1945 book \"A Grammar of Motives\". Burke based his pentad on the scholastic hexameter which defines \"questions to be answered in the treatment of a topic: Who, what, where, by what means, why, how, when\". Burke created the pentad by combining several of the categories in the scholastic hexameter. The result was a pentad that has the five categories of: act, scene, agent, agency, and purpose. Burke states, \"The 'who' is obviously covered by agent. Scene covers the 'where' and the 'when'. The 'why' is purpose. 'How' and 'by what means' fall under agency. All that is left to take care of is act in our terms and 'what' in the scholastic formula\".\n\nThe pentad also closely follows the journalistic 'Five Ws': who, what, when, where, why. 'Who' maps to agent. 'What' maps to action. 'When' and 'Where' map to scene. 'Why' maps to purpose. There is no direct mapping from the Five Ws to the pentads category of agency but Geoff Hart states \"Some authorities add a sixth question, “how”, to this list, but “how to” information generally fits under what, where, or when, depending on the nature of the information.\" \n\nThe dramatistic pentad comprises the five rhetorical elements: Act, Scene, Agent, Agency, and Purpose. The “world views” listed below reflect the prominent schools of thought during Burke’s time, “without dismissing any of them,\" to read them \"at once sympathetically and critically in relation to each other,\" and \"in a wider context than any of them recognizes.\"\n\nAct, which is associated with dramatic action verbs and answers the question \"what?\", is related to the world view of realism; What happened? What is the action? What is going on? What action; what thoughts? Burke defines the act as that which “names what took place, in thought or deed.” Since an act is likely composed of many separate actions, Burke states that “any verb, no matter how specific or general, that has connotations of consciousness or purpose falls under this category.”\n\nScene, which is associated with the setting of an act and answers the questions \"when?\" and \"where?\", is related to the world view of materialism and minimal or non-existent free will. Burke defines the scene as “the background of an act, the situation in which it occurred.” \n\nAgent, which answers the question \"by whom?\", reflects the world view of philosophical idealism. Burke defines the agent as “what person or kind of person performed the act.” \n\nAgency (means), which is associated with the person or the organization that committed the deed and answers the question \"how?\", implies a pragmatic point of view. Burke defines agency as “what instrument or instruments he used.”\n\nPurpose, which is associated with meaning and answers the question \"why?\", indicates that the agent seeks unity through identification with an ultimate meaning of life. Reflects the world view of mysticism. Purpose is inextricably linked to the analysis of “Motive” which, derived from the title of A Grammar of Motives, is the main subject of its analysis. Since Purpose is both the subject of analysis and an element of the dramatistic pentad, it is not a common element to be included in a ratio.\n\nIn A Grammar of Motives, Burke provides a system of analysis for the Scene-Act ratio and the Scene-Agent ratio, though his analysis of ratios in the analysis of rhetoric is not limited to these. He states that, “The principles of dramatic consistency would lead one to expect such cases of overlap among the terms; but while being aware of them we should firmly fix in our minds such cases as afford a clear differentiation. Our terms leaning themselves towards merger and division, we are here trying to divide two of them while recognizing their possibilities of merger.” Thus any two dramatistic elements can be analyzed in relation to each other, creating a ratio, and can produce individual, yet separate meanings which are equally valid. However, the rhetor’s selection of elements to compose a ratio should be scrutinized, as it can deflect attention away from or direct attention towards aspects of the rhetor’s desire.\n\nThis is what Burke calls the “Ubiquity of the Ratios,” claiming that the composition of ratios “are at the very centre of motivational assumptions,” For example, “The maxim ‘terrain determines tactics’ is a strict localization of the scene-act ratio, with ‘terrain’ as the casuistic equivalent for ‘scene’ in a military calculus of motives, and ‘tactics’ as the corresponding ‘act.’\" The analysis of a situation as a multi-faceted occurrence is central to Burke’s concept of ratios. \nLikewise, the substitution of a dramatistic element with another can change an interpretation of the motive, allowing the analyst to modify the ratio in order to highlight the importance of a specific factor. For example, “the resistance of the Russian armies to the Nazi invasion could be explained ‘scenically’ in terms of the Soviet political and economic structure; or one could use the act-agent ratio, attributing the power and tenacity to ‘Russian’ traits of character. However, in deriving the act from the scene, one would have to credit socialism as a major scenic factor, whereas a derivation of the act from agents would allow for a much more felicitous explanation from the standpoint of capitalist apologists.”\n\nThe rhetor-agent also has a significant amount of power in crafting the perception of these ratios to their effect, “If an agent acts in keeping with his nature as an agent (act-agent ratio), he may change the nature of the scene accordingly (scene-act ratio) and thereby establish a state of unity between himself and his world (scene-agent ratio).\"\n\nThe scene, or the setting, will contain the act, or the what/actions. The way in which the agent interacts with the scene draws out specific analyses usually related to the atmosphere of the setting. While Burke states that, “It is a principle of drama that the nature of acts and agents should be consistent with the nature of the scene,” some “comic and grotesque works may deliberately set these elements at odds with one another, audiences make allowances for such liberty, which reaffirms the same principle of consistency in its very violation.” This reflects the division of most plays into very literal “acts,” as the agents who construct the scene are very literally “acters” whose work is played against the backdrop of the scene.The actions that a person performs are interpreted through the setting or happenings.\n\nA relationship between the agent (person) and the scene (place or setting). A scene can pose restrictions on the agent; in a narrative, the person and place should have some connection.\n\nWhile requiring the scene to contain them, the agent does not contain the act. Burke states that, “the agent is an author of his acts,” which can “make him or remake him in accordance with their nature.” This is one of the main principles that separates act and agent, producing a linked cycle which constructs the presentation of the agent’s identity.\n\nIn A Grammar of Motives, Burke mentions that attitude is “a state of mind,” remaining exterior from the pentad, as it is often “a preparation for an act, which would make it kind of symbolic act, or incipient act. But in its character as a state of mind that may or may not lead to an act, it is clearly classified under the head of agent.”. Burke also refers to attitude as a variation of agency. Prior to 1969 the term attitude is placed under agency, act or agent and is not considered a sixth element. In 1969, Burke places attitude as a new sixth element, yet he does not refer to the pentad as a hexad. Attitude is defined as \"the preparation for an act, which would make it a kind of symbolic act, or incipient act.\" The attitude, like the agency, would answer the “how?”. There is still some uncertainty over whether attitude is an additional element, and thus makes the dramatistic pentad a hexad, or if it is still a sub-element of the original pentad. While Burke has never directly stated that the pentad is a hexad, he has admitted that the addition of attitude to the pentad is similar to gaining “another soul” or an “extra existence.” Scholars have read this as Burke’s desire not to “dispose of” ambiguity, but rather to “study and clarify the resources of ambiguity.” As a result, many diagrams of the pentad depict attitude as a derivative of agent.\n"}
{"id": "217777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217777", "title": "Educational entertainment", "text": "Educational entertainment\n\nEducational entertainment (also referred to by the portmanteau neologism edutainment) is media designed to educate through entertainment. Most often it includes content intended to teach but has incidental entertainment value. It has been used by academia, corporations, governments, and other entities in various countries to disseminate information in classrooms and/or via television, radio, and other media to influence viewers' opinions and behaviors.\n\nInterest in combining education with entertainment, especially in order to make learning more enjoyable, has existed for hundreds of years, with the Renaissance and Enlightenment being movements in which this combination was presented to students. Komenský in particular is affiliated with the “school as play” concept, which proposes pedagogy with dramatic or delightful elements.\n\n\"Poor Richard’s Almanack\" demonstrates early implementation of edutainment, with Benjamin Franklin combining entertaining and educational content, such as puzzles and rules of conduct, into an instructional entity for colonists.\n\nLater development of the concept of edutainment can be tied to Walt Disney, with his first educational short film, \"Tommy Tucker’s Tooth\", being commissioned and shot in 1922 for the Deneer Dental Institute. The entry of the U.S. into World War II also had a major impact on the popularity of educational entertainment, as a relationship between Disney and the U.S. government formed; Disney was able to experiment with educational and nonfiction films in a way that continued even after the war, with series such as \"True-Life Adventures\" and \"Disneyland\". In the transcript of an interview with Alexander P. de Seversky from The Walt Disney Archives, of which its date and interviewer is unknown, the following quotation is found:Since the 1970s, various groups in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Latin America have used edutainment to address health and social issues such as substance abuse, immunization, teenage pregnancy, HIV/AIDS, and cancer. Initiatives in major universities, such as Johns Hopkins University and the University of Wisconsin-Madison, NGOs such as PCI-Media Impact, and government agencies such as the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) have produced edutainment content.\n\nModern forms of edutainment include television productions, film, museum exhibits, and computer software which use entertainment to attract and maintain an audience, while incorporating deliberate educational content or messages. It is also apparent that educational elements are becoming implemented into traditionally recreational realms, such as vacations and games.\n\nThe term edutainment was used as early as 1954 by Walt Disney to describe the \"True Life Adventures\" series. The noun \"edutainment\" is a neologistic portmanteau used by Robert Heyman in 1973 while producing documentaries for the National Geographic Society. It was also used by Dr. Chris Daniels in 1975 to encapsulate the theme of his Millennium Project. This project later became known as The Elysian World Project. The offshoot word \"Edutainer\" has been used by Craig Sim Webb since before the turn of the millennium to describe an individual who offers edutainment presentations and performances.\n\n\"Schoolhouse Rock\", \"Wishbone\", \"Sesame Street\", and \"Bill Nye the Science Guy\" are examples of shows that use music and video to teach topics like math, science, and history. Using music to aid memory dates back to the passing of ancient oral traditions, including the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\". Much of what edutainment can offer through audio and video especially, is accessible over the internet on platforms such as YouTube, with such channels as \"Vsauce\", \"CGP Grey\", \"MinutePhysics\", \"Meet Arnold, \"Veritasium\", and \"Crash Course\".\n\nPublic Service Broadcasting is a band that incorporates audio and footage from the British Film Institute into their music and performances, and this partnership helps the British Film Institute showcase its material; their album \"Inform—Educate—Entertain\", which covers topics such as the climbing of Mount Everest and highway safety, demonstrates the connection between the concept of edutainment and their music.\n\nMotion pictures with educational content appeared as early as 1943, such as \"Private Snafu\", and can still be seen in films such as \"An Inconvenient Truth\". After World War II, educational entertainment shifted towards television. Television programs can be divided into three main categories: those with primarily educational intentions, those with a high degree of both education and entertainment, and entertainment shows with incidental or occasional educational value.\n\nMexican TV producer Miguel Sabido pioneered in the 1970s a form of edutainment via telenovelas, \"soap operas for social change\". The \"Sabido method\" has been adopted in many other countries subsequently, including India, Peru, Kenya, and China. In Mexico, the government in the 1970s successfully used a telenovela to promote family planning to curb the country's high birthrate.\n\nThe third season of the television show \"MTV Shuga\" was analyzed by researchers and then published online in 2017 in terms of its effects related to its goal of educating African youth about sexual health and HIV, and secondarily, gender-based violence. In the randomized control trials, those in the treatment group who watched the show for six months were “almost twice as likely” to get tested at HIV testing centers; mixed results were found in regards to the show’s effects on gender-based violence.\n\nAccording to the article Walt Disney believed in education through the entertainment of film and television. He is known as the master of communications who brought both entertainment and education into the world in distinctive ways. His creation of mickey mouse and his adventures taught his audience that life is not always so simple, there will be obstacles that will stand in your way. Mickey mouse's is unpolished and imperfect which make him so realistic to his audience. In many of his stories we see him battle and adventure which he overcomes teach a value in life for viewers, keep going in life. Disney achieved and educational characteristic in his work through the picture series of live animals in their natural habitat by which some film techniques added to the drama of the series. This series was one that satisfied Walt Disney the most as it obtained both the qualities of entertainment and education, which was the characteristics of this series.\n\nEducating the public about health issues is a focus for many stakeholders, including the pharmaceutical industry. In recent years, several initiatives have used educational entertainment principles to highlight specific conditions or wider healthcare issues. Examples include In Memory about dementia, Millefeuille about psoriasis and This is Axiom about the challenges facing the UK's National Health Service.\n\nGames fulfill a number of educational purposes. Some games may be explicitly designed with education in mind, while others may have incidental or secondary educational value. All types of games, including board, card, and video games, may be used in an educational environment. Educational games are designed to teach people about certain subjects, expand concepts, reinforce development, understand an historical event or culture, or assist them in learning a skill as they play.\n\nAccording to Paraskeva (2010), at least 68% of American households play video games. Many recent research articles postulate education and gaming can be joined to provide academic benefits.\n\nAccording to Van Eck (2006), there are three reasons why games are considered learning tools: 1. Ongoing research that has included the last 20 years of educational findings have proven that digital games can be educational; 2. The new generation of today wants \"multiple streams of information\" (p. 1), which includes quick and frequent interaction that allows inductive reasoning; and 3. The mere popularity of games has created a billion-dollar industry. The idea of playing a game assumes the person is engaging in that activity by choice. The activity should have some value of \"fun\". This does not mean that the person is engaging in the activity only for leisure pursuits; it can also include the desire to learn a skill, connect with other gamers (social community), and spend time in a chosen activity. The activity needs to remain one of choice for the gamer.\n\nKim (2008) supports the use of off-the-shelf games with meta-cognitive strategies to provide an increase in students' cognitive performance.\n\nRadio can serve as an effective vehicle for educational entertainment. The British radio soap opera \"The Archers\" has for decades been systematically educating its audience on agricultural matters; likewise, the Tanzanian radio soap opera \"Twende na Wakati\" (\"Let's Go With the Times\") was written primarily to promote family planning.\n\nLikewise, podcasts have begun to exemplify the concept of edutainment, with some radio programs also becoming available in this digital format. Not only are there are series with educational elements that are listened to recreationally, but there are also podcasts used as an educational tool. Lessons based on podcasts have increased in popularity, with \"TeachersPayTeachers\" finding that lesson plans relating to podcasts rose in downloads by 21 percent and 650 percent in 2014 and 2015, respectively, which corresponded with the release of \"Serial\".\n\nOther successful radio programs and/or podcasts that have fused entertainment and education include:\n\nToys are perhaps the earliest \"edutainment\" objects a person encounters, as many toys have also an educational aspect beside their aesthetic appeal. They can teach children literacy, numerical, conceptual or motor skills. Many toys (e.g., a miniature piano) are simply colorful, scaled-down versions of more complex objects, and thus can base children in skills and benefits associated with the latter. It is up to grown-ups to guide children to the toy's proper use in order to make the most out of it.\n\nToys are often employed in the context of mimicry and roleplay to partially experience personalities or situations not otherwise possible, very akin to simulation in video games. They can be used as primitive means to nurture an instinct or a character trait in children. Often, toys work simultaneously the other way, providing children with the means to \"express\" those things: a doll may be used by a girl to mimic her mother or express motherhood as much as to explore it.\n\nEven for toys that don't possess explicit educational value, a thoughtful parent or teacher can turn a static figurine, for example, into an object of interest, by pointing out its features or costumes, or referring to its history or science (e.g., a figurine of a Native American may be a starting point for exploring American history; a Santa Claus may be used to explore the roots of Christmas; a toy astronaut to explore science...), which can be done in conjunction with a more-explicitly \"edutaining\" object, such as a picture book. Most children are naturally inquisitive (possibly why they sometimes break their toys; simply to know what is inside or how it moves or what produces that sound), and caregivers should not waste this opportunity.\n\nEven \"grown-ups\" can learn through toys about children: what are their talents or interests; if they are more extrovert or introvert; indeed if they dislike toys and prefer social activities or sport, and thus capitalize on the children's abilities and correct what is wrong or lacking.\n\nSome toys are of considerable appeal and benefit to both children and adults, such as Lego or Rubik's Cube, as their design and implementation can range from the simple to the sophisticated.\n\nThe term \"edutainment\" was first made popular amongst the hip hop community by KRS-One (a.k.a. The Teacha) thanks to his Boogie Down Productions album by the same name.\n\nThe term has since been borrowed to describe hip hop culture's innate pedagogical aesthetics. Examples of this include how Hip Hop uniquely combines both thought and action (see Paulo Freire's use of praxis in \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\") and values both Eurocentric values of rational thought and Afrocentric epistemology of kinetic, affective and emotional ways of knowing. Another example is in the transmission of technical and historical knowledge, the manner in which Hip Hop practitioners learn and exchange by sharing moments of performance together through \"building\" or \"building sessions.\"\n\nThe concept of educational entertainment is being used for building learning programs for organizations. High technology is used to make the programs entertaining and educational. As an example, PowerPoint presentations may become more entertaining with the addition of flashy animations or graphics. An article in a satirical newspaper, \"The Onion\", poked fun at the concept of embellishing boring presentations with attention-catching effects. A fictional marketing executive in the article noted the previous lack of excitement in the presentation, saying \"When we first finished the PowerPoint, the content was all there, but it still lacked that certain something.\"\n\nTheme parks are a specific kind of setting in which the combination of entertaining and educational elements can be prevalent. Epcot at Walt Disney World, which is owned by The Walt Disney Company, is highly based on edutainment; the park features attractions that teach about the past, conservation, imagination, future technologies, and the world. The park's dedication plaque, written by Marty Sklar and Erwin Okun, states the following: “May EPCOT Center entertain, inform and inspire. And above all, may it instill a new sense of belief and pride in man’s ability to shape a world that offers hope to people everywhere.\"\n\nThe offerings and promotions at SeaWorld associated with the educational topics of marine biology, conservation, and animal rescue efforts are increasing at their current locations and in plans for the upcoming Abu Dhabi theme park, which is likely due to activism for animal rights.\n\nOther notable theme parks that incorporate educational elements and topics are Disney's Animal Kingdom, Holy Land Experience, Dinosaur World, Busch Gardens, and Puy du Fou.\n\nEdutainment is also a growing paradigm within the science center and children's museum community in the United States, as well as in many other locations such as the zoo or a botanical garden. Educational locations such as these are constantly looking for new and innovative ways to reach the surrounding public and get them interested in areas such as the fine arts, science, literature, and history. Additionally, field trip visits to these educational places provide participants with interactional stimulus to learn about the content offered there. Since people are used to flashy, polished entertainment venues like movie theaters and theme parks, they demand similar experiences at science centers or museums. Consequently, interactive experiences, such as games and mobile apps, are implemented in museums in order to more effectively help people learn about what they are seeing. Museums are also embracing the ability to use storytelling to engage people, especially those who are young, in hopes to increase attendance; all the while, though, it is possible for the focus and purpose of museums to be diluted. Thus, a museum or a zoo can be seen as just another business competing for entertainment dollars from the public, rather than as an institution that serves the public welfare through education or historical preservation.\nMuch research has been done in association with edutainment and its effectiveness in its various forms. Particularly, the effects of the implementation of the concept of edutainment in the classroom setting have been studied on multiple occasions. The concept of flipped classrooms, in association with edutainment, was studied by Retta Guy and Gerald Marquis (2016), in which students were assigned video lessons and podcasts as opposed to projects prior to class; it was found that these students outperformed those in traditional classrooms, found the actual time in class to prompt more interaction, and thought the class to be more enjoyable, although there was a noticeable period of adaption.\n\nIn a study conducted by Ruby Lynch-Arroyo and Joyce Asing-Cashman (2016), \"Numb3rs\", which is an example of edutainment in the form of a television show, was integrated into the education of preservice mathematics teachers. The subsequent results exemplified the potential for edutainment to promote critical thinking, increased engagement, and growth mindsets.\n\nSimilarly, Craig D. Cox, \"et al\". (2017) conducted a study in which a mini-series that combined educational and entertaining elements was developed and presented to pharmacy preceptors; it was effective in increasing the confidence of the participants and was an honorable mention for the American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy Innovations in Teaching Award in 2015.\n\nA system that incorporated the concept of edutainment through the use of games has also been studied in association with disabled students by Amal Dandashi, \"et al\". (2015), and it was found that the system had a positive impact in terms of scores, coordination, communication, and memorization skills; after replaying, higher scores were often achieved as well.\n\nAs for podcasts and narration specifically, according to a study conducted by Trish L. Varao Sousa, Jonathan S. A. Carriere, and Daniel Smilek (2013) with student participants, these forms may not be particularly helpful, as their use can result in both less information actually internalized and less engagement overall when compared to other \"reading encounters.\"\n\nDebate regarding the value of educational entertainment and its implementation has been had for decades. The negative feedback received by Walt Disney for his \"True-Life Adventures\" series represents the views of some skeptics of the concept of edutainment. For example, the use of music along with the footage of animals, such as the circumstance in which \"The courtship of tarantulas was set to a tango, while the movements of two scorpions were showcased with square dance music in the background\" was criticized at the time; the purpose of the music was to enhance the footage, but some people took issue with this humanization. Additionally, without approval, some of the film crew of \"White Wilderness\" prompted unnatural behavior in lemmings that would be filmed, which then generated a negative response.\n\n\"Sesame Street\", a television show that demonstrates the concept of edutainment, has also specifically been subject to criticism. For instance, in an article published in \"The Atlantic\" in May 1971, John Holt criticizes the promotion of \"Right Answers\" in the television show without actual action being taken by the children, and also argues that it is nonsensical and perplexing to have adults convey to children that everything that is to be discovered is logical and easy to understand.\n\nThe argument that the concept of edutainment hurts the actual value of education has been prevalent as well. The book entitled \"Amusing Ourselves to Death\" by theorist Neil Postman demonstrates this notion, as it is claimed that areas of study have been “transformed into congenial adjuncts of show business.” Museum professionals especially have faced this dilemma, as in study conducted by Pierre Balloffet, François H. Courvoisier, and Joëlle Lagier (2014), museum professionals did not have severe negative opinions of the incorporation of educational entertainment, but individuals nevertheless had varying viewpoints on \"the appropriateness or potential risks of edutainment.\"\n"}
{"id": "13381953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13381953", "title": "Fiction-writing mode", "text": "Fiction-writing mode\n\nA fiction-writing mode is a manner of writing with its own set of conventions regarding how, when, and where it should be used.\n\nFiction is a form of narrative, one of the four rhetorical modes of discourse. Fiction-writing also has distinct forms of expression, or modes, each with its own purposes and conventions. Currently, there is no consensus within the writing community regarding the number and composition of fiction-writing modes and their uses. Some writing modes suggested include action, dialogue, thoughts, summary, scene, description, background, exposition and transition.\n\nThe concept goes back at least as far as Aristotle who, in \"Poetics\", referred to narration and action as different modes or manner of representing something. For many years, fiction writing was described has having two types: narration and dialogue. Evan Marshall, in \"The Marshall Plan for Novel Writing\" (1998) noted that writers should know what they are doing at all times. He described what he called \"fiction-writing modes\"—the types of writing of which all fiction is made. He listed five modes: action, summary, dialogue, feelings/thoughts, and background, each with its own set of conventions regarding how, when, and where it should be used.\n\n\n\n\nIn \"Poetics\", Aristotle mentions narration as a mode, or manner of representing something. As a fiction-writing mode, narration is how the narrator communicates directly to the reader. This contrasts with the use of the term \"narration\" as a rhetorical mode of discourse, where it has a broader meaning which encompasses all written fiction.\n\nDescription is the fiction-writing mode for transmitting a mental image of the particulars of a story. Together with dialogue, narration, exposition, and summarization, description is one of the most widely recognized of the fiction-writing modes. Description is more than the amassing of details, it is bringing a scene to life by carefully choosing and arranging words and phrases to produce the desired effect.\n\nBroadly defined, exposition is one of four rhetorical modes of discourse. Within the context of fiction-writing modes, exposition is used to convey information. Exposition may be used to add drama to a story, but too much exposition at one time may slow the pace of the story.\n\nSummarization, or narrative summary, condenses events to convey, rather than to show, what happens within a story. The \"tell\" in the axiom \"Show, don't tell\" is often in the form of summarization. Summarization may be used to:\n\n\nThe main advantage of summary is that it takes up less space than other fiction-writing modes. Effective use of summarization requires a balance between showing and telling, action and summary, with rhythm, pace and tone playing a role.\n\nIntrospection (also referred to as internal dialogue, interior monologue, or self-talk) is the fiction-writing mode used to convey the thoughts of a character, allowing the expression of normally unexpressed thoughts. Introspection may also be used to:\n\nRecollection is the fiction-writing mode whereby a character remembers a detail or event. It plays a vital role in conveying backstory by allowing writers to convey information from earlier in the story or from before the beginning of the story. Although recollection is not widely recognized as a distinct mode of fiction-writing, it is a common tool. Recollection could be considered a subset of introspection, but its role in developing backstory separates it from the other thoughts of a character. Effective presentation of recollection has its own unique issues and challenges. For example, timing a recollection to avoid implausible-seeming memories (such as when a character must make a key decision) can be difficult, and should be prompted by a recent plot event.\n\nSensation is used to portray a character's perceptions. It can help draw the reader in by conveying the actual sensations of things comprising the story, breathing life into its physical world. Since the reader has experienced only a portion of the sensations experienced by the character, the author aims to either provoke recall from the reader, or convey the experience, drawing the reader in and maintaining interest in the story.\n\nThe fiction-writing mode of emotion conveys the feelings of the character, and is a vital component of creative writing. Connecting the character to his own emotions allows the author to connect with the reader on an emotional level.\n\nIn \"Poetics\", Aristotle refers to action as a mode, or manner of representing something. Action is the demonstration of events as they are happening in a story, and may help readers feel as if they were participating in the plot.\n\nTransitions in fiction are words, phrases, sentences, paragraphs, or punctuation that may be used to signal various changes in a story, including changes in time, location, point-of-view character, mood, tone, emotion, and pace.\n\nFiction-writing modes may be classified into categories of modes with common features. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "21078734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21078734", "title": "Futures of American Studies", "text": "Futures of American Studies\n\nThe Futures of American Studies is a weeklong academic summer institute dedicated to presenting new work and critiquing the field of American Studies held at Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire. The first Futures of American Studies Institute was held in the summer of 1997. Donald E. Pease, Professor of English at Dartmouth College, founded, organizes, and directs the annual Institute.\n\nAfter the School of Criticism and Theory left Dartmouth for Cornell University in 1995, Dartmouth faculty member Donald E. Pease started the Futures Institute as an alternative summer program for faculty and graduate students. In 2017 the Futures Institute celebrated the twentieth anniversary of its founding.\n\nThe Institute is divided into two daily plenary sessions, which feature current work from Institute faculty, and multiple three-hour research seminars in which all participants present and discuss their own work-in-progress. Speakers in the plenary sessions typically examine the relation between emergent and residual practices in the field of American Studies from a variety of interdisciplinary perspectives. Participants come from a variety of programs and schools and represent fields as diverse as American history, social geography, American literature, gender studies, and the digital humanities. The Institute welcomes participants who are involved in a range of disciplinary and interdisciplinary fields and who are interested in current critical debates in American Studies.\n\nAlong with Institute Director Donald E. Pease, the institute co-directors were 2016 are:\n\nAlong with Institute Director Donald E. Pease, the institute co-directors were 2014 are:\n\nAlong with Institute Director Donald E. Pease, the institute co-directors were 2012 are:\n\nEach year the Futures Institute brings practicing Americanists and well-known critics and theorists working outside American studies. Notable plenary speakers from the Institute's history include: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2659806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2659806", "title": "Glasgow Chronology", "text": "Glasgow Chronology\n\nThe Glasgow Chronology is a proposed revision of the Egyptian chronology of ancient Egypt. It was first formulated between the years 1978 and 1982 by a working group following the Glasgow Conference of Society for Interdisciplinary Studies (SIS, a non-profit organization advocating serious academic analysis of the writings of Immanuel Velikovsky and other catastrophists).\n\nThis chronology placed the Eighteenth dynasty of Egypt some five hundred years later than the conventional chronology of Egypt.\n\nThe Glasgow Chronology was initially presented at an SIS conference, held in 1978 in Glasgow and entitled \"Ages in Chaos?\". Flaws were pointed out in it almost immediately, and by the 1980s its original proponents had all abandoned it, in favour of other chronologies.\n\nThe Glasgow Chronology accepted all the character identifications proposed by Velikovsky in \"Ages in Chaos\" (1952). Thus Hatshepsut, who visited the Divine Land, was equated with the Queen of Sheba, who visited Solomon in Jerusalem, whilst Thutmose III, who followed Hatshepsut, was equated with Shishak, who plundered the Jerusalem temple after the death of Solomon. Velikovsky therefore reduced the age of the Eighteenth Dynasty by five centuries. However, in his subsequently published \"Ramses II and his Time\" (1978), he brought the Nineteenth dynasty down by roughly seven centuries, thus opening a two-century gap between the Eighteenth and Nineteenth dynasties. Despite the Glasgow Chronology intent of reducing the age of the Nineteenth dynasty by five centuries and allowing it to naturally follow from the Eighteenth dynasty, its original proponents concluded that it was historically insupportable.\n\n"}
{"id": "34800540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34800540", "title": "Graduate School of Media Communications and Performing Arts", "text": "Graduate School of Media Communications and Performing Arts\n\nThe Graduate School of Media Communication and Performing Arts (, or ALMED) is an Italian educational institution of Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore.\n\nMario Apollonio was the founder of the School of Journalism and Audiovisual Media in Bergamo in 1961. Later, the school moved to Milan where it focused on teaching and research at the Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore. It was renamed as the School of Specialization in Communications and offers degrees in studies of Journalism, Advertising and Entertainment. It was again renamed to the School of Specialization in Analysis and Communication Management in 1998. In 2002, it joined the system of the Postgraduate School's Cattolica with its current name.\n\nThe school offers master's degrees in:\n\n\"Magzine\" is the online newspaper written by the School of Journalism since 2002. Forty journalists work in the newsroom.\n"}
{"id": "11325429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11325429", "title": "Historical figure", "text": "Historical figure\n\nA historical figure is a famous person in history, such as Catherine the Great, Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, or Napoleon.\n\nThe significance of such figures in human progress has been debated. Some think they play a crucial role, while others say they have little impact on the broad currents of thought and social change. The concept is generally used in the sense that the person really existed in the past, as opposed to being legendary. However, the legends that can grow up around historical figures may be hard to distinguish from fact. Sources are often incomplete and may be inaccurate, particularly those from early periods of history. Without a body of personal documents, the more subtle aspects of personality of a historical figure can only be deduced. With historical figures who were also religious figures attempts to separate fact from belief may be controversial.\n\nIn education, presenting information as if it were being told by a historical figure may give it greater impact. Since classical times, students have been asked to put themselves in the place of a historical figure as a way of bringing history to life. Historical figures are often represented in fiction, where fact and fancy are combined. In earlier traditions, before the rise of a critical historical tradition, authors took less care to be as accurate when describing what they knew of historical figures and their actions, interpolating imaginary elements intended to serve a moral purpose to events: such is the Monk of St. Gall's anecdotal account of Charlemagne, \"De Carolo Magno\". More recently there has been a tendency once again for authors to freely depart from the \"facts\" when they conflict with their creative goals.\n\nThe significance of historical figures has long been the subject of debate by philosophers. Hegel (1770–1831) considered that \"world-historical figures\" played a pivotal role in human progress, but felt that they were bound to emerge when change was needed. Thomas Carlyle (1795–1881) saw the study of figures such as Muhammad, William Shakespeare and Oliver Cromwell as key to understanding history. Herbert Spencer (1820–1903), an early believer in evolution and in the universality of natural law, felt that historical individuals were of little importance.\n\nThe German philosopher Hegel defined the concept of the world-historical figure, who embodied the ruthless advance of Immanuel Kant's World Spirit, often overthrowing outdated structures and ideas. To him, Napoleon was such a figure.\nHegel proposed that a world-historical figure essentially posed a challenge, or thesis, and this would generate an antithesis, or opposing force. Eventually a synthesis would resolve the conflict.\nHegel viewed Julius Caesar as a world historical figure, who appeared at a stage when Rome had grown to the point it could no longer continue as a republican city state but had to become an empire. Caesar failed in his bid to make himself an emperor, and was assassinated, but the empire came into existence soon afterward, and Caesar's name has become synonymous with \"emperor\" in forms such as \"kaiser\" or \"czar\".\n\nSøren Kierkegaard, in his early essay \"The Concept of Irony\", generally agrees with Hegel's views, such as his characterization of Socrates as a world-historical figure who acted as a destructive force on Greek received views of morality.\nIn Hegel's view, Socrates broke down social harmony by questioning the meaning of concepts like \"justice\" and \"virtue\".\nEventually, the Athenians quite rightly *(Name source) condemned Socrates to death. But they could not stop the evolution of thought that Socrates had begun, which would lead to the concept of individual conscience.\nHegel said of world-historical figures,\nHowever, Hegel, Thomas Carlyle and others noted that the great historical figures were just representative men, expressions of the material forces of history. Essentially they have little choice about what they do. This is in conflict with the views of George Bancroft or Ralph Waldo Emerson, who praised self-reliance and individualism, and in conflict with Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, who also felt that individuals can determine their destiny.\nEngels found that Hegel's system contained an \"internal and incurable contradiction\", resting as it does on both dialectical relativism and idealistic absolutism.\n\nThe Scottish philosopher and evolutionist Herbert Spencer, who was highly influential in the latter half of the nineteenth century, felt that historical figures were relatively unimportant.\nHe wrote to a friend, \"I ignore utterly the personal element in history, and, indeed, show little respect for history altogether as it is ordinarily conceived.\"\nHe wrote, \"The births, deaths, and marriages of kings, and other like historic trivialities, are committed to memory, not because of any direct benefits that can possibly result from knowing them: but because society considers them parts of a good education.\"\nIn his essay \"What Knowledge Is of Most Worth?\" he wrote:\nTaken to an extreme, one may consider that what Hegel calls the \"world spirit\" and T. S. Eliot calls \"those vast impersonal forces\" hold us in their grip. What happens is predetermined. \nBoth Hegel and Marx advocated historical inevitability in contrast to the doctrine of contingency, allowing for alternative outcomes, that was advocated by Friedrich Nietzsche, Michel Foucault and others.\nHowever, Marx argued against the use of the \"historical inevitability\" argument when used to explain the destruction of early communes in Russia.\nAs an orthodox Marxist, Vladimir Lenin accepted the laws of history that Marx had discovered, including the historical inevitability of capitalism followed by a transition to socialism.\nDespite this, Lenin also believed the transition could be effected faster by voluntary action.\n\nIn 1936 Karl Popper published an influential paper on \"The Poverty of Historicism\", published as a book in 1957, that attacked the doctrine of historical inevitability.\nThe historian Isaiah Berlin, author of \"Historical Inevitability\", also argued forcibly against this view, going as far as to say that some choices are entirely free and cannot be predicted scientifically.\nBerlin presented his views in a 1953 lecture at the London School of Economics, published soon afterwards. When speaking he referred to Ludwig Wittgenstein's views, but the published version speaks approvingly of Karl Popper, which caused a stir among academics.\n\nThomas Carlyle has espoused the \"heroic view\" of history, famously saying in his essay on the Norse god Odin in his book \"On heroes, hero-worship, & the heroic in history\" that \"No great man lives in vain. The History of the world is but the Biography of great men ... We do not now call our great men Gods, nor admire \"without\" limit; ah no, \"with\" limit enough! But if we have no great men, or do not admire at all,— that were a still worse case.\"\nCarlyle's historical philosophy was based on the \"Great Man theory\", saying, \"Universal History, the history of what man has accomplished in the world ... [is] at bottom the History of the Great Men who have worked here.\"\nAn extreme believer in individuality, he also believed that the masses of people should let themselves be guided by the great leaders of men.\nTalking of poets he said,\n\nMore recently, in his 1943 book \"The Hero in History\", the pragmatist scholar Sidney Hook asserts:\n\nHook recognizes the relevance of the environment within which the \"great man\" or \"hero\" acted, but asserts that this can provide the backdrop but never the plot of the \"dramas of human history\". and distinguish life and species\n\nThere have been rankings of the significance of major historical figures. For example, Cesar A. Hidalgo and colleagues at the MIT Media Lab has calculated the memorability of historical figures using data such as the number of language editions for which there are articles for each person, the pageviews received, and other factors. These lists are available at MIT's Pantheon project.\n\nIt is sometimes hard to discern whether apparently historical figures from the earliest periods did in fact exist, due to the lack of records. Even with more recent personages, stories or anecdotes about the person often accumulate that have no basis in fact. Although the external aspects of a historical figure may be well documented, their inner nature can only be a subject of speculation. With religious figures, often the subjects of voluminous literature, separating \"fact\" from \"belief\" can be difficult if not impossible.\n\nWith older texts it can be difficult to be sure whether a person in the text is, in fact, a historical figure. \"Wisdom literature\" from early middle-eastern cultures (such as the Book of Job), mainly consist of verbal expositions or discussions that must be considered the work of the author, rather than the character supposedly speaking. It may still be possible to identify a figure in such texts with a historical figure known from some other context, and the text may be taken as informative about this figure, even if not verified by an independent source. On the other hand, a text may include realistic settings and references to historical people, while the central character may or may not be a historical figure.\n\nNapoleon spoke of history as being a fable which had been agreed upon:– \"la fable convenue qu'on appellera l'histoire\". Great figures of the past have stories told about them which grow in the telling, and so become myths and legends which may dominate or displace the more prosaic historical facts about them. For example, some ancient chroniclers said that the Emperor Nero fiddled while Rome burned, but Tacitus disputed this by saying the stories were just malicious rumours. Similarly, there is no good evidence that Marie-Antoinette ever said \"let them eat cake\", or that Lady Godiva rode naked through the streets of Coventry.\n\nThomas Carlyle pointed out that even to the person living it, every life \"remains in so many points unintelligible\". The historian must struggle when writing biographies, \"the very facts of which, to say nothing of the purport of them, we know not, and cannot know!\"\nSome psychologists have sought to understand the personalities of historical figures through clues about the way in which they were raised. However, this theoretical psychoanalytic approach is not supported empirically. An alternative approach, favored by psychobiographers such as William Runyan, is to explain the personality of the historical figure in terms of their life history. This approach has the advantage of recognizing that personality may evolve over time in response to events.\n\nWith historical religious figures, fact and belief may be difficult to disentangle.\nThere are cultural differences in the treatment of historical figures. Thus the Chinese can recognise that Mencius or Confucius were historical individuals, while also endowing them with sanctity. In Indian Hinduism, on the other hand, figures such as Krishna or Rama are almost always seen as embodiments of gods rather than as historical people. The Nirvana Sutra states: \"Do not rely on the man but on the Dharma.\" A teacher such as Gautama Buddha is thus treated almost exclusively as a lesser god rather than a historical figure.\n\nE. P. Sanders, author of \"The Historical Figure of Jesus\", called Jesus of Nazareth \"one of the most important figures in human history\". Various writers have struggled to present \"historical\" views of Jesus, as opposed to views distorted by belief. When writing about this subject, a historian who relies only on sources other than the New Testament may be criticized for implying that it is not a sufficient source of information about the subject.\n\nThe theologian Martin Kähler is known for his work \"Der sogenannte historische Jesus und der geschichtliche, biblische Christus\" (The so-called historical Jesus, and the historic, biblical Christ). He clearly distinguished between \"the Jesus of history\" and \"the Christ of faith\". Some historians openly admit bias, which may anyway be unavoidable. Paul Hollenback says he writes about the historical Jesus, \"...in order to overthrow, not simply correct, the mistake called Christianity.\" Another historian who has written about Jesus, Frederick Gaiser, says, \"historical investigation is part and parcel of biblical faith.\"\n\nA historical figure may be interpreted to support political aims.\nIn France in the first half of the seventeenth century, there was an outpouring of writing about Joan of Arc, including seven biographies, three plays and an epic poem. Joan had become a symbol of national pride and the Catholic faith, helping unite a country that had been divided by the recent wars of religion. The reality of the historical Joan was subordinated to the need for a symbol of feminine strength, Christian virtue and resistance to the English.\nGeorge Bernard Shaw, introducing his 1923 play \"Saint Joan\", discussed representations of Joan by other authors.\nHe felt that William Shakespeare's depiction in \"Henry VI, Part 1\" was constrained from making her a \"beautiful and romantic figure\" by political considerations. Voltaire's version in his poem \"La Pucelle d'Orléans\" was also flawed by Voltaire's biases and Friedrich Schiller's play \"Die Jungfrau von Orleans\" \"is not about Joan at all, and can hardly be said to pretend to be.\"\n\nA historical figure may be used to validate a politician's claim to authority,\nwhere the modern leader shapes and exploits the ideas associated with the historical figure,\nwhich they are presumed to have inherited.\nThus Jesse Jackson has frequently evoked the spirit of Martin Luther King, Jr..\nFidel Castro often presented himself as following the path defined by José Martí.\nHugo Chávez of Venezuela has frequently identified himself with the historical figure Simón Bolívar, the liberator of South America from Spanish rule.\n\nHegel believed in the role of the state in guaranteeing individual liberties, and his views were therefore rejected by the German National Socialists, who considered him dangerously liberal and perhaps a proto-Marxist. On the other hand, Adolf Hitler identified himself as a Hegelian world historical figure, and justified his actions on this basis.\n\nPlato used historical figures in his writing, but only to illustrate his points. Xenophon used Cyrus the Great in the same way.\nWhen Plato apparently quotes Socrates in \"The Republic\", it is only to add dramatic effect to the presentation of his own thought. For this reason, Plato's writings on Socrates tell us little, at least directly, about Socrates. The historical figure is used only as a device for communicating Plato's ideas. In classical Rome, students of rhetoric had to master the \"suasoria\" — a form of declamation in which they wrote the soliloquy of a historical figure who was debating a critical course of action. For example, the poet Juvenal wrote a speech for the dictator Sulla, in which he was counselled to retire. The poet Ovid enjoyed this exercise more than the other final challenge — the \"controversia\".\n\nThe German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche wrote an influential essay \"On the Uses and Disadvantages of History for Life\". He said \"the unhistorical and historical are necessary in equal measure for the health of an individual, of a people and of a culture.\"\nNietzsche identifies three approaches to history, each with dangers.\nThe monumental approach describes the glories of the past, often focusing on heroic figures like Elizabeth I of England or Louis Pasteur. \nBy treating these figures as models, the student is tempted to consider that there can be nobody of such stature today.\nThe antiquarian view examines the past in minute and reverent detail, turning its back on the present.\nThe critical approach challenges traditional views, even though they may be valid.\n\nHistorical figures may today be simulated as animated pedagogical agents to teach history and foreign culture. An example is Freudbot, which acted the part of Sigmund Freud for psychology students. When a variety of simulated character types were tried as educational agents, students rated historical figures as the most engaging.\nThere are gender differences in the perception of historical figures. When modern US schoolchildren were asked to roleplay or illustrate historical stereotypes, boys tended to focus upon male figures exclusively while girls showed more varied family groupings.\n\nUsing historical figures in marketing communicationsn and in branding is a new area of marketing research but historical figures’ names were used to promote products as early as in the Middle Ages. \n\nHistorical figure brand is using famous historical person in branding, for instance Mozartkugel, Chopin (vodka) or Café Einstein https://www.cafeeinstein.com/. \n\nHistorical figure is a person who lived in the past and whose deeds exerted a significant impact on other people’s lives and consciousness. These figures are attributed with certain features that are a compilation of the actual values they proclaimed and the manner they were perceived by others. This perception evolves and subsequent generations read the biography of a given historical figure in their own way through their own knowledge and experience. In order to determine the popularity of the commercialisation of historical figures, a study was conducted at the beginning of 2014 on the number of trademark protection applications filed with the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland as a measure of entrepreneurs’ interest in this activity. The names of 300 most prominent Polish historical figures were considered. The study showed that over 21% of the names analysed were recorded in the trademark register. 1,033 trademark protection applications were filed for 64 names out of the 300 historical figures investigated [Aldona Lipka, 2015,]. The greatest number of trademark protection applications were recorded for Mieszko (295), followed by Nicolaus Copernicus (250), John III Sobieski (94) and Chopin (81).\n\nThere is a huge body of historical fiction, where the text includes both imaginary and factual elements. In early English literature, Robin Hood was a fictional character, but the historical King Richard I of England also appears.\nWilliam Shakespeare wrote plays about people who were historical figures in his day, such as \"Julius Caesar\". He did not present these people as pure history, but dramatised their lives as a commentary about the people and politics of his own time.\nNapoleon figured in Victor Hugo's 1862 classic \"Les Misérables\".\nThere are many more examples.\n\nThe compiler of a survey of historical novels in the 1920s claimed that the \"appearance of reality ... is the great charm of the historical novel.\" He went on to assert, regarding novels about periods of which little is known, that \"the danger is that the very elements which add to our interest in the tale as such will go far to mislead us in our conception of the period dealt with\".\nTraditionally the treatment of historical figures in fiction was realistic in style and respectful of fact. A historical novel would be true to the facts known about the period in which the novel is set, a biographical novel would follow the facts that are known about the protagonist's life, and a \"roman à clef\" would try to give an accurate interpretation of what is known about a public figure's private life. In each genre, the novelist would avoid introducing any elements that were clearly in conflict with the facts.\n\nA writer may be handicapped by his readers' preconceptions about a historical person, which may or may not be accurate, and the facts about the historical person may also conflict with the novelist's plot requirements.\nAccording to the Marxist philosopher György Lukács in his 1937 book on \"The Historical Novel\", \"The 'world-historical individual' can only figure as a minor character in the [historical] novel because of the complexity and intricacy of the whole social-historical process.\"\nAs Jacobs observes, the \"realist aesthetic\" of the historical novel \"assumes that a recognizable historical figure in fiction must not 'do things' its model did not do in real life; it follows that historical figures can be used only in very limited ways.\"\nThe author of a traditional historical novel should therefore focus more on the people who have been lost to history.\nA novelist such as Sir Walter Scott or Leo Tolstoy (\"War and Peace\") would describe historical events accurately. They would give rein to their imagination only in scenes that were not significant historically, when interactions with fictional characters could safely be introduced.\n\nMore recently, however, starting with works such as \"The Confessions of Nat Turner\", and \"Sophie's Choice\" by William Styron,\nthe novelist has felt more free to introduce much larger amounts of purely imaginary detail about historical people.\nE. L. Doctorow illustrates this different attitude when discussing his book \"Ragtime\": \"Certain details were so delicious that I was scrupulous about getting them right. Others ... demanded to be mythologized.\" This reflects a changing attitude about the distinction between \"fact\" and \"truth\", expressed by Ursule Molinaro when he makes his Cassandra say, \"I've come as close to the truth as facts would let me ... facts oppress the truth, which can breathe freely only in poetry & art.\"\n\nMany films have depicted historical figures. Often the way in which the films interpret these figures and their times reflects the social and cultural values of the period in which the film was made.\nHistorical figures are familiar to the general reader and so may be used in speculative fiction so that readers marvel at their appearance in novel settings or with a fresh perspective.\nFor example, the time traveler The Doctor has encountered numerous historical figures such as Marco Polo and Queen Elizabeth I in his adventures.\nThey appeared most frequently when the television series first started, as it was directed at children and the use of historical figures in historical settings was intended to be educational.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1949935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1949935", "title": "Instituto de Investigaciones Estéticas", "text": "Instituto de Investigaciones Estéticas\n\nThe Institute of Aesthetic Research (Instituto de Investigaciones Estéticas) of the National Autonomous University of Mexico, since its foundation in 1936, research has been carried out in its installations into the different forms of artistic expression in Mexico; the diversity of studies undertaken by the body of researchers in the fields of criticism, theory and history of art across a horizon that reaches other latitudes. It has thus become a space in which the plastic arts converge with dance, literature, photography, cinema and music.\n\nEvery year, through its International Colloquium on Art History, the Institute opens its doors to academic reflection on the history of art. Since 1975, this space has been a meeting point for the voices of both Mexican and foreign researchers.\n\nTo perform its tasks of study and dissemination, both of Mexican art and that of other countries, the Institute harbors a number of different areas, each of which has its particular sphere of interest:\n\nThe distribution of the Institute’s publications is not limited to the UNAM’s system of libraries, but extends to other sales outlets. The electronic shop, still under construction, is also oriented towards the same /will also make a contribution to this effort, bringing the Institute’s work to a broader public.\n\nThe journal Imágenes is an electronic publication which offers various articles publicizing the Institute’s academic activities and other news items to do with the history of art. Its contents and characteristics have made it the most visited section of the Institute’s electronic portal.\n\nIn August, 2007, work started at the new branch headquarters of the Instituto de Investigaciones Estéticas in the City of Oaxaca, which are lodged in an old domestic building in the Alameda de León, which dates from the eighteenth century and was received by the UNAM in commodatum in 2005.\n\nThis branch is home to a library—comprising over six thousand volumes—which belonged to Dr. Beatriz de la Fuente, among which are some facsimiles of pre-Hispanic codices. The library is endowed with the necessary features for operating as a videoconference room. The equipment installed is similar to that in the Francisco de la Maza room in the Institute’s headquarters on the University campus in Mexico City, thus facilitating constant communication between both. It is to be hoped that this study center will become a point of reference for the south of the country and for the whole of Central America.\n\n"}
{"id": "1230430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1230430", "title": "Jewish studies", "text": "Jewish studies\n\nJewish studies (or Judaic studies) is an academic discipline centered on the study of Jews and Judaism. Jewish studies is interdisciplinary and combines aspects of history (especially Jewish history), Middle Eastern studies, Asian studies, Oriental studies, religious studies, archeology, sociology, languages (Jewish languages), political science, area studies, women's studies, and ethnic studies. Jewish studies as a distinct field is mainly present at colleges and universities in North America.\n\nRelated fields include Holocaust research and Israel Studies, and in Israel, Jewish thought.\n\nThe Jewish tradition generally places a high value on learning and study, especially of religious texts. Torah study (study of the Torah and more broadly of the entire Hebrew Bible as well as Rabbinic literature such as the Talmud and Midrash) is considered a religious obligation.\n\nSince the Renaissance and the growth of higher education, many people, including people not of the Jewish faith, have chosen to study Jews and Judaism as a means of understanding the Jewish religion, heritage, and Jewish history.\n\nReligious instruction specifically for Jews, especially for those who wish to join the rabbinate, is taught at Jewish seminaries (and in Orthodox Judaism, yeshivas). Among the most prominent are the Conservative Jewish Theological Seminary and the Reform Hebrew Union College. For the majority of Jewish students attending regular academic colleges and universities there is a growing choice of Jewish studies courses and even degrees available at many institutions.\n\nThe subject of antisemitism and the Holocaust, as well as the establishment of the modern State of Israel and the revival of the Hebrew language have all stimulated unusual interest in greater in-depth academic study, research, reading and lecturing about these core areas of knowledge related to current events. In the United States, the unique position that Jewish Americans have held within the nation's complex social structure has created substantial scholarship, especially with regards to topics such as interfaith marriage, political activism, and influence on popular culture.\n\nIn a 1966 article published in the \"American Jewish Year Book\", the Hebrew literature scholar Arnold J. Band was among the first to call attention to the \"spread of Jewish studies as an accepted academic discipline in the American liberal arts colleges and universities since the Second World War\". In his article Band offered a definition of Jewish (Judaic) studies as \"the discipline which deals with the historical experiences, in the intellectual, religious, and social spheres, of the Jewish people in all centuries and countries\".\n\nThe political situation in the Middle East, especially the Arab–Israeli conflict and the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, has raised the profile of Jews, Judaism, and Zionism on campuses, spurring many on to study this subject for non-degree as well as for credits in obtaining a Bachelor of Arts or Master of Arts degree. A growing number of mature students are even obtaining Ph.D.s in Jewish studies judging by the quantity of courses and programs available. Many hope to obtain employment in the field of Jewish education or in Jewish communal service agencies.\n\nSome Christians search for an understanding of the Jewish background for Jesus Christ and Christianity and for the source of monotheism that sprang from Judaism. There are those who are seeking an understanding of the complex and volatile relationship between Islam and Judaism. Others are searching for spirituality and philosophy and therefore seek classes in Kabbalah (Jewish mysticism) and Jewish philosophy. There are also those who have a genuine concern and attachment to modern Israel as Christian Zionists and therefore seek to learn more about the subjects related to their beliefs.\n\nJewish studies have been offered at universities around the world. The following are only a few significant examples of places where Jewish studies are offered and flourish in an academic setting:\n\nSeveral colleges in the United States and Israel offer Jewish Studies or Judaic Studies as a major.\n\nThe Institute of Jewish Studies of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem was established in 1924, a few months before the official opening of the university. Widely considered to be the world's premier center of Jewish studies, the institute has includes eight teaching departments and 18 research institutes, oversees the publication of a wide variety of journals and periodicals and has student body of over 1200 students pursuing undergraduate, graduate and doctoral degrees in Jewish studies. In addition, the university has several institutes dedicated to specific subjects of Jewish studies, such as the Institute of Contemporary Jewry, the Institute for Research in Jewish Law, the Institute of Archaeology, the Center for Jewish Art, the Jewish Music Research Center, the Center for Jewish Education, and the Department of Jewish Thought. The Jewish National and University Library, which serves as the library of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, houses the world's largest collection of Hebraica and Judaica. The university also benefits from Jerusalem's unparalleled concentration of resources, which include: some 50 museums, most of which are dedicated to, or contain significant exhibits pertinent to, Jewish studies; dozens of independent research institutes and libraries dedicated to Jewish studies; over 100 rabbinical colleges representing all streams of Judaism; and the city of Jerusalem itself, the ancient and modern center of Jewish life, thought and study.\n\nBar-Ilan University in Ramat-Gan, Israel, has the world's largest school of Jewish Studies, which includes 14 teaching departments, 21 research institutes, some 300 faculty members and over 2,000 students. The school publishes 11 journals and the only internet journal in Jewish Studies — \"Jewish Studies\". Flagship projects of the Faculty of Jewish Studies include: the Responsa Project which is the largest data base of classical Jewish sources throughout the ages; The \"Mikraot Gdolot Haketer\" which is the most accurate edition of the Mikraot Gdolot; The Ingeborg Rennert Center of Jerusalem Studies; and the Tell es-Safi/Gath Archaeological Project, the excavations of the site of biblical Gath of the Philistines under the auspices of Prof. Aren Maier.\n\nTel Aviv University's Department of Hebrew Culture Studies is the single largest integrative Jewish Studies department in the world today. It covers a wide range of periods, methodologies, and scholarly interests. The Jewish Studies International MA provides tools and skills for further graduate studies in Jewish Studies and other fields involving text work. It attracts Humanities graduates from all over the world. Its graduates are equipped for work in many branches of education, in Jewish and other communities, Jewish cultural institutions, synagogues and churches and charities.\n\nThe Judaic Studies (JST) department at UAlbany offers undergraduate courses at elementary and advanced levels in Jewish history and culture, as well as Hebrew. Both a major and a minor in Judaic Studies are offered, as well as a minor in Hebrew\n\nCourses range from basic introductory courses on particular topics in Judaic studies to more advanced seminars where students can explore questions and ideas in more depth. Many of the courses, both upper- and lower-level courses, are cross-listed with other departments, providing students with exposure to different disciplinary methods. There are also opportunities for students to earn independent study credit through which they can work on an idea or question particular to their own interests, while also gaining valuable research and writing experience. Practicum credit may also be earned by assisting a professor in a course, and Internship credit is available through community service\n\nQualified students also have the option of enrolling in the Honors Program to be considered for a BA in Judaic Studies with Honors upon successful completion of an honors thesis.\n\nHebrew language classes are also available at the elementary, intermediate, and advanced levels, and for students who are advanced in their language studies, Practicum and Independent study credit may also be earned.\n\nThe Center for Jewish Studies, which is affiliated with the Judaic Studies department, sponsor several talks each semester, which are open to both the local, as well as academic communities, and include lectures and discussions by Jewish Studies scholars and writers.\n\nSUNY offers their students an opportunity to study abroad, including in Israel, which is overseen by the Judaic Studies department and is open to everyone.\n\nThe American Jewish University, formerly the separate institutions University of Judaism and Brandeis-Bardin Institute, is a Jewish, non-denominational and highly eclectic institution. Its largest component is its Whizin Center for Continuing Education in which 12,000 students are enrolled annually in non-credit granting courses. A prominent program of the Center is the university's annual speaker series. AJU's academic division includes the College of Arts and Sciences, leading to a B.A. degree in majors such as Bioethics (pre-med), Business, Communication Arts & Advocacy, Jewish Studies, Political Science and Psychology. In addition, AJU offers graduate degrees through the Fingerhut School of Education, The David L. Lieber Graduate School, and the Ziegler School of Rabbinic Studies, a Conservative Jewish rabbinical seminary. AJU is host to two \"think tanks,\" the Center for Israel Studies (CIS) and the Sigi Ziering Institute: Exploring the Ethical and Religious Implications of the Holocaust. Through the Brandeis-Bardin Institute, the University has oversight over Camps Ramah, Alonim, and Gan Alonim.\n\nThe University of California-Berkeley offers the Joint Doctoral Program in Jewish Studies (JDP) in collaboration with the Graduate Theological Union. Graduate Students in this interdisciplinary program pick one major and one minor period as well as a discipline. The JDP includes classes in Hebrew and Yiddish literature, Rabbinics, cultural studies and critical theory. Professors and Graduate students with scholarly interest in Jewish Studies can be found across the Humanities.\n\nBinghamton University (SUNY) offers a major and a minor in Judaic Studies (JUST). The department offers two concentrations: 1) Jewish history and culture and 2) Hebrew language and literature. There are a wide variety of courses offered. Internship credits are available. It also is home to a new Center For Israel Studies.\n\nThe Lown School of Near Eastern and Judaic Studies is a comprehensive center for Judaic studies. It houses the department of Near Eastern and Judaic Studies, \"one of the oldest and largest programs of its type outside of the State of Israel, with the largest faculty in Jewish Studies of any secular American university.\" The department's founding chairman was Simon Rawidowicz. The graduate program grants MA and PhD degrees in Bible and Ancient Near East, Jewish Studies, and Arab and Islamic Civilizations. The building also houses the Maurice and Marilyn Cohen Center for Modern Jewish Studies, the Steinhardt Social Research Institute, the Tauber Institute for the Study of European Jewry, the Jacob and Libby Goodman Institute for the Study of Zionism, the Bernard G. and Rhoda G. Sarnat Center for the Study of Anti-Jewishness, and the Benjamin S. Hornstein Program in Jewish Communal Service. The National Center for Jewish Film and the American Jewish Historical Society are associated with the Lown School.\n\nBrown University in Providence, Rhode Island offers an interdisciplinary Judaic Studies program that includes an undergraduate concentration and graduate MA and PhD degrees. Faculty areas of focus include the Hebrew Language, Jewish Thought, Modern Hebrew and Jewish Literature, Ancient Judaism, Modern Jewish History, Biblical Studies, Rabbinics and Early Judaism, and Latin American Jewish Literature.\n\nThe Institute for Israel and Jewish Studies at Columbia University in New York City is supported by access to rare books and over 35,000 Hebrew and Yiddish titles in Columbia's Library. Columbia offers a joint undergraduate degree with the Jewish Theological Seminary. Columbia offers graduate programs in Jewish history, Yiddish studies, Talmud and Judaism.\n\nThe Program of Jewish Studies at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York is an interdisciplinary program. The scope of the Jewish Studies curriculum covers Jewish civilization from its ancient Near Eastern origins through its contemporary history and culture in Israel and the diaspora communities around the world. Instruction is offered in Semitic languages; the Hebrew Bible; medieval and modern Hebrew literature; ancient, medieval, and modern Jewish history; and Holocaust studies.\n\nThe Carl and Dorothy Bennett Center for Judaic Studies at Fairfield University in Connecticut was founded in 1994 with an initial endowment of $1.5 million from Carl and Dorothy Bennett. The Bennett Center's goal is to provide Fairfield University students exposure to and contact with Jewish ideas, culture, and thinking through lectures and other events.\n\nFairfield University also offers a minor in Judaic Studies within the Religion Department. Courses cover the Jewish faith, history, and culture. It seeks to integrate Judaic Studies into the curriculum of the Fairfield College of Arts and Sciences.\n\nThrough the Columbian College of Arts and Sciences, the Judaic Studies Program at The George Washington University in Washington, D.C. offers students the ability to study in the proximity to some of the most influential Jewish and Jewish-related institutions in the United States. Because of its location on the Foggy Bottom campus in downtown Washington, D.C., internships with organizations such as the American Jewish Committee, American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC), the Embassy of Israel in Washington, the Sixth & I Historic Synagogue, and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum are not only easily accessible but also very common.\n\nThe Gelman Library also hosts the I. Edward Kiev Collection, one of the largest Jewish academic archives on the East Coast.\n\nThe Center for Jewish Studies at Harvard University is the focal point for the study and teaching of Judaica through publications, fellowships, lectures, and symposia on topics of interest to scholars and to the general public. The Center sponsors visiting scholars and post-doctoral research fellows and coordinates undergraduate and graduate studies on an interdisciplinary basis. The Center does not offer degrees but degrees focusing on Judaic Studies are available in various departments.\n\nThe Borns Jewish Studies Program offers an undergraduate major (with a Jewish sacred music curriculum in conjunction with the Jacobs School of Music at Indiana University); a certificate (8 courses); a minor in Hebrew; an undergraduate and graduate minor in Yiddish Studies (via the Department of Germanic Studies); a master's degree; and a PhD minor.\n\nThe Jewish Theological Seminary of America is a graduate school which describes itself as offering \"the most extensive academic program in advanced Judaic studies in North America.\" The school grants MA, DHL, and PhD degrees in the areas of: ancient Judaism; Bible and ancient Semitic languages; interdepartmental studies; Jewish art and visual culture; Jewish history; Jewish literature; Jewish philosophy; Jewish studies and public administration; Jewish studies and Social Work; *Jewish women’s studies; Jewish liturgy; medieval Jewish studies; Midrash; modern Jewish studies; and Talmud and Rabbinics. In addition to its graduate school, JTS also runs the Albert A. List College of Jewish Studies (which is affiliated with Columbia University and offers joint/double bachelor's degree programs with both Columbia and Barnard College); the William Davidson Graduate School of Jewish Education; the H. L. Miller Cantorial School and College of Jewish Music; and the Rabbinical School. The school's library \"contains 425,000 volumes, making it the largest and most extensive collection of Hebraic and Judaic material in the Western Hemisphere.\"\n\nThe Jewish Studies Program at Miami University offers students a minor, which requires 18 credit hours, and a thematic sequence . The minor requires a balance of pre-modern and modern courses. At Miami, thematic sequence typically consists of three related courses designed with an intellectual or pedagogical progression. Undergraduates must take a thematic sequence outside the department(s) in which they major, according to the Global Miami Plan for Liberal Education.\n\nMiami's program began in 2000, with the support of Thomas Idinopulos (d. 2010) and Karl Mattox. The proposal for Miami's Jewish Studies Program was developed partly by Allan Winkler. In 2006 and 2007, Miami University received grants from the Posen Foundation for the study of secular Judaism. Professor Sven-Erik Rose\n\nThe Jean and Samuel Frankel Center for Judaic Studies at the University of Michigan was formed as an independent program under the leadership of Jehuda Reinharz in 1976 and expanded into its current model in 1988. A strong faculty with a variety of expertise has allowed the interdisciplinary program to grow significantly in recent years. Areas of special interest include numerous faculty with strengths in Rabbinics, Yiddish literature and modern Jewish history. The current director, Dr. Deborah Dash Moore, is the author of \"GI Jews\", chronicling the role of Jews in the United States military and co-editor of the two-volume \"Jewish Women in America: An Historical Encyclopedia\". Other leading faculty members include Zvi Gitelman, Todd Endelman, Anita Norich, Madeline Kochen, Mikhail Krutikov, Elliot Ginsburg, Scott Spector and Julian Levinson. Recent arrivals include Ryan Szpiech (Spanish, Sephardic Culture, Medieval Iberia) and Rachel Neis (Rabbinics, Late Antique Judaism).\n\nMichigan Jewish Institute provides academic baccalaureate and other degree granting programs that combine an arts and sciences foundation with concentrations in Education, Leadership and General Judaic Studies for career development in applied Judaic disciplines. The Institute is part of the Chabad-Lubavitch movement.\n\nThe Skirball Department of Hebrew and Judaic Studies offers one of the most comprehensive Jewish Studies programs in North America, encompassing Hebrew language and literature as well as all facets of Jewish history and culture, from the ancient through the medieval to the modern. Courses are taught by faculty whose specialties include ancient Judaism, medieval Jewish history, modern Jewish history, Biblical studies, Middle Eastern studies, Postbiblical and Talmudic literature, Jewish mysticism, Jewish philosophy, and related fields. The school will grant eight elective credits to students who score 75 or more on the Jerusalam Exam\n\nNorthwestern University is home to the Crown Family Center for Jewish Studies, which offers both a minor and major in Jewish studies. The center consists of faculty across various departments, and offers courses in Hebrew, Yiddish, Jewish history, rabbinics, Jewish literature, and political science. Notable faculty include Yohanan Petrovsky-Shtern, Irwin Weil, Jacob Lassner, Beverly Mortensen and Elie Rekhess.\n\nThe Harold Schnitzer Family Program in Judaic Studies at Portland State University (PSU) is located in Portland, Oregon. The Harold Schnitzer Family Program in Judaic Studies offers both a Bachelor of Arts major and minor in Judaic Studies. Majors may choose one of five areas of concentration: Jews in Antiquity; Israel Studies; Judaism; Literature, Culture, and the Arts; or Modern Jewish History. Hebrew language instruction is also available.\n\nThe University of Oklahoma offers a Bachelor of Arts degree in Judaic Studies and minors in Judaic Studies and Hebrew. It also offers fellowships to students pursuing graduate degrees in history. The University is home to the Schusterman Center in Judaic and Israel Studies which began in 1993 as the Schusterman Program in Judaic and Israel Studies with the establishment of a Chairmanship by the Schusterman Family Foundation as a memorial to Sam Schusterman and Harold Josey. The program expanded to include a major in 2009. Classes include Hebrew, Jewish Literature, Jewish Mysticism, Israel, the Shoah, and Jewish History. Students can find other Jewish learning opportunities at the OU Hillel.\n\nThe Herbert D. Katz Center for Advanced Judaic Studies at the University of Pennsylvania is the only institution in the world devoted exclusively to post-doctoral research on Jewish civilization in all its historical and cultural manifestations.The Center was created in the fall of 1993 by the merger of the Annenberg Research Institute and the University of Pennsylvania. The library contains vast holdings of Judaica. There are several online exhibits as well.\n\nUniversity of Pennsylvania students can major or minor in Jewish studies in different departments.\n\nOther resources are available at the Weigle Judaica and Ancient Near Eastern Studies (JANES) Reading Room (in the Van Pelt Library). It contains about 6,000 non-circulating resources for study including \"...the Chicago Assyrian Dictionary (CAD); Biblical and multi-lingual dictionaries; grammars; important facsimiles and transcriptions of Sumerian and Northwest Semitic primary sources; critical Biblical editions and commentaries; Tannaitic, Amoraic, Midrashic, Geonic, and Responsa literatures; sixty-nine scholarly journals, including thirty-nine currently received periodicals.\" The Freedman Jewish Sound Archive contains over 4,000 Yiddish and Hebrew sound recordings and sheet music.\n\nThe Program in Judaic Studies at Princeton University offers a certificate program. It includes a mandatory course called \"Great Books of the Jewish Tradition.\" and four other classes.\n\nRutgers University has the largest Department of Jewish Studies among public research universities in the U.S. The Department serves as the academic home of seven full-time faculty members, who are supported by a dozen associated faculty members from other academic departments, Hebrew and Yiddish language instructors, and visiting fellows sponsored by the Allen and Joan Bildner Center for the Study of Jewish Life Students pursuing a B.A. degree may major or minor in Jewish Studies. In addition, the Department offers two specialized minors, one in Modern Hebrew Language and one in the Language and Culture of Ancient Israel.\n\nThe M.A. degree in Jewish Studies is designed for those seeking to advance their knowledge at the graduate level to prepare for doctoral-level work in Jewish Studies or other careers. The Department also offers a Certificate in Jewish Studies to graduate students at Rutgers pursuing master’s level or doctoral level work.\n\nThe program offers six free non-credit online courses in Jewish Studies. Topics include Zionism, Rabbinic literature, Bible History, Jews under Islam and more.\n\nThe Jewish Studies Program at San Diego State University (SDSU), located in San Diego, California, is an interdisciplinary program serving the students of SDSU as well as the greater San Diego community. SDSU offers a Major in \"Modern Jewish Studies\" and a Minor in \"Jewish Studies\" and are teaching a broad range of topics related to Jewish history, religion and culture from the biblical through the modern period. SDSU also offers a minor in Hebrew language within SDSU's Department of Linguistics, Asian/Middle Eastern Languages program In addition, SDSU hosts the Archives of the \"Jewish Historical Society of San Diego\" as well as \"The Lipinsky Institute for Judaic Studies.\" SDSU is ranked #28 in the country in public universities for Jewish students. SDSU has the largest Jewish student population in San Diego, and the fourth (4th) largest in California.\n\nPreviously Chicago’s College of Jewish Studies, the predecessor of Spertus Institute, was founded in 1924. In its first year it offered three courses: Jewish history, religion, and language. By 1948, a Department of Graduate Studies offering bachelors, masters, and doctoral degrees had been initiated. Today Spertus Institute offers accredited master's degree programs in Jewish Studies, Jewish Professional Studies, and Doctoral degree programs in Jewish Studies. Distance learning options serve students in 38 U.S. states and nine foreign countries.\n\nThe Judaic Studies Program at Syracuse University offers an Undergraduate Major in Modern Jewish Studies and a minor in Jewish Studies. Additionally, the School of Education offers a minor in Jewish Education to \"better prepare SU undergraduates to teach in Jewish congregational schools, camps, community centers, youth organizations.\" Syracuse University also offers classes in the Hebrew language.\n\nThe Judaic Studies Program at UC San Diego offers an Undergraduate Major in Judaic Studies, a minor in Judaic Studies, and a minor in Hebrew Language and Literature. Additionally, the History Department offers a master's degree in Judaic Studies and a Ph.D. in ancient history with relevant major fields including the history of Israel in the biblical period and the history of the Jewish people in antiquity. The Anthropology Department, in conjunction with the Judaic Studies Program, offers graduate training in Near Eastern archaeology with a focus on Israel and Jordan.\nThe school is also involved with the USC Shoah Foundation/The Visual History Archive an academic \"authority on the study of genocide and personal testimony.\"\nMany free interviews and videos may be accessed online or at a partner site.\n\nThe Schusterman Center for Jewish Studies of The University of Texas at Austin, founded in 2007, is the hub for Jewish Studies at UT Austin. It offers an undergraduate JS major; a network of graduate students pursuing Jewish research interests is organized through the Center. The Schusterman Center sponsors or cosponsors visiting speakers, film series, performing arts events, and exhibits, among other activities, and hosts visiting Israeli faculty. While it strives to include all Jewish topics, its areas of emphasis are Israel, which is covered by the Institute for Israel Studies within the Schusterman Center, Central and Eastern European Jewish history and culture and the Holocaust, Jewish Life in the Americas (including Latin America, the United States, and Canada), under the aegis of the Edwin Gale Collaborative for the Study of Jewish Life in the Americas, and Jewish Futures. The Schusterman Center houses the Nathan Snyder Memorial Library and a collection of original artwork by Latin American Jewish visual artists. It has close ties to the Latin American Jewish Studies Association (LAJSA) and hosts the LAJSA website.\n\nTouro College in New York City takes its name from Judah Touro and Isaac Touro, Jewish community leaders of colonial America, who represent the ideals upon which the College bases its mission. The college supports the faith of its Jewish students in addition to offering a variety of degrees.\n\nJewish Studies at the University of Virginia allows students to focus on the history, languages, and literature of the Jewish people; the beliefs and practices of Judaism; and the enduring contributions of Jewish wisdom to human civilization. Courses in Biblical and Modern Hebrew, Yiddish, Bible, Rabbinic literature, Jewish ancient and modern history, Jewish literature and culture, Holocaust studies, Jewish theology, and Jewish communities and cultures worldwide. Study abroad in Israel or in other centers of Jewry beyond North America.\n\nJewish Studies at UW began in the 1970s and today includes two dozen faculty members. Pillars of the program include the Stroum Lecture Series, the Hazel D. Cole Fellowship.\n\nYeshiva University in New York City has one of the largest departments of Jewish studies outside Israel and is the home of the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, the leading modern-orthodox rabbinical college in the United States. Its Jewish studies library contains over 300,000 volumes. It also houses the Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies.\nProminent Jewish Studies faculty members include Richard C Steiner, Barry Eichler, Debra Kaplan, Haym Soloveitchik, Ephraim Kanarfogel, David Berger, Mordechai Z. Cohen, Shalom Carmy, Steven Fine, Adam Zachary Newton, and Jeffrey S. Gurock.\n\nUniversity College London (UCL) houses the largest department of Hebrew and Jewish Studies in Europe. The department is the only one in the UK to offer a full degree course and research supervision in Jewish Studies at the BA Honours, MA, MPhil and PhD levels in every subject of Hebrew and Jewish Studies—philology, history, and literature—covering virtually the entire chronological and geographical span of the Hebrew and Jewish civilisation from antiquity through the Middle Ages to the modern period. As the first university in England to open its doors to Women, Roman Catholics and Dissenters, UCL was also the first to admit Jewish students. This traditional link of the College with the Anglo-Jewish community is very much alive today. Sir Isaac Lyon Goldsmid (1778–1859), one of the leading figures in the struggle for Jewish emancipation in England, was among the principal founders of University College and the chief promotor of its Hebrew department. At his instigation, Hyman Hurwitz was appointed as the first Professor of Hebrew in 1828. In 1967 the department was renamed the Department of Hebrew and Jewish Studies and extended to include, in addition to the established courses in Hebrew language and literature, a much wider range of courses with an emphasis on Jewish history. The department acts as host to both the Jewish Historical Society of England (JHSE) and the Institute of Jewish Studies (IJS), which organises annual public lecture series and international conferences on all aspects of Jewish civilisation.\n\nA nine-month course at Oxford University offers a chance to study Judaism at many different stages in its history - from its roots as the religion of the Israelites to the 20th century - as well as the opportunity to develop skills in a language important to the knowledge, understanding, practice and interpretation of the Jewish faith (or learn a language from scratch).\n\nCambridge has long been a centre for Hebrew and Semitic studies, the Regius Professorship of Hebrew having been founded by Henry VIII in 1540. The Hebrew degree at the Faculty of Asian and Middle Easter Studies (FAMES) takes four years, with the third year spent abroad. Along with general courses on Middle Eastern history and culture, students in the FAMES Hebrew programme study Hebrew language, literature, and culture of all periods (ancient, medieval, and modern). The teaching staff include specialists in each of these periods, including Dr. Aaron Hornkohl, Prof. Geoffrey Khan, Prof. Nicholas de Lange, Dr Yaron Peleg, and Dr. Michael Chaim Rand. A student may officially combine Hebrew with Arabic or a Modern European Language. \n\nThe Birobidzhan Jewish National University, a Russian university, works in cooperation with the local Jewish community of Birobidzhan. The university is unique in the Russian Far East. The basis of the training course is study of the Hebrew language, history and classic Jewish texts.\n\nIn recent years, the Jewish Autonomous Oblast has grown interested in its Jewish roots. Students study Hebrew and Yiddish at a Jewish school and Birobidzhan Jewish National University. In 1989, the Jewish center founded its Sunday school, where children studyYiddish, learn Jewish folk dance, and learn about the history of Israel. The Israeli government helps fund the program.\n\nThe Center for Jewish Studies Heidelberg (Hochschule für Jüdische Studien Heidelberg) is a fully recognized and accredited non-denominational institution of higher learning that delves into abroad range of research topics within the field of Jewish Studies. With its ten chairs working in close cooperation with the University of Heidelberg, the Center for Jewish Studies Heidelberg is a point of dynamic scholarly discussion, incorporating all facets of Jewish religion, history, cultures and societies. While the proximity to the historical heritage of Ashkenaz provides decisive impetus for both academic and religious work, its interest invariably extends beyond to all areas of geography and chronology as to consider Jewish cultures at large\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2681261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2681261", "title": "Laconic phrase", "text": "Laconic phrase\n\nA laconic phrase or laconism is a concise or terse statement, especially a blunt and elliptical rejoinder. It is named after Laconia, the region of Greece including the city of Sparta, whose ancient inhabitants had a reputation for verbal austerity and were famous for their blunt and often pithy remarks.\n\nA laconic phrase may be used for efficiency (as in military jargon), for emphasis, for philosophical reasons (especially among thinkers who believe in minimalism, such as Stoics), or to better deflate a pompous individual.\nA prominent example involves Philip II of Macedon. After invading southern Greece and receiving the submission of other key city-states, he turned his attention to Sparta and asked menacingly whether he should come as friend or foe. The reply was \"\"Neither\".\"\n\nLosing patience, he sent the message: \n\nYou are advised to submit without further delay, for if I bring my army into your land, I will destroy your farms, slay your people, and raze your city. \n\nThe Spartan ephors again replied with a single word: \n\n\"If.\" \n\nSubsequently, neither Philip nor his son Alexander the Great attempted to capture the city.\n\nThe Spartans were especially famous for their dry, understated wit, which is now known as \"laconic humor\". This can be contrasted with the \"Attic salt\" or \"Attic wit\" the refined, poignant, delicate humour of Sparta's chief rival, Athens.\n\nVarious more recent groups also have a reputation for laconic humor: Icelanders in the sagas, and in the Anglophone world, Australians (\"cf.\" Australian humor), American cowboys, New Englanders, and people from the North of England.\n\nSpartans paid less attention than other ancient Greeks to the development of education, arts, and literature. Some view this as having contributed to the characteristically blunt Laconian speech. However, Socrates, in Plato's dialogue \"Protagoras\", appears to reject the idea that Spartans' economy with words was simply a consequence of poor literary education: \"... they conceal their wisdom, and pretend to be blockheads, so that they may seem to be superior only because of their prowess in battle ... This is how you may know that I am speaking the truth and that the Spartans are the best educated in philosophy and speaking: if you talk to any ordinary Spartan, he seems to be stupid, but eventually, like an expert marksman, he shoots in some brief remark that proves you to be only a child\". Socrates was known to have admired Spartan laws, as did many other Athenians, but modern scholars have doubted the seriousness of his attribution of a secret love of philosophy to Spartans. Still, the Spartans Myson of Chenae and Chilon of Sparta have traditionally been counted among the Seven Sages of Greece; both were famous for many laconic sayings.\n\nIn general, however, Spartans were expected to be men of few words, to hold rhetoric in disdain, and to stick to the point. Loquacity was considered frivolous and unbecoming of sensible, down-to-earth Spartan peers. A Spartan youth was reportedly liable to have his thumb bitten as punishment for too verbose a response to a teacher's question.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35649071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35649071", "title": "Loosely associated statements", "text": "Loosely associated statements\n\nA loosely associated statement is a type of simple non-inferential passage wherein statements about a general subject are juxtaposed but make no inferential claim. As a rhetorical device, loosely associated statements may be intended by the speaker to infer a claim or conclusion, but because they lack a coherent logical structure any such interpretation is subjective as loosely associated statements prove nothing and attempt no obvious conclusion. Loosely associated statements can be said to serve no obvious purpose, such as illustration or explanation.\n\nIncluded statements can be premises, conclusions or both, and both true or false, but missing from the passage is a claim that any one statement supports another.\n\nIn \"A concise introduction to logic\", Hurley demonstrates the concept with a quote by Lao-Tzu:\n\nWhile each clause in the quote may seem related to the others, each provides no reason to believe another.\n"}
{"id": "329625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=329625", "title": "Mimesis", "text": "Mimesis\n\nMimesis (; \"mīmēsis\", from μιμεῖσθαι \"mīmeisthai\", \"to imitate\", from \"mimos\", \"imitator, actor\") is a critical and philosophical term that carries a wide range of meanings, which include imitation, representation, mimicry, \"imitatio\", receptivity, nonsensuous similarity, the act of resembling, the act of expression, and the presentation of the self.\n\nIn ancient Greece, mimesis was an idea that governed the creation of works of art, in particular, with correspondence to the physical world understood as a model for beauty, truth, and the good. Plato contrasted mimesis, or imitation, with diegesis, or narrative. After Plato, the meaning of mimesis eventually shifted toward a specifically literary function in ancient Greek society, and its use has changed and been reinterpreted many times since.\n\nOne of the best-known modern studies of mimesis, understood as a form of realism in literature, is Erich Auerbach's \"\", which opens with a famous comparison between the way the world is represented in Homer's \"Odyssey\" and the way it appears in the \"Bible\". From these two seminal Western texts, Auerbach builds the foundation for a unified theory of representation that spans the entire history of Western literature, including the Modernist novels being written at the time Auerbach began his study. In art history, \"mimesis\", \"realism\" and \"naturalism\" are used, often interchangeably, as terms for the accurate, even \"illusionistic\", representation of the visual appearance of things.\n\nMimesis has been theorised by thinkers as diverse as Plato, Aristotle, Philip Sidney, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Adam Smith, Gabriel Tarde, Sigmund Freud, Walter Benjamin, Theodor Adorno, Erich Auerbach, Paul Ricœur, Luce Irigaray, Jacques Derrida, René Girard, Nikolas Kompridis, Philippe Lacoue-Labarthe, Michael Taussig, Merlin Donald, and Homi Bhabha.\n\nBoth Plato and Aristotle saw in mimesis the representation of nature, including human nature, as reflected in the dramas of the period. Plato wrote about mimesis in both \"Ion\" and \"The Republic\" (Books II, III, and X). In \"Ion\", he states that poetry is the art of divine madness, or inspiration. Because the poet is subject to this divine madness, instead of possessing \"art\" or \"knowledge\" – \"techne\" – of the subject (532c), the poet does not speak truth (as characterized by Plato's account of the Forms). As Plato has it, truth is only the concern of the philosopher. As culture in those days did not consist in the solitary reading of books, but in the listening to performances, the recitals of orators (and poets), or the acting out by classical actors of tragedy, Plato maintained in his critique that theatre was not sufficient in conveying the truth (540c). He was concerned that actors or orators were thus able to persuade an audience by rhetoric rather than by telling the truth (535b).\n\nIn Book II of \"The Republic\", Plato describes Socrates' dialogue with his pupils. Socrates warns we should not seriously regard poetry as being capable of attaining the truth and that we who listen to poetry should be on our guard against its seductions, since the poet has no place in our idea of God.\n\nIn developing this in Book X, Plato told of Socrates' metaphor of the three beds: one bed exists as an idea made by God (the Platonic ideal, or form); one is made by the carpenter, in imitation of God's idea; one is made by the artist in imitation of the carpenter's.\n\nSo the artist's bed is twice removed from the truth. Those who copy only touch on a small part of things as they really are, where a bed may appear differently from various points of view, looked at obliquely or directly, or differently again in a mirror. So painters or poets, though they may paint or describe a carpenter, or any other maker of things, know nothing of the carpenter's (the craftsman's) art, and though the better painters or poets they are, the more faithfully their works of art will resemble the reality of the carpenter making a bed, nonetheless the imitators will still not attain the truth (of God's creation).\n\nThe poets, beginning with Homer, far from improving and educating humanity, do not possess the knowledge of craftsmen and are mere imitators who copy again and again images of virtue and rhapsodise about them, but never reach the truth in the way the superior philosophers do.\n\nSimilar to Plato's writings about mimesis, Aristotle also defined mimesis as the perfection, and imitation of nature. Art is not only imitation but also the use of mathematical ideas and symmetry in the search for the perfect, the timeless, and contrasting being with becoming. Nature is full of change, decay, and cycles, but art can also search for what is everlasting and the first causes of natural phenomena. Aristotle wrote about the idea of four causes in nature. The first, the formal cause, is like a blueprint, or an immortal idea. The second cause is the material cause, or what a thing is made out of. The third cause is the efficient cause, that is, the process and the agent by which the thing is made. The fourth, the final cause, is the good, or the purpose and end of a thing, known as \"telos\".\n\nAristotle's \"Poetics\" is often referred to as the counterpart to this Platonic conception of poetry. \"Poetics\" is his treatise on the subject of mimesis. Aristotle was not against literature as such; he stated that human beings are mimetic beings, feeling an urge to create texts (art) that reflect and represent reality.\n\nAristotle considered it important that there be a certain distance between the work of art on the one hand and life on the other; we draw knowledge and consolation from tragedies only because they do not happen to us. Without this distance, tragedy could not give rise to catharsis. However, it is equally important that the text causes the audience to identify with the characters and the events in the text, and unless this identification occurs, it does not touch us as an audience. Aristotle holds that it is through \"simulated representation\", mimesis, that we respond to the acting on the stage which is conveying to us what the characters feel, so that we may empathise with them in this way through the mimetic form of dramatic roleplay. It is the task of the dramatist to produce the tragic enactment in order to accomplish this empathy by means of what is taking place on stage.\n\nIn short, catharsis can only be achieved if we see something that is both recognisable and distant. Aristotle argued that literature is more interesting as a means of learning than history, because history deals with specific facts that have happened, and which are contingent, whereas literature, although sometimes based on history, deals with events that could have taken place or ought to have taken place.\n\nAristotle thought of drama as being \"an imitation of an action\" and of tragedy as \"falling from a higher to a lower estate\" and so being removed to a less ideal situation in more \"tragic\" circumstances than before. He posited the characters in tragedy as being better than the average human being, and those of comedy as being worse.\n\nMichael Davis, a translator and commentator of Aristotle writes:\nIt was also Plato and Aristotle who contrasted mimesis with diegesis (Greek διήγησις). Mimesis \"shows\", rather than \"tells\", by means of directly represented action that is enacted. Diegesis, however, is the \"telling\" of the story by a narrator; the author narrates action indirectly and describes what is in the characters' minds and emotions. The narrator may speak as a particular character or may be the \"invisible narrator\" or even the \"all-knowing narrator\" who speaks from above in the form of commenting on the action or the characters.\n\nIn Book III of his \"Republic\" (c. 373 BCE), Plato examines the style of poetry (the term includes comedy, tragedy, epic and lyric poetry): All types narrate events, he argues, but by differing means. He distinguishes between narration or report (diegesis) and imitation or representation (mimesis). Tragedy and comedy, he goes on to explain, are wholly imitative types; the dithyramb is wholly narrative; and their combination is found in epic poetry. When reporting or narrating, \"the poet is speaking in his own person; he never leads us to suppose that he is any one else\"; when imitating, the poet produces an \"assimilation of himself to another, either by the use of voice or gesture\". In dramatic texts, the poet never speaks directly; in narrative texts, the poet speaks as himself or herself.\n\nIn his \"Poetics\", Aristotle argues that kinds of poetry (the term includes drama, flute music, and lyre music for Aristotle) may be differentiated in three ways: according to their \"medium\", according to their \"objects\", and according to their \"mode\" or \"manner\" (section I); \"For the medium being the same, and the objects the same, the poet may imitate by narration—in which case he can either take another personality, as Homer does, or speak in his own person, unchanged—or he may present all his characters as living and moving before us\" (section III).\n\nThough they conceive of mimesis in quite different ways, its relation with diegesis is identical in Plato's and Aristotle's formulations.\n\nIn ludology, mimesis is sometimes used to refer to the self-consistency of a represented world, and the availability of in-game rationalisations for elements of the gameplay. In this context, mimesis has an associated grade: highly self-consistent worlds that provide explanations for their puzzles and game mechanics are said to display a higher degree of mimesis. This usage can be traced back to the essay \"Crimes Against Mimesis\".\n\nDionysian imitatio is the influential literary method of imitation as formulated by Greek author Dionysius of Halicarnassus in the 1st century BCE, which conceived it as technique of rhetoric: emulating, adaptating, reworking and enriching a source text by an earlier author.\n\nDionysius' concept marked a significant depart from the concept of \"mimesis\" formulated by Aristotle's in the 4th century BCE, which was only concerned with \"imitation of nature\" instead of the \"imitation of other authors\". Latin orators and rhetoricians adopted the literary method of Dionysius' \"imitatio\" and discarded Aristotle's \"mimesis\".\n\nMimesis, or imitation, as he referred to it, was a crucial concept for Samuel Taylor Coleridge's theory of the imagination. Coleridge begins his thoughts on imitation and poetry from Plato, Aristotle, and Philip Sidney, adopting their concept of imitation of nature instead of other writers. His middling departure from the earlier thinkers lies in his arguing that art does not reveal a unity of essence through its ability to achieve sameness with nature. Coleridge claims:\nHere, Coleridge opposes imitation to copying, the latter referring to William Wordsworth's notion that poetry should duplicate nature by capturing actual speech. Coleridge instead argues that the unity of essence is revealed precisely through different materialities and media. Imitation, therefore, reveals the sameness of processes in nature.\n\nThe Belgian feminist Luce Irigaray used the term to describe a form of resistance where women imperfectly imitate stereotypes about themselves so as to show up these stereotypes and undermine them.\n\nIn \"Mimesis and Alterity\" (1993), the anthropologist Michael Taussig examines the way that people from one culture adopt another's nature and culture (the process of mimesis) at the same time as distancing themselves from it (the process of alterity). He describes how a legendary tribe, the \"white Indians\", or Cuna, have adopted in various representations figures and images reminiscent of the white people they encountered in the past (without acknowledging doing so).\n\nTaussig, however, criticises anthropology for reducing yet another culture, that of the Cuna, for having been so impressed by the exotic technologies of the whites that they raised them to the status of gods. To Taussig this reductionism is suspect, and he argues this from both sides in his \"Mimesis and Alterity\" to see values in the anthropologists' perspective while simultaneously defending the independence of a lived culture from the perspective of anthropological reductionism.\n\nIn \"Things Hidden Since the Foundation of the World\" (1978), René Girard posits that human behavior is based upon mimesis, and that imitation can engender pointless conflict. Girard notes the productive potential of competition: \"It is because of this unprecedented capacity to promote competition within limits that always remain socially, if not individually, acceptable that we have all the amazing achievements of the modern world,\" but states that competition stifles progress once it becomes an end in itself: \"rivals are more apt to forget about whatever objects are the cause of the rivalry and instead become more fascinated with one another.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "161095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161095", "title": "Monologue", "text": "Monologue\n\nIn theatre, a monologue (from , from μόνος \"mónos\", \"alone, solitary\" and λόγος \"lógos\", \"speech\") is a speech presented by a single character, most often to express their mental thoughts aloud, though sometimes also to directly address another character or the audience. Monologues are common across the range of dramatic media (plays, films, etc.), as well as in non-dramatic media such as poetry. Monologues share much in common with several other literary devices including soliloquies, apostrophes, and asides. There are, however, distinctions between each of these devices.\n\nMonologues are similar to poems, epiphanies, and others, in that, they involve one 'voice' speaking but there are differences between them. For example, a soliloquy involves a character relating his or her thoughts and feelings to him/herself and to the audience without addressing any of the other characters. A monologue is the thoughts of a person spoken out loud. Monologues are also distinct from apostrophes, in which the speaker or writer addresses an imaginary person, inanimate object, or idea. Asides differ from each of these not only in length (asides are shorter) but also in that asides are not heard by other characters even in situations where they logically should be (e.g. two characters engaging in a dialogue interrupted by one of them delivering an aside).\n\nIn ancient Greek theatre, the origin of western drama, the conventional three actor rule was preceded by a two actor rule, which was itself preceded by a convention in which only a single actor would appear on stage, along with the chorus. The origin of the monologue as a dramatic device, therefore, is not rooted in dialogue. It is, instead, the other way around; dialogue evolved from monologue.\n\nAncient Roman theatre featured monologues extensively, more commonly than either Ancient Greek theatre or modern theatre. One of the key purposes of these monologues was to indicate the passage of significant amounts of time (that would be tedious to actually play out in real time) within scenes. This type of monologue is referred to as a linking monologue. Other monologue types included \"entrance monologues\" and exit monologues. In each of these cases a primary function is indicating the passage of time.\n\nFrom Renaissance theatre onward, monologues generally focused on characters using the extended speech to pursue their dramatic need. Postmodern theatre, on the other hand, often embraces the performative aspects of the monologue, even to the point of challenging the boundary between character portrayal (e.g. acting) and autobiographical speeches.\n\nInterior monologues involve a character externalizing their thoughts so that the audience can witness experiences that would otherwise be mostly internal. In contrast, a dramatic monologue involves one character speaking to another character. Monologues can also be divided along the lines of active and narrative monologues. In an active monologue a character is using their speech to achieve a clear goal. Narrative monologues simply involve a character telling a story and can often be identified by the fact that they are in the past tense.\n\nActors in theatre, and sometimes in film and television, may be asked to deliver monologues in auditions. Audition monologues demonstrate an actor's ability to prepare a piece and deliver a performance. These pieces are usually limited to two minutes or less and are often paired with a contrasting monologue: comic and dramatic; classical and contemporary. The choice of monologues for an audition often depends on the play or role. The audition monologue is a rite of passage with theatre actors.\n\n\n\nContemporary Monologues from Published Plays - Monologue Blogger\n"}
{"id": "12130825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12130825", "title": "Museolog", "text": "Museolog\n\nMuseolog is a web-driven software system for cataloging museum information. It is an advanced tool for museum records management, based on the international standards. It was developed by EUROCLID within the UNESCO HeritageNet project, and localized by the non-governmental organization, Open Systems. Using this software, initial functions of input and editing of museum catalogues are provided what has been described as \"a modern intuitive graphical interface using forms and menus.\" Museolog is free software released under the GNU GPL.\n\nMuseolog allows the user to create a record across several interactive sessions. It is also possible to save non-validated, incomplete records for future completion.\n\nAccess to the database is regulated by a system of managing access rights, to various levels of functionaries in the museum.\n\nIt is also possible manage object movements (when an object is moved from one place to another within the museum, or on loan to an external place), and restoration work. To track movement, a 'movement sheet' is printed. This software allows the user to print a list of all objects on loan, including details like origin and destination place.\n\nWhen restoration work is undertaken, the type of work (e.g. cleaning), the physical method used, and digital photos taken before and after can be recorded.\n\nSearching and selecting records is also possible, from the catalogue, through the use of Boolean queries. Retrieved records are shown as a short-list of titles; clicking on any would show the full record. Selected records are printable, with any relevant images inserted in the document.\n\nIn keeping with current methods of photographing museum exhibits, digital images are indexed in the database. These images are archived, using recordable CD-roms. CDs are then numbered and indexed in the database, making retrieval easy of all museum objects.\n\nUsers can save the current state of the database on a CD-R; there is the possibility of rebuilding this when needed due to any possible hardware or software crash. Data from the database can also be exported in XML format, making it transferable to other databases or website. This software also allows for managing thesauri and authority lists. Users can load, browse, edit and export thesauri and terminology resources, thus allowing for cooperative terminology definition and exchanges.\n\nAs of July 7, 2007 the versions that were available were 4.5-6 for Linux and 4.6 for Windows, both released in mid-2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "38693641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38693641", "title": "Optimality Theory", "text": "Optimality Theory\n\nIn linguistics, Optimality Theory (frequently abbreviated OT; the term is normally capitalized by convention) is a linguistic model proposing that the observed forms of language arise from the optimal satisfaction of conflicting constraints. OT differs from other approaches to phonological analysis, such as autosegmental phonology and linear phonology (SPE), which typically use rules rather than constraints. OT models grammars as systems that provide mappings from inputs to outputs; typically, the inputs are conceived of as underlying representations, and the outputs as their surface realizations.\n\nIn linguistics, Optimality Theory has its origin in a talk given by Alan Prince and Paul Smolensky in 1991 which was later developed in an article by the same authors in 1993.\n\nThere are three basic components of the theory:\n\n\nOptimality Theory assumes that these components are universal. Differences in grammars reflect different rankings of the universal constraint set, . Part of language acquisition can then be described as the process of adjusting the ranking of these constraints.\n\nOptimality Theory as applied to language was originally proposed by the linguists Alan Prince and Paul Smolensky in 1991, and later expanded by Prince and John J. McCarthy. Although much of the interest in Optimality Theory has been associated with its use in phonology, the area to which Optimality Theory was first applied, the theory is also applicable to other subfields of linguistics (e.g. syntax and semantics).\n\nOptimality Theory is like other theories of generative grammar in its focus on the investigation of universal principles, linguistic typology and language acquisition.\n\nOptimality Theory also has roots in neural network research. It arose in part as an alternative to the connectionist theory of Harmonic Grammar, developed in 1990 by Géraldine Legendre, Yoshiro Miyata and Paul Smolensky. Variants of Optimality Theory with connectionist-like weighted constraints continue to be pursued in more recent work (Pater 2009).\n\nOptimality Theory supposes that there are no language-specific restrictions on the input. This is called \"richness of the base\". Every grammar can handle every possible input. For example, a language without complex clusters must be able to deal with an input such as . Languages without complex clusters differ on how they will resolve this problem; some will epenthesize (e.g. , or if all codas are banned) and some will delete (e.g. ).\n\nIn Optimality Theory, every constraint is universal. is the same in every language. There are two basic types of constraints:\n\n\nEach plays a crucial role in the theory. Markedness constraints motivate changes from the underlying form, and faithfulness constraints prevent every input from being realized as some completely unmarked form (such as ).\n\nThe universal nature of makes some immediate predictions about language typology. If grammars differ only by having different rankings of , then the set of possible human languages is determined by the constraints that exist. Optimality Theory predicts that there cannot be more grammars than there are permutations of the ranking of . The number of possible rankings is equal to the factorial of the total number of constraints, thus giving rise to the term \"factorial typology\". However, it may not be possible to distinguish all of these potential grammars, since not every constraint is guaranteed to have an observable effect in every language. Two total orders on the constraints of could generate the same range of input–output mappings, but differ in the relative ranking of two constraints which do not conflict with each other. Since there is no way to distinguish these two rankings they are said to belong to the same grammar. A grammar in OT is equivalent to an antimatroid (Merchant & Riggle 2016). If rankings with ties are allowed, then the number of possibilities is an ordered Bell number rather than a factorial, allowing a significantly larger number of possibilities.\n\nMcCarthy & Prince (1995) propose three basic families of faithfulness constraints:\n\n\nEach of the constraints' names may be suffixed with \"-IO\" or \"-BR\", standing for \"input/output\" and \"base/reduplicant\", respectively—the latter of which is used in analysis of reduplication—if desired. \"F\" in (F) is substituted by the name of a distinctive feature, as in (voice).\n\nMcCarthy & Prince (1995) also propose:\n\n\nMarkedness constraints introduced by Prince & Smolensky (1993) include:\n\nPrecise definitions in literature vary. Some constraints are sometimes used as a \"cover constraint\", standing in for a set of constraints that are not fully known or important.\n\nSome markedness constraints are context-free and others are context-sensitive. For example, *V states that vowels must not be nasal in any position and is thus context-free, whereas *VN states that vowels must not be oral when preceding a tautosyllabic nasal and is thus context-sensitive.\n\nTwo constraints may be conjoined as a single constraint, called a \"local conjunction\", which gives only one violation each time both constraints are violated within a given domain, such as a segment, syllable or word. For example, [] is violated once per voiced obstruent in a coda (\"VOP\" stands for \"voiced obstruent prohibition\"), and may be equivalently written as . Local conjunctions are used as a way of circumventing the problem of phonological opacity that arises when analyzing chain shifts.\n\nGiven two candidates, A and B, A is better, or more \"harmonic\", than B on a constraint if A incurs fewer violations than B. Candidate A is more harmonic than B on an entire constraint hierarchy if A incurs fewer violations of the highest-ranked constraint distinguishing A and B. A is \"optimal\" in its candidate set if it is better on the constraint hierarchy than all other candidates.\n\nFor example, given the constraints C, C, and C, where C dominates C, which dominates C (C ≫ C ≫ C), A is optimal if it does better than B on the highest ranking constraint which assigns them a different number of violations. If A and B tie on C, but A does better than B on C, A is optimal, even if A has however many more violations of C than B does. This comparison is often illustrated with a tableau. The pointing finger marks the optimal candidate, and each cell displays an asterisk for each violation for a given candidate and constraint. Once a candidate does worse than another candidate on the highest ranking constraint distinguishing them, it incurs a fatal violation (marked in the tableau by an exclamation mark and by shaded cells for the lower-ranked constraints). Once a candidate incurs a fatal violation, it cannot be optimal, even if it outperforms the other candidates on the rest of .\n\nOther notational conventions include dotted lines separating columns of unranked or equally ranked constraints, a check mark ✔ in place of a finger in tentatively ranked tableaux (denoting harmonic but not conclusively optimal), and a circled asterisk ⊛ denoting a violation by a winner; in output candidates, the angle brackets denote segments elided in phonetic realization, and □ and □́ denote an epenthetic consonant and vowel, respectively. The \"much greater than\" sign ≫ (sometimes the nested ⪢) denotes the domination of a constraint over another (\"C ≫ C\" = \"C dominates C\") while the \"succeeds\" operator ≻ denotes superior harmony in comparison of output candidates (\"A ≻ B\" = \"A is more harmonic than B\").\n\nConstraints are ranked in a hierarchy of strict domination. The \"strictness of strict domination\" means that a candidate which violates only a high-ranked constraint does worse on the hierarchy than one that does not, even if the second candidate fared worse on every other lower-ranked constraint. This also means that constraints are violable; the winning (i.e. the most harmonic) candidate need not satisfy all constraints, as long as for any rival candidate that does better than the winner on some constraint, there is a higher-ranked constraint on which the winner does better than that rival. Within a language, a constraint may be ranked high enough that it is always obeyed; it may be ranked low enough that it has no observable effects; or, it may have some intermediate ranking. The term \"the emergence of the unmarked\" describes situations in which a markedness constraint has an intermediate ranking, so that it is violated in some forms, but nonetheless has observable effects when higher-ranked constraints are irrelevant.\n\nAn early example proposed by McCarthy & Prince (1994) is the constraint , which prohibits syllables from ending in consonants. In Balangao, is not ranked high enough to be always obeyed, as witnessed in roots like \"taynan\" (faithfulness to the input prevents deletion of the final ). But, in the reduplicated form \"ma-tayna-taynan\" 'repeatedly be left behind', the final is not copied. Under McCarthy & Prince's analysis, this is because faithfulness to the input does not apply to reduplicated material, and is thus free to prefer \"ma-tayna-taynan\" over hypothetical \"ma-taynan-taynan\" (which has an additional violation of ).\n\nSome optimality theorists prefer the use of comparative tableaux, as described in Prince (2002b). Comparative tableaux display the same information as the classic or \"flyspeck\" tableaux, but the information is presented in such a way that it highlights the most crucial information. For instance, the tableau above would be rendered in the following way.\n\nEach row in a comparative tableau represents a winner–loser pair, rather than an individual candidate. In the cells where the constraints assess the winner–loser pairs, \"W\" is placed if the constraint in that column prefers the winner, \"L\" if the constraint prefers the loser, and \"e\" if the constraint does not differentiate between the pair. Presenting the data in this way makes it easier to make generalizations. For instance, in order to have a consistent ranking \"some\" W must dominate \"all\" L's. Brasoveanu and Prince (2005) describe a process known as fusion and the various ways of presenting data in a comparative tableau in order to achieve the necessary and sufficient conditions for a given argument.\n\nAs a simplified example, consider the manifestation of the English plural:\n\n\nAlso consider the following constraint set, in descending order of domination:\n\nNo matter how the constraints are re-ordered, the allomorph will always lose to . This is called \"harmonic bounding\". The violations incurred by the candidate are a subset of the violations incurred by ; specifically, if you epenthesize a vowel, changing the voicing of the morpheme is a gratuitous violation of constraints. In the tableau, there is a candidate which incurs no violations whatsoever. Within the constraint set of the problem, harmonically bounds all other possible candidates. This shows that a candidate does not need to be a winner in order to harmonically bound another candidate.\n\nThe tableaux from above are repeated below using the comparative tableaux format.\n\nFrom the comparative tableau for , it can be observed that any ranking of these constraints will produce the observed output . Because there are no loser-preferring comparisons, wins under any ranking of these constraints; this means that no ranking can be established on the basis of this input.\n\nThe tableau for contains rows with a single W and a single L. This shows that , , and must all dominate ; however, no ranking can be established between those constraints on the basis of this input. Based on this tableau, the following ranking has been established\n\nThe tableau for shows that several more rankings are necessary in order to predict the desired outcome. The first row says nothing; there is no loser-preferring comparison in the first row. The second row reveals that either *SS or must dominate , based on the comparison between and . The third row shows that must dominate . The final row shows that either *SS or must dominate . From the tableau, it was established that dominates ; this means that *SS must dominate .\n\nSo far, the following rankings have been shown to be necessary:\n\nWhile it is possible that can dominate , it is not necessary; the ranking given above is sufficient for the observed for to emerge.\n\nWhen the rankings from the tableaux are combined, the following ranking summary can be given:\n\nThere are two possible places to put when writing out rankings linearly; neither is truly accurate. The first implies that *SS and must dominate , and the second implies that must dominate . Neither of these are truthful, which is a failing of writing out rankings in a linear fashion like this. These sorts of problems are the reason why most linguists utilize a lattice graph to represent necessary and sufficient rankings, as shown below.\n\nA diagram that represents the necessary rankings of constraints in this style is a Hasse diagram.\n\nOptimality Theory has attracted substantial amounts of criticism, most of which is directed at its application to phonology (rather than syntax or other fields).\n\nIt is claimed that Optimality Theory cannot account for phonological opacity (see Idsardi 2000, for example). In derivational phonology, effects that are inexplicable at the surface level but are explainable through \"opaque\" rule ordering may be seen; but in Optimality Theory, which has no intermediate levels for rules to operate on, these effects are difficult to explain.\n\nFor example, in Quebec French, high front vowels triggered affrication of , (e.g. ), but the loss of high vowels (visible at the surface level) has left the affrication with no apparent source. Derivational phonology can explain this by stating that vowel syncope (the loss of the vowel) \"counterbled\" affrication—that is, instead of vowel syncope occurring and \"bleeding\" (i.e. preventing) affrication, it says that affrication applies before vowel syncope, so that the high vowel is removed and the environment destroyed which had triggered affrication. Such counterbleeding rule orderings are therefore termed \"opaque\" (as opposed to \"transparent\"), because their effects are not visible at the surface level.\n\nThe opacity of such phenomena finds no straightforward explanation in Optimality Theory, since intermediate forms are not accessible (constraints refer only to the surface form and/or the underlying form). There have been a number of proposals designed to account for it, but most of the proposals significantly alter Optimality Theory's basic architecture and therefore tend to be highly controversial. Frequently, such alterations add new types of constraints (which are not universal faithfulness or markedness constraints), or change the properties of (such as allowing for serial derivations) or . Examples of these include John J. McCarthy's sympathy theory and candidate chains theory, among many others.\n\nA relevant issue is the existence of circular chain shifts, i.e. cases where input maps to output , but input maps to output . Many versions of Optimality Theory predict this to be impossible (see Moreton 2004, Prince 2007).\n\nOptimality Theory is also criticized as being an impossible model of speech production/perception: computing and comparing an infinite number of possible candidates would take an infinitely long time to process. Idsardi (2006) argues this position, though other linguists dispute this claim on the grounds that Idsardi makes unreasonable assumptions about the constraint set and candidates, and that more moderate instantiations of Optimality Theory do not present such significant computational problems (see Kornai (2006) and Heinz, Kobele & Riggle (2009)). Another common rebuttal to this criticism of Optimality Theory is that the framework is purely representational. In this view, Optimality Theory is taken to be a model of linguistic competence and is therefore not intended to explain the specifics of linguistic performance.\n\nAnother objection to Optimality Theory is that it is not technically a theory, in that it does not make falsifiable predictions. The source of this issue may be in terminology: the term \"theory\" is used differently here than in physics, chemistry, and other sciences. Specific instantiations of Optimality Theory may make falsifiable predictions, in the same way specific proposals within other linguistic frameworks can. What predictions are made, and whether they are testable, depends on the specifics of individual proposals (most commonly, this is a matter of the definitions of the constraints used in an analysis). Thus, Optimality Theory as a framework is best described as a scientific paradigm.\n\nIn practice, implementations of Optimality Theory often assume other related concepts, such as the syllable, the mora, or feature geometry. Completely distinct from these, there are sub-theories which have been proposed entirely within Optimality Theory, such as positional faithfulness theory, correspondence theory (McCarthy & Prince 1995), sympathy theory, and a number of theories of learnability, most notably by Bruce Tesar.\nThere are also a range of theories specifically about Optimality Theory. These are concerned with issues like the possible formulations of constraints, and constraint interactions other than strict domination.\n\nOptimality Theory is most commonly associated with the field of phonology, but has also been applied to other areas of linguistics. Jane Grimshaw, Geraldine Legendre and Joan Bresnan have developed instantiations of the theory within syntax. Optimality theoretic approaches are also relatively prominent in morphology (and the morphology–phonology interface in particular).\n\n"}
{"id": "25603863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25603863", "title": "Ordinary law", "text": "Ordinary law\n\nAn ordinary law is a normal law, generally distinguished from a constitutional law, organic law, or other similar law. Typically, ordinary laws are subordinate to constitutional and organic laws, and are more easily changed than constitutional or organic laws, though that should not be assumed to be the case in all jurisdictions. (For example, the Constitutional Court of Spain has ruled that Spain's Organic Laws are not hierarchically superior to ordinary laws, but simply apply to different matters.) Ordinary laws often govern areas beyond the scope of constitutional or organic laws.\n\nNormally, in a democracy, an ordinary law must first obtain a simple majority of a congress, parliament, or other legislature, and then be signed into law by the representative of executive power. The process leading to a legislative vote may vary vastly from one jurisdiction to another: the process may be initiated by either house of a bicameral legislature or from the sole house of a unicameral legislature; from the head of government or head of state; or by popular initiative. Different jurisdictions may allow ordinary laws to be proposed by one or all of these means, and may have restrictions on which body may take the initiative for certain types of laws (for example, in some bicameral systems, tax-related laws must begin in the lower chamber of the legislature). In some jurisdictions, the legislature has a means to override an executive veto by a supermajority, or the voting populace have the means to override a law by a referendum.\n\nUnder federal systems, ordinary laws may be created at the level of a sovereign state but also by its constituent components: for example, by states of the United States or autonomous communities of Spain.\n"}
{"id": "53805573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53805573", "title": "Ovarian Psycos", "text": "Ovarian Psycos\n\nOvarian Psycos is a bicycle brigade established in Boyle Heights, Los Angeles, in 2010, that supports young women of color in leadership and empowerment activities. The group was founded by Xela de la X, a single mother, artist, activist and a survivor of sexual abuse. She formed the group as a feminist community sisterhood that feels comfortable taking up space as well confronting the harassment of women. The group also focuses on issues such as racial, social and political inequality. https://ovarianpsycos.com/her-story/principles-of-unity/ The women come from working class, immigrant communities in North and East L.A. and rides are organized monthly on the full moon. \nA documentary by Joanna Sokolowski and Kate Trumbull-LaValle premiered in 2016 at SXSW and was screened on March 27, 2017 on the KCET \"Independent Lens\" program.\n\n"}
{"id": "864229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=864229", "title": "Pars pro toto", "text": "Pars pro toto\n\nPars pro toto (; ), Latin for \"a part (taken) for the whole\", is a figure of speech where the name of a \"portion\" of an object, place, or concept represents its \"entirety\". It is distinct from a merism, which is a reference to a whole by an enumeration of parts; metonymy, where an object, place, or concept is called by something or some place associated with the object, place, or concept; or synecdoche, which can refer both to this and its inverse: the whole representing a part.\n\nIn the context of language, \"pars pro toto\" means that something is named after a part of it, or after a limited characteristic, in itself not necessarily representative for the whole. For example, \"glasses\" is a \"pars pro toto\" name for something that consists of more than just two pieces of glass.\nExamples of common \"pars pro toto\" usage in political geography include \"Russia\" or \"Russians\", for the entire former Russian Empire or former Soviet Union or its people, China for People's Republic of China, Holland for the Netherlands, and, particularly in languages other than English, using the translation of \"England\" in that language for \"United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland\". Among English-speakers \"Great Britain\" or \"Britain\" is a common \"pars pro toto\" shorthand for the entire United Kingdom. Switzerland's name (in German \"Schweiz\") comes from its central Canton of Schwyz.\n\nThe inverse of a \"pars pro toto\" is a \"totum pro parte\", in which the whole is used to describe a part, such as widespread use of \"America\" (which originally named the entire western hemisphere to place it geographically, with alliteration, alongside Asia, Africa, \"Europa\", and ultimately Antarctica and Australia) in place of \"United States of America\", \"United States\" or \"US\".\nThe term \"synecdoche\" is used for both, as well as similar metaphors, though in Greek it literally means \"simultaneous understanding\".\n\nCertain place names are sometimes used as synecdoches to denote an area greater than that warranted by their strict meaning:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46359070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46359070", "title": "Philandry", "text": "Philandry\n\nPhilandry is fondness, love, or admiration towards men. Its antonym is \"misandry\". Philandry is not to be confused with androphilia, which is sexual attraction to men or masculinity (and whose antonym is \"androphobia\").\n\n\"Philandry\" comes from \"philo-\" (loving) and Greek \"andro\" (man). The parallel Greek-based terms with respect to women (females) are philogyny for \"fondness towards women\" and misogyny for \"hatred of women\". Parallel terms for humanity in general are philanthropy and misanthropy.\n\n"}
{"id": "29976943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29976943", "title": "Political climate", "text": "Political climate\n\nThe political climate is the aggregate mood and opinions of a political society at a particular time. It is generally used to describe when the state of mood and opinion is changing or unstable rather than in a state of equilibrium. The phrase has origins from both ancient Greece and medieval-era France.\n\nWhile the concept of a political climate has been used historically to describe both politics and public reactions to political actions in various forms, the naming of the concept by the addition of the modifier “political” to the base “climate” has been fairly recent. Public opinion is also widely used incorrectly as a synonym for political climate.\n\nAs for judging what the climate is at any given time, there is no way to know an entire country's views on certain subjects. So, polls are used to estimate what the political climate \"feels\" like on a regular basis. However, this only works to some degree as polls cannot involve the entire population at once.\n\nAccording to the Oxford English Dictionary, the base climate comes from the Middle French \"climat\", which was first used to describe a region's prevailing weather conditions around 1314. One of the first recorded uses of climate as a description of prevailing political attitudes was in The Vanity of Dogmatizing by Joseph Glanvill in 1661 where he mentions “divers Climates of Opinions”.\n\nThe modifier (\"politic\" with the \"–al\" suffix) comes originally from the ancient Greek noun \"polis\" which referred to both a Greek city state, and the ideal state or government. Over time, this evolved through the Latin noun \"politicus\" which is defined as the civil government, to the Middle French adjective \"politique\" which is the state of government, or relating to government.\n\nFrom 431 B.C.E to 404 B.C.E., ancient Greece was torn apart by the Peloponnesian War between Athens and Sparta. The war concluded with an Athenian defeat and several years of oppression by pro-Spartan rulers. By 399 B.C.E, Athens had returned to self-rule through revolution. At this time, Athens was undergoing social turmoil due to the apparent failure of democracy as an effective form of government, which created a public backlash against anything anti-democratic. \n\nSocrates—the self-described \"gadfly\" of Athens because of his practice of \"elenchos\" (critical interrogation)—was seen by many as anti-democratic and thus a traitor to Athens due to his associations with Critias and Alcibiades (the former a Spartan supported tyrant, the latter a deserter to Sparta) and his frequent praises of the Spartan and Creten governments because of their similarity to many of his philosophical opinions on government. The prevailing political climate of distrusting anything remotely anti-Athens or anti-democracy coupled with attacks from Socrates's personal enemies led to the philosopher's execution by poison in 399 B.C.E.\n\nThe phrase originates from the French term \"opinion publique\", which was first attributed to Montaigne, the father of modern Skepticism and a major figure of the French Renaissance, around 1588 C.E.\nIt is generally used to describe the overall opinion of the public body about a certain issue. The phrase is commonly used interchangeably with political climate but the two actually refer to separate concepts. Public opinion is the aggregate logical thoughts that the public thinks and expresses about an issue (which does not have to be political in nature), while political climate is what the public's emotional reaction to those logical thoughts are.\n\nDepending on the nature of the thoughts (if they are considered controversial or extreme), the emotional reaction can range from nothing to a highly violent state. Accordingly, controversial issues in the public eye are usually accompanied by or can even produce a polarizing political climate. For example, the introduction, passing, and court fight over Proposition 8 in California brought a controversial issue into the public sphere, which resulted in such a drastic change in the political climate of the United States as to produce many protests throughout the nation, some of them violent.\n\nAn opinion poll is a survey of public opinion from a particular group of people or sample. For determining the political climate, this usually would be a cross-section of the population in question. Opinion polls conduct series of questions and then extrapolate the average opinion of the sample according to their answers. However, opinion polls generally have appreciative margins of error because of the inability to survey the entire population and the improbability of surveying a perfectly random cross-section of the population. For example, the Wall Street Journal estimated in 2006 that the average margin of error is about 3-5% in opinion polls because of a wide variety of potential inaccuracies such as response bias and selection bias.\n\nOpinion polls are also known to be entirely incorrect when predicting the outcome of certain events. The best-known example of this is the 1948 US presidential election, in which the prediction was that Thomas Dewey would easily defeat Harry Truman. Major polling organizations, including Gallup and Roper, indicated a landslide victory for Dewey when, in fact, Truman was the victor in a close election and kept the presidency. 2016 saw the validity of opinion polls enter the debate once more, as polls in both the UK \"Brexit\" referendum and the US presidential election were ultimately shown to be largely incorrect. Polls widely predicted a win for Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton, while instead Republican candidate Donald J. Trump won the Electoral College and, therefore, the presidency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3277654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3277654", "title": "Print culture", "text": "Print culture\n\nPrint culture embodies all forms of printed text and other printed forms of visual communication. One prominent scholar in the field is Elizabeth Eisenstein, who contrasted print culture, which appeared in Europe in the centuries after the advent of the Western printing-press (and much earlier in China where woodblock printing was used from 594 AD), to \"scribal culture\". Walter Ong, by contrast, has contrasted written culture, including scribal, to oral culture. Ong is generally considered one of the first scholars to define print culture in contrast to oral culture. These views are related as the printing press brought a vast rise in literacy, so that one of its effects was simply the great expansion of written culture at the expense of oral culture. The development of printing, like the development of writing itself, had profound effects on human societies and knowledge. \"Print culture\" refers to the cultural products of the printing transformation.\n\nIn terms of image-based communication, a similar transformation came in Europe from the fifteenth century on with the introduction of the old master print and, slightly later, popular prints, both of which were actually much quicker in reaching the mass of the population than printed text.\n\nPrint culture is the conglomeration of effects on human society that is created by making printed forms of communication. Print culture encompasses many stages as it has evolved in response to technological advances. Print culture can first be studied from the period of time involving the gradual movement from oration to script as it is the basis for print culture. As the printing became commonplace, script became insufficient and printed documents were mass-produced. The era of physical print has had a lasting effect on human culture, but with the advent of digital text, some scholars believe the printed word is becoming obsolete.\n\nThe electronic media, including the World Wide Web, can be seen as an outgrowth of print culture.\n\nOral culture was all that existed. Oral culture gradually found the need to store what was said for long periods of time, and slowly developed scribal culture. Scribal culture being inaccurate and tedious at best developed into print culture. Each segment is rich with its own effects on the world. Scribal culture, defined by the written or physical conveying of ideas, is important to understand in achieving a grasp on the unfolding of print culture itself. Scholars disagree over when scribal culture developed. Walter Ong argues that scribal culture cannot exist until an alphabet is created, and a form of writing standardized. On the other hand, D. F. McKenzie argues that even communicative notches on a stick, or structure, represent “text”, and therefore scribal culture.\n\nOng suggests scribal culture is defined by an alphabet. McKenzie says that the key to scribal culture is non-verbal communication, which can be accomplished in more ways than using an alphabet. These two views give rise to the importance of print culture. In scribal culture, procuring documents was a difficult task, and documentation would then be limited to the rich only. Ideas are difficult to spread amongst large groups of people over large distances of land, not allowing for effective dissemination of knowledge.\n\nScribal culture also deals with large levels of inconsistency. It was always considered that the oldest document was the most accurate, as it had been copied the least. In the process of copying documents, many times the meaning became changed, and the words different. Reliance on the written text of the time was never exceedingly strong. Over time, a greater need for reliable, quickly reproduced, and a relatively inexpensive means of distributing written text arose. Scribal culture, transforming into print culture, was only replicated in manners of written text.\n\nThe Chinese invention of paper and woodblock printing, at some point before the first dated book in 868 (the Diamond Sutra) produced the world's first print culture. Hundreds of thousands of books, on subjects ranging from Confusion Classics to science and mathematics, were printed using woodblock printing.\n\nPaper and woodblock printing were introduced into Europe in the 15th Century, and the first printed books began appearing in Europe. Chinese movable type was spread to Korea during the Goryeo Dynasty. Around 1230, Koreans invented a metal type movable printing which was described by the French scholar Henri-Jean Martin as \"extremely similar to Gutenberg's\". East metal movable type was spread to Europe between the late 14th century and early 15th century. The invention of Johannes Gutenberg's printing press (circa 1450) greatly reduced the amount of labor required to produce a book leading to a tremendous increase in the number of books produced. Early printers tried to keep their printed copies of a text as faithful as possible to the original manuscript. Even so, the earliest publications were still often different from the original, for a short time, in some ways manuscripts still remaining more accurate than printed books.\n\nHand-copied illustrations were replaced by first woodcuts, later engravings that could be duplicated precisely, revolutionizing technical literature (Eisenstein 155).\n\nEisenstein has described how the high costs of copying scribal works often led to their abandonment and eventual destruction. Furthermore, the cost and time of copying led to the slow propagation of ideas. In contrast, the printing press allowed rapid propagation of ideas, resulting in knowledge and cultural movements that were far harder to destroy.\n\nEisenstein points to prior renaissances (rebirths) of classical learning prior to the printing press that failed. In contrast, the Renaissance was a permanent revival of classical learning because the printing of classical works put them into a permanent and widely read form.\n\nSimilarly, Eisenstein points to a large number of prior attempts in Western Europe to assert doctrines contrary to the ruling Catholic Church. In contrast, the Protestant Reformation spread rapidly and permanently due to the printing of non-conformist works such as the 95 Theses.\n\nWith the shift towards printing presses in the West, after Johannes Gutenberg developed a method that was cheap, fast, and filling the demand for books, the Renaissance truly came into its own. Even though the printing press was a paradigm shifting invention, printing had many critics, who were afraid that books could spread lies and subversion or corrupt unsuspecting readers. Also, they were afraid that the printed texts would spread heresy and sow religious discord. The Gutenberg Bible was the first book produced with moveable type in Europe. Martin Luther's Bible, which was published in German in 1522, started the Protestant Reformation. Latin's importance as a language started languishing with the rise of texts written in national languages. The shift from scholarly Latin to everyday languages marked an important turning point in print culture. The vernacular Bibles were important to other nations, as well. The King James Authorized Version was published in 1611, for example. Along with the religious tracts, the scientific revolution was largely due to the printing press and the new print culture. Scholarly books were more accessible, and the printing press provided more accurate diagrams and symbols. Along with scientific texts, like the works of Copernicus, Galileo, and Tycho Brahe, atlases and cartography started taking off within the new print culture, mostly due to the exploration of different nations around the world.\n\nWith the rise of literacy, books and other texts became more entrenched in the culture of the West. Along with literacy and more printed words also came censorship, especially from governments. In France, Voltaire and Rousseau were both imprisoned for their works. Other authors, like Montesquieu and Diderot, had to publish outside France. Censored books became a valuable commodity within this environment, and an underground network of book smugglers started operating within France. Diderot and Jean d'Alembert created the \"Encyclopedie\", which was published in 1751 in seventeen folio volumes with eleven volumes of engravings. This work embodied the essence of the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nNumerous eras throughout history have been defined through the use of print culture. The American Revolution was a major historical conflict fought after print culture brought the rise of literacy. Furthermore, print culture's ability to shape and guide society was a critical component before, during, and after the Revolution.\n\nMany different printed documents influenced the beginning of the revolution. The Magna Carta was originally a scribal document of 1215, recording an oral transaction restricting the power of English kings and defining rights of subjects. It was revitalized by being printed in the 16th century and widely read by the increasingly literate English and colonial population thereafter. The Magna Carta was used as a basis for the development of English liberties by Sir Edward Coke and became a basis for writing the Declaration of Independence.\n\nAdditionally, during the 18th century, the production of printed newspapers in the colonies greatly increased. In 1775, more copies of newspapers were issued in Worcester, Massachusetts than were printed in all of New England in 1754, showing that the existence of the conflict developed a need for print culture. This onslaught of printed text was brought about by the anonymous writings of men such as Benjamin Franklin, who was noted for his many contributions to the newspapers, including the Pennsylvania Gazette. This increase was primarily due to the easing of the government's tight control of the press, and without the existence of a relatively free press, the American Revolution may have never taken place. The production of so many newspapers can mostly be attributed to the fact that newspapers had a huge demand; printing presses were writing the newspapers to complain about the policies of the British government, and how the British government was taking advantage of the colonists.\n\nIn 1775, Thomas Paine wrote the pamphlet \"Common Sense,\" a pamphlet that introduced many ideas of freedom to the Colonial citizens. Allegedly, half a million copies were produced during the pre-revolution era. This number of pamphlets produced is significant as there were only a few million freed men in the colonies. However, \"Common Sense\" was not the only manuscript that influenced people and the tide of the revolution. Among the most influential were James Otis' \"Rights of the British Colonies\" and John Dickinson's \"Farmer's Letters\". Both of these played a key role in persuading the people and igniting the revolution.\n\nNewspapers were printed during the revolution covering battle reports and propaganda. These reports were usually falsified by Washington in order to keep morale up among American citizens and troops. Washington was not the only one to falsify these reports, as other generals (on both sides) used this technique as well. The newspapers also covered some of the battles in great detail, especially the ones that the American forces won, in order to gain support from other countries in hopes that they would join the American forces in the fight against the British.\n\nBefore the Revolution, the British placed multiple acts upon the colonies, such as the stamp act. Many newspaper companies worried that the British would punish them for printing papers without a British seal, so they were forced to temporarily discontinue their work or simply change the title of their paper. However, some patriotic publishers, particularly those in Boston, continued their papers without any alteration of their title.\n\nThe Declaration of Independence is a very important written document that was drafted by the original thirteen colonies, as a form of print culture that would declare their independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain and explained the justifications for doing so. While it was explicitly documented on July 4, 1776, it was not recognized by Great Britain until September 3, 1783, by the Treaty of Paris.\n\nAfter the signing of the Treaty of Paris, a cluster of free states in need of a government was created. The basis for this government was known as the Articles of Confederation, which were put to effect in 1778 and formed the first governing document of the United States of America. This document, however, was found to be unsuitable to outline the structure of the government, and thus showed an ineffectual use of print culture, and since printed texts were the most respected documents of the time, this called for an alteration in the document used to govern the confederation.\n\nIt was the job of the Constitutional Convention to reform the document, but they soon discovered that an entirely new text was needed in its place. The result was the United States Constitution. In the form of written word, the new document was used to grant more power to the central government, by expanding into branches. After it was ratified by all of the states in the union, the Constitution served as a redefinition of the modern government.\n\nThomas Jefferson was noted as saying, “The basis of our government being the opinion of the people, the very first object should be to keep that right; and were it left to me to decide whether we should have a government without newspapers, or newspapers without a government, I should not hesitate for a moment to prefer the latter.” This serves as an excellent example of how newspapers were highly regarded by the colonial people. In fact, much like other forms of 18th century print culture, newspapers played a very important role in the government following the Revolutionary War. Not only were they one of the few methods in the 18th century to voice the opinion of the people, they also allowed for the ideas to be disseminated to a wide audience, a primary goal of printed text. A famous example of the newspaper being used as a medium to convey ideas were the Federalist Papers. These were first published in New York City newspapers in 1788 and pushed for people to accept the idea of the United States Constitution by enumerating 85 different articles that justified its presence, adding to a series of texts designed to reinforce each other, and ultimately serving as a redefinition of the 18th century.\n\nToday, print has matured to a state where the majority of modern society has come to have certain expectations regarding the printed book:\n\nCopyright laws help to protect these standards. However, a few regions do exist in the world where literary piracy has become a standard commercial practice. In such regions, the preceding expectations are not the norm. (Johns 61)\n\nCurrently, there are still approximately 2.3 billion books still sold each year worldwide. However, this number is steadily decreasing due to the ever-growing popularity of the Internet and other forms of digital media.\n\nAs David J. Gunkel states in his article \"What's the Matter with Books?\", society is currently in the late age of the text; the moment of transition from print to electronic culture where it is too late for printed books and yet too early for electronic texts. Jay David Bolter, author of \"Writing Space\", also discusses our culture in what he calls \"the late age of print.\" The current debate going on in the literary world is whether or not the computer will replace the printed book as the repository and definition of human knowledge. There is still a very large audience committed to printed texts, who are not interested in moving to a digital representation of the repository for human knowledge. Bolter, in his own scholarship and also along with Richard Grusin in \"Remediation\", explains that despite current fears about the end of print, the format will never be erased but only remediated. New forms of technology (new media) will be created which utilize features of old media, thus preventing old media's (aka print's) erasure. At the same time, there are also concerns over whether obsolescence and deterioration make digital media unsuitable for long-term archival purposes. Much of the early paper used for print is highly acidic, and will ultimately destroy itself.\n\nThe way that information is transferred has also changed with this new age of digital text and the shift towards electronic media. Gunkel states that information now takes the form of immaterial bits of digital data that are circulated at the speed of light. Consequently, what the printed book states about the exciting new culture and economy of bits is abraded by the fact that this information has been delivered in the slow and outdated form of physical paper.\n\nIn the article, \"The First Amendment, Print Culture, and the Electronic Environment\", the author notes that expectations will change as information becomes less tied to specific locations, and as machines become networked and linked to other machines. This means that in the future certain goods will not be associated with their origins.\n\nThe article \"The First Amendment, Print Culture, and the Electronic Environment\" () also mentions how the new electronic age will make print better. Placing information into electronic form not only liberates the information from its pages but removes the need for specialized spaces to hold particular kinds of information. People have become increasingly accustomed to acquiring information from our homes that used to be only accessible from an office or library. Once computers are all networked, all information should, at least in theory, be accessible from all places. Print itself contained a set of invisible and inherent censors, which electronic media is helping to remove from the creation of text. Points of control that are present in print space are no longer present as distribution channels multiply, as copying becomes faster and cheaper, as more information is produced, as economic incentives for working with information increase, and as barriers and boundaries that inhibited working with information are crossed.\n\nThere are more online publications, journals, newspapers, magazines, and businesses than ever before. While this brings society closer, and makes publications more convenient and accessible, ordering a product online reduces contact with others. Many online articles are anonymous, making the 'death of the author' even more apparent. Anyone can post articles and journals online anonymously. In effect, the individual becomes separated from the rest of society.\n\nThe advances of technology in print culture can be separated into three shifts: \n\nThe written word has made history recordable and accurate. The printing press, some may argue, is not a part of print culture, but had a substantial impact upon the development of print culture through the times. The printing press brought uniform copies and efficiency in print. It allowed a person to make a living from writing. Most importantly, it spread print throughout society.\n\nThe advances made by technology in print also impact anyone using cell phones, laptops, and personal digital organizers. From novels being delivered via a cell phone, the ability to text message and send letters via e-mail clients, to having entire libraries stored on PDAs, print is being influenced by devices.\n\nSymbols, logos and printed images are forms of printed media that do not rely on text. They are ubiquitous in modern urban life. Analyzing these cultural products is an important part of the field of cultural studies. Print has given rise to a wider distribution of pictures in society in conjunction with the printed word. Incorporation of printed pictures in magazines, newspapers, and books gave printed material a wider mass appeal through the ease of visual communication.\n\nThere is a common miscommunication that occurs when discussing that which is\nprint and that which is text. In the literary world, notable scholars such as\nWalter Ong and D.F. McKenzie have disagreed on the meaning of text. The\npoint of the discussion at hand is to have a word that encompasses all forms\nof communication - that which is printed, that which is online media, even a\nbuilding or notches on a stick. According to Walter Ong text did not come\nabout until the development of the first alphabet, well after humanity existed.\nAccording to Mckenzie primitive humans did have a form of text they used to\ncommunicate with their cave drawings. This is discussed in literary theory. Print, however, is a representation of that which is printed, and\ndoes not encompass all forms of communication (e.g. a riot at a football game).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14256388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14256388", "title": "Problem Solved", "text": "Problem Solved\n\nProblem Solved is a slogan on a t-shirt designed by Route 66 Attitude, a clothing line sold by major U.S. department store Kmart. The shirt depicts a male stick figure and a female stick figure arguing in the first frame (captioned \"Problem\"), and in the second frame, the male pushes the female out of a window (captioned \"Solved.\")\n\nDue to its encouragement of violence against women, the t-shirt generated protests and petitions for its removal from Kmart stores across the United States in late 2006 and early 2007, including in Augusta, Maine, Oakland, California, Portland, Oregon, and Toledo, Ohio. While a spokesperson for Kmart's parent company Sears Holdings Corporation said that the shirt was intended to be \"light hearted\", Meijer reported that they had pulled the shirts immediately after a protest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44071558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44071558", "title": "R-expression", "text": "R-expression\n\nIn certain theories of syntax, an R-expression (short for \"referring expression\") is a category in the three-way classification of noun phrases in binding theory, the other two being anaphors and pronominals. According to principle C of binding theory, R-expressions must be free. R-expressions include names (e.g. Mary, John) and definite DPs (e.g. the cat).\n\nIn Chomsky's government and binding theory, an R-expression is an overt NP analysed as [-a. -p] (not anaphor and not pronominal), and hence subject only to Principle C of the Binding Theory, namely, that it be free (unbound) in all domains. Examples of typical R-expressions are \"Lisa\", \"the dog\", \"my pet unicorn\", \"the last chapter of the book\", and \"Janel's cigarettes\". The name is derived from the phrase \"referring expression\", used in semantics for the largest class of NPs, but the GB usage is not synonymous with the semantic sense.\n"}
{"id": "30041335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30041335", "title": "Repurposing", "text": "Repurposing\n\nRepurposing is the process by which an object with one use value is transformed or redeployed as an object with an alternative use value.\n\nRepurposing is as old as human civilization, with many contemporary scholars investigating that way that different societies re-appropriate the artifacts of older cultures in new and creative ways. More recently, repurposing has been celebrated by 21st century hobbyists and arts-and-crafts organizations such as Instructables and other Maker culture communities as a means of creatively responding to the ecological and economic crises of the 21st century. Recent scholarship has attempted to relate these activities to American left- and right-libertarianism.\n\nRepurposing is the use of a tool being re-channeled into being another tool, usually for a purpose unintended by the original tool-maker. Typically, repurposing is done using items usually considered to be junk, garbage, or obsolete. A good example of this would be the Earthship style of house, that uses tires as insulating walls and bottles as glass walls. Reuse is not limited to repeated uses for the same purpose. Examples of repurposing include using tires as boat fenders and steel drums or plastic drums as feeding troughs and/or composting bins. Incinerator and power plant exhaust stack fly-ash is used extensively as an additive to concrete, providing increased strength. This type of reuse can sometimes make use of items which are no longer usable for their original purposes, for example using worn-out clothes as rags.\n\nNot all repurposing is necessarily environmentally friendly, take for instance the idea of repurposing older work trucks for businesses in their infancy, in which their poor fuel economy can negate long term benefits since greater spending of money for fuel, and more fumes output to the sky can prove to be environmentally unfriendly, in which repurposing vehicles for electric car conversion can be the recommended alternative to that, though its cost can be negligible upfront.\n\n\n\n\n\nDrug repositioning (also known as \"drug repurposing\" or \"therapeutic switching\") is the application of known drugs and compounds to treat new diseases. Examples include Pfizer's Viagra for erectile dysfunction and Celgene's thalidomide for cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1799242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799242", "title": "Roberto Busa", "text": "Roberto Busa\n\nRoberto Busa (November 28, 1913 – August 9, 2011) was an Italian Jesuit priest and one of the pioneers in the usage of computers for linguistic and literary analysis. He was the author of the \"Index Thomisticus\", a complete lemmatization of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas and of a few related authors. \n\nBorn in Vicenza, the second of five children, he attended primary school in Bolzano and grammar school in Verona and in Belluno. In 1928 he entered the Episcopal Seminary of Belluno, completing high school there, and took the first two-year course of Theology with Albino Luciani, the future Pope John Paul I. In 1933 he joined the Society of Jesus, where he got a diploma in Philosophy in 1937 and one in Theology in 1941 and where he was ordained priest in 1940. From 1940 till 1943 he was an auxiliary army chaplain in the National Army and later in the partisan forces. In 1946 he graduated in Philosophy at the Papal Gregorian University of Rome with a degree thesis entitled \"The Thomistic Terminology of Interiority\", which was published in 1949. He was full professor of Ontology, Theodicy and Scientific Methodology and, for some years, a librarian in the \"Aloisianum\" Faculty of Philosophy of Gallarate.\n\nIn 1946 he planned the \"Index Thomisticus\", as a tool for performing text searches within the massive corpus of Aquinas's works. In 1949 he met with Thomas J. Watson, the founder of IBM, and was able to persuade him to sponsor the \"Index Thomisticus\". The project lasted about 30 years, and eventually produced in the 1970s the 56 printed volumes of the \"Index Thomisticus\". In 1989, a CD-ROM version was produced. In addition, in 2005 a web-based version made its debut, sponsored by the Fundación Tomás de Aquino and CAEL; the design and programming of this version were carried about by E. Alarcón and E. Bernot, in collaboration with Busa. In 2006 the \"Index Thomisticus\" Treebank project (directed by Marco Passarotti) started the syntactic annotation of the entire corpus.\n\nThe Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations (ADHO) awards the \"Busa Prize\", which honors leaders in the field of humanities computing. The\nfirst Busa Prize was awarded in 1998 to Busa himself. Later winners include: \n\n\nBefore his death, Busa had been teaching at the Papal Gregorian University in Rome, at the \"Aloisianum\" Faculty of Philosophy in Gallarate, and at the Catholic Sacred Heart University in Milan. He was also working at the LTB project (LTB stands for Bicultural Thomistic Lexicon), which aims at understanding the Latin concepts used by Thomas Aquinas in the terms of contemporary culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "22902526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22902526", "title": "Separate spheres", "text": "Separate spheres\n\nTerms such as separate spheres and domestic–public dichotomy refer to a social phenomenon, within modern societies that feature, to some degree, an empirical separation between a domestic or private sphere and a public or social sphere. This observation may be controversial, and is often also seen as supporting patriarchal ideologies that seek to \"create or strengthen\", any such separation between spheres, and to confine women to the domestic/private sphere.\n\nThe patriarchal ideology of separate spheres, based primarily on notions of biologically determined gender roles and/or patriarchal religious doctrine, claims that women should avoid the public sphere – the domain of politics, paid work, commerce and law. Women's \"proper sphere\", according to the ideology, is the realm of domestic life, focused on childcare, housekeeping, and religion.\n\nIn Europe and North America, the idealization of separate spheres emerged during the Industrial Revolution. As observable phenomena, however, the existence of separate spheres is much older.\n\nThe idea that women should inhabit a separate domestic sphere has been extant in Western thought for centuries, extending as far back as the ancient Greeks. In \"Politics\", Aristotle described two separate spheres in Greek society, the home (\"oikos\") and the city (\"polis\"). Some have interpreted his views as confining women to the private realm while men were supposed to occupy the public sphere of the \"polis\". Each sphere intermingled in different ways with the other.\" Debates over the \"proper\" roles of women and men continued throughout antiquity.\n\nThe modern ideology of separate spheres emerged in the wake of the Industrial Revolution. Prior to the industrialization of the Western world, family members worked side by side and the workplace was located mostly in and around the home. With the shift from home-based to factory production, men left the home to sell their labor for wages while women stayed home to perform unpaid domestic work. The separate spheres ideology reflected and fueled these changes. At the same time, the Enlightenment and the French Revolution helped spread the ideas of liberty, equality, and political rights, but in practice such rights were denied to women, who were seen as belonging to a different social sphere. Feminist writers like Olympe de Gouges, Mary Wollstonecraft, and Lucy Stone demanded political equality for women as well as men and provided searing criticisms of the \"separate sphere\" ideals that confined women exclusively to the domestic sphere. Theorists such as Friedrich Engels and Karl Marx have argued that following the rise of capitalism, the home lost its control of the means of production and consequently became a private, separate sphere. As a result, Engels contended, women were excluded from participating directly in the production process and relegated to the subordinate domestic sphere.\n\nAnother major commentator on the modern idea of \"separate spheres\" was the French political thinker Alexis de Tocqueville. In \"Democracy in America\" (1840), in a chapter entitled \"How the Americans understand the Equality of the sexes\", Tocqueville wrote: \"In no country has such constant care been taken as in America to trace two clearly distinct lines of action for the two sexes and to make them keep pace one with the other, but in two pathways that are always different.\" He observed that married women, in particular, were subject to many restrictions, noting that \"the independence of woman is irrecoverably lost in the bonds of matrimony\", adding that \"in the United States the inexorable opinion of the public carefully circumscribes woman within the narrow circle of domestic interests and duties and forbids her to step beyond it.\" Tocqueville considered the separate spheres of women and men a positive development, arguing:although the women of the United States are confined within the narrow circle of domestic life, and their situation is in some respects one of extreme dependence, I have nowhere seen women occupying a loftier position; and if I were asked...to what the singular prosperity and growing strength of that people ought mainly to be attributed, I should reply,—to the superiority of their women.\n\nBetty Friedan's \"The Feminine Mystique\" asserted that women were being forced to rely on their husbands and children as the sole sources of their identity by an historically constructed oppressive paradigm, not by any \"intrinsic\" predisposition. Drawing on Friedan, historian Barbara Welter identified a \"Cult of True Womanhood\", an ideal of femininity prevalent among the upper and middle classes in the 19th century. \"True women\" were supposed to be pious, pure, submissive, and domestic. Domesticity, in particular, was regarded as a laudable virtue as the home was considered a woman's proper sphere. Unlike Tocqueville, Welter and other 20th-century historians were critical of the separate spheres ideology, seeing it as a source of women's denigration.\n\nIn Woman, Culture, and Society (1974), Michelle Rosaldo emphasizes the idea that these separate spheres can be explained in terms of a dichotomy, in the sense that these gender-oriented domains are viewed as so totally separate that it only reinforces the ideology of gender separation and inequality. Activities given to men, versus those assigned to women, were seen as having more value and contributing greatly to the society. Adversely, the woman's so-called simpler roles of housework and childrearing were held at a much lesser value. Rosaldo argues a \"universal asymmetry\" between the sexes that primarily caused these separations to arise. This model mainly focuses on the generational subordination of women in relation to men throughout history and across different cultures, defining the domestic and public spheres in very black and white terms.\n\nThis earlier model, however, has since been challenged by researchers in the field, claiming the spheres cannot be outlined in such simplistic terms. Woman, Culture, and Society co-editor Louis Lamphere breaks down Rosaldo's model and discusses the spheres in different terms. Lamphere primarily dispels the concept of \"universal asymmetry\", looking toward various societies worldwide for proof. Even in some Middle Eastern cultures that place women in extreme positions of subordination, the model could not be so easily applied. This is because the domestic and public spheres are almost always overlapping in some way, regardless of a cultural female subservience or even egalitarianism. Women enter public spaces in order to fulfill certain duties that fall within their domestic responsibilities. Men must return to the private, or domestic, space eventually to bring home the spoils of his labor in the public sphere. In this sense, there are two separate spheres created and enforced by gender ideologies; but they are not dichotomous. They, instead, form an integrated system of life in society, varying only in levels of intensities from culture to culture.\n\nAccording to Cary Franklin, the women’s rights movements in the mid-1960s proposed that to achieve true equality between the sexes, it is necessary for the laws to be put in place to move past the simple separate spheres model and address the “interspherical impacts”. In 1966, the National Organization for Women (NOW) pushed for equality of women in society and in the workplace and in order to attain this equality, there would have to be changes in family regulation. NOW stressed the importance of focusing on structurally altering the family sphere in order to then create gender equality in the education and workplace spheres. The family sphere is acting as a catalyst seeing that without a change in it, women would simply lack access to the opportunities that men already have available to them. Franklin also pointed out that the gender inequality among the American population in the 60’s and 70’s was a major contributor to the civil rights statutes of the Second Reconstruction.\n\nDeborah Rotman, an anthropologist at Notre Dame, analyzed this concept of separate spheres specifically among the people of Deerfield, Massachusetts in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century. In this community, there was a clear divide between men and women by means of a “proper allocation” in which females were given the domestic residence or sphere and the men were given the “economically productive agricultural land”. Men would migrate away from the women if agriculture was depleting in their given agricultural space. As the men were moving to work outside the home, women began to acclimate to the economic atmosphere and gain more opportunities in the public sphere with all the men working elsewhere. These women soon had various roles in the public and private spheres in Deerfield. As equal rights began to become part of the ideological framework in Deerfield, women found themselves voting in school boards, working on municipal water projects and working in fundraisers as men had done before them. Despite the traditional understanding of the late nineteenth and early twentieth century of completely separate public and private spheres, the Deerfield community challenged these “dichotomies of domesticity” and paved the way for equal rights for men and women.\n\nThe separation between female and male spheres was heavily influenced by biological determinism, the notion that women and men are naturally suitable for different social roles due to their biological and genetic makeup. The idea of biological determinism was popular during the Age of Enlightenment and among such thinkers as Jean-Jacques Rousseau who argued that women were inherently different from men and should devote themselves to reproduction and domesticity. Women were considered passive, dependent on men, and, due to their reproductive capacity, ill-suited for life outside the domestic realm. Rousseau described women's primary duties in \"Emile, or On Education\", stating that \"women's entire education should be planned in relation to men. To please men, to be useful to them, to win their love and respect, to raise them as children, to care for them as adults, correct and console them, make their lives sweet and pleasant; these are women's duties in all ages and these are what they should be taught from childhood.\"\n\nThe popular beliefs about inherent sex differences remained deeply embedded in popular consciousness throughout the Progressive Era. By the early 20th century, however, dissident anthropologists and other social scientists began to challenge the biological determination of human behavior, revealing great similarities between men and women and suggesting that many sex differences were socially constructed. Despite these new insights and social and economic changes such as women's entry into the labor force, the separate spheres ideology did not disappear.\n\nWomen's confinement to the private sphere was reinforced by cultural and legal arrangements, such as the lack of women's suffrage, legal prohibitions against women undertaking professions like medicine and law, and discouragement from obtaining higher education.\n\nStrong support for the separation of spheres came from antisuffragists who relied on the notion of inherent sexual differences to argue that women were unfit for political participation. Antifeminist men's groups in late 19th and early 20th century United States responded to the societal changes and shift in gender relations by advocating a return to a strict separation of spheres that would keep women from competing with men in the public sphere.\n\nSimilarly, Christian fundamentalists supported the separate spheres ideology and opposed women's suffrage as well as other attempts to broaden women's influence in the public sphere. Theological conservatism has been found to have a stable effect on the endorsement of separate spheres ideology. Leading evangelicals propagated a view of womanhood which reinforced gendered division. Thomas Gisborne's \"An Enquiry into the Duties of the Female Sex\" (1797) and Henry Venn's \"The Complete Duty of Man\" (1763) were two popular evangelical texts which described proper behavior for men and women, arguing that a woman's primary duty was to care for those in her domestic circle and obey her husband.\n\nIn her paper \"Separate Spheres or Shared Dominions\", Cathy Ross suggests that the separate spheres ideology had ambiguous effects on women's lives. She argues that while it \"was clear that women were supposed to be subordinate and that home and children were their sphere\", the separation of spheres enabled women \"to reach out to other women in sisterhood, in solidarity, on the common ground of domesticity\".\n\nThe ideology of separate spheres contributed to resistance to coeducation and to the emergence of gendered educational institutions such as the female seminary and women's college in higher education, and the woman's club in continuing education. The rise of teaching as a woman's profession was also closely linked to the ideology of separate spheres, as women came to be regarded as uniquely skilled at classroom management. In coeducational universities in the late 19th century, the separation of spheres contributed to the emergence of home economics as a field of advanced study for the woman's sphere, and the dean of women as frequently the only high-ranking woman administrator in coeducational institutions.\n\nAlthough it created a space for women's academic and professional advancement, the separation of spheres also provided an excuse for keeping women out of fields not specifically marked as female. Thus many talented woman scientists were pushed into professorships in home economics rather than in their principal fields. Some women educators resisted this typecasting even while working within the framework of separation. Frances Shimer, founder of Shimer College, which was a woman's school from 1866 to 1950, insisted that she was \"in favor of the co-education of the sexes\" and that the education at her school was equal to what was given to young men.\n\nA recent study by Jacqueline Henke explores the history of the separate spheres model in America. Henke points out that between 1820 and 1860 (a period sometimes called the dawn of separate spheres) three parenting models were common for two-parent, mother/father families:\n<br>\n1. Parenting duties are wholly the responsibility of mothers\n<br>\n2. Parenting duties are separated into fatherly responsibilities and motherly responsibilities\n<br>\n3. Parenting duties are shared equally among mothers and fathers.\n<br>\nAccording to Henke, many parenting books from this era suggested that mothers should take primary responsibility for their children. Yet, some parenting books argued that mothers and fathers should have separate childrearing duties or a completely equal distribution of childrearing responsibilities. Henke argues that, even during the height of domestic ideology and the dawn of separate spheres, parenting advice was not monolithic. Furthermore, the lived realities parents and families during this era were more diverse than the ideals of parenting books.\n\n"}
{"id": "15826297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15826297", "title": "Seriousness", "text": "Seriousness\n\nSeriousness (noun; adjective: serious) is an attitude of gravity, solemnity, persistence, and earnestness toward something considered to be of importance. Some notable philosophers and commentators have criticised excessive seriousness, while others have praised it. Seriousness is often contrasted with comedy, as in the seriocomedy. In the theory of humor, one must have a sense of humor and a sense of seriousness to distinguish what is supposed to be taken literally or not, or of being important or not. Otherwise, it may also be contrasted with a sense of play. How children learn a sense of seriousness to form values and differentiate between the serious and that which is not is studied in developmental psychology and educational psychology. There is a distinction between the degree of seriousness of various crimes in sentencing under the law, and also in law enforcement. There is a positive correlation with the degree of seriousness of a crime and viewer ratings of news coverage. What is or is not considered serious varies widely with different cultures.\n\nSometimes fields studying degrees of seriousness overlap, such as developmental psychology studies of development of the sense of degrees of seriousness as it relates to transgressions, which has overlap with criminology and the seriousness of crimes. \nSource:Alchilagyo.com\n\nSome use \"seriousness\" as a term of praise for scholarship or in literary review. 19th century poet, cultural critic, and literary critic, Matthew Arnold said that the most important criteria used to judge the value of a poem were \"high truth\" and \"high seriousness\".\n\nMany have expressed an attitude of disdain toward taking things too seriously, as opposed to viewing things with an attitude of humor. Poet, playwright, and philosopher Joseph Addison said that being serious is dull, \"we are growing serious, and let me tell you, that's the next step to being dull.\" Political satirist P.J. O'Rourke said that \"Seriousness is stupidity sent to college.\" Epigramist, poet, and playwright Oscar Wilde said that \"life is too important to be taken seriously.\" In a play on words, novelist Samuel Butler indicated that the \"central serious conviction in life\" is that nothing should be taken with too much seriousness, \"the one serious conviction that a man should have is that nothing is to be taken too seriously.\"\n\nIn some ascetic or puritan religious sects, an attitude of seriousness is always to be taken, and solemnity, sobriety, and puritanism with its hostility to social pleasures and indulgences are the only acceptable attitudes. Perry Miller, \"the master of American intellectual history\", wrote of excessive seriousness of the Puritans, \"simple humanity cries at last for some relief from the interminable high seriousness of the Puritan code.\"\n\nExistentialist philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre called the \"spirit of seriousness’’ the belief that there is an objective and independent goodness in things for people to discover, and that this belief leads to bad faith. He argued that people forget that values are not absolute, but are contingent and subjectively determined. In Sartre’s words, \"the spirit of seriousness has two characteristics: it considers values as transcendent ‘'givens’’, independent of human subjectivity, and it transfers the quality of ‘desirable’ from the ontological structure of things to their simple material constitution.\"\n\nSeriousness is sometimes contrasted with the comical in humor. In the performing arts and literature, the seriocomedy is a genre which blends seriousness with the comical, drama with comedy.\n\nIn the theory of humor, one must have a sense of humor and a sense of seriousness to distinguish what is supposed to be taken literally or not. An even more keen sense is needed when humor is used to make a serious point. Psychologists have studied how humor is intended to be taken as having seriousness, as when court jesters used humor to convey serious information. Conversely, when humor is not intended to be taken seriously, bad taste in humor may cross a line after which it is taken seriously, though not intended.\n\nIn Developmental psychology and educational psychology, seriousness is studied as it relates to how children develop an ability to distinguish levels of seriousness as it relates to transgressions and expenditure of time; for example, a child must learn to distinguish between levels of seriousness in admonitions such as between \"don't fidget\" and \"don't forget to look both ways when crossing the street\", which have the same linguistic and normative structure, but different levels of seriousness.\n\nThe degree of seriousness of crimes is an important factor relating to crime. One standard for measurement is the degree to which a crime affects others or society. A felony is generally considered to be a crime of \"high seriousness\", while a misdemeanor is not.\n\nIn criminal law the degree of seriousness is considered when meting out punishment to fit the crime, and in considering to what extent overcrowded prison facilities will be used. Seriousness of a crime is a major factor in considerations of the allocation of scarce law enforcement funds.\n\nThe meaning and measurement of seriousness is a major concern in public policy considerations. A quantitative scoring system called the \"seriousness score\" has been developed for use in allocating law enforcement resources and sentencing.\n\nAs to England and Wales, see section 143 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003.\n\nDegrees of seriousness are used in medicine to make decisions about care. Seriousness is related to the effects of delaying or not having medical care. In an emergency hospital, the triage nurse must evaluate levels of seriousness of medical emergencies and rank them to determine order of care. Seriousness of illness is used to make decisions as to whether to perform invasive procedures such as surgery.\n\nThere is a positive correlation between the degree of seriousness of a crime and viewer ratings of news coverage.\n\nWhat is considered serious varies widely across cultures and is studied in sociology, cultural anthropology, and criminology; being of the wrong religious faith may be considered a serious crime in some cultures; smoking marijuana may be a serious crime in some cultures and not others; homosexuality a serious crime in some cultures; and prostitution is a serious crime in some cultures. Perception of seriousness is measured in assessing varying cultural perceptions on health risks.\n"}
{"id": "2851778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2851778", "title": "Skomorokh", "text": "Skomorokh\n\nA skomorokh (скоморох in Russian, скоморохъ in Old East Slavic, скоморaхъ in Church Slavonic) was a medieval East Slavic harlequin, or actor, who could also sing, dance, play musical instruments and compose for oral/musical and dramatic performances. The etymology of the word is not completely clear. There are hypotheses that the word is derived from the Greek σκώμμαρχος (cf. σκῶμμα, \"joke\"); from the Italian \"scaramuccia\" (\"joker\", cf. English \"scaramouch\"); from the Arabic \"masẋara\"; and many others.\n\nThe skomorokhs appeared in Kievan Rus no later than the mid-11th century, but fresco depictions of skomorokh musicians in the Saint Sophia Cathedral in Kiev date to the 11th century.\n\nThe \"Primary Chronicle\" on skomorokhs concurs with the period. The monk chronicler denounced them as devil servants. Furthermore, the Orthodox Church often railed against them and other elements of popular culture as being irreverent, detracting from the worship of God or being downright diabolical. For example Theodosius of Kiev, one of the co-founders of the Caves Monastery in the 11th century, called the skomorokhs \"evils to be shunned by good Christians\". Their art was related and addressed to the common people and usually opposed the ruling groups, who considered them not just useless but even ideologically detrimental and dangerous by both the feudalists and the clergy.\n\nThey were persecuted in the years of the Mongol yoke, when the church strenuously propagated ascetic living. Its art reached its peak in the 15th to the 17th centuries. Their repertoire included mock songs, dramatic and satirical sketches, called \"glumy\" (глумы), performed in masks and skomorokh dresses to the sounds of domra, balalaika, gudok, bagpipes or buben (a kind of tambourine). The appearance of Russian puppet theatre was directly associated with skomorokh performances.\n\nSkomorokhs performed in the streets and city squares, engaging with the spectators to draw them into their play. Usually, the main character of the skomorokh performance was a fun-loving saucy \"muzhik\" (мужик) of comic simplicity. In the 16 and 17th centuries, skomorokhs would sometimes combine their efforts and perform in a \"vataga\" (ватага, big crowd) numbering 70 to 100 people. The skomorokhs were often persecuted by the Russian Orthodox Church and civilian authorities. \n\nIn 1648 and 1657, Tsar Alexei Mikhailovich issued ukases banning skomorokh art as blasphemous, but actors would still occasionally perform during popular celebrations. In the 18th century, skomorokh art gradually died away; passing on some of its traditions to the \"\" (балаган) and \"rayoks\" (раёк).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30170774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30170774", "title": "Social privilege", "text": "Social privilege\n\nIn anthropology, privilege is a special right, advantage, or immunity granted or available only to a particular person or group. In sociology, privilege is the perceived rights or advantages that are assumed to be available only to a particular person or group of people. The term is commonly used in the context of social inequality, particularly in regard to age, disability, ethnic or racial category, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, religion, and social class. Two common examples involve having access to a higher education and housing. Under a newer usage of the term, privilege can also be emotional or psychological, regarding comfort and personal self-confidence, or having a sense of belonging or worth in society. It began as an academic concept, but has since been invoked more widely, outside of academia.\n\nThe concept of privilege dates back to 1903 when American sociologist and historian W. E. B. Du Bois published the essay \"The Souls of Black Folk\", in which he wrote that although African Americans were observant about white Americans and conscious of racial discrimination, white Americans did not think much about African Americans, nor about the effects of racial discrimination. In 1935, Du Bois wrote about what he called the \"wages of whiteness\", which he described as including courtesy and deference, unimpeded admittance to all public functions, lenient treatment in court, and access to the best schools.\n\nIn 1988, American feminist and anti-racism activist Peggy McIntosh published the essay \"White Privilege and Male Privilege: A Personal Account of Coming to See Correspondences through Work in Women’s Studies\", in which she documented forty-six privileges which she, as a white person, experienced in the United States. For example: \"I can be sure that if I need legal or medical help, my race will not work against me\", and \"I do not have to educate my children to be aware of systemic racism for their own daily physical protection\". McIntosh described white privilege as an \"invisible package of unearned assets\" which white people do not want to acknowledge, and which leads to them being confident, comfortable, and oblivious about racial issues, while non-white people become unconfident, uncomfortable, and alienated. McIntosh's essay has been credited for stimulating academic interest in privilege, which has been extensively studied in the decades since.\n\nIn 2014, Princeton University first-year student Tal Fortgang wrote \"Checking My Privilege\", a widely debated article in which he condemned classmates who told him to \"check his privilege\" for attributing his success in life to \"some invisible patron saint of white maleness\", and \"for casting the equal protection clause, indeed the very idea of a meritocracy, as a myth\". McIntosh afterwards told the \"New Yorker\" that Fortgang was resisting seeing himself systemically. She argued that everybody has a combination of unearned advantage and unearned disadvantage, and should aim to try to see themselves in the context of societal patterns of discrimination and oppression.\n\nHistorically, academic study of social inequality focused mainly on the ways in which minority groups were discriminated against, and ignored the privileges accorded to dominant social groups. That changed in the late 1980s, when researchers began studying the concept of privilege.\n\nPrivilege, as understood and described by researchers, is a function of multiple variables of varying importance, such as race, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, citizenship, religion, physical ability, health, level of education, and others. Race, gender and social class are generally felt by sociologists to be the most determinative of a person's overall level of privilege. Privilege theory argues that each individual is embedded in a matrix of categories and contexts, and will be in some ways privileged and other ways disadvantaged, with privileged attributes lessening disadvantage and membership in a disadvantaged group lessening the benefits of privilege. For example, a white lesbian university professor benefits from racial and educational privilege, but is disadvantaged due to her gender and sexual orientation. Some attributes of privilege are ordinarily fairly visible, such as race and gender, and others, such as citizenship status and birth order, are not. Some such as social class are relatively stable and others, such as age, wealth, religion and attractiveness, will or may change over time. Some attributes of privilege are at least partly determined by the individual, such as level of education, whereas others such as race or class background are entirely involuntary.\n\nIn the context of the theory, privileged people are considered to be \"the norm\", and, as such, gain invisibility and ease in society, with others being cast as inferior variants. Privileged people see themselves reflected throughout society both in mass media and face-to-face in their encounters with teachers, workplace managers and other authorities, which researchers argue leads to a sense of entitlement and the assumption that the privileged person will succeed in life, as well as protecting the privileged person from worry that they may face discrimination from people in positions of authority.\n\nSome academics highlight a pattern where those who benefit from a type of privilege are unwilling to acknowledge it. American sociologist Michael Kimmel describes the state of having privilege as being \"like running with the wind at your back\", unaware of invisible sustenance, support and propulsion. The argument may follow that such a denial constitutes a further injustice against those who do not benefit from the same form of privilege. One writer has referred to such denial as a form of \"microaggression\" or microinvalidation that negates the experiences of people who don't have privilege and minimizes the impediments they face.\n\nMcIntosh wrote that most people are reluctant to acknowledge their privilege, and instead look for ways to justify or minimize the effects of privilege stating that their privilege was fully earned. They justify this by acknowledging the acts of individuals of unearned dominance, but deny that privilege is institutionalized as well as embedded throughout our society. She wrote that those who believe privilege is systemic may nonetheless deny having personally benefited from it, and may oppose efforts to dismantle it. According to researchers, privileged individuals resist acknowledging their privileges because doing so would require them to acknowledge that whatever success they have achieved did not result solely through their own efforts. Instead it was partly due to a system that has developed to support them. The concept of privilege calls into question the idea that society is a meritocracy, which researchers have argued is particularly unsettling for Americans for whom belief that they live in a meritocracy is a deeply held cultural value, and one that researchers commonly characterize as a myth.\n\nIn \"The Gendered Society\", Michael Kimmel wrote that when privileged people do not feel personally powerful, arguments that they have benefited from unearned advantages seem unpersuasive.\n\nHays, a recruitment firm, sent the same job application to thousands of employers, only changing the name. One was \"Simon\", the other \"Susan\". Experienced hiring managers offered \"Simon\" an interview 15% more often than \"Susan\".\n\nAccording to McKinley et al.\n\nStudents of color are pushed toward academic failure and continued social disenfranchisement. Racist policies and beliefs, in part, explain why children and young adults from racially marginalized groups fail to achieve academically at the same rate as their White peers.\n\nThe concept of privilege has been criticized for ignoring relative differences among groups. For example, Lawrence Blum argued that in American culture there are status differences among Chinese, Japanese, Indians, Koreans, and Cambodians, and among African Americans, black immigrants from the Caribbean, and black immigrants from Africa.\n\nBlum agreed that privilege exists and is systemic yet nonetheless criticized the label itself, saying that the word \"privilege\" implies luxuries rather than rights, and arguing that some benefits of privilege such as unimpeded access to education and housing would be better understood as rights. \"White privilege\", Michael Monahan argued, would be more accurately described as the advantages gained by whites through historical disenfranchisement of non-whites rather than something that gives whites privilege above and beyond normal human status.\n\n"}
{"id": "7479199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7479199", "title": "Sock and buskin", "text": "Sock and buskin\n\nThe sock and buskin are two ancient symbols of comedy and tragedy. In Greek theatre, actors in tragic roles wore a boot called a buskin (Latin \"cothurnus\") that elevated them above the other actors. The actors with comedic roles only wore a thin soled shoe called a sock (Latin \"soccus\").\n\nMelpomene, the muse of tragedy, is often depicted holding the tragic mask and wearing buskins. Thalia, the muse of comedy, is similarly associated with the mask of comedy and comic’s socks. Some people refer to the masks themselves as \"Sock and Buskin.\"\nSeveral theatre organizations are known by the name:\n"}
{"id": "83491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83491", "title": "Story within a story", "text": "Story within a story\n\nA story within a story is a literary device in which one character within a narrative narrates. \"Mise en abyme\" is the French term for a similar literary device (also referring to the practice in heraldry of placing the image of a small shield on a larger shield). A story within a story can be used in all types of narration: novels, short stories, plays, television programs, films, poems, songs, and philosophical essays. The inner stories are told either simply to entertain or more usually to act as an example to the other characters. In either case the story often has symbolic and psychological significance for the characters in the outer story. There is often some parallel between the two stories, and the fiction of the inner story is used to reveal the truth in the outer story. Often the stories within a story are used to satirize views, not only in the outer story, but also in the real world. When a story is told within another instead of being told as part of the plot, it allows the author to play on the reader's perceptions of the characters—the motives and the reliability of the storyteller are automatically in question. Stories within a story may disclose the background of characters or events, tell of myths and legends that influence the plot, or even seem to be extraneous diversions from the plot. In some cases, the story within a story is involved in the action of the plot of the outer story. In others, the inner story is independent, so that it can either be skipped over or be read separately, although many subtle connections may be lost. Sometimes, the inner story serves as an outlet for discarded ideas that the author deemed to be of too much merit to leave out completely, something that is somewhat analogous to the inclusion of deleted scenes with DVD releases of films. Often, there is more than one level of internal stories, leading to deeply-nested fiction.\n\nThe literary device of stories within a story dates back to a device known as a \"frame story\", where a supplemental story is used to help tell the main story. Typically, the outer story, or \"frame\" does not have much matter, and most of the bulk of the work consists of one or more complete stories told by one or more storytellers.\n\nThe earliest examples of \"frame stories\" and \"stories within stories\" were in ancient Egyptian and Indian literature, such as the Egyptian Tale of the Shipwrecked Sailor and Indian epics like the \"Ramayana\", \"Seven Wise Masters\", \"Hitopadesha\" and \"Vikram and the Vampire\". In Vishnu Sarma's \"Panchatantra\", an inter-woven series of colorful animal tales are told with one narrative opening within another, sometimes three or four layers deep, and then unexpectedly snapping shut in irregular rhythms to sustain attention. In the epic \"Mahabharata\", the Kurukshetra War is narrated by a character in Vyasa's \"Jaya\", which itself is narrated by a character in Vaisampayana's \"Bharata\", which itself is narrated by a character in Ugrasrava's \"Mahabharata\".\n\nBoth \"The Golden Ass\" by Apuleius and \"Metamorphoses\" by Ovid extend the depths of framing to several degrees. Another early example is the \"One Thousand and One Nights\" (\"Arabian Nights\"), where the general story is narrated by an unknown narrator, and in this narration the stories are told by Scheherazade. In many of Scheherazade's narrations there are also stories narrated, and even in some of these, there are some other stories. An example of this is \"The Three Apples\", a murder mystery narrated by Scheherazade. Within the story, after the murderer reveals himself, he narrates a flashback of events leading up to the murder. Within this flashback, an unreliable narrator tells a story to mislead the would-be murderer, who later discovers that he was misled after another character narrates the truth to him. As the story concludes, the \"\" is narrated within it. This perennially popular work can be traced back to Arabic, Persian, and Indian storytelling traditions. \n\nMary Shelley's \"Frankenstein\" has a deeply nested frame story structure, that features the narration of an Arctic explorer, who records the narration of Victor Frankenstein, who recounts the narration of his creation, who narrates the story of a cabin dwelling family he secretly observes. Similarly, Roald Dahl's story \"The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar\" is about a rich bachelor who finds an essay written by someone who learnt to \"see\" playing cards from the reverse side. The full text of this essay is included in the story, and itself includes a lengthy sub-story told as a true experience by one of the essay's protagonists, Imhrat Khan.\n\nChaucer's \"The Canterbury Tales\" and Boccacio's Decameron are also classic frame stories. In Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\", the characters tell tales suited to their personalities and tell them in ways that highlight their personalities. The noble knight tells a noble story, the boring character tells a very dull tale, and the rude miller tells a smutty tale. Homer's \"Odyssey\" too makes use of this device; Odysseus' adventures at sea are all narrated by Odysseus to the court of king Alcinous in Scheria. Other shorter tales, many of them false, account for much of the \"Odyssey\". Many modern children's story collections are essentially anthology works connected by this device, such as Arnold Lobel's \"Mouse Tales\", Paula Fox's \"The Little Swineherd\", and Phillip and Hillary Sherlock's \"Ears and Tails and Common Sense\".\n\nA well-known modern example of framing is \"The Princess Bride\" (both the book and the movie). In the movie, a grandfather is reading the story of \"The Princess Bride\" to his grandson. In the book, a more detailed frame story has a father editing a much longer (but fictive) work for his son, creating his own \"Good Parts Version\" (as the book called it) by leaving out all the parts that would bore a young boy. Both the book and the movie assert that the central story is from a book called \"The Princess Bride\" by a nonexistent author named S. Morgenstern.\nIn the Welsh novel, Aelwyd F'Ewythr Robert (1852) by Gwilym Hiraethog a visitor to a farm in north Wales tells the story of Uncle Tom's Cabin to those gathered around the hearth.\n\nSometimes a frame story exists in the same setting as the main story. On the television series \"The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles\", each episode was framed as though it were being told by Indy when he was older (usually acted by George Hall, but once by Harrison Ford). The same device of an adult narrator representing the older version of a young protagonist is used in the films \"Stand By Me\" and \"A Christmas Story\", and the television show \"The Wonder Years\".\n\nIn The Amory Wars, a tale told through the music of Coheed and Cambria, tells a story for the first two albums but reveals that the story is being actively written by a character called the Writer in the third. During the album, the Writer delves into his own story and kills one of the characters, much to the dismay of the main character.\n\nThe critically acclaimed Beatles album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" is presented as a stage show by the fictional eponymous band, and one of its songs, \"A Day in the Life\" is in the form of a story within a dream. Similarly, the Fugees album \"The Score\" is presented as the soundtrack to a fictional movie, as are several other notable concept albums, while Wyclef Jean's \"The Carnival\" is presented as testimony at a trial. The majority of Ayreon's albums outline a sprawling, loosely interconnected science fiction narrative, as do the albums of Janelle Monae.\n\nIn his 1895 historical novel \"Pharaoh\", Bolesław Prus introduces a number of stories within the story, ranging in length from vignettes to full-blown stories, many of them drawn from ancient Egyptian texts, that further the plot, illuminate characters, and even inspire the fashioning of individual characters. Jan Potocki's \"The Manuscript Found in Saragossa\" (1797–1805) has an interlocking structure with stories-within-stories reaching several levels of depth.\n\nThe provenance of the story is sometimes explained internally, as in \"The Lord of the Rings\" by J. R. R. Tolkien, which depicts the Red Book of Westmarch (a story-internal version of the book itself) as a history compiled by several of the characters. The subtitle of \"The Hobbit\" (\"There and Back Again\") is depicted as part of a rejected title of this book within a book, and \"The Lord of the Rings\" is a part of the final title.\n\nAn example of an interconnected inner story is \"The Mad Trist\" in Edgar Allan Poe's \"Fall of the House of Usher\", where through somewhat mystical means the narrator's reading of the story within a story influences the reality of the story he has been telling, so that what happens in \"The Mad Trist\" begins happening in \"The Fall of the House of Usher\". Also, in \"Don Quixote\" by Cervantes, there are many stories within the story that influence the hero's actions (there are others that even the author himself admits are purely digressive).\n\nA commonly independently anthologised story is \"The Grand Inquisitor\" by Dostoevsky from his long psychological novel \"The Brothers Karamazov\", which is told by one brother to another to explain, in part, his view on religion and morality. It also, in a succinct way, dramatizes many of Dostoevsky's interior conflicts.\n\nAn example of a \"bonus material\" style inner story is the chapter \"The Town Ho's Story\" in Herman Melville's novel \"Moby-Dick\"; that chapter tells a fully formed story of an exciting mutiny and contains many plot ideas that Melville had conceived during the early stages of writing \"Moby-Dick\"—ideas originally intended to be used later in the novel—but as the writing progressed, these plot ideas eventually proved impossible to fit around the characters that Melville went on to create and develop. Instead of discarding the ideas altogether, Melville wove them into a coherent short story and had the character Ishmael demonstrate his eloquence and intelligence by telling the story to his impressed friends. \n\nWith the rise of literary modernism, writers experimented with ways in which multiple narratives might nest imperfectly within each other. A particularly ingenious example of nested narratives is James Merrill's 1974 modernist poem \"Lost in Translation\".\n\nIn Rabih Alameddine's novel \"The Hakawati\", or \"The Storyteller\", the protagonist describes coming home to the funeral of his father, one of a long line of traditional Arabic storytellers. Throughout the narrative, the author becomes hakawati (an Arabic word for a teller of traditional tales) himself, weaving the tale of the story of his own life and that of his family with folkloric versions of tales from Qur'an, the Old Testament, Ovid, and One Thousand and One Nights. Both the tales he tells of his family (going back to his grandfather) and the embedded folk tales, themselves embed other tales, often 2 or more layers deep.\n\nIn Sue Townsend's \"\", Adrian writes a book entitled \"Lo! The Flat Hills Of My Homeland\", in which the main character, Jake Westmorland, writes a book called \"Sparg of Kronk\", whose eponymous character, Sparg, writes a book with no language.\n\nDreams are a common way of including stories inside stories, and can sometimes go several levels deep. Both the book \"The Arabian Nightmare\" and the curse of \"eternal waking\" from the Neil Gaiman series \"The Sandman\" feature an endless series of waking from one dream into another dream. In Charles Maturin's novel \"Melmoth the Wanderer\", the use of vast stories-within-stories creates a sense of dream-like quality in the reader.\n\nThis structure is also found in classic religious and philosophical texts. The structure of \"The Symposium\" and \"Phaedo\", attributed to Plato, is of a story within a story within a story. In the Christian Bible, the gospels are retellings of stories from the life and ministry of Jesus. However, they also include within them the stories (parables) that Jesus told. In more modern philosophical work, Jostein Gaarder's books often feature this device. Examples are \"The Solitaire Mystery\", where the protagonist receives a small book from a baker, in which the baker tells the story of a sailor who tells the story of another sailor, and \"Sophie's World\" about a girl who is actually a character in a book that is being read by Hilde, a girl in another dimension. Later on in the book Sophie questions this idea, and realizes that Hilde too could be a character in a story that in turn is being read by another.\n\nThe experimental modernist works that incorporate multiple narratives into one story are quite often science-fiction or science fiction influenced. These include most of the various novels written by the American author Kurt Vonnegut. Vonnegut includes the recurring character Kilgore Trout in many of his novels. Trout acts as the mysterious science fiction writer who enhances the morals of the novels through plot descriptions of his stories. Books such as \"Breakfast of Champions\" and \"God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater\" are sprinkled with these plot descriptions. Stanisław Lem's \"Tale of the Three Storytelling Machines of King Genius\" from \"The Cyberiad\" has several levels of storytelling. All levels tell stories of the same person, Trurl. \n\n\"House of Leaves\" is the tale of a man who finds a manuscript telling the story of a documentary that may or may not have ever existed, contains multiple layers of plot. The book includes footnotes and letters that tell their own stories only vaguely related to the events in the main narrative of the book, and footnotes for fake books. \n\nRobert A. Heinlein's later books (\"The Number of the Beast\", \"The Cat Who Walks Through Walls\" and \"To Sail Beyond the Sunset\") propose the idea that every real universe is a fiction in another universe. This hypothesis enables many writers who are characters in the books to interact with their own creations. Margaret Atwood's novel \"The Blind Assassin\" is interspersed with excerpts from a novel written by one of the main characters; the novel-within-a-novel itself contains a science fiction story written by one of \"that\" novel's characters. \n\nIn Philip K. Dick's novel \"The Man in the High Castle\", each character comes into interaction with a book called \"The Grasshopper Lies Heavy\", which was written by the Man in the High Castle. As Dick's novel details a world in which the Axis Powers of World War II had succeeded in dominating the known world, the novel within the novel details an alternative to this history in which the Allies overcome the Axis and bring stability to the world – a victory which itself is quite different from our history. \n\nIn \"Red Orc's Rage\" by Philip J. Farmer a doubly recursive method is used to interwine its fictional layers. This novel is part of a science-fiction series, the \"World of Tiers\". Farmer collaborated in the writing of this novel with an American psychiatrist, Dr. A. James Giannini. Dr. Giannini had previously used the World of Tiers series in treating patients in group therapy. During these therapeutic sessions, the content and process of the text and novelist was discussed rather than the lives of the patients. In this way subconscious defenses could be circumvented. Farmer took the real life case-studies and melded these with adventures of his characters in the series.\n\nThe \"Quantum Leap\" novel \"Knights Of The Morningstar\" also features a character who writes a book by that name. In Matthew Stover's novel \"Shatterpoint\", the protagonist Mace Windu narrates the story within his journal, while the main story is being told from the third-person limited point of view. \n\nSeveral \"Star Trek\" tales are stories or events within stories, such as Gene Roddenberry's novelization of \"\", J. A. Lawrence's \"Mudd's Angels\", John M. Ford's \"The Final Reflection\", Margaret Wander Bonanno's \"Strangers from the Sky\" (which adopts the conceit that it is book from the future by an author called Gen Jaramet-Sauner), and J. R. Rasmussen's \"Research\" in the anthology \" II\". Steven Barnes's novelization of \"Far Beyond the Stars\" partners with Greg Cox's \"\" (Volume Two) to tell us that the story \"Far Beyond the Stars\"—and, by extension, all of \"Star Trek\" itself—is the creation of 1950s writer Benny Russell.\n\nThe book \"Cloud Atlas\" (later adapted into a film by The Wachowkis and Tom Tykwer) consisted of six interlinked stories nested inside each other in a Russian doll fashion. The first story (that of Adam Ewing in the 1850s befriending an escaped slave) is interrupted halfway through and revealed to be part of a journal being read by composer Robert Frobisher in 1930s Belgium. His own story of working for a more famous composer is told in a series of letters to his lover Rufus Sixsmith, which are interrupted halfway through and revealed to be in the possession of an investigative journalist named Luisa Rey and so on. Each of the first five tales are interrupt in the middle, with the sixth tale being told in full, before the preceding five tales are finished in reverse order. Each layer of the story either challenges the veracity of the previous layer, or is challenged by the succeeding layer. Presuming each layer to be a true telling within the overall story, a chain of events is created linking Adam Ewing's embrace of the abolitionist movement in the 1850s to the religious redemption of a post apocalyptic tribal man over a century after the fall of modern civilization. The characters in each nested layer take inspiration or lessons from the stories of their predecessors in a manner that validates a belief stated in the sixth tale that \"Our lives are not our own. We are bound to others, past and present and by each crime, and every kindness, we birth our future.\"\n\n\"The Crying of Lot 49\" by Thomas Pynchon has several characters seeing a play called \"The Courier's Tragedy\" by the fictitious Jacobean playwright Richard Wharfinger. The events of the play broadly mirror those of the novel and give the main character, Oedipa Maas, a greater context with which to consider her predicament; the play concerns a feud between two rival mail distribution companies, which appears to be ongoing to the present day, and in which, if this is the case, Oedipa has found herself involved. As in \"Hamlet\", the director makes changes to the original script; in this instance, a couplet that was added, possibly by religious zealots intent on giving the play extra moral gravity, are said only on the night that Oedipa sees the play. From what Pynchon tells us, this is the only mention in the play of Thurn and Taxis' rivals' name—Trystero—and it is the seed for the conspiracy that unfurls. A significant portion of Walter Moers' \"Labyrinth of Dreaming Books\" is an ekphrasis on the subject of an epic puppet theater presentation. Another example is found in Samuel Delany's \"Trouble on Triton\", which features a theater company that produces elaborate staged spectacles for randomly selected single-person audiences. Plays produced by the \"Caws of Art\" theater company also feature in Russell Hoban's modern fable, The Mouse and His Child.\n\nIn Manuel Puig's \"Kiss of the Spider Woman\", ekphrases on various old movies, some real, and some fictional, make up a substantial portion of the narrative. In Paul Russell's \"Boys of Life\", descriptions of movies by director/antihero Carlos (loosely inspired by controversial director Pier Paulo Pasolini) provide a narrative counterpoint and add a touch of surrealism to the main narrative. They additionally raise the question of whether works of artistic genius justify or atone for the sins and crimes of their creators.\n\nThis dramatic device was probably first used by Thomas Kyd in \"The Spanish Tragedy\" around 1587, where the play is presented before an audience of two of the characters, who comment upon the action. From references in other contemporary works, Kyd is also assumed to have been the writer of an early, lost version of \"Hamlet\" (the so-called \"Ur-Hamlet\"), with a play-within-a-play interlude. William Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\" retains this device by having Hamlet ask some strolling players to perform the \"Murder of Gonzago\". The action and characters in \"The Murder\" mirror the murder of Hamlet's father in the main action, and Prince Hamlet writes additional material to emphasize this. Hamlet wishes to provoke the murderer, his uncle, and sums this up by saying \"the play's the thing wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king.\" Hamlet calls this new play \"The Mouse-trap\" (a title that Agatha Christie later took for the long-running play \"The Mousetrap\"). The play \"I Hate Hamlet\" and the movie \"A Midwinter's Tale\" are about a production of \"Hamlet\", which in turn includes a production of \"The Murder of Gonzago\", as does the Hamlet-based film \"Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead\" which even features a third-level puppet theatre version within their play. Similarly, in Anton Chekhov's \"The Seagull\" there are specific allusions to \"Hamlet\": in the first act a son stages a play to impress his mother, a professional actress, and her new lover; the mother responds by comparing her son to Hamlet. Later he tries to come between them, as Hamlet had done with his mother and her new husband. The tragic developments in the plot follow in part from the scorn the mother shows for her son's play.\n\nShakespeare adopted the play-within-a-play device for many of his other plays as well, including \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\"and \"Love's Labours Lost\". Almost the whole of \"The Taming of the Shrew\" is a play-within-a-play, presented to convince Christopher Sly, a drunken tinker, that he is a nobleman watching a private performance, but the device has no relevance to the plot (unless Katharina's subservience to her \"lord\" in the last scene is intended to strengthen the deception against the tinker) and is often dropped in modern productions. The musical \"Kiss Me, Kate\" is about the production of a fictitious musical, \"The Taming of the Shrew,\" based on the Shakespeare play of the same name, and features several scenes from it. \"Pericles\" draws in part on the 14th century \"Confessio Amantis\" (itself a frame story) by John Gower and Shakespeare has the ghost of Gower \"assume man's infirmities\" to introduce his work to the contemporary audience and comment on the action of the play. \n\nIn Francis Beaumont's \"Knight of the Burning Pestle\" (ca. 1608) a supposed common citizen from the audience, actually a \"planted\" actor, condemns the play that has just started and \"persuades\" the players to present something about a shopkeeper. The citizen's \"apprentice\" then acts, pretending to extemporise, in the rest of the play. This is a satirical tilt at Beaumont's playwright contemporaries and their current fashion for offering plays about London life.\n\nThe opera \"Pagliacci\" is about a troupe of actors who perform a play about marital infidelity that mirrors their own lives, and composer Richard Rodney Bennett and playwright-librettist Beverley Cross's \"The Mines of Sulphur\" features a ghostly troupe of actors who perform a play about murder that similarly mirrors the lives of their hosts, from whom they depart, leaving them with the plague as nemesis. And John Adams' \"Nixon in China\" (1985-7) features a surreal version of Madam Mao's \"Red Detachment of Women\" to extraordinary effect, illuminating the ascendance of human values over the disillusionment of high politics in the meeting.\n\nIn Bertolt Brecht's \"The Caucasian Chalk Circle,\" a play is staged as a parable to villagers in the Soviet Union to justify the re-allocation of their farmland: the tale describes how a child is awarded to a servant-girl rather than its natural mother, an aristocrat, as the woman most likely to care for it well. This kind of play-within-a-play, which appears at the beginning of the main play and acts as a 'frame' for it, is called an \"'induction'\". Brecht's one-act play \"The Elephant Calf\" (1926) is a play-within-a-play performed in the foyer of the theatre during his \"Man Equals Man\".\n\nIn Jean Giraudoux's play \"Ondine\", all of act two is a series of scenes within scenes, sometimes two levels deep. This increases the dramatic tension and also makes more poignant the inevitable failure of the relationship between the mortal Hans and water sprite Ondine.\n\n\"The Two-Character Play\" by Tennessee Williams has a concurrent double plot with the convention of a play within a play. Felice and Clare are siblings and are both actor/producers touring ‘The Two-Character Play.’ They have supposedly been abandoned by their crew and have been left to put on the play by themselves. The characters in the play are also brother and sister and are also named Clare and Felice.\n\n\"The Mysteries\", a modern reworking of the medieval mystery plays, remains faithful to its roots by having the modern actors play the sincere, naïve tradesmen and women as they take part in the original performances.\n\nAlternatively, a play might be about the production of a play, and include the performance of all or part of the play, as in \"Noises Off\", \"A Chorus of Disapproval\" or \"Lilies\". Similarly, the musical \"Man of La Mancha\" presents the story of Don Quixote as an impromptu play staged in prison by \"Quixote\"'s author, Miguel de Cervantes.\n\nIn most stagings of the musical \"Cats\", which include the song \"Growltiger's Last Stand\" — a recollection of an old play by Gus the Theatre Cat — the character of Lady Griddlebone sings \"The Ballad of Billy McCaw\". (However, many productions of the show omit \"Growltiger's Last Stand\", and \"The Ballad of Billy McCaw\" has at times been replaced with a mock aria, so this metastory isn't always seen.) Depending on the production, there is another musical scene called The Awful Battle of the Pekes and the Pollices where the Jellicles put on a show for their leader. In \"\", there are three play within a plays. First, when Lestat visits his childhood friend, Nicolas, who works in a theater, where he discovers his love for theater; and two more when the Theater of the Vampires perform. One is used as a plot mechanism to explain the vampire god, Marius, which sparks an interest in Lestat to find him.\n\nA play within a play also occurs in the musical \"The King and I\", where Princess Tuptim and the royal dancers give a performance of \"Small House of Uncle Thomas\" (or \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\") to their English guests. The play mirrors Tuptim's situation, as she wishes to run away from slavery to be with her lover, Lun Tha.\n\nIn stagings of Dina Rubina's play \"Always the Same Dream\", the story is about staging a school play based on a poem by Pushkin.\n\nJoseph Heller's 1967 play \"We Bombed in New Haven\" is about actors engaged in a play about military airmen; the actors themselves become at times unsure whether they are actors or actual airmen.\n\nThe 1937 musical Babes in Arms is about a group of kids putting on a musical to raise money. The central plot device was retained for the popular 1939 film version with Judy Garland and Mickey Rooney. A similar plot was recycled for the films White Christmas and The Blues Brothers.\n\nTV Tropes maintains a list of feature films that feature this plot device. \"Singin' in the Rain\" (1952) is frequently listed as the earliest example, although there are antecedents in silent cinema such as \"Mabel's Dramatic Career\" (1913).\n\nThe François Truffaut film \"Day for Night\" is about the making of a fictitious movie called \"Meet Pamela\" (\"Je vous présente Pamela\") and shows the interactions of the actors as they are making this movie about a woman who falls for her husband's father. The story of \"Pamela\" involves lust, betrayal, death, sorrow, and change, events that are mirrored in the experiences of the actors portrayed in \"Day for Night\". There are a wealth of other movies that revolve around the film industry itself, even if not centering exclusively on one nested film. These include the darkly satirical classic \"Sunset Boulevard\" about an aging star and her parasitic victim, and the Coen Brothers' farce \"Hail, Caesar!\"\n\nThe script to Karel Reisz's movie \"The French Lieutenant's Woman\" (1981), written by Harold Pinter, is a film-within-a-film adaptation of John Fowles's book. In addition to the Victorian love story of the book, Pinter creates a present-day background story that shows a love affair between the main actors.\n\nIn Buster Keaton's \"Sherlock, Jr.\", Keaton's protagonist actually enters into a film while it is playing in a cinema, as does the main character in the Arnold Schwarzenegger children's film \"The Last Action Hero\". A similar device is used in the seminal music video \"Take on me\" by A-ha, which features a young woman entering a cartoon universe. Conversely, Woody Allen's \"Purple Rose of Cairo\" is about a movie character exiting the movie to interact with the real world. Allen's earlier film \"Play it Again, Sam\" featured liberal use of characters, dialogue and clips from the film classic \"Casablanca\" as a central device.\n\nThe 2002 Pedro Almodóvar film \"Talk to Her\" (\"Hable con ella\") has the chief character Benigno tell a story called \"The Shrinking Lover\" to Alicia, a long-term comatose patient whom Benigno, a male nurse, is assigned to care for. The film presents \"The Shrinking Lover\" in the form of a black-and-white silent melodrama. To prove his love to a scientist girlfriend, \"The Shrinking Lover\" protagonist drinks a potion that makes him progressively smaller. The resulting seven-minute scene, which is readily intelligible and enjoyable as a stand-alone short subject, is considerably more overtly comic than the rest of \"Talk to Her\"—the protagonist climbs giant breasts as if they were rock formations and even ventures his way inside a (compared to him) gigantic vagina. Critics have noted that \"The Shrinking Lover\" essentially is a sex metaphor. Later in \"Talk to Her,\" the comatose Alicia is discovered to be pregnant and Benigno is sentenced to jail for rape. \"The Shrinking Lover\" was named Best Scene of 2002 in the \"Skandies\", an annual survey of online cinephiles and critics invited each year by critic Mike D'Angelo.\n\n\"Tropic Thunder\" (2008) is a comedy film revolving around a group of prima donna actors making a Vietnam War film (itself also named \"Tropic Thunder\") when their fed-up writer and director decide to abandon them in the middle of the jungle, forcing them to fight their way out. The concept was perhaps inspired by the 1986 comedy Three Amigos, where three washed-up silent film stars are expected to live out a real-life version of their old hit movies. The same idea of life being forced to imitate art was also reprised in the Star Trek parody Galaxy Quest.\n\nThe first episode of the anime series \"The Melancholy Of Haruhi Suzumiya\" consists almost entirely of a poorly made film that the protagonists created, complete with Kyon's typical, sarcastic commentary.\n\nChuck Jones's 1953 cartoon \"Duck Amuck\" shows Daffy Duck trapped in a cartoon that an unseen animator repeatedly manipulates. At the end, it is revealed that the whole cartoon was being controlled by Bugs Bunny. The \"Duck Amuck\" plot was essentially replicated in one of Jones' later cartoons, \"Rabbit Rampage\" (1955), in which Bugs Bunny turns out to be the victim of the sadistic animator (Elmer Fudd). A similar plot was also included in an episode of \"Baby Looney Tunes\", in which Bugs was the victim, Daffy was the animator, and it was made on a computer instead of a pencil and paper. In 2007, the \"Duck Amuck\" sequence was parodied on \"Drawn Together\" (\"Nipple Ring-Ring Goes to Foster Care\").\n\nAll feature-length films by Jörg Buttgereit except \"Schramm\" feature a film within the film. In \"Nekromantik\", the protagonist goes to the cinema to see the fictional slasher film \"Vera\". In \"Der Todesking\" one of the character watches a video of the fictional Nazi exploitation film \"Vera - Todesengel der Gestapo\" and in \"Nekromantik 2\", the characters go to see a movie called \"Mon dejeuner avec Vera\" which is a parody of Louis Malle's \"My Dinner with André\"\n\nQuentin Tarantino's \"Inglourious Basterds\" depicts a Nazi propaganda film called \"Nation's Pride\", which glorifies a soldier in the German army. \"Nation's Pride\" is directed by Eli Roth.\n\nJoe Dante's \"Matinee\" depicts \"Mant\", an early-'60s sci-fi/horror movie about a man who turns into an ant. In one scene, the protagonists see a Disney-style family movie called \"The Shook-Up Shopping Cart\".\n\nThe 2002 martial arts epic Hero presented the same narrative several different times, as recounted by different storytellers, but with both factual and aesthetic differences. Similarly, in the whimsical 1988 Terry Gilliam film The Adventures of Baron Munchausen, and the 2003 Tim Burton film Big Fish, the bulk of the film is a series of stories told by an (extremely) unreliable narrator. In the 2006 Tarsem film \"The Fall\", an injured silent-movie stuntman tells heroic fantasy stories to a little girl with a broken arm to pass time in the hospital, which the film visualizes and presents with the stuntman's voice becoming voiceover narration. The fantasy tale bleeds back into and comments on the film's \"present-tense\" story. There are often incongruities based on the fact that the stuntman is an American and the girl Persian—the stuntman's voiceover refers to \"Indians,\" “a squaw” and “a teepee,” but the visuals show a Bollywood-style devi and a Taj Mahal-like castle. The same conceit of an unreliable narrator was used to very different effect in the 1995 crime drama The Usual Suspects (which garnered an Oscar for Kevin Spacey's performance).\n\nThe seminal 1950 Japanese film \"Rashomon\", based on the Japanese short story \"In a Grove\" (1921), utilizes the flashback-within-a-flashback technique. The story unfolds in flashback as the four witnesses in the story—the bandit, the murdered samurai, his wife, and the nameless woodcutter—recount the events of one afternoon in a grove. But it is also a flashback within a flashback, because the accounts of the witnesses are being retold by a woodcutter and a priest to a ribald commoner as they wait out a rainstorm in a ruined gatehouse.\n\nThe movie \"Inception\" has a deeply nested structure that is itself part of the setting, as the characters travel deeper and deeper into layers of dreams within dreams. Similarly, in the beginning of the music video for the Michael Jackson song \"Thriller\", the heroine is terrorized by her monster boyfriend in what turns out to be a movie within a dream. The film \"Grand Budapest Hotel\" has four layers of narration; starting with a young girl at the author's memorial reading his book, it cuts to the old author in 1985 telling of an incident in 1968 when he, as a young author, stayed at the hotel and met the owner, old Zero. He was then told the story of young Zero and M Gustave, from 1932, which makes up most of the narrative.\n\nThe 2001 film \"Moulin Rouge!\" features a fictitious musical within a film, called \"Spectacular Spectacular\". The 1942 Ernst Lubitsch comedy \"To Be or Not to Be\" confuses the audience in the opening scenes with a play, \"The Naughty Nazis\", about Adolf Hitler which appears to be taking place within the actual plot of the film. Thereafter, the acting company players serve as the protagonists of the film and frequently use acting/costumes to deceive various characters in the film. \"Hamlet\" also serves as an important throughline in the film, as suggested by the title. Laurence Olivier sets the opening scene of his 1944 film of \"Henry V\" in the tiring room of the old Globe Theatre as the actors prepare for their roles on stage. The early part of the film follows the actors in these \"stage\" performances and only later does the action almost imperceptibly expand to the full realism of the Battle of Agincourt. By way of increasingly more artificial sets (based on mediaeval paintings) the film finally returns to The Globe. Mel Brook's film, \"The Producers\", revolves around a scheme to make money by producing a disastrously bad Broadway musical, \"Springtime For Hitler.\" Ironically the film itself was later made into its own Broadway musical (although a more intentionally successful one). The Outkast music video for the song \"Roses\" is a short film about a high school musical.\n\nThe main plot device in \"Repo! The Genetic Opera\" is an opera which is going to be held the night of the events of the movie. All of the principal characters of the film play a role in the opera, though the audience watching the opera is unaware that some of the events portrayed are more than drama.\n\nIn \"Diary of a Wimpy Kid\", the middle-schoolers put on a play of \"The Wizard of Oz\".\n\nThe 1990 biopic Korczak, about the last days of a Jewish children's orphanage in Nazi occupied Poland, features an amateur production of Rabindranath Tagore's \"The Post Office\", which was selected by the orphanage's visionary leader as a way of preparing his charges for their own impending death. That same production is also featured in the stage play \"Korczak's Children,\" also inspired by the same historical events.\n\nThe 1973 film adaptation of Peter Nichols's 1969 play, \"The National Health\" features a send-up of a typical American hospital soap-opera being shown on a television situated in an underfunded, unmistakably British NHS hospital.\n\nThe Jim Carey film The Truman Show is about a person who grows to adulthood without ever realizing that he is the unwitting hero of the immersive eponymous television show.\n\nThe first example of a video game within a video game is almost certainly Tim Stryker's 80s era text-only game Fazuul (also the world's first online multiplayer game), in which one of the objects that the player can create is a minigame. Another early use of this trope was in Cliff Johnson's 1987 hit The Fool's Errand, a thematically linked narrative puzzle game, in which several of the puzzles were semi-independent games played against NPCs.\n\n\"Power Factor\" has been cited as a rare example of a video game in which the entire concept is a video game within a video game: The player takes on the role of a character who is playing a \"Virtual Reality Simulator\", in which he in turn takes on the role of the hero Redd Ace. The \".hack\" franchise also gives the concept a central role. It features a narrative in which internet advancements have created an MMORPG franchise called The World. Protagonists Kite and Haseo try to uncover the mysteries of the events surrounding The World. Characters in .hack are self-aware that they are video game characters.\n\nMore commonly, however, the video game within a video game device takes the form of mini-games that are non-plot oriented, and optional to the completion of the game. For example, in the \"Yakuza\" and \"Shenmue\" franchises, there are playable arcade machines featuring other Sega games that are scattered throughout the game world.\n\nIn \"Final Fantasy VII\" there are several video games that can be played in an arcade in the Gold Saucer theme park. In \"Animal Crossing\", the player can acquire individual NES emulations through various means and place them within their house, where they are playable in their entirety. When placed in the house, the games take the form of a Nintendo Entertainment System. In \"Fallout 4\", the protagonist can find several cartridges throughout the wasteland that can be played on his pip-boy (an electronic device that exists only in the world of the game) or any terminal computer.\n\nIn the Remedy video game title \"Max Payne\" players can chance upon a number of ongoing television shows when activating or happening upon various television sets within the game environs, depending on where / when they are within the unfolding game narrative will dictate which episode of what show is found. Among them are \"Lords & Ladies\", \"Captain Baseball Bat Boy\", \"\" and the pinnacle television serial \"Address Unknown\" -heavily inspired by David Lynch style film narrative, particularly \"Twin Peaks\", Address Unknown sometimes prophesies events or character motives yet to occur in the Max Payne narrative.\n\nIn \"Grand Theft Auto IV\", the player can watch several TV channels which include many programs: reality shows, cartoons, and even game shows.\n\n\"Terrance & Phillip\" from \"South Park\" comments on the levels of violence and acceptable behaviour in the media and allow criticism of the outer cartoon to be addressed in the cartoon itself. Similarly, on the long running animated sitcom, \"The Simpsons\", Bart's favorite cartoon, \"Itchy and Scratchy\" (a parody of \"Tom & Jerry\"), often echoes the plotlines of the main show. \"The Simpsons\" also parodied this structure with numerous 'layers' of sub-stories in the Season 17 episode \"The Seemingly Never-Ending Story\".\n\nOn the show \"Dear White People\", the \"Scandal\" parody \"Defamation\" offers a ironic commentary on the main show's theme of interracial relationships. Similarly, on the HBO show \"Insecure\" the slavery-era soap opera \"Due North\" is an obsession for the show's main characters.\n\nThe Irish television series \"Father Ted\" features a television show, \"Father Ben\", which has characters and storylines almost identical to that of Father Ted.\n\nThe television shows \"30 Rock\", \"Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip\", \"Sonny with a Chance\", and \"Kappa Mikey\" feature a sketch show within the TV show.\n\nAn extended plotline on the semi-autobiographical sitcom \"Seinfeld\" dealt with the main characters developing a sitcom about their lives. The gag was reprised on \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", another semi-autobiographical show by and about \"Seinfeld\" co-creator Larry David, when the long-anticipated \"Seinfeld\" reunion was staged entirely inside the new show.\n\nThe \"USS Callister\" episode of the \"Black Mirror\" anthology television series is about a man obsessed with a Star-Trek like show, who recreates it as part of a virtual reality game.\n\nThe concept of a film within a television series is employed in the Macross universe. \"\" (1984) was originally intended as an alternative theatrical re-telling of the television series \"The Super Dimension Fortress Macross\" (1982), but was later \"retconned\" into the Macross canon as a popular movie within the television series \"Macross 7\" (1994).\n\n\"Seinfeld\" had a number of reoccurring fictional films, most notably \"Rochelle, Rochelle\", a parody of artsy but exploitative foreign films, while the trippy, metaphysically loopy thriller \"Death Castle\" is a central element of the \"Master of None\" episode \"New York, I Love You.\"\n\nStories inside stories can allow for genre changes. Arthur Ransome uses the device to let his young characters in the \"Swallows and Amazons series\" of children's books, set in the recognisable everyday world, take part in fantastic adventures of piracy in distant lands: two of the twelve books, \"Peter Duck\" and \"Missee Lee\" (and some would include \"Great Northern?\" as a third), are adventures supposedly made up by the characters. Similarly, the film version of \"Chitty Chitty Bang Bang\" uses a story within a story format to tell a purely fantastic fairy tale within a relatively more realistic frame-story. The film version of \"The Wizard of Oz\" does the same thing by making its inner story into a dream. Lewis Carroll's celebrated \"Alice\" books use the same device of a dream as an excuse for fantasy, while Carroll's less well-known \"Sylvie and Bruno\" subverts the trope by allowing the dream figures to enter and interact with the \"real\" world.\nSome stories feature what might be called a literary version of the Droste effect, where an image contains a smaller version of itself (also a common feature in many fractals). Among the stories that include versions of themselves are Neil Gaiman's \"\" which contains several instances of multiple storytelling levels, including \"Cerements\" (issue #55) where one of the inmost levels corresponds to one of the outer levels, turning the story-within-a-story structure into an infinite regression. Similarly, in Charlie Kaufman's 2008 film \"Synecdoche, New York\", the main character Caden Cotard is a skilled director of plays who receives a grant, and ends up creating a remarkable theater piece intended as a carbon copy of the outside world. The layers of copies of the world ends up several layers deep.\n\nThe long-running musical A Chorus Line dramatizes its own creation, and the life stories of its own original cast members. The famous final number does double duty as the showstopper for both the musical the audience is watching and the one the characters are appearing in.\n\nMichael Ende's classic children's novel The Neverending Story prominently features a book of the same title. This is later revealed to be the same book the audience is reading, when it begins to be retold again from the beginning, thus creating an infinite regression that features as a plot element. Similarly, in the Will Ferrell comedy Stranger than Fiction the main character discovers he is a character in a book that (along with its author) also exists in the same universe.\n\nIn Douglas Hofstadter's \"Gödel, Escher, Bach\", there is a narrative between Achilles and the Tortoise (characters borrowed from Lewis Carroll, who in turn borrowed them from Zeno), and within this story they find a book entitled \"Provocative Adventures of Achilles and the Tortoise Taking Place in Sundry Spots of the Globe\", which they begin to read, the Tortoise taking the part of the Tortoise, and Achilles taking the part of Achilles. Within this narrative, which itself is somewhat self-referential, the two characters find a book entitled \"Provocative Adventures of Achilles and the Tortoise Taking Place in Sundry Spots of the Globe\", which they begin to read, the Tortoise taking the part of Achilles, and Achilles taking the part of the Tortoise.\n\nThe music video for the Björk song \"Bachelorette\" features a musical that is about, in part, the creation of that musical. A mini-theater and small audience appear on stage to watch the musical-within-a-musical, and at some point, within that second musical a yet-smaller theater and audience appear.\n\nEpisode 14 of the anime series \"Martian Successor Nadesico\" is essentially a clip show, but has several newly animated segments based on \"Gekigangar III\", an anime that exists within its universe and that many characters are fans of, that involves the characters of that show watching Nadesico. The episode ends with the crew of the Nadesico watching the very same episode of Gekigangar, causing a paradox.\n\n\"Austin Powers in Goldmember\" begins with an action film opening, which turns out to be a sequence being filmed by Steven Spielberg. Near the ending, the events of the film itself are revealed to be a movie being enjoyed by the characters. The 1985 Tim Burton film Pee-Wee's Big Adventure ends with the main characters watching a film version of their own adventures, but as reimagined as a Hollywood blockbuster action film, with James Brolin as a more stereotypically manly version of the Paul Reubens title character. Mel Brooks's 1974 comedy \"Blazing Saddles\" leaves its Western setting when the climactic fight scene breaks out, revealing the setting to have been a set in the Warner Bros. studio lot; the fight spills out onto an adjacent musical set, then into the studio canteen, and finally onto the streets. The two protagonists arrive at Grauman's Chinese Theater, which is showing the \"premiere\" of \"Blazing Saddles\"; they enter the cinema to watch the conclusion of their own film. Brooks recycled the gag in his 1987 \"Star Wars\" parody, \"Spaceballs\", where the villains are able to locate the heroes by watching a copy of the movie they are in on VHS video tape (a comic exaggeration of the phenomenon of films being available on video before their theatrical release). Brooks also made the 1976 parody \"Silent Movie\" about a buffoonish team of filmmakers trying to make the first Hollywood silent film in forty years --which is essentially that film itself (another forty years later, life imitated art imitating art, when an actual modern silent movie became a hit, the Oscar nominated \"The Artist\").\n\nIn the latter two films of the \"Scream\" horror trilogy, a film-within-a-film format is used when the events of the first film spawn their own horror trilogy within the films themselves. In \"Scream 2\", characters get killed while watching a film version of the events in the first \"Scream\" film, while in \"Scream 3\" the actors playing the trilogy's characters end up getting killed, much in the same way as the characters they are playing on screen. In the latest \"Scream\" movie, \"Scream 4\", in the opening sequence, two characters are watching Stab 7 before they get killed. Also, the characters of Stab 7 are watching Stab 6. There's also a party in which all seven Stab movies were going to be shown. References are also made to Stab 5 involving time travel as a plot device.\n\nDirector Spike Jonze's \"Adaptation\" is a fictionalized version of screenwriter Charlie Kaufman's struggles to adapt the non-cinematic book \"The Orchid Thief\" into a Hollywood blockbuster. As his onscreen self succumbs to the temptation to commercialize the narrative, Kaufman incorporates those techniques into the script, including tropes such as an invented romance, a car chase, a drug-running sequence, and an imaginary identical twin for the protagonist. (The movie also features scenes about the making of \"Being John Malkovich\", previously written by Kaufman and directed by Jonze.) Robert Altman's satirical noir \"The Player\" about Hollywood ends with the antihero being pitched a movie version of his own story, complete with an unlikely happy ending.\n\nOccasionally a story within a story becomes such a popular element that the producer(s) decide to develop it autonomously as a separate and distinct work. This is an example of a spin-off.\n\nIn the fictional world of the \"Toy Story\" movies, Buzz Lightyear is an animated toy action figure, which was based on a fictitious cartoon series, \"Buzz Lightyear of Star Command\", which did not exist in the real world except for snippets seen within \"Toy Story\". Later, \"Buzz Lightyear of Star Command\" was produced in the real world.\n\n\"Kujibiki Unbalance\", a series in the \"Genshiken\" universe, has spawned merchandise of its own, and been remade into a series on its own.\n\nSuch spin-offs may be produced as a way of providing additional information on the fictional world for fans. In the \"Harry Potter\" series, three such supplemental books have been produced. \"Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them\" is a textbook used by the main character, and \"Quidditch Through the Ages\" is a book from the library at his school. \"The Tales of Beedle the Bard\" provides an additional layer of fiction, the 'tales' being instructional stories told to children in the characters' world.\n\nIn the works of Kurt Vonnegut, Kilgore Trout has written a novel called \"Venus on the Half-Shell\". In 1975 real-world author Philip José Farmer wrote a science-fiction novel called \"Venus on the Half-Shell\", published under the name Kilgore Trout.\n\nIn \"Homestuck\" by Andrew Hussie, there is a comic called Sweet Bro and Hella Jeff, created by one of the characters, Dave Strider. It was later adapted to its own ongoing series.\n\n\"Captain Proton: Defender of the Earth\", a story by Dean Wesley Smith, was adapted from the holonovel \"Captain Proton\" in the Star Trek universe.\n\nIn the animated online franchise \"Homestar Runner\" many of the best-known features were spun off from each other. The best known was \"Strong Bad Emails,\" which depicted the villain of the original story giving snarky answers to fan emails, but that in turn spawned several other long-running features which started out as figments of Strong Bad's imagination, including the teen-oriented cartoon parody \"Teen Girl Squad\" and the anime parody \"20X6.\"\n\nOne unique example is the Tyler Perry comedy/horror hit \"Boo! A Madea Halloween\" which originated as a parody of Tyler Perry films in the Chris Rock film \"Top 5\".\n\n"}
{"id": "13718493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13718493", "title": "Traditional transmission", "text": "Traditional transmission\n\nTraditional transmission (also called cultural transmission) is a design feature of language that the anthropologist Charles F. Hockett developed to distinguish the features of human language from those of animal communication. He discovered thirteen features that all human languages have. Animals might communicate with some of the thirteen basic design features of language but never with all of them. Traditional transmission is exemplified by the fact that language is learned in social groups. Although there is disagreement about how much linguistic capability humans are born with, it is known that the only way that humans learn language and refine its use as they grow is in social settings.\n"}
{"id": "2355975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2355975", "title": "Transmediation", "text": "Transmediation\n\nTransmediation is the process of translating a work into a different medium. The definition of what constitutes transmediation would depend on how medium is defined or interpreted. In Understanding media, Marshall McLuhan offered a quite broad of medium \"an extension of ourselves\": \"In a culture like ours, long accustomed to splitting and dividing all things as a means of control, it is sometimes a bit of a shock to be reminded that, in operational and practical fact, the medium is the message. This is merely to say that the personal and social consequences of any medium - that is, of any extension of ourselves - result from the new scale that is introduced into our affairs by each extension of ourselves, or by any new technology.\" From McLuhan's definition, it is possible to infer the definition of transmediation could involve at least two different dimensions: a sensory and semiotic translation. When referring to medium as a sensory mode, transmediation would require to move between sensory modes (e.g., visual to aural, aural to tactile). When referring to transmediation as semiotic translation, transmediation can refer to the process of \"responding to cultural texts in a range of sign systems -- art, movement, sculpture, dance, music, and so on -- as well as in words.\" Semali and Fueyo \n\nTransmediation may utilize more than one media form. All the components of a transmediated work are interlinked with each other to form the whole network. Therefore, transmediated works are closely linked to semiotics and technology in the context of digital media. Transmediation can include response to traditional printed texts, as well as multimedia materials including video, animation, a website, a podcast, a game, etc.\n\nTransmediation is closely linked to semiotics, which is the impact study of signs. Academic researchers and educators interested in transmediation are often also interested in media literacy, visual literacy, information literacy, and critical literacy.\n\nLeonard Shlain highlights the importance of engaging students in the process of transmediation when writing, \"Digital information comes in multiple forms, and students must learn to tell stories not just with words and numbers but also through images, graphics, color, sound, music, and dance. There is a grammar and literacy to each of these forms of communication. Bombarded with a wide variety of images regularly, students need sharp visual-interpretation skills to interact with the media analytically. Each form of communication has its own rules and grammar and should be taught in ways that lead students to be more purposeful, specific, and concise in communicating.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "40313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40313", "title": "Universal grammar", "text": "Universal grammar\n\nUniversal grammar (UG) in linguistics, is the theory of the genetic component of the language faculty, usually credited to Noam Chomsky. The basic postulate of UG is that a certain set of structural rules are innate to humans, independent of sensory experience. With more linguistic stimuli received in the course of psychological development, children then adopt specific syntactic rules that conform to UG. It is sometimes known as \"mental grammar\", and stands contrasted with other \"grammars\", e.g. prescriptive, descriptive and pedagogical. The advocates of this theory emphasize and partially rely on the poverty of the stimulus (POS) argument and the existence of some universal properties of natural human languages. However, the latter has not been firmly established, as some linguists have argued languages are so diverse that such universality is rare. It is a matter of empirical investigation to determine precisely what properties are universal and what linguistic capacities are innate.\n\nThe theory of universal grammar proposes that if human beings are brought up under normal conditions (not those of extreme sensory deprivation), then they will always develop language with certain properties (e.g., distinguishing nouns from verbs, or distinguishing function words from content words). The theory proposes that there is an innate, genetically determined language faculty that knows these rules, making it easier and faster for children to learn to speak than it otherwise would be. This faculty does not know the vocabulary of any particular language (so words and their meanings must be learned), and there remain several parameters which can vary freely among languages (such as whether adjectives come before or after nouns) which must also be learned.\n\nAs Chomsky puts it, \"Evidently, development of language in the individual must involve three factors: (1) genetic endowment, which sets limits on the attainable languages, thereby making language acquisition possible; (2) external data, converted to the experience that selects one or another language within a narrow range; (3) principles not specific to the Faculty of Language.\"\n\nOccasionally, aspects of universal grammar seem describable in terms of general details regarding cognition. For example, if a predisposition to categorize events and objects as different classes of things is part of human cognition, and directly results in nouns and verbs showing up in all languages, then it could be assumed that rather than this aspect of universal grammar being specific to language, it is more generally a part of human cognition. To distinguish properties of languages that can be traced to other facts regarding cognition from properties of languages that cannot, the abbreviation UG* can be used. UG is the term often used by Chomsky for those aspects of the human brain which cause language to be the way that it is (i.e. are universal grammar in the sense used here) but here for discussion, it is used for those aspects which are furthermore specific to language (thus UG, as Chomsky uses it, is just an abbreviation for universal grammar, but UG* as used here is a subset of universal grammar).\n\nIn the same article, Chomsky casts the theme of a larger research program in terms of the following question: \"How little can be attributed to UG while still accounting for the variety of 'I-languages' attained, relying on third factor principles?\" (I-languages meaning internal languages, the brain states that correspond to knowing how to speak and understand a particular language, and third factor principles meaning (3) in the previous quote).\n\nChomsky has speculated that UG might be extremely simple and abstract, for example only a mechanism for combining symbols in a particular way, which he calls \"merge\". The following quote shows that Chomsky does not use the term \"UG\" in the narrow sense UG* suggested above:\n\n\"The conclusion that merge falls within UG holds whether such recursive generation is unique to FL (faculty of language) or is\nappropriated from other systems.\"\n\nIn other words, merge is seen as part of UG because it causes language to be the way it is, universal, and is not part of the environment or general properties independent of genetics and environment. Merge is part of universal grammar whether it is specific to language, or whether, as Chomsky suggests, it is also used for an example in mathematical thinking.\n\nThe distinction is important because there is a long history of argument about UG*, whereas most people working on language agree that there is universal grammar. Many people assume that Chomsky means UG* when he writes UG (and in some cases he might actually mean UG* [though not in the passage quoted above]).\n\nSome students of universal grammar study a variety of grammars to extract generalizations called linguistic universals, often in the form of \"If X holds true, then Y occurs.\" These have been extended to a variety of traits, such as the phonemes found in languages, the word orders which languages choose, and the reasons why children exhibit certain linguistic behaviors.\n\nLater linguists who have influenced this theory include Chomsky and Richard Montague, developing their version of this theory as they considered issues of the argument from poverty of the stimulus to arise from the constructivist approach to linguistic theory. The application of the idea of universal grammar to the study of second language acquisition (SLA) is represented mainly in the work of McGill linguist Lydia White.\n\nSyntacticians generally hold that there are parametric points of variation between languages, although heated debate occurs over whether UG constraints are essentially universal due to being \"hard-wired\" (Chomsky's principles and parameters approach), a logical consequence of a specific syntactic architecture (the generalized phrase structure approach) or the result of functional constraints on communication (the functionalist approach).\n\nIn an article titled, \"The Faculty of Language: What Is It, Who Has It, and How Did It Evolve?\" Hauser, Chomsky, and Fitch present the three leading hypotheses for how language evolved and brought humans to the point where they have a universal grammar.\n\nThe first hypothesis states that the faculty of language in the broad sense (FLb) is strictly homologous to animal communication.\nThis means that homologous aspects of the faculty of language exist in non-human animals.\n\nThe second hypothesis states that the FLb is a derived, uniquely human, adaptation for language. This hypothesis holds that individual traits were subject to natural selection and came to be specialized for humans.\n\nThe third hypothesis states that only the faculty of language in the narrow sense (FLn) is unique to humans. It holds that while mechanisms of the FLb are present in both human and non-human animals, the computational mechanism of recursion is recently evolved solely in humans. This is the hypothesis which most closely aligns to the typical theory of universal grammar championed by Chomsky.\n\nThe idea of a universal grammar can be traced back to Roger Bacon's observations in his \"Overview of Grammar\" and \"Greek Grammar\" that all languages are built upon a common grammar, even though it may undergo incidental variations; and the 13th century speculative grammarians who, following Bacon, postulated universal rules underlying all grammars. The concept of a universal grammar or language was at the core of the 17th century projects for philosophical languages. There is a Scottish school of universal grammarians from the 18th century, as distinguished from the philosophical language project, which included authors such as James Beattie, Hugh Blair, James Burnett, James Harris, and Adam Smith. The article on grammar in the first edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" (1771) contains an extensive section titled \"Of Universal Grammar\".\n\nThe idea rose to prominence and influence, in modern linguistics with theories from Chomsky and Montague in the 1950s–1970s, as part of the \"linguistics wars\".\n\nDuring the early 20th century, in contrast, language was usually understood from a behaviourist perspective, suggesting that language acquisition, like any other kind of learning, could be explained by a succession of trials, errors, and rewards for success. In other words, children learned their mother tongue by simple imitation, through listening and repeating what adults said. For example, when a child says \"milk\" and the mother will smile and give her some as a result, the child will find this outcome rewarding, thus enhancing the child's language development.\n\nChomsky argued that the human brain contains a limited set of constraints for organizing language. This implies in turn that all languages have a common structural basis: the set of rules known as \"universal grammar\".\n\nSpeakers proficient in a language know which expressions are acceptable in their language and which are unacceptable. The key puzzle is how speakers come to know these restrictions of their language, since expressions that violate those restrictions are not present in the input, indicated as such. Chomsky argued that this poverty of stimulus means that Skinner's behaviourist perspective cannot explain language acquisition. The absence of negative evidence—evidence that an expression is part of a class of ungrammatical sentences in a given language—is the core of his argument. For example, in English, an interrogative pronoun like \"what\" cannot be related to a predicate within a relative clause:\n\nSuch expressions are not available to language learners: they are, by hypothesis, ungrammatical. Speakers of the local language do not use them, or note them as unacceptable to language learners. Universal grammar offers an explanation for the presence of the poverty of the stimulus, by making certain restrictions into universal characteristics of human languages. Language learners are consequently never tempted to generalize in an illicit fashion.\n\nThe presence of creole languages is sometimes cited as further support for this theory, especially by Bickerton's controversial language bioprogram theory. Creoles are languages that develop and form when disparate societies come together and are forced to devise a new system of communication. The system used by the original speakers is typically an inconsistent mix of vocabulary items, known as a pidgin. As these speakers' children begin to acquire their first language, they use the pidgin input to effectively create their own original language, known as a creole. Unlike pidgins, creoles have native speakers (those with acquisition from early childhood) and make use of a full, systematic grammar.\n\nAccording to Bickerton, the idea of universal grammar is supported by creole languages because certain features are shared by virtually all in the category. For example, their default point of reference in time (expressed by bare verb stems) is not the present moment, but the past. Using pre-verbal auxiliaries, they uniformly express tense, aspect, and mood. Negative concord occurs, but it affects the verbal subject (as opposed to the object, as it does in languages like Spanish). Another similarity among creoles can be seen in the fact that questions are created simply by changing the intonation of a declarative sentence, not its word order or content.\n\nHowever, extensive work by Carla Hudson-Kam and Elissa Newport suggests that creole languages may not support a universal grammar at all. In a series of experiments, Hudson-Kam and Newport looked at how children and adults learn artificial grammars. They found that children tend to ignore minor variations in the input when those variations are infrequent, and reproduce only the most frequent forms. In doing so, they tend to standardize the language that they hear around them. Hudson-Kam and Newport hypothesize that in a pidgin-development situation (and in the real-life situation of a deaf child whose parents are or were disfluent signers), children systematize the language they hear, based on the probability and frequency of forms, and not that which has been suggested on the basis of a universal grammar. Further, it seems to follow that creoles would share features with the languages from which they are derived, and thus look similar in terms of grammar.\n\nMany researchers of universal grammar argue against a concept of relexification, which says that a language replaces its lexicon almost entirely with that of another. This goes against universalist ideas of a universal grammar, which has an innate grammar.\n\nGeoffrey Sampson maintains that universal grammar theories are not falsifiable and are therefore pseudoscientific. He argues that the grammatical \"rules\" linguists posit are simply post-hoc observations about existing languages, rather than predictions about what is possible in a language. Similarly, Jeffrey Elman argues that the unlearnability of languages assumed by universal grammar is based on a too-strict, \"worst-case\" model of grammar, that is not in keeping with any actual grammar. In keeping with these points, James Hurford argues that the postulate of a language acquisition device (LAD) essentially amounts to the trivial claim that languages are learnt by humans, and thus, that the LAD is less a theory than an explanandum looking for theories.\n\nMorten H. Christiansen and Nick Chater have argued that the relatively fast-changing nature of language would prevent the slower-changing genetic structures from ever catching up, undermining the possibility of a genetically hard-wired universal grammar. Instead of an innate universal grammar, they claim, \"apparently arbitrary aspects of linguistic structure may result from general learning and processing biases deriving from the structure of thought processes, perceptuo-motor factors, cognitive limitations, and pragmatics\".\n\nHinzen summarizes the most common criticisms of universal grammar:\n\nIn addition, it has been suggested that people learn about probabilistic patterns of word distributions in their language, rather than hard and fast rules (see Distributional hypothesis). For example, children overgeneralize the past tense marker \"ed\" and conjugate irregular verbs incorrectly, producing forms like \"goed\" and \"eated\" and correct these errors over time. It has also been proposed that the poverty of the stimulus problem can be largely avoided, if it is assumed that children employ \"similarity-based generalization\" strategies in language learning, generalizing about the usage of new words from similar words that they already know how to use.\n\nLanguage acquisition researcher Michael Ramscar has suggested that when children erroneously expect an ungrammatical form that then never occurs, the repeated failure of expectation serves as a form of implicit negative feedback that allows them to correct their errors over time such as how children correct grammar generalizations like \"goed\" to \"went\" through repetitive failure. This implies that word learning is a probabilistic, error-driven process, rather than a process of fast mapping, as many nativists assume.\n\nIn the domain of field research, the Pirahã language is claimed to be a counterexample to the basic tenets of universal grammar. This research has been led by Daniel Everett. Among other things, this language is alleged to lack all evidence for recursion, including embedded clauses, as well as quantifiers and colour terms. According to the writings of Everett, the Pirahã showed these linguistic shortcomings not because they were simple-minded, but because their culture—which emphasized concrete matters in the present and also lacked creation myths and traditions of art making—did not necessitate it. Some other linguists have argued, however, that some of these properties have been misanalyzed, and that others are actually expected under current theories of universal grammar. Other linguists have attempted to reassess Pirahã to see if it did indeed use recursion. In a corpus analysis of the Pirahã language, linguists failed to disprove Everett's arguments against universal grammar and the lack of recursion in Pirahã. However, they also stated that there was \"no strong evidence for the lack of recursion either\" and they provided \"suggestive evidence that Pirahã may have sentences with recursive\nstructures\".\n\nDaniel Everett has gone as far as claiming that universal grammar does not exist. In his words, \"universal grammar doesn't seem to work, there doesn't seem to be much evidence for [it]. And what can we put in its place? A complex interplay of factors, of which culture, the values human beings share, plays a major role in structuring the way that we talk and the things that we talk about.\" Michael Tomasello, a developmental psychologist, also supports this claim, arguing that \"although many aspects of human linguistic competence have indeed evolved biologically, specific grammatical principles and constructions have not. And universals in the grammatical structure of different languages have come from more general processes and constraints of human cognition, communication, and vocal-auditory processing, operating during the conventionalization and transmission of the particular grammatical constructions of particular linguistic communities.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "145439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145439", "title": "Women's rights", "text": "Women's rights\n\nWomen's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed for women and girls worldwide, and formed the basis for the women's rights movement in the nineteenth century and feminist movement during the 20th century. In some countries, these rights are institutionalized or supported by law, local custom, and behavior, whereas in others they are ignored and suppressed. They differ from broader notions of human rights through claims of an inherent historical and traditional bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls, in favor of men and boys.\n\nIssues commonly associated with notions of women's rights include the right: to bodily integrity and autonomy; to be free from sexual violence; to vote; to hold public office; to enter into legal contracts; to have equal rights in family law; to work; to fair wages or equal pay; to have reproductive rights; to own property; to education.\n\nWomen in ancient Sumer could buy, own, sell, and inherit property. They could engage in commerce, and testify in court as witnesses. Nonetheless, their husbands could divorce them for mild infractions, and a divorced husband could easily remarry another woman, provided that his first wife had borne him no offspring. Female deities, such as Inanna, were widely worshipped. The Akkadian poetess Enheduanna, the priestess of Inanna and daughter of Sargon, is the earliest known poet whose name has been recorded. Old Babylonian law codes permitted a husband to divorce his wife under any circumstances, but doing so required him to return all of her property and sometimes pay her a fine. Most law codes forbade a woman to request her husband for a divorce and enforced the same penalties on a woman asking for divorce as on a woman caught in the act of adultery; some Babylonian and Assyrian laws, however, afforded women the same right to divorce as men, requiring them to pay exactly the same fine. The majority of East Semitic deities were male.\n\nIn ancient Egypt women enjoyed the same rights under the law as a men, however rightful entitlements depended upon social class. Landed property descended in the female line from mother to daughter, and women were entitled to administer their own property. Women in ancient Egypt could buy, sell, be a partner in legal contracts, be executor in wills and witness to legal documents, bring court action, and adopt children.\n\nWomen during the early Vedic period enjoyed equal status with men in all aspects of life. Works by ancient Indian grammarians such as Patanjali and Katyayana suggest that women were educated in the early Vedic period. Rigvedic verses suggest that women married at a mature age and were probably free to select their own husbands in a practice called swayamvar or live-in relationship called Gandharva marriage.\n\nAlthough most women lacked political and equal rights in the city states of ancient Greece, they enjoyed a certain freedom of movement until the Archaic age. Records also exist of women in ancient Delphi, Gortyn, Thessaly, Megara and Sparta owning land, the most prestigious form of private property at the time. However, after the Archaic age, legislators began to enact laws enforcing gender segregation, resulting in decreased rights for women.\n\nWomen in Classical Athens had no legal personhood and were assumed to be part of the \"oikos\" headed by the male \"kyrios\". Until marriage, women were under the guardianship of their father or other male relative. Once married, the husband became a woman's \"kyrios\". As women were barred from conducting legal proceedings, the \"kyrios\" would do so on their behalf. Athenian women could only acquire rights over property through gifts, dowry and inheritance, though her \"kyrios\" had the right to dispose of a woman's property. Athenian women could only enter into a contract worth less than the value of a \"\"medimnos\" of barley\" (a measure of grain), allowing women to engage in petty trading. Women were excluded from ancient Athenian democracy, both in principle and in practice. Slaves could become Athenian citizens after being freed, but no woman ever acquired citizenship in ancient Athens. In classical Athens women were also barred from becoming poets, scholars, politicians, or artists. During the Hellenistic period in Athens, the philosopher Aristotle thought that women would bring disorder and evil, therefore it was best to keep women separate from the rest of the society. This separation would entail living in a room called a \"gynaikeion\", while looking after the duties in the home and having very little exposure with the male world. This was also to ensure that wives only had legitimate children from their husbands. Athenian women received little education, except home tutorship for basic skills such as spin, weave, cook and some knowledge of money.\n\nAlthough Spartan women were formally excluded from military and political life they enjoyed considerable status as mothers of Spartan warriors. As men engaged in military activity, women took responsibility for running estates. Following protracted warfare in the 4th century BC Spartan women owned approximately between 35% and 40% of all Spartan land and property. By the Hellenistic Period, some of the wealthiest Spartans were women. Spartan women controlled their own properties, as well as the properties of male relatives who were away with the army. Girls as well as boys received an education. But despite relatively greater freedom of movement for Spartan women, their role in politics was just as the same as Athenian women.\n\nPlato acknowledged that extending civil and political rights to women would substantively alter the nature of the household and the state. Aristotle, who had been taught by Plato, denied that women were slaves or subject to property, arguing that \"nature has distinguished between the female and the slave\", but he considered wives to be \"bought\". He argued that women's main economic activity is that of safeguarding the household property created by men. According to Aristotle the labour of women added no value because \"the art of household management is not identical with the art of getting wealth, for the one uses the material which the other provides\". Contrary to these views, the Stoic philosophers argued for equality of the sexes, sexual inequality being in their view contrary to the laws of nature. In doing so, they followed the Cynics, who argued that men and women should wear the same clothing and receive the same kind of education. They also saw marriage as a moral companionship between equals rather than a biological or social necessity, and practiced these views in their lives as well as their teachings. The Stoics adopted the views of the Cynics and added them to their own theories of human nature, thus putting their sexual egalitarianism on a strong philosophical basis.\n\nRoman law, similar to Athenian law, was created by men in favor of men. Women had no public voice, and no public role which only improved after the 1st century to the 6th century BCE. Freeborn women of ancient Rome were citizens who enjoyed legal privileges and protections that did not extend to non-citizens or slaves. Roman society, however, was patriarchal, and women could not vote, hold public office, or serve in the military. Women of the upper classes exercised political influence through marriage and motherhood. During the Roman Republic, the mother of the Gracchus brothers and of Julius Caesar were noted as exemplary women who advanced the career of their sons. During the Imperial period, women of the emperor's family could acquire considerable political power, and were regularly depicted in official art and on coinage.\n\nThe central core of the Roman society was the \"pater familias\" or the male head of the household who exercised his authority over all his children, servants, and wife. Girls had equal inheritance rights with boys if their father died without leaving a will. Similar to Athenian women, Roman women had a guardian or as it was called \"tutor\" who managed and oversaw all her activity. This tutelage had limited female activity but by first century to sixth century BCE, tutelage became very relaxed and women were accepted to participate in more public roles such as owning or managing property and or acting as municipal patrons for gladiator games and other entertainment activities Childbearing was encouraged by the state. By 27–14 BCE the \"ius trium liberorum\" (\"legal right of three children\") granted symbolic honors and legal privileges to a woman who had given birth to three children, and freed her from any male guardianship.\n\nIn the earliest period of the Roman Republic, a bride passed from her father's control into the \"hand\" \"(manus)\" of her husband. She then became subject to her husband's \"potestas\", though to a lesser degree than their children. This archaic form of \"manus\" marriage was largely abandoned by the time of Julius Caesar, when a woman remained under her father's authority by law even when she moved into her husband's home. This arrangement was one of the factors in the independence Roman women enjoyed. Although women had to answer to their father in legal matters, they were free of his direct scrutiny in her daily life, and her husband had no legal power over her. When her father died, she became legally emancipated \"(sui iuris)\". A married woman retained ownership of any property she brought into the marriage. Girls had equal inheritance rights with boys if their father died without leaving a will. Under classical Roman law, a husband had no right to abuse his wife physically or compel her to have sex. Wife beating was sufficient grounds for divorce or other legal action against the husband.\n\nBecause of their legal status as citizens and the degree to which they could become emancipated, women in ancient Rome could own property, enter contracts, and engage in business. Some acquired and disposed of sizable fortunes, and are recorded in inscriptions as benefactors in funding major public works. Roman women could appear in court and argue cases, though it was customary for them to be represented by a man. They were simultaneously disparaged as too ignorant and weak-minded to practice law, and as too active and influential in legal matters—resulting in an edict that limited women to conducting cases on their own behalf instead of others'. But even after this restriction was put in place, there are numerous examples of women taking informed actions in legal matters, including dictating legal strategy to their male advocates.\n\nRoman law recognized rape as a crime in which the victim bore no guilt and a capital crime. The rape of a woman was considered an attack on her family and father's honour, and rape victims were shamed for allowing the bad name in her father's honour. As a matter of law, rape could be committed only against a citizen in good standing. The rape of a slave could be prosecuted only as damage to her owner's property.\nThe first Roman emperor, Augustus, framed his ascent to sole power as a return to traditional morality, and attempted to regulate the conduct of women through moral legislation. Adultery, which had been a private family matter under the Republic, was criminalized, and defined broadly as an illicit sex act \"(stuprum)\" that occurred between a male citizen and a married woman, or between a married woman and any man other than her husband. Therefore, a married woman could have sex only with her husband, but a married man did not commit adultery when he had sex with a prostitute, slave, or person of marginalized status \"(infamis)\". Most prostitutes in ancient Rome were slaves, though some slaves were protected from forced prostitution by a clause in their sales contract. A free woman who worked as a prostitute or entertainer lost her social standing and became \"infamis\", \"disreputable\"; by making her body publicly available, she had in effect surrendered her right to be protected from sexual abuse or physical violence.\n\nStoic philosophies influenced the development of Roman law. Stoics of the Imperial era such as Seneca and Musonius Rufus developed theories of just relationships. While not advocating equality in society or under the law, they held that nature gives men and women equal capacity for virtue and equal obligations to act virtuously, and that therefore men and women had an equal need for philosophical education. These philosophical trends among the ruling elite are thought to have helped improve the status of women under the Empire. Rome had no system of state-supported schooling, and education was available only to those who could pay for it. The daughters of senators and knights seem to have regularly received a primary education (for ages 7 to 12). Regardless of gender, few people were educated beyond that level. Girls from a modest background might be schooled in order to help with the family business or to acquire literacy skills that enabled them to work as scribes and secretaries. The woman who achieved the greatest prominence in the ancient world for her learning was Hypatia of Alexandria, who taught advanced courses to young men and advised the Roman prefect of Egypt on politics. Her influence put her into conflict with the bishop of Alexandria, Cyril, who may have been implicated in her violent death in the year 415 at the hands of a Christian mob.\n\nSince Byzantine law was essentially based on Roman law, the legal status of women did not change significantly from the practices of the 6th century. But the traditional restriction of women in the public life as well as the hostility against independent women still continued. Greater influence of Greek culture contributed to strict attitudes about women'roles being domestic instead of being public. There was also a growing trend of women who were not prostitutes, slaves or entertainers to be entirely veiled. Like previous Roman law, women could not be legal witnesses, hold administrations or run banking but they could still inherit properties and own land.\n\nAs a rule the influence of the church was exercised in favor of the abolition of the disabilities imposed by the older law upon celibacy and childlessness, of increased facilities for entering a professed religious life, and of due provision for the wife. The church also supported the political power of those who were friendly toward the clergy. The appointment of mothers and grandmothers as tutors was sanctioned by Justinian.\n\nThe restrictions on the marriage of senators and other men of high rank with women of low rank were extended by Constantine, but it was almost entirely removed by Justinian. Second marriages were discouraged, especially by making it legal to impose a condition that a widow's right to property should cease on remarriage, and the Leonine Constitutions at the end of the 9th century made third marriages punishable. The same constitutions made the benediction of a priest a necessary part of the ceremony of marriage.\n\nWomen throughout historical and ancient China were considered inferior and had subordinate legal status based on the Confucian law. In Imperial China, the \"Three Obediences\" promoted daughters to obey their fathers, wives to obey their husbands, and widows to obey their sons. Women could not inherit businesses or wealth and men had to adopt a son for such financial purposes. Late imperial law also featured seven different types of divorces. A wife could be ousted if she failed to birth a son, committed adultery, disobeyed her parents-in-law, spoke excessively, stole, was given to bouts of jealousy, or suffered from an incurable or loathsome disease or disorder. But there were also limits for the husband – for example, he could not divorce if she observed her parent's in-law's mourning sites, if she had no family to return to, or if the husband's family used to be poor and since then had become richer.\n\nThe status of women in China was also low largely due to the custom of foot binding. About 45% of Chinese women had bound feet in the 19th century. For the upper classes, it was almost 100%. In 1912, the Chinese government ordered the cessation of foot-binding. Foot-binding involved alteration of the bone structure so that the feet were only about 4 inches long. The bound feet caused difficulty of movement, thus greatly limiting the activities of women.\n\nDue to the social custom that men and women should not be near each other, the women of China were reluctant to be treated by male doctors of Western Medicine. This resulted in a tremendous need for female doctors of Western Medicine in China. Thus, female medical missionary Dr. Mary H. Fulton (1854–1927) was sent by the Foreign Missions Board of the Presbyterian Church (USA) to found the first medical college for women in China. Known as the Hackett Medical College for Women (夏葛女子醫學院), this College was located in Guangzhou, China, and was enabled by a large donation from Mr. Edward A.K. Hackett (1851–1916) of Indiana, USA. The College was aimed at the spreading of Christianity and modern medicine and the elevation of Chinese women's social status.\n\nDuring the Republic of China (1912–49) and earlier Chinese governments, women were legally bought and sold into slavery under the guise of domestic servants. These women were known as Mui Tsai. The lives of Mui Tsai were recorded by American feminist Agnes Smedley in her book Portraits of Chinese Women in Revolution.\n\nHowever, in 1949 the Republic of China had been overthrown by communist guerillas led by Mao Zedong, and the People's Republic of China was founded in the same year. In May 1950 the People's Republic of China enacted the New Marriage Law to tackle the sale of women into slavery. This outlawed marriage by proxy and made marriage legal so long as both partners consent. The New Marriage Law raised the legal age of marriage to 20 for men and 18 for women. This was an essential part of countryside land reform as women could no longer legally be sold to landlords. The official slogan was \"Men and women are equal; everyone is worth his (or her) salt\".\n\nBoth before and during biblical times, the roles of women in society were severely restricted. Nonetheless, in the Bible, women are depicted as having the right to represent themselves in court, the ability to make contracts, and the rights to purchase, own, sell, and inherit property. The Bible guarantees women the right to sex with their husbands, and orders husbands to feed and clothe their wives. Breach of these Old Testament rights by a polygamous man gave the woman grounds for divorce: \"If he marries another woman, he must not deprive the first one of her food, clothing and marital rights. If he does not provide her with these three things, she is to go free, without any payment of money\" ().\n\nThe Qur'an, revealed to Muhammad over the course of 23 years, provided guidance to the Islamic community and modified existing customs in Arab society. From 610 and 661, known as the early reforms under Islam, the Qur'an introduced fundamental reforms to customary law and introduced rights for women in marriage, divorce, and inheritance. By providing that the wife, not her family, would receive a dowry from the husband, which she could administer as her personal property, the Qur'an made women a legal party to the marriage contract.\n\nWhile in customary law, inheritance was limited to male descendants, the Qur'an introduced rules on inheritance with certain fixed shares being distributed to designated heirs, first to the nearest female relatives and then the nearest male relatives. According to Annemarie Schimmel \"compared to the pre-Islamic position of women, Islamic legislation meant an enormous progress; the woman has the right, at least according to the letter of the law, to administer the wealth she has brought into the family or has earned by her own work.\"\n\nThe general improvement of the status of Arab women included prohibition of female infanticide and recognizing women's full personhood. Women generally gained greater rights than women in pre-Islamic Arabia and medieval Europe. Women were not accorded with such legal status in other cultures until centuries later. According to Professor William Montgomery Watt, when seen in such historical context, Muhammad \"can be seen as a figure who testified on behalf of women's rights.\"\n\nWomen's rights were protected already by early Medieval Christian Church: one of the first formal legal provision for the right of wives was promulgated by council of Adge in 506, which in Canon XVI stipulated that if a young married man wished to be ordained, he required the consent of his wife.\n\nThe English Church and culture in the Middle Ages regarded women as weak, irrational and vulnerable to temptation who was constantly needed to be kept in check. This was reflected on the Christian culture in England through the story of Adam and Eve where Eve fell to Satan's temptations and led Adam to eat the apple. It was belief based on St.Paul, that the pain of childbirth was a punishment for this deed that led mankind to be banished from the Garden of Eden. Women's inferiority also appears in many medieval writing for example the 1200 AD theologian Jacques de Vitry (who was rather sympathetic to women over others) emphasized for female obedience towards their men and expressed women as being slippery, weak, untrustworthy, devious, deceitful and stubborn. The church also promoted the Virgin Mary as a role model for women to emulate by being innocent in her sexuality, being married to a husband and eventually becoming a mother. That was the core purpose set out both culturally and religiously across Medieval Europe. Rape was also seen in medieval England as a crime against the father or husband and violation of their protection and guardianship of the women whom they look after in the household. Women's identity in the Middle Ages was also referred through her relations with men she was associated with for example \"His daughter\" or \"So and so's wife\". Despite all this, the Church still emphasized on the importance of love and mutual counselling within a marriage and prohibited any form of divorce so the wife would have someone to look after her.\n\nIn overall Europe during the Middle Ages, women were inferior to that of a man in legal status. Throughout medieval Europe, women were pressured to not attend courts and leave all legal business affairs to their husbands. In the legal system, women were regarded as the properties of men so any threat or injury to them was in the duty of their male guardians.\n\nIn Irish law, women were forbidden to act as witnesses in courts. In Welsh law, women's testimony can be accepted towards other women but not against another man. In France, women's testimony must corroborate with other accounts or would not be accepted. Although women were expected to not attend courts, this however was not always true. Sometimes regardless of expectation, women did participate and attend court cases and court meetings. But women could not act as justices in courts, be attorneys, they could not be members of a jury and they could not accuse another person of a felony unless it's the murder of her husband. For most part, the best thing a woman could do in medieval courts is observe the legal proceedings taking place.\n\nThe Swedish law protected women from the authority of their husbands by transferring the authority to their male relatives. A wife's property and land also could not be taken by the husband without her family's consent but neither could the wife. This mean a woman could not transfer her property to her husband without her family or kinsman's consent either. In Swedish law, women would also only get half that of her brother in inheritance. Despite these legal issues, Sweden was largely ahead and much superior in their treatment towards women than most European countries.\n\nMedieval marriages among the elites were arranged in a way that would meet the interests of the family as a whole. Theoretically a woman needed to consent before a marriage took place and the Church encouraged this consent to be expressed in present tense and not future. Marriage could also take place anywhere and minimum age for girls would have to be 12 while 14 for boys.\n\nThe rate of Wergild suggested that women in these societies were valued mostly for their breeding purposes. The Wergild of woman was double that of a man with same status in the Aleman and Bavarian legal codes. The Wergild of a woman meanwhile was triple that of a man with same status in Salic and Repuarian legal codes for women of child bearing age, which constituted from 12–40 years old. One of the most Germanic codes from the Lombard tradition, legislated that women be under the control of a male \"mundoald\" which constituted her father, husband, older son or eventually the king as a last resort if she had no male relatives. A woman needed her mundold's permission to manage property but still could own her own lands and goods. Certain areas with Visgothic inheritance laws until the 7th century were favorable to women while all the other laws were not. Before Christianization of Europe, there was little space for women's consent for marriage and marriage through purchase (or \"Kaufehe\") was actually the civil norm as opposed to the alternative marriage through capture (or \"Raubehe\"). However Christianity was slow to reach other Baltic and Scandinavian areas with it only reaching King Harald Bluetooth of Denmark in the year 950 AD. Those living under Norwegian and Icelandic laws used marriages to forge alliances or create peace usually without the women's say or consent. However divorce rights were permitted to women who suffered physical abuse but protections from harm were not given to those termed \"wretched\" women such as beggars, servants and slave women. Having sex with them through force or without consent usually had zero legal consequence or punishment.\n\nDuring the Viking Age, women had a relatively free status in the Nordic countries of Sweden, Denmark and Norway, illustrated in the Icelandic Grágás and the Norwegian Frostating laws and Gulating laws. \nThe paternal aunt, paternal niece and paternal granddaughter, referred to as \"odalkvinna\", all had the right to inherit property from a deceased man.\nIn the absence of male relatives, an unmarried woman with no son could, further more, inherit not only property, but also the position as head of the family from a deceased father or brother: a woman with such status was referred to as \"ringkvinna\", and she exercised all the rights afforded to the head of a family clan, such as for example the right to demand and receive fines for the slaughter of a family member, unless she married, by which her rights were transferred to her husband. \nAfter the age of 20, an unmarried woman, referred to as \"maer\" and \"mey\", reached legal majority and had the right to decide of her place of residence and was regarded as her own person before the law.\nAn exception to her independence was the right to choose a marriage partner, as marriages was normally arranged by the clan. Widows enjoyed the same independent status as unmarried women.\nWomen had religious authority and were active as priestesses (\"gydja\") and oracles (\"sejdkvinna\"); they were active within art as poets (\"skalder\") and rune masters, and as merchants and medicine women. They may also have been active within military office: the stories about shieldmaidens is unconfirmed, but some archaeological finds such as the Birka female Viking warrior may indicate that at least some women in military authority existed. \nA married woman could divorce her husband and remarry. It was also socially acceptable for a free woman to cohabit with a man and have children with him without marrying him, even if that man was married: a woman in such a position was called \"frilla\". There was no distinction made between children born inside or outside of marriage: both had the right to inherit property after their parents, and there was no \"legitimate\" or \"illegitimate\" children.\nThese liberties gradually disappeared from the changed after the introductions of Christianity, and from the late 13th-century, they are no longer mentioned. During the Christian Middle Ages, the Medieval Scandinavian law applied different laws depending of the local county law, signifying that the status of women could vary depending of which county she was living in.\n\nThe 16th and 17th century saw numerous witch trials, which resulted in thousands of people across Europe being executed, of whom 75-95% were women (depending on time and place). The executions mostly took place in German-speaking lands, and during the 15th century the terminology \"witchcraft\" was definitely viewed as something feminine as opposed to prior years. Famous witchcraft manuals such as the \"Malleus Maleficarum\" and \"Summis Desiderantes\" depicted witches as diabolical conspirators who worshipped Satan and were primarily women. Culture and art at the time depicted these witches as seductive and evil, further fuelling moral panic in fusion with rhetoric from the Church.\n\nThe origin of the female \"witch\" myth traces back to Roman mythical night creatures known as Strix, who were thought to appear and disappear mysteriously in the night. They were also believed by many to be of transformed women by their own supernatural powers. This Roman myth itself is believed to originate from the Jewish Sabbath which described non-supernatural women who would suspiciously leave and return home swiftly during the night. Authors of the \"Malleus Maleficarum\" strongly established the link between witchcraft and women by proclaiming greater likelihood for women to be addicted to \"evil\". The authors and inquisitors Heinrich Kramer and Jacob Sprengerh justified these beliefs by claiming women had greater credulity, impressionability, feeble minds, feeble bodies, impulsivity and carnal natures which were flaws susceptible to \"evil\" behavior and witchcraft. These sort of beliefs at the time could send female hermits or beggars to trials just for offering remedies or herbal medicine. These set of developed myths eventually lead to the 16-17th century witch trials which found thousands of women burned at stake.\n\nBy 1500, Europe was divided into two types of secular law. One was customary law which was predominant in northern France, England and Scandinavia, and the other was Roman based written laws which was predominant in southern France, Italy, Spain and Portugal.\n\nCustomary laws favoured men more than women. For example, inheritance among the elites in Italy, England, Scandinavia and France was passed on to the eldest male heir. In all of the regions, the laws also gave men substantial powers over lives, property and bodies of their wives. However, there were some improvements for women as opposed to ancient custom for example they could inherit in the absence of their brothers, do certain trades without their husbands and widows to receive dower.\n\nIn areas governed by Roman-based written laws women were under male guardianship in matters involving property and law, fathers overseeing daughters, husbands overseeing wives and uncles or male relatives overseeing widows.\n\nThroughout Europe, women's legal status centered around her marital status while marriage itself was the biggest factor in restricting women's autonomy. Custom, statue and practice not only reduced women's rights and freedoms but prevented single or widowed women from holding public office on the justification that they might one day marry.\n\nAccording to English Common Law, which developed from the 12th century onward, all property which a wife held at the time of marriage became a possession of her husband. Eventually English courts forbade a husband's transferring property without the consent of his wife, but he still retained the right to manage it and to receive the money which it produced. French married women suffered from restrictions on their legal capacity which were removed only in 1965. In the 16th century, the Reformation in Europe allowed more women to add their voices, including the English writers Jane Anger, Aemilia Lanyer, and the prophetess Anna Trapnell. English and American Quakers believed that men and women were equal. Many Quaker women were preachers. Despite relatively greater freedom for Anglo-Saxon women, until the mid-19th century, writers largely assumed that a patriarchal order was a natural order that had always existed. This perception was not seriously challenged until the 18th century when Jesuit missionaries found matrilineality in native North American peoples.\n\nThe philosopher John Locke opposed marital inequality and the mistreatment of women during this time. He was well known for advocating for marital equality among the sexes in his work during the 17th century. According to a study published in the \"American Journal of Social Issues & Humanities,\" the condition for women during Locke's time were as quote:\n\nOther philosophers have also made the statements regarding women's rights during this time. For example, Thomas Paine wrote in \"An Occasional Letter on the Female Sex 1775\" where he states (as quote) :\n\n\"If we take a survey of ages and of countries, we shall find the women, almost without exception... adored and oppressed... they are ... robbed of freedom of will by the laws...Yet such, I am sorry to say, is the lot of women over the whole earth. Man with regard to them, has been either an insensible husband or an oppressor.\"\n\nA paternal society can find prefer to make women's rights a man's duty, for instance under English common law husbands had to maintain their wives. This duty was abolished in 2010.\n\nStarting in the late 18th century, and throughout the 19th century, rights, as a concept and claim, gained increasing political, social, and philosophical importance in Europe. Movements emerged which demanded freedom of religion, the abolition of slavery, rights for women, rights for those who did not own property, and universal suffrage. In the late 18th century the question of women's rights became central to political debates in both France and Britain. At the time some of the greatest thinkers of the Enlightenment, who defended democratic principles of equality and challenged notions that a privileged few should rule over the vast majority of the population, believed that these principles should be applied only to their own gender and their own race. The philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau, for example, thought that it was the order of nature for woman to obey men. He wrote \"Women do wrong to complain of the inequality of man-made laws\" and claimed that \"when she tries to usurp our rights, she is our inferior\".\n\nin 1754, Dorothea Erxleben became the first German woman receiving a M.D. (University of Halle)\nIn 1791 the French playwright and political activist Olympe de Gouges published the \"Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen\", modelled on the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen of 1789. The Declaration is ironic in formulation and exposes the failure of the French Revolution, which had been devoted to equality. It states that: \"This revolution will only take effect when all women become fully aware of their deplorable condition, and of the rights they have lost in society\". The Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen follows the seventeen articles of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen point for point and has been described by Camille Naish as \"almost a parody...of the original document\". The first article of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen proclaims that \"Men are born and remain free and equal in rights. Social distinctions may be based only on common utility.\" The first article of Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen replied: \"Woman is born free and remains equal to man in rights. Social distinctions may only be based on common utility\". De Gouges expands the sixth article of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, which declared the rights of citizens to take part in the formation of law, to:\n\"All citizens including women are equally admissible to all public dignities, offices and employments, according to their capacity, and with no other distinction than that of their virtues and talents\".\n\nDe Gouges also draws attention to the fact that under French law women were fully punishable, yet denied equal rights.\n\nMary Wollstonecraft, a British writer and philosopher, published \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" in 1792, arguing that it was the education and upbringing of women that created limited expectations. Wollstonecraft attacked gender oppression, pressing for equal educational opportunities, and demanded \"justice!\" and \"rights to humanity\" for all. Wollstonecraft, along with her British contemporaries Damaris Cudworth and Catharine Macaulay started to use the language of rights in relation to women, arguing that women should have greater opportunity because like men, they were moral and rational beings.\nIn his 1869 essay \"The Subjection of Women\" the English philosopher and political theorist John Stuart Mill described the situation for women in Britain as follows:\n\n\"We are continually told that civilization and Christianity have restored to the woman her just rights. Meanwhile the wife is the actual bondservant of her husband; no less so, as far as the legal obligation goes, than slaves commonly so called.\"\n\nThen a member of parliament, Mill argued that women deserve the right to vote, though his proposal to replace the term \"man\" with \"person\" in the second Reform Bill of 1867 was greeted with laughter in the House of Commons and defeated by 76 to 196 votes. His arguments won little support amongst contemporaries but his attempt to amend the reform bill generated greater attention for the issue of women's suffrage in Britain. Initially only one of several women's rights campaigns, suffrage became the primary cause of the British women's movement at the beginning of the 20th century. At the time, the ability to vote was restricted to wealthy property owners within British jurisdictions. This arrangement implicitly excluded women as property law and marriage law gave men ownership rights at marriage or inheritance until the 19th century. Although male suffrage broadened during the century, women were explicitly prohibited from voting nationally and locally in the 1830s by the Reform Act 1832 and the Municipal Corporations Act 1835. Millicent Fawcett and Emmeline Pankhurst led the public campaign on women's suffrage and in 1918 a bill was passed allowing women over the age of 30 to vote.\n\nBy the 1860s, the economic sexual politics of middle class women in Britain and its neighboring Western European countries was guided by factors such as the evolution of 19th century consumer culture, including the emergence of the department store, and Separate spheres.\nIn \"Come Buy, Come Buy: Shopping and the Culture of Consumption in Victorian Women's Writing\", Krista Lysack's literary analysis of 19th century contemporary literature claims through her resources' reflection of common contemporary norms, \"Victorian femininity as characterized by self-renunciation and the regulation of appetite.\" And while women, particularly those in the middle class, obtained modest control of daily household expenses and had the ability to leave the house, attend social events, and shop for personal and household items in the various department stores developing in late 19th century Europe, Europe's socioeconomic climate pervaded the ideology that women were not in complete control over their urges to spend (assuming) their husband or father's wages. As a result, many advertisements for socially 'feminine' goods revolved around upward social progression, exoticisms from the Orient, and added efficiency for household roles women were deemed responsible for, such as cleaning, childcare, and cooking.\n\nBy law and custom, Muscovite Russia was a patriarchal society that subordinated women to men, and the young to their elders. Peter the great relaxed the second custom, but not the subordination of women. A decree of 1722 explicitly forbade any forced marriages by requiring both bride and groom to consent, while parental permission still remained a requirement. But during Peter's reign, only the man could get rid of his wife by putting her in a nunnery.\n\nIn terms of laws, there were double standards to women. Adulterous wives were sentenced to forced labor, while men who murdered their wives were merely flogged. After the death Peter the Great, laws and customs pertaining to men's marital authority over their wives increased. In 1782, civil law reinforced women's responsibility to obey her husband. By 1832, the Digest of laws changed this obligation into \"unlimited obedience\".\n\nIn the 18th century, Russian orthodox church further got its authority over marriage and banned priests from granting divorce, even for severely abused wives. By 1818, Russian senate had also forbade separation of married couples.\n\nDuring World War I, caring for children was increasingly difficult for women, many of whom could not support themselves, and whose husbands had died or were fighting in the war. Many women had to give up their children to children's homes infamous for abuse and neglect. These children's homes were unofficially dubbed as \"angel factories\". After the October Revolution, the Bolsheviks shut down an infamous angel factory known as the 'Nikolaev Institute' situated near the Moika Canal. The Bolsheviks then replaced the Nikolaev Institute with a modern maternity home called the 'Palace for Mothers and Babies'. This maternity home was used by the Bolsheviks as a model for future maternity hospitals. The countess who ran the old Institute was moved to a side wing, however she spread rumours that the Bolsheviks had removed sacred pictures, and that the nurses were promiscuous with sailors. The maternity hospital was burnt down hours before it was scheduled to open, and the countess was suspected of being responsible.\n\nRussian women had restrictions in owning property until the mid 18th century. Women's rights had improved after the rise of the Soviet Union under the Bolsheviks.\n\nUnder the Bolsheviks, Russia became the first country in human history to provide free abortions to women in state run hospitals.\n\nWomen's rights activism in Canada during the 19th and early 20th centuries focused on increasing women's role in public life, with goals including women's suffrage, increased property rights, increased access to education, and recognition of women as \"persons\" under the law. The Famous Five were five Canadian women – Emily Murphy, Irene Marryat Parlby, Nellie Mooney McClung, Louise Crummy McKinney and Henrietta Muir Edwards – who, in 1927, asked the Supreme Court of Canada to answer the question, \"Does the word 'Persons' in Section 24 of the British North America Act, 1867, include female persons?\" in the case \"Edwards v. Canada (Attorney General).\" After Canada's Supreme Court summarized its unanimous decision that women are not such \"persons\", the judgment was appealed and overturned in 1929 by the British Judicial Committee of the Imperial Privy Council, at that time the court of last resort for Canada within the British Empire and Commonwealth.\n\nThe Women's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU) was established in 1873 and championed women's rights, including advocating for prostitutes and for women's suffrage. Under the leadership of Frances Willard, \"the WCTU became the largest women's organization of its day and is now the oldest continuing women's organization in the United States.\"\n\nThe extent to which women could participate in Japanese society has varied over time and social classes. In the 8th century, Japan had women emperors, and in the 12th century (Heian period) women in Japan occupied a relatively high status, although still subordinated to men. \nFrom the late Edo period, the status of women declined. In the 17th century, the \"Onna Daigaku\", or \"Learning for Women\", by Confucianist author Kaibara Ekken, spelled out expectations for Japanese women, lowering significantly their status.\nDuring the Meiji period, industrialization and urbanization reduced the authority of fathers and husbands, but at the same time the Meiji Civil Code of 1898 denied women legal rights and subjugated them to the will of household heads.\n\nFrom the mid 20th century the status of women improved greatly. Although Japan is often considered a very conservative country, it was in fact earlier than many European countries on giving women legal rights in the 20th century, as the 1947 Constitution of Japan provided a legal framework favorable to the advancement of women’s equality in Japan. Japan for instance enacted women's suffrage in 1946, earlier than several European countries such as Switzerland (1971 at federal level; 1990 on local issues in the canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden), Portugal (1976 on equal terms with men, with restrictions since 1931), San Marino in 1959, Monaco in 1962, Andorra in 1970, and Liechtenstein in 1984.\n\nCentral Asian cultures largely remain patriarchal, however, since the fall of the former Soviet Union, the secular societies of the region have become more progressive to women's roles outside the traditional construct of being wholly subservient to men. In Mongolia, more women than men complete school and are higher earners as result. The UN Development Programme notes \"significant progress\" in gender equality in Kazakhstan but discrimination persists. Marriage by abduction remains a serious problem in this region; the practice of bride kidnapping is prevalent in Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, and Karakalpakstan, an autonomous region of Uzbekistan.\n\nThe history of women's rights in Australia is a contradictory one: while Australia led the world in women's suffrage rights in the 19th century, it has been very slow in recognizing women's professional rights - it was not until 1966 that its marriage bar was removed. On the other hand, reforms which allowed women both to vote and stand for office in South Australia in the late 19th century were a cornerstone for women's political rights in other parts of the world. In this regard, Australia differs from other cultures, in that women's suffrage in Australia was one of the earliest objectives of the feminist movement there (beginning with South Australia and Western Australia) unlike other cultures, such as Eastern European cultures, where at the turn of the 20th century the feminist movement focused on labour rights, access to professions and education, rather than political rights. To this day, Australia has a quite low percentage of women in business executive roles compared to other countries with equivalent corporate structures.\n\n17th century natural law philosophers in Britain and America, such as Thomas Hobbes, Jean-Jacques Rousseau and John Locke, developed the theory of natural rights in reference to ancient philosophers such as Aristotle and the Christian theologist Aquinas. Like the ancient philosophers, 17th century natural law philosophers defended slavery and an inferior status of women in law. Relying on ancient Greek philosophers, natural law philosophers argued that natural rights were not derived from god, but were \"universal, self-evident, and intuitive\", a law that could be found in nature. They believed that natural rights were self-evident to \"civilised man\" who lives \"in the highest form of society\". Natural rights derived from human nature, a concept first established by the ancient Greek philosopher Zeno of Citium in \"Concerning Human Nature\". Zenon argued that each rational and civilized male Greek citizen had a \"divine spark\" or \"soul\" within him that existed independent of the body. Zeno founded the Stoic philosophy and the idea of a human nature was adopted by other Greek philosophers, and later natural law philosophers and western humanists. Aristotle developed the widely adopted idea of rationality, arguing that man was a \"rational animal\" and as such a natural power of reason. Concepts of human nature in ancient Greece depended on gender, ethnic, and other qualifications and 17th century natural law philosophers came to regard women along with children, slaves and non-whites, as neither \"rational\" nor \"civilised\". Natural law philosophers claimed the inferior status of women was \"common sense\" and a matter of \"nature\". They believed that women could not be treated as equal due to their \"inner nature\". The views of 17th century natural law philosophers were opposed in the 18th and 19th century by evangelical natural theology philosophers such as William Wilberforce and Charles Spurgeon, who argued for the abolition of slavery and advocated for women to have rights equal to that of men. Modern natural law theorists, and advocates of natural rights, claim that all people have a human nature, regardless of gender, ethnicity or other qualifications, therefore all people have natural rights.\n\nEmployment rights for women include non-discriminatory access of women to jobs and equal pay. The rights of women and men to have equal pay and equal benefits for equal work were openly denied by the British Hong Kong Government up to the early 1970s. Leslie Wah-Leung Chung (鍾華亮, 1917–2009), President of the Hong Kong Chinese Civil Servants' Association 香港政府華員會 (1965–68), contributed to the establishment of equal pay for men and women, including the right for married women to be permanent employees. Before this, the job status of a woman changed from permanent employee to temporary employee once she was married, thus losing the pension benefit. Some of them even lost their jobs. Since nurses were mostly women, this improvement of the rights of married women meant much to the nursing profession. In some European countries, married women could not work without the consent of their husbands until a few decades ago, for example in France until 1965 and in Spain until 1975. In addition, marriage bars, a practice adopted from the late 19th century to the 1970s across many countries, including Austria, Australia, Ireland, Canada, and Switzerland, restricted married women from employment in many professions.\n\nA key issue towards insuring gender equality in the workplace is the respecting of maternity rights and reproductive rights of women. Maternity leave (and paternity leave in some countries) and parental leave are temporary periods of absence from employment granted immediately before and after childbirth in order to support the mother's full recovery and grant time to care for the baby.\nDifferent countries have different rules regarding maternity leave, paternity leave and parental leave. In the European Union (EU) the policies vary significantly by country, but the EU members must abide by the minimum standards of the Pregnant Workers Directive and Parental Leave Directive.\n\nDuring the 19th century some women began to ask for, demand, and then agitate and demonstrate for the right to vote – the right to participate in their government and its law making. Other women opposed suffrage, like Helen Kendrick Johnson, who argued in the 1897 pamphlet \"Woman and the Republic\" that women could achieve legal and economic equality without having the vote. The ideals of women's suffrage developed alongside that of universal suffrage and today women's suffrage is considered a right (under the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women). During the 19th century the right to vote was gradually extended in many countries, and women started to campaign for their right to vote. In 1893 New Zealand became the first country to give women the right to vote on a national level. Australia gave women the right to vote in 1902.\n\nA number of Nordic countries gave women the right to vote in the early 20th century – Finland (1906), Norway (1913), Denmark and Iceland (1915). With the end of the First World War many other countries followed – the Netherlands (1917), Austria, Azerbaijan, Canada, Czechoslovakia, Georgia, Poland and Sweden (1918), Germany and Luxembourg (1919), Turkey (1934), and the United States (1920). Late adopters in Europe were Greece in 1952, Switzerland (1971 at federal level; 1959–1991 on local issues at canton level), Portugal (1976 on equal terms with men, with restrictions since 1931) as well as the microstates of San Marino in 1959, Monaco in 1962, Andorra in 1970, and Liechtenstein in 1984.\n\nIn Canada, most provinces enacted women's suffrage between 1917–1919, late adopters being Prince Edward Island in 1922, Newfoundland in 1925 and Quebec in 1940.\n\nIn Latin America some countries gave women the right to vote in the first half of the 20th century – Ecuador (1929), Brazil (1932), El Salvador (1939), Dominican Republic (1942), Guatemala (1956) and Argentina (1946). In India, under colonial rule, universal suffrage was granted in 1935. Other Asian countries gave women the right to vote in the mid 20th century – Japan (1945), China (1947) and Indonesia (1955). In Africa, women generally got the right to vote along with men through universal suffrage – Liberia (1947), Uganda (1958) and Nigeria (1960). In many countries in the Middle East universal suffrage was acquired after World War II, although in others, such as Kuwait, suffrage is very limited. On 16 May 2005, the Parliament of Kuwait extended suffrage to women by a 35–23 vote.\n\nDuring the 19th century some women, such as Ernestine Rose, Paulina Wright Davis, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Harriet Beecher Stowe, in the United States and Britain began to challenge laws that denied them the right to their property once they married. Under the common law doctrine of \"coverture\" husbands gained control of their wives' real estate and wages. Beginning in the 1840s, state legislatures in the United States and the British Parliament began passing statutes that protected women's property from their husbands and their husbands' creditors. These laws were known as the Married Women's Property Acts. Courts in the 19th-century United States also continued to require privy examinations of married women who sold their property. A privy examination was a practice in which a married woman who wished to sell her property had to be separately examined by a judge or justice of the peace outside of the presence of her husband and asked if her husband was pressuring her into signing the document. Property rights for women continued to be restricted in many European countries until legal reforms of the 1960-70s. For example, in West Germany, the law pertaining to rural farm succession favored male heirs until 1963. In the US, Head and master laws, which gave sole control of marital property to the husband, were common until a few decades ago. The Supreme Court, in \"Kirchberg v. Feenstra\" (1981), declared such laws unconstitutional.\n\nFreedom of movement is an essential right, recognized by international instruments, including Article 15 (4) of CEDAW. Nevertheless, in many regions of the world, women have this right severely restricted, in law or in practice. For instance, in some countries women may not leave the home without a male guardian, or without the consent of the husband – for example the personal law of Yemen states that a wife must obey her husband and must not get out of the home without his consent. Even in countries which do not have legal restrictions, women's movement may be prevented in practice by social and religious norms such as purdah. Laws restricting women from travelling existed until relatively recently in some Western countries: until 1983, in Australia the passport application of a married woman had to be authorized by her husband.\n\nVarious practices have been used historically to restrict women's freedom of movement, such as foot binding, the custom of applying painfully tight binding to the feet of young Chinese girls, which was common between the 10th and 20th century.\n\nWomen's freedom of movement may be restricted by laws, but it may also be restricted by attitudes towards women in public spaces. In areas where it is not socially accepted for women to leave the home, women who are outside may face abuse such as insults, sexual harassment and violence.\nMany of the restrictions on women's freedom of movement are framed as measures to \"protect\" women. For example, in the summer of 2017, an India women named Varnika Kundu shared a story on Facebook about being stalked by two men late at night. Kundu was coming home after a night out with friends when two men began following her. Kundu made it home unharmed, but was understandably shaken after the incident. She posted her story on Facebook, hoping to bring awareness and warn other women, but was instead met with a backlash of trolls telling her she shouldn't have been out that late and that it was her fault for being in that situation. This incident spawned the #AintNoCinderella movement, where women all over the world shared pictures of them being out past midnight with the hashtag in order to combat gender stereotypes and bias.\n\nThe lack of legal knowledge among many women, especially in developing countries, is a major obstacle in the improvement of women's situation. International bodies, such as the United Nations, have stated that the obligation of states does not only consist in passing relevant laws, but also in informing women about the existence of such laws, in order to enable them to seek justice and realize in practice their rights. Therefore, states must popularize the laws, and explain them clearly to the public, in order to prevent ignorance, or misconceptions originating in popular myths, about the laws. The United Nations Development Programme states that, in order to advance gender justice, \"Women must know their rights and be able to access legal systems\", and the 1993 UN Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women states at Art. 4 (d) [...] \"States should also inform women of their rights in seeking redress through such mechanisms\".\n\nWomen's rights movements focus on ending discrimination of women. In this regard, the definition of discrimination itself is important. According to the jurisprudence of the ECHR, the right to freedom from discrimination includes not only the obligation of states to treat in the same way persons who are in analogous situations, but also the obligation to treat in a different way persons who are in different situations. In this regard equity, not just \"equality\" is important. Therefore, states must sometimes differentiate between women and men – through for example offering maternity leave or other legal protections surrounding pregnancy and childbirth (to take into account the biological realities of reproduction), or through acknowledging a specific historical context. For example, acts of violence committed by men against women do not happen in a vacuum, but are part of a social context: in \"Opuz v Turkey\", the ECHR defined violence against women as a form of discrimination against women; this is also the position of the Istanbul Convention which at Article 3 states that \"violence against women\" is understood as a violation of human rights and \"a form of discrimination against women\" [...]\".\n\nThere are different views on where it is appropriate to differentiate between women and men, and one view is that the act of sexual intercourse is an act where this difference must be acknowledged, both due to the increased physical risks for the woman, and due to the historical context of women being systematically subjected to forced sexual intercourse while in a socially subordinated position (particularly within marriage and during war). States must also differentiate with regard to healthcare by ensuring that women's health - particularly with regard to reproductive health such as pregnancy and childbirth - is not neglected. According to the World Health Organization \"Discrimination in health care settings takes many forms and is often manifested when an individual or group is denied access to health care services that are otherwise available to others. It can also occur through denial of services that are only needed by certain groups, such as women.\" The refusal of states to acknowledge the specific needs of women, such as the necessity of specific policies like the strong investment of states in reducing maternal mortality can be a form of discrimination. In this regard treating women and men similarly does not work because certain biological aspects such as menstruation, pregnancy, labor, childbirth, breastfeeding, as well as certain medical conditions, only affect women. The Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women stipulates in its \"General recommendation No. 35 on gender based violence against women, updating general recommendation No. 19\" that states should \"Examine gender neutral laws and policies to ensure that they do not create or \nperpetuate existing inequalities and repeal or modify them if they do so\". (paragraph 32). Another example of gender neutral policy which harms women is that where medication tested in medical trials only on men is also used on women assuming that there are no biological differences.\n\nHealth is defined by the World Health Organization as \"a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity\". Women's health refers to the health of women, which differs from that of men in many unique ways. Women's health is severely impaired in some parts of the world, due to factors such as inequality, confinement of women to the home, indifference of medical workers, lack of autonomy of women, lack of financial resources of women.\n\nThe right to education is a universal entitlement to education. The Convention against Discrimination in Education prohibits discrimination in education, with discrimination being defined as \"any distinction, exclusion, limitation or preference which, being based on race, colour, \"sex\", language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, economic condition or birth, has the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing equality of treatment in education\".\nThe International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights states at Article 3 that \"The States Parties to the present Covenant undertake to ensure the equal right of men and women to the enjoyment of all economic, social and cultural rights set forth in the present Covenant\", with Article 13 recognizing \"the right of everyone to education\". While women's right to access to academic education is recognized as very important, it is increasingly recognized that academic education must be supplemented with education on human rights, non-discrimination, ethics and gender equality, in order for social advancement to be possible. This was pointed out by Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein, the current United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, who stressed the importance of human rights education for all children: \"What good was it to humanity that Josef Mengele had advanced degrees in medicine and anthropology, given that he was capable of committing the most inhuman crimes? Eight of the 15 people who planned the Holocaust at Wannsee in 1942 held PhDs. They shone academically, and yet they were profoundly toxic to the world. Radovan Karadžić was a trained psychiatrist. Pol Pot studied radio electronics in Paris. Does this matter, when neither of them showed the smallest shred of ethics and understanding?\" There has been increased attention given in recent decades to the raising of student awareness to the importance of gender equality.\n\nReproductive rights are legal rights and freedoms relating to reproduction and reproductive health. Reproductive rights were endorsed by the twenty-year Cairo Programme of Action which was adopted in 1994 at the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo, and by the Beijing Declaration and Beijing Platform for Action in 1995.\n\nIn the 1870s feminists advanced the concept of \"voluntary motherhood\" as a political critique of \"involuntary motherhood\" and expressing a desire for women's emancipation. Advocates for voluntary motherhood disapproved of contraception, arguing that women should only engage in sex for the purpose of procreation and advocated for periodic or permanent abstinence.\n\nReproductive rights represents a broad concept, that may include some or all of the following rights: the right to legal or safe abortion, the right to control one's reproductive functions, the right to access quality reproductive healthcare, and the right to education and access in order to make reproductive choices free from coercion, discrimination, and violence. Reproductive rights may also be understood to include education about contraception and sexually transmitted infections. Reproductive rights are often defined to include freedom from female genital mutilation (FGM), and forced abortion and forced sterilization. The Istanbul Convention recognizes these two rights at Article 38 – Female genital mutilation and Article 39 – Forced abortion and forced sterilisation.\n\nReproductive rights are understood as rights of both men and women, but are most frequently advanced as women's rights.\n\nIn the 1960s, reproductive rights activists promoted women's right to bodily autonomy, with these social movements leading to the gain of legal access to contraception and abortion during the next decades in many countries.\n\nIn the early 20th century \"birth control\" was advanced as alternative to the then fashionable terms \"family limitation\" and \"voluntary motherhood\". The phrase \"birth control\" entered the English language in 1914 and was popularised by Margaret Sanger, who was mainly active in the US but had gained an international reputation by the 1930s. The British birth control campaigner Marie Stopes made contraception acceptable in Britain during the 1920s by framing it in scientific terms. Stopes assisted emerging birth control movements in a number of British colonies. The birth control movement advocated for contraception so as to permit sexual intercourse as desired without the risk of pregnancy. By emphasizing \"control\", the birth control movement argued that women should have control over their reproduction, an idea that aligned closely to the theme of the feminist movement. Slogans such as \"control over our own bodies\" criticised male domination and demanded women's liberation, a connotation that is absent from the family planning, population control and eugenics movements. In the 1960s and 1970s the birth control movement advocated for the legalisation of abortion and large-scale education campaigns about contraception by governments. In the 1980s birth control and population control organisations co-operated in demanding rights to contraception and abortion, with an increasing emphasis on \"choice\".\n\nBirth control has become a major theme in United States politics. Reproductive issues are cited as examples of women's powerlessness to exercise their rights. The societal acceptance of birth control required the separation of sex from procreation, making birth control a highly controversial subject in the 20th century. Birth control in the United States has become an arena for conflict between liberal and conservative values, raising questions about family, personal freedom, state intervention, religion in politics, sexual morality and social welfare. \"Reproductive rights\", that is rights relating to sexual reproduction and reproductive health, were first discussed as a subset of human rights at the United Nation's 1968 International Conference on Human Rights.\n\nWomen's reproductive rights may be understood as including the right to easy access to a safe and legal abortion. Abortion laws vary from a full prohibition (the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Malta, Nicaragua, the Vatican) to countries such as Canada, where there are no legal restrictions. In many countries where abortion is permitted by law, women may only have limited access to safe abortion services. In some countries abortion is permitted only to save the pregnant woman's life, or if the pregnancy resulted from rape or incest.\nThere are also countries where the law is liberal, but in practice it is very difficult to have an abortion, due to most doctors being conscientious objectors. The fact that is some countries where abortion is legal it is \"de facto\" very difficult to have access to one is controversial; the UN in its 2017 resolution on \"Intensification of efforts to prevent and eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls: domestic violence\" urged states to guarantee access to \"safe abortion where such services are permitted by national law\".\n\nThe Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women considers the criminalization of abortion a \"violations of women’s sexual and reproductive health and rights\" and a form of \"gender based violence\"; paragraph 18 of its \"General recommendation No. 35 on gender based violence against women, updating general recommendation No. 19\" states that: \"Violations of women’s sexual and reproductive health and rights, such as forced sterilizations, forced abortion, forced pregnancy, criminalisation of abortion, denial or delay of safe abortion and post abortion care, forced continuation of pregnancy, abuse and mistreatment of women and girls seeking sexual and reproductive health information, goods and services, are forms of gender based violence that, depending on the circumstances, may amount to torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment.\" The same \"General Recommendation\" also urges countries at paragraph 31 to [...] In particular, repeal:\na) Provisions that allow, tolerate or condone forms of gender based violence against women, including [...] legislation that criminalises abortion\".\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch, \"Abortion is a highly emotional subject and one that excites deeply held opinions. However, equitable access to safe abortion services is first and foremost a human right. Where abortion is safe and legal, no one is forced to have one. Where abortion is illegal and unsafe, women are forced to carry unwanted pregnancies to term or suffer serious health consequences and even death. Approximately 13% of maternal deaths worldwide are attributable to unsafe abortion—between 68,000 and 78,000 deaths annually.\" According to Human Rights Watch, \"the denial of a pregnant woman's right to make an independent decision regarding abortion violates or poses a threat to a wide range of human rights.\" One can argue that even though women die from unsafe abortion, the legalization of abortion is considered a human right violation since it supports a cause that deprives the unborn of their humanity, which must be respected, and therefore another solution is needed in order to avoid maternal deaths (e.g., psychological and physiological support during and after pregnancy) whilst also avoiding abortion. According to World Health Organization, 56 million abortions on average occurred worldwide each year in 2010-2014. African American women are 5 times likely to have an abortion rather than a white woman.\n\nThe Catholic Church and many other Christian faiths, particularly those considered the Christian right, and most Orthodox Jews regard abortion not as a right, but as a moral evil and a Mortal sin.\n\nRussia was the first country to legalise abortions and offer free medical care in state hospitals to do so. After the October Revolution, the Women's wing of the Bolshevik Party (the Zhenotdel) persuaded the Bolsheviks to legalise abortion (as a 'temporary measure'). The Bolsheviks legalised abortion in November 1920. This was the first time in world history that women had won the right to free abortions in state hospitals.\n\nThe abuse of women during childbirth is a recently identified global problem and a basic violation of a woman's rights. Abuse during childbirth is the neglect, physical abuse and lack of respect during childbirth. This treatment is regarded as a violation of the woman's rights. It also has the effect of preventing women from seeking pre-natal care and using other health care services.\n\nChild marriage is a practice which is widespread across the world, and is often connected to poverty and gender inequality. Child marriage endangers the reproductive health of young girls, leading to an increased risk of complications in pregnancy or childbirth. Such complications are a leading cause of death among girls in developing countries.\n\nForced pregnancy is the practice of forcing a woman or girl to become pregnant, often as part of a forced marriage, including by means of bride kidnapping, through rape (including marital rape, war rape and genocidal rape) or as part of a program of breeding slaves (see Slave breeding in the United States). It is a form of reproductive coercion, was common historically, and still occurs in parts of the world. In the 20th century, state mandated forced marriage with the aim of increasing the population was practiced by some authoritarian governments, notably during the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia, which systematically forced people into marriages ordering them to have children, in order to increase the population and continue the revolution. Forced pregnancy is strongly connected to the custom of bride price.\n\nViolence against women is, collectively, violent acts that are primarily or exclusively committed against women. The UN Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women states, \"violence against women is a manifestation of historically unequal power relations between men and women\" and \"violence against women is one of the crucial social mechanisms by which women are forced into a subordinate position compared with men.\" The Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, also known as the Istanbul Convention, provides the following definition of violence against women: \"violence against women\" is understood as a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination against women and shall mean all acts of gender-based violence that result in, or are likely to result in, physical, sexual, psychological or economic harm or suffering to women, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or in private life\". Violence against women may be perpetrated by individuals, by groups, or by the State. It may occur in private or in public. Violence against women may be sexual violence, physical violence, psychological violence, socioeconomic violence. Some forms of violence against women have long cultural traditions: honor killings, dowry violence, female genital mutilation. Violence against women is considered by the World Health Organization \"a major public health problem and a violation of women's human rights.\"\n\nUnder male dominated family law, women had few, if any, rights, being under the control of the husband or male relatives. Legal concepts that existed throughout the centuries, such as coverture, marital power, Head and Master laws, kept women under the strict control of their husbands. Restrictions from marriage laws also extended to public life, such as marriage bars. Practices such as dowry or bride price were, and still are to this day in some parts of the world, very common. Some countries continue to require to this day a male guardian for women, without whom women cannot exercise civil rights. Other harmful practices include marriage of young girls, often to much older men.\n\nIn the subsequent decades women's rights again became an important issue in the English speaking world. By the 1960s the movement was called \"feminism\" or \"women's liberation.\" Reformers wanted the same pay as men, equal rights in law, and the freedom to plan their families or not have children at all. Their efforts were met with mixed results.\n\nThe International Council of Women (ICW) was the first women's organization to work across national boundaries for the common cause of advocating human rights for women. In March and April 1888, women leaders came together in Washington D.C. with 80 speakers and 49 delegates representing 53 women's organizations from 9 countries: Canada, the United States, Ireland, India, England, Finland, Denmark, France and Norway. Women from professional organizations, trade unions, arts groups and benevolent societies participate. National Councils are affiliated to the ICW and thus make themselves heard at international level. In 1904, the ICW met in Berlin, Germany. The ICW worked with the League of Nations during the 1920s and the United Nations post-World War II. Today the ICW holds Consultative Status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council, the highest accreditation an NGO can achieve at the United Nations. Currently, it is composed of 70 countries and has a headquarters in Lasaunne, Switzerland. International meetings are held every three years.\n\nIn the UK, a public groundswell of opinion in favour of legal equality had gained pace, partly through the extensive employment of women in what were traditional male roles during both world wars. By the 1960s the legislative process was being readied, tracing through MP Willie Hamilton's select committee report, his equal pay for equal work bill, the creation of a Sex Discrimination Board, Lady Sear's draft sex anti-discrimination bill, a government Green Paper of 1973, until 1975 when the first British Sex Discrimination Act, an Equal Pay Act, and an Equal Opportunities Commission came into force. With encouragement from the UK government, the other countries of the EEC soon followed suit with an agreement to ensure that discrimination laws would be phased out across the European Community.\n\nIn the USA, the National Organization for Women (NOW) was created in 1966 with the purpose of bringing about equality for all women. NOW was one important group that fought for the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA). This amendment stated that \"equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or any state on account of sex.\" But there was disagreement on how the proposed amendment would be understood. Supporters believed it would guarantee women equal treatment. But critics feared it might deny women the right be financially supported by their husbands. The amendment died in 1982 because not enough states had ratified it. ERAs have been included in subsequent Congresses, but have still failed to be ratified.\n\nWomen for Women International (WfWI) is a nonprofit humanitarian organization that provides practical and moral support to women survivors of war. WfWI helps such women rebuild their lives after war's devastation through a year-long tiered program that begins with direct financial aid and emotional counseling and includes life skills (e.g., literacy, numeracy) training if necessary, rights awareness education, health education, job skills training and small business development. The organization was co-founded in 1993 by Zainab Salbi, an Iraqi American who is herself a survivor of the Iran–Iraq War and Salbi's then-husband Amjad Atallah. Since June 2012, WfWI has been led by Afshan Khan, a long-time former executive with UNICEF who became WfWI's first new CEO since founder Zainab Salbi stepped down to devote more time to her writing and lecturing.\n\nThe National Council of Women of Canada (Conseil national des femmes du Canada), is a Canadian advocacy organization based in Ottawa aimed at improving conditions for women, families, and communities. A federation of nationally organized societies of men and women and local and provincial councils of women, it is the Canadian member of the International Council of Women (ICW). The Council has concerned itself in areas including women's suffrage, immigration, health care, education, mass media, the environment, and many others. Formed on 27 October 1857 in Toronto, Ontario, it is one of the oldest advocacy organizations in the country.\n\nThe Association for the Protection and Defense of Women's Rights in Saudi Arabia is a Saudi Non-governmental organization founded to provide activism for women's rights. It was founded by Wajeha al-Huwaider and Fawzia Al-Uyyouni, and grew out of a 2007 movement to gain women the right to drive. The association is not officially licensed by the government of Saudi Arabia, and has been warned not to mount demonstrations. In a 2007 interview, al-Huwaider described the goals: \"The association will consist of a number of leagues, with each league pursuing a different issue or right... representation for women in shari'a courts; setting a [minimum] age for girls' marriages; allowing women to take care of their own affairs in government agencies and allowing them to enter government buildings; protecting women from domestic violence, such as physical or verbal violence, or keeping her from studies, work, or marriage, or forcing her to divorce...\"\n\nIn Ukraine, FEMEN was founded in 2008. The organisation is internationally known for its topless protests against sex tourists, international marriage agencies, sexism and other social, national and international social illnesses. FEMEN has sympathisers groups in many European countries through social media.\n\nIn 1946 the United Nations established a Commission on the Status of Women. Originally as the Section on the Status of Women, Human Rights Division, Department of Social Affairs, and now part of the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). Since 1975 the UN has held a series of world conferences on women's issues, starting with the World Conference of the International Women's Year in Mexico City. These conferences created an international forum for women's rights, but also illustrated divisions between women of different cultures and the difficulties of attempting to apply principles universally. Four World Conferences have been held, the first in Mexico City (International Women's Year, 1975), the second in Copenhagen (1980) and the third in Nairobi (1985). At the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing (1995), \"The Platform for Action\" was signed. This included a commitment to achieve \"gender equality and the empowerment of women\". In 2010, UN Women is founded by merging of Division for the Advancement of Women, International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women, Office of the Special Adviser or Gender Issues Advancement of Women and United Nations Development Fund for Women by General Assembly Resolution 63/311.\n\nRegions where women's rights are less developed have produced interesting local organisations, such as:\n\nThe Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted in 1948, enshrines \"the equal rights of men and women\", and addressed both the equality and equity issues.\nIn 1979, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) for legal implementation of the Declaration on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women. Described as an international bill of rights for women, it came into force on 3 September 1981. The UN member states that have not ratified the convention are Iran, Palau, Somalia, Sudan, Tonga, and the United States. Niue and the Vatican City, which are non-member states, have also not ratified it. The latest state to become a party to the convention is South Sudan, on 30 April 2015.\n\nThe Convention defines discrimination against women in the following terms:\nAny distinction, exclusion or restriction made on the basis of sex which has the effect or purpose of impairing or nullifying the recognition, enjoyment or exercise by women, irrespective of their marital status, on a basis of equality of men and women, of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the political, economic, social, cultural, civil or any other field.\n\nIt also establishes an agenda of action for putting an end to sex-based discrimination for which states ratifying the Convention are required to enshrine gender equality into their domestic legislation, repeal all discriminatory provisions in their laws, and enact new provisions to guard against discrimination against women. They must also establish tribunals and public institutions to guarantee women effective protection against discrimination, and take steps to eliminate all forms of discrimination practiced against women by individuals, organizations, and enterprises.\n\nArticle 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights enshrines the right of consenting men and women to marry and found a family.\n\n\"(1) Men and women of full age, without any limitation due to race, nationality or religion, have the right to marry and to found a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during marriage and at its dissolution.\n(2) Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and full consent of the intending spouses.\n(3) The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and the State.\"\n\nArticle 16 of CEDAW stipulates that, \"1. States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination against women in all matters relating to marriage and family relations [...]\". Among the rights included are a woman's right to freely and consensually choose her spouse; to have parental rights to her children irrespective of her marital status; the right of a married woman to choose a profession or an occupation, and to have property rights within marriage. In addition to these, \"The betrothal and the marriage of a child shall have no legal effect\".\n\nPolygamous marriage is a controversial practice, prevalent in some parts of the world. The General recommendations made by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, state at \"General Recommendation No. 21, Equality in marriage and family relations\"\n\"14.[...] Polygamous marriage contravenes a woman's right to equality with men, and can have such serious emotional and financial consequences for her and her dependents that such marriages ought to be discouraged and prohibited.\"\n\nCohabitation of unmarried couples as well as single mothers are common in some parts the world. The Human Rights Committee has stated:\n\n\"27. In giving effect to recognition of the family in the context of article 23, it is important to accept the concept of the various forms of family, including unmarried couples and their children and single parents and their children and to ensure the equal treatment of women in these contexts (General Comment 19 paragraph 2 last sentence). Single parent families frequently consist of a single woman caring for one or more children, and States parties should describe what measures of support are in place to enable her to discharge her parental functions on the basis of equality with a man in a similar position.\"\n\nThe Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, also known as VDPA, is a human rights declaration adopted by consensus at the World Conference on Human Rights on 25 June 1993 in Vienna, Austria. This declaration recognizes women's rights as being protected human rights. Paragraph 18 reads:\n\n\"The human rights of women and of the girl-child are an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of universal human rights. The full and equal participation of women in political, civil, economic, social and cultural life, at the national, regional and international levels, and the eradication of all forms of discrimination on grounds of sex are priority objectives of the international community\".\n\nOn 31 October 2000, the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325, the first formal and legal document from the United Nations Security Council that requires all states to respect fully international humanitarian law and international human rights law applicable to the rights and protection of women and girls during and after the armed conflicts.\n\nThe Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa, better known as the Maputo Protocol, was adopted by the African Union on 11 July 2003 at its second summit in Maputo, Mozambique. On 25 November 2005, having been ratified by the required 15 member nations of the African Union, the protocol entered into force. The protocol guarantees comprehensive rights to women including the right to take part in the political process, to social and political equality with men, and to control of their reproductive health, and an end to female genital mutilation.\n\nThe Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women was adopted by the United Nations in 1993. It defines violence against women as \"\"any act of gender-based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual or psychological harm or suffering to women, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or in private life\".\" This resolution established that women have a right to be free from violence. As a consequence of the resolution, in 1999, the General Assembly declared the day of 25 November to be the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women.\n\nArticle 2 of The Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women outlines several forms of violence against women:\n\nArticle Two:\nViolence against women shall be understood to encompass, but not be limited to, the following:\n\nThe Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, also known as the Istanbul Convention, is the first legally binding instrument in Europe in the field of domestic violence and violence against women, and came into force in 2014.\nCountries which ratify it must ensure that the forms of violence defined in its text are outlawed. In its Preamble, the Convention states that \"the realisation of \"de jure\" and \"de facto\" equality between women and men is a key element in the prevention of violence against women\". The Convention also provides a definition of domestic violence as \"all acts of physical, sexual, psychological or economic violence that occur within the family or domestic unit or between former or current spouses or partners, whether or not the perpetrator shares or has shared the same residence with the victim\". Although it is a Convention of the Council of Europe, it is open to accession by any country.\n\nRape, sometimes called sexual assault, is an assault by a person involving sexual intercourse with or sexual penetration of another person without that person's consent. Rape is generally considered a serious sex crime as well as a civil assault. When part of a widespread and systematic practice, rape and sexual slavery are now recognised as a crime against humanity as well as a war crime. Rape is also now recognised as a form of genocide when committed with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a targeted group.\n\nIn 1998, the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda established by the United Nations made landmark decisions that rape is a crime of genocide under international law. The trial of Jean-Paul Akayesu, the mayor of Taba Commune in Rwanda, established precedents that rape is an element of the crime of genocide. The Akayesu judgement includes the first interpretation and application by an international court of the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. The Trial Chamber held that rape, which it defined as \"a physical invasion of a sexual nature committed on a person under circumstances which are coercive\", and sexual assault constitute acts of genocide insofar as they were committed with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a targeted group. It found that sexual assault formed an integral part of the process of destroying the Tutsi ethnic group and that the rape was systematic and had been perpetrated against Tutsi women only, manifesting the specific intent required for those acts to constitute genocide.\n\nJudge Navanethem Pillay said in a statement after the verdict: \"From time immemorial, rape has been regarded as one of the spoils of war. Now it will be considered a war crime. We want to send out a strong message that rape is no longer a trophy of war.\" An estimated 500,000 women were raped during the 1994 Rwandan Genocide.\n\nThe Rome Statute Explanatory Memorandum, which defines the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, recognises rape, sexual slavery, enforced prostitution, forced pregnancy, enforced sterilization, \"or any other form of sexual violence of comparable gravity\" as a crime against humanity if the action is part of a widespread or systematic practice. The Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action also condemn systematic rape as well as murder, sexual slavery, and forced pregnancy, as the \"violations of the fundamental principles of international human rights and humanitarian law.\" and require a particularly effective response.\n\nRape was first recognised as a crime against humanity when the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia issued arrest warrants based on the Geneva Conventions and Violations of the Laws or Customs of War. Specifically, it was recognised that Muslim women in Foca (southeastern Bosnia and Herzegovina) were subjected to systematic and widespread gang rape, torture, and sexual enslavement by Bosnian Serb soldiers, policemen, and members of paramilitary groups after the takeover of the city in April 1992. The indictment was of major legal significance and was the first time that sexual assaults were investigated for the purpose of prosecution under the rubric of torture and enslavement as a crime against humanity. The indictment was confirmed by a 2001 verdict by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia that rape and sexual enslavement are crimes against humanity. This ruling challenged the widespread acceptance of rape and sexual enslavement of women as intrinsic part of war. The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia found three Bosnian Serb men guilty of rape of Bosniac (Bosnian Muslim) women and girls (some as young as 12 and 15 years of age), in Foca, eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina. Furthermore, two of the men were found guilty of the crime against humanity of sexual enslavement for holding women and girls captive in a number of de facto detention centres. Many of the women subsequently disappeared.\n\nThe 1956 Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery defines \"institutions and practices similar to slavery\" to include:\n\nc) Any institution or practice whereby:\n\nThe Istanbul Convention requires countries which ratify it to prohibit forced marriage (Article 37) and to ensure that forced marriages can be easily voided without further victimization (Article 32).\n\nThe Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children (also referred to as the \"Trafficking Protocol\" or \"UN TIP Protocol\") is a protocol to the Convention against Transnational Organised Crime. It is one of the three Palermo protocols. Its purpose is defined at \"Article 2. Statement of purpose\" as: \"(a) To prevent and combat trafficking in persons, paying particular attention to women and children; (b) To protect and assist the victims of such trafficking, with full respect for their human rights; and (c) To promote cooperation among States Parties in order to meet those objectives.\"\n\n\n\n"}
